{"id": "21444007", "title": "Prospective randomized clinical trial of single- versus double-row suture anchor repair in 2- to 4-cm rotator cuff tears: clinical and magnetic resonance imaging results.", "content": "Prospective randomized clinical trial of single- versus double-row suture anchor repair in 2- to 4-cm rotator cuff tears: clinical and magnetic resonance imaging results. The purpose of this study was to compare the clinical outcomes and the retear rates of arthroscopic single-row (SR) and double-row (DR) suture anchor repair in 2- to 4-cm rotator cuff tears. From 2005 to 2007, 71 patients with a 2- to 4-cm rotator cuff tear (proven by arthroscopy) were prospectively randomized to SR and DR repair groups. Of these patients, 62 (31 in each group) were available for evaluation at final follow-up. Demographic data, clinical scores, mean surgical times, and patient satisfaction were compared. Retear rates and clinical scores were also analyzed for 47 patients who underwent follow-up magnetic resonance imaging. Comparisons of demographic data, tear size on preoperative magnetic resonance imaging, global fatty degeneration index, and concomitant procedures showed no differences between the SR and DR groups. Preoperative clinical scores were significantly improved postoperatively in both groups. No intergroup differences in pain visual analog scale, American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons, Constant, or University of California, Los Angeles scores were found at final follow-up. Only mean surgical time was significantly different between the 2 groups. In the SR group, there were 4 full-thickness retears and 11 partial-thickness retears, whereas in the DR group, there were 6 full-thickness retears and 1 partial-thickness retear. However, despite numerical differences, these differences were not statistically different. Statistically, there were no significant differences both in full-thickness retear (P = .999) and retear including partial-thickness tear between the 2 groups (P = .124). This study indicates that the clinical results and retear rates of DR repair with 1 additional medial suture anchor were not significantly different from those of SR repairs with 2 lateral suture anchors in patients with medium to large rotator cuff tear. Level I, randomized controlled trial."}
{"id": "21440460", "title": "Shoulder MRI accuracy in the community setting.", "content": "Shoulder MRI accuracy in the community setting. Evaluate the accuracy for shoulder magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) interpretations of typical community radiologists and compare this to selected fellowship trained musculoskeletal radiologists. The MRIs of 104 shoulders of 100 consecutive different patients who had undergone shoulder arthroscopy by a single surgeon were included in this prospective study. The 104 typed MRI reports of community radiologists were examined, and the positive or negative findings were recorded for the anterior, superior, and posterior labra, and the long head biceps tendon and rotator cuff. The 104 MRIs were then interpreted by 2 fellowship trained musculoskeletal radiologists who were blinded to the nature of this study. They were asked to specifically comment on the same shoulder pathologies and to subjectively rate the quality of each MRI study using a visual analogue score (VAS). The shoulder pathologies documented by arthroscopy included rotator cuff tears (55 full, 10 partial), labral tears (12 anterior, 17 posterior, 29 superior), and 31 biceps abnormalities. There were 69 noncontrast MRIs and 35 MRI arthrograms. Comparing the community radiologists' accuracies with the 2 selected musculoskeletal radiologists' accuracies, there were no significant differences for any of the shoulder pathologies studied. There was a significant positive correlation between VAS and accuracies for both musculoskeletal radiologists in diagnosing posterior labral tears only. The use of contrast in these MRIs only significantly improved both of the musculoskeletal radiologists' accuracies in diagnosing biceps lesions. The accuracies for shoulder MRI in this community setting were not improved by having the MRIs interpreted by selected fellowship trained musculoskeletal radiologists."}
{"id": "21411687", "title": "Revision arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: repair integrity and clinical outcome: surgical technique.", "content": "Revision arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: repair integrity and clinical outcome: surgical technique. Literature regarding the outcomes of revision rotator cuff repair is limited. The purposes of the present study were to report the tendon repair integrity and clinical outcomes for a cohort of patients following revision arthroscopic rotator cuff repair and to examine factors related to tendon healing and the influence of healing on clinical outcomes. Twenty-one of twenty-nine consecutive revision arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs with a minimum of two years of postoperative follow-up were retrospectively reviewed. Outcomes were evaluated on the basis of a visual analog pain scale, the range of motion of the shoulder, the Simple Shoulder Test, the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score, and the Constant score. Ultrasonography was used to examine repair integrity at a minimum of one year following surgery. Ten shoulders underwent arthroscopic repair of a recurrent single-tendon posterior rotator cuff tear, whereas eleven shoulders had repair of both the supraspinatus and infraspinatus. The mean age of the twenty-one subjects was 55.6 years; thirteen subjects were male and eight were female. Complete preoperative and postoperative clinical data were available for nineteen subjects after an average duration of follow-up of thirty-three months. Significant improvements were seen in terms of postoperative pain (p < 0.05), the Simple Shoulder Test score (p < 0.05), the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons function (p < 0.05) and total scores (p < 0.05), active forward elevation (p < 0.05), and active external rotation (p < 0.05). Postoperative ultrasound data were available for all twenty-one shoulders after a mean duration of follow-up of twenty-five months. Ten (48%) of the twenty-one shoulders had an intact repair. Seven (70%) of the ten single-tendon repairs were intact, compared with three (27%) of the eleven supraspinatus/infraspinatus repairs (p = 0.05). Patient age (p < 0.05) and the number of torn tendons (p = 0.05) had significant effects on postoperative tendon repair integrity. Shoulders with an intact repair had better postoperative Constant scores (p < 0.05) and scapular plane elevation strength (p < 0.05) in comparison with those with a recurrent tear. Revision arthroscopic rotator cuff repair results in reliable pain relief and improvement in shoulder function in selected cases. Approximately half of the revision repairs can be expected to be intact at a minimum of one year following surgery. Patient age and the number of torn tendons are related to postoperative tendon integrity. The postoperative integrity of the rotator cuff can have a significant influence on shoulder abduction strength and the Constant score."}
{"id": "21434791", "title": "The influence of age, delay of repair, and tendon involvement in acute rotator cuff tears: structural and clinical outcomes after repair of 42 shoulders.", "content": "The influence of age, delay of repair, and tendon involvement in acute rotator cuff tears: structural and clinical outcomes after repair of 42 shoulders. Few authors have considered the outcome after acute traumatic rotator cuff tears in previously asymptomatic patients. We investigated whether delay of surgery, age at repair, and the number of cuff tendons involved affect the structural and clinical outcome. 42 patients with pseudoparalysis after trauma and no previous history of shoulder symptoms were included. A full-thickness tear in at least 1 of the rotator cuff tendons was diagnosed in all patients. Mean time to surgery was 38 (6-91) days. Follow-up at a mean of 39 (12-108) months after surgery included ultrasound, plain radiographs, Constant-Murley score, DASH score, and western Ontario rotator cuff (WORC) score. At follow-up, 4 patients had a full-thickness tear and 9 had a partial-thickness tear in the repaired shoulder. No correlation between the structural or clinical outcome and the time to repair within 3 months was found. The patients with a tendon defect at follow-up had a statistically significantly lower Constant-Murley score and WORC index in the injured shoulder and were significantly older than those with intact tendons. The outcomes were similar irrespective of the number of tendons repaired. A delay of 3 months to repair had no effect on outcome. The patients with cuff defects at follow-up were older and they had a worse clinical outcome. Multi-tendon injury did not generate worse outcomes than single-tendon tears at follow-up."}
{"id": "21434498", "title": "SLAP lesions: how to recognize and treat this debilitating shoulder injury.", "content": "SLAP lesions: how to recognize and treat this debilitating shoulder injury."}
{"id": "21429776", "title": "Coracoid impingement syndrome due to intensive rock climbing training.", "content": "Coracoid impingement syndrome due to intensive rock climbing training. Overuse and acute injuries to the upper body are common in rock climbing. Such injuries primarily affect the fingers; but shoulder problems are increasingly common, especially among more experienced and older climbers who climb at a high ability level. Such shoulder problems are often due to subacromial impingement, shoulder dislocations with bankart lesions, hyperlaxity, SLAP lesions or irritations of the long biceps tendon. In contrast to these known conditions, we describe a case of an ambitious female rock climber who trained intensively and developed a coracoid impingement caused by hypertrophied subscapularis tendon and muscle following sport-specific training. Diagnosis was made through clinical evaluation and confirmed by magnetic resonance tomography. Coracoid impingement syndrome is a less common cause of shoulder pain and occurs when the subscapularis tendon impinges between the coracoid and the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. The patient was treated successfully with a conservative therapy and returned to full activity within 6 weeks."}
{"id": "21427446", "title": "Early structural and functional outcomes for arthroscopic double-row transosseous-equivalent rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Early structural and functional outcomes for arthroscopic double-row transosseous-equivalent rotator cuff repair. The arthroscopic double-row transosseous-equivalent (TOE) rotator cuff repair is growing in popularity. The current body of literature supports this technique; however, the number of patients in these studies is relatively small. The authors conducted this study to learn more about the natural history of this construct in a large sample of patients. The double-row TOE rotator cuff repair will have an acceptable structural failure rate with improved clinical outcomes at 1-year follow-up. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Between June 2006 and October 2007, 225 patients underwent an all-arthroscopic rotator cuff repair at 2 surgical centers. A total of 155 TOE primary rotator cuff repairs were performed, and 154 of these patients met the inclusion criteria. Assessment of structural integrity was based on evaluation of postoperative magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography arthrogram at a minimum of 12 months after surgery. The Constant scores, visual analog pain scale, range of motion, strength, and complications were the clinical outcomes analyzed for the study. Seventeen patients (of 154) had postoperative shoulder stiffness at follow-up. The 154 patients were clinically and radiologically evaluated at a mean of 15 months postoperatively (range, 12-26.1 months). The study included 47 small (30.5%), 89 large (57.1%), and 19 massive (12.3%) rotator cuff tears. Analysis of postoperative imaging demonstrated that 92%, 83%, and 84% of the small, large, and massive rotator cuff tears, respectively, were intact. The mean Constant score improved from 44.42 points preoperatively to 80.47 points postoperatively (P < .001). The mean preoperative pain score improved from 3.83 to 12.77 (P < .001) postoperatively. The mean forward flexion improved from 123.06\u00b0 preoperatively to 162.39\u00b0 postoperatively (P < .001). Seventeen patients (of 154) had postoperative shoulder stiffness at follow-up. The short-term results of this study indicate that the clinical outcomes and structural integrity of TOE double-row rotator cuff repair (the suture-bridge technique) have results that compare favorably with those reported for other double-row suture anchor techniques employed in rotator cuff repairs. Long-term follow-up will be necessary to determine if the durability of these repairs and the structural integrity of these constructs maintain their performance over time."}
{"id": "21414546", "title": "Shoulder ultrasound.", "content": "Shoulder ultrasound. Ultrasound is used increasingly in the investigation of the rotator cuff. It is as accurate as magnetic resonance imaging in the detection of rotator cuff tears and the assessment of tear size and can demonstrate atrophy and fatty infiltration in the rotator cuff muscles. This article reviews the anatomy and technique of shoulder ultrasound, the ultrasound findings in rotator cuff disease, the accuracy of ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging in the assessment of rotator cuff tears and the role of interventional ultrasound of the shoulder."}
{"id": "21398147", "title": "Supraspinatus rupture at the musclotendinous junction: an uncommonly recognized phenomenon.", "content": "Supraspinatus rupture at the musclotendinous junction: an uncommonly recognized phenomenon. The majority of rotator cuff lesions involving the supraspinatus occur at or near the level of bone-tendon interface. We present a series of supraspinatus injuries at the musculotendinous junction. Between October 2002 and December 2009, we prospectively evaluated all patients presenting with an injury of the supraspinatus at the musculotendinous junction. Five patients (1 female and 4 males) were identified. Three patients had a clear history of trauma. All patients presented acutely with pain and muscular edema on T2 magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) sequences. Lesions were characterized as stretch injuries in 2 cases and complete rupture at the level of the musculotendinous junction in 3 cases. Electrodiagnostic studies were normal in all cases. All patients were treated nonoperatively. On clinical and radiological examination at an average of 24 \u00b1 10 months (range, 10-38), 1 patient had complete clinical and radiological resolution, 1 improved, and 3 who complained of loss of function demonstrated severe fatty infiltration on MRI. Musculotendinous rupture of the supraspinatus is an unusual lesion of the rotator cuff. With incomplete injuries, recovery can be anticipated with nonsurgical management. However, in the case of a complete rupture with muscle retraction, nonoperative management leads to unsatisfactory outcomes."}
{"id": "21393644", "title": "Usefulness of manual therapy in the rehabilitation of patients with chronic rotator cuff injuries. Preliminary report.", "content": "Usefulness of manual therapy in the rehabilitation of patients with chronic rotator cuff injuries. Preliminary report. Various manual therapy procedures are increasingly more often being used in the treatment of shoulder complex dysfunctions. The objective of the present study was to investigate whether manual therapy can improve the range of motion in the glenohumeral joint and alleviate pain in patients with chronic rotator cuff injuries The participants were randomly assigned to an experimental group and a control group of 15 patients each. Both groups received a standard combination therapy involving TENS, ultrasound therapy and kinesiotherapy. Additionally, the experimental group took part in a treatment programme designed by the authors composed of selected elements of various manual therapy techniques. Outcome evaluation focused on changes in the range of motion in the glenohumeral joint and changes in pain intensity (VAS scale) during the performance of functional tests. The results were subjected to statistical analysis. More rapid and more significant pain reduction and more significant improvement in the range of motion of the glenohumeral joint across all movements tested were obtained in the experimental group. The inclusion of manual therapy in standard comprehensive physiotherapy applied in the rehabilitation of patients with chronic rotator cuff injuries of the glenohumeral joint significantly improves treatment effectiveness."}
{"id": "21387327", "title": "Ultrasonographic measures of subacromial space in patients with rotator cuff disease: A systematic review.", "content": "Ultrasonographic measures of subacromial space in patients with rotator cuff disease: A systematic review. Recently sonography (US) has been used to measure the subacromial space outlet with a linear measurement of the acromiohumeral distance (AHD). The purpose of this article is to systematically review the literature on the influence of rotator cuff disease (RCD) on AHD using US. Computer-aided searches of databases were performed to identify comparative studies that measured US-generated AHD in adults with symptomatic RCD. Five studies met the inclusion/exclusion criteria. US images of AHD are smaller in patients with full-thickness tears than healthy individuals and subjects with subacromial impingement. AHD is potentially useful to prognosticate outcome in patients with subacromial impingement."}
{"id": "21369479", "title": "Effectiveness of subacromial anti-adhesive agent injection after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: prospective randomized comparison study.", "content": "Effectiveness of subacromial anti-adhesive agent injection after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: prospective randomized comparison study. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair generally has a good clinical outcome but shoulder stiffness after surgery due to subacromial adhesion is one of the most common and clinically important complications. Sodium hyaluronate (HA) has been reported to be an anti-adhesive agent in a range of surgical procedures. However, there are few reports of the outcomes of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair of the shoulder. This study examined whether a subacromial injection of HA/carboxymethylated cellulose (CMC) affected the postoperative shoulder stiffness and healing of rotator cuff repair, as well as the safety of an injection. Between January 2008 and May 2008, 80 consecutive patients with arthroscopic rotator cuff repair were enrolled. The patients were assigned randomly to the HA/CMC injection group (n = 40) or control group (n = 40). All patients were evaluated using the visual analog scale (VAS) for pain, passive range of motion at 2, 6 weeks, 3, 6, 12 months after surgery, and the functional scores at 6, 12 months postoperatively. Cuff healing was also evaluated using CT arthrography or ultrasonography at 6 or 12 months after surgery. The HA/CMC injection group showed faster recovery of forward flexion at 2 weeks postoperatively than the control group but the difference was not statistically significant (p = 0.09). There were no significant difference in pain VAS, internal rotation, external rotation and functional scores between two groups at each follow-up period. The functional scores improved 6 months after surgery in both groups but there were no differences between the two groups. The incidence of unhealed rotator cuff was similar in the two groups. There were no complications related to an injection of anti-adhesive agents including wound problems or infections. A subacromial injection of an anti-adhesive agent after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair tended to produce faster recovery in forward flexion with no adverse effects on cuff healing. However, its anti-adhesive effects after rotator cuff repair should be considered carefully with further studies."}
{"id": "21368093", "title": "Humeral avulsion of glenohumeral ligaments.", "content": "Humeral avulsion of glenohumeral ligaments. Humeral avulsion of glenohumeral ligaments (HAGL) is an increasingly recognized cause of recurrent shoulder instability. HAGL lesions are the result of acute traumatic glenohumeral subluxation or dislocation. Anterior avulsion of the inferior glenohumeral ligament from the humeral neck is the more common lesion; however, posterior lesions are seen as well. Careful history and physical examination are critical in the diagnosis of HAGL lesions. MRI is the best imaging study for diagnosing these lesions. Injection of intra-articular contrast dye aids in visualization. Most HAGL lesions cause recurrent instability and require surgical repair. Arthroscopic repair with the use of accessory portals has yielded promising results. Excellent results have been achieved with open surgical management using a subscapularis incision. Mini-open techniques involve limited incision in the lower one half of the subscapularis."}
{"id": "21358247", "title": "Free coracoacromial ligament graft for augmentation of massive rotator cuff tears treated with mini-open repair.", "content": "Free coracoacromial ligament graft for augmentation of massive rotator cuff tears treated with mini-open repair. Repair of massive rotator cuff tears is a challenging and complex procedure. The tissue at the end of the torn tendons is often friable and weak, because ruptures are old and degenerated, and thus the ends must be sutured effectively and strongly to achieve a satisfactory outcome. We aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of free total or partial coracoacromial ligament (CAL) graft to protect and augment the repair of massive rotator cuff tears. Forty six patients ((32 females, mean age 54.3 years (range 39-66 years)) operated for massive rotator cuff tears between January 2003 and June 2009 were included in the study. Twenty nine of these patients had right-sided tears, and 17 had left-sided tears. Fifteen of the tears were 3-4 cm wide (mean 3.5 cm); 27 were >4 cm wide (mean 4.5 cm), and 4 were >5 cm wide. The mean follow-up period was 26 months (range 16-52 months). Patients were operated with a mini-open technique, and reconstructed after primary repair with 18 total and 28 partial free transfer of the CAL. Patients were evaluated by Constant-Murley score, and the degree of active flexion and abduction. Tendon thickness was measured with ultrasonography during follow-up. Mean preoperative shoulder flexion was 27.5\u00b0 (range 5-40\u00b0), and mean abduction was 22.5\u00b0 (range 10-30\u00b0). Shoulder flexion was significantly greater postoperatively (mean 102.6\u00b0, range 70-150\u00b0), as was shoulder abduction (mean 96.5\u00b0, range 60-150\u00b0). Mean preoperative and postoperative Constant-Murley score was 45 and 80, respectively. Surgical complications, particularly recurrence, did not occur in any patient during the follow-up period. The integrity and tendon thickness of the repairs were similar to those of normal tendons at the end of follow-up. Augmentation with a free transfer of the coracoacromial ligament provides excellent and promising functional results in the operative treatment of massive rotator cuff tears with a mini-open technique."}
{"id": "21350064", "title": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using a suture bridge technique: is the repair integrity actually maintained?", "content": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using a suture bridge technique: is the repair integrity actually maintained? Suture bridge repair has been recognized to have superior biomechanical characteristics, as shown in previous biomechanical studies. However, it is not clear whether the tendon heals better in vivo after suture bridge repair. To evaluate the clinical results and repair integrity after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using a suture bridge technique for patients with rotator cuff tears. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. One hundred twenty-three shoulders (120 patients) that underwent arthroscopic suture bridge repair for full-thickness rotator cuff tear were enrolled for this study. The mean duration of follow-up was 25.2 months (range, 16-34 months). The postoperative repair integrity was analyzed with use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in 87 shoulders. According to the retear patterns on postoperative MRI, the cases were divided into type 1 (failure at the original repair site) or 2 (failure around the medial row). At the last follow-up, the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) score improved from the preoperative mean of 13.2 points to 29.7 points (P < .001). The rotator cuff was completely healed in 58 (66.7%) of the 87 shoulders, and there was a recurrent tear in 29 shoulders (33.3%). The incidence of retear tended to increase with age older than 60 years at the time of surgery (P = .002). When there was a larger intraoperative tear, the rate of retear was also higher (P = .002). When the severity of preoperative fatty degeneration of the cuff muscles was higher, there was a greater chance of a recurrent tear (P < .001). The retear patterns on postoperative MRI in 29 shoulders with recurrent failures were classified as type 1 in 12 shoulders (41.4%) and type 2 in 17 shoulders (58.6%). The preoperative cuff tear size did not have an influence on retear patterns (P = .236), but the percentage of type 1 retear increased with the severity of fatty degeneration or muscle atrophy (P = .041, .023). Arthroscopic suture bridge repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears led to a relatively high rate of recurrent defects. However, the mean 25-month follow-up demonstrated excellent pain relief and improvement in the ability to perform the activities of daily living, despite the structural failures. The factors affecting tendon healing were the patient's age, the size and extent of the tear, and the presence of fatty degeneration in the rotator cuff muscle. The retear in cases with a suture bridge technique tended to be more frequently at the musculotendinous junction."}
{"id": "21335343", "title": "Subscapularis function and structural integrity after arthroscopic repair of isolated subscapularis tears.", "content": "Subscapularis function and structural integrity after arthroscopic repair of isolated subscapularis tears. Results of arthroscopic repair of isolated subscapularis tendon tears have not been widely studied. A detailed evaluation of subscapularis function with subscapularis strength quantification has not been performed to date. To evaluate postoperative subscapularis muscle function and to assess the clinical outcome and structural tendon integrity with postoperative magnetic resonance imaging after arthroscopic repair of isolated subscapularis tears. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. In a prospective study, isolated subscapularis tendon tears in 21 patients were treated with an all-arthroscopic repair. The average age of the study population was 43 years. The mean interval between trauma and surgery was 5.8 months. In 19 patients, a traumatic event caused the onset of symptoms. Subscapularis muscle function was assessed with specific clinical tests and the Constant scoring system. Postoperative subscapularis strength was evaluated with a custom-made electronic force measurement plate. All patients underwent postoperative magnetic resonance imaging to assess structural integrity of the repair. The average duration of follow-up was 27 months. The Constant score increased from 50 points preoperatively to 82 points postoperatively (P < .01). Most positive preoperative lift-off and belly-press tests were reversed by surgery, with a rate of 5 (24%) persistent positive tests after surgery. In operated shoulders, subscapularis strength in the belly-press (65 vs 87 N; P < .05) and the lift-off position (44 vs 68 N; P < .05) was significantly reduced compared with the contralateral shoulder. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed an intact repair in 20 patients. Atrophy of the upper subscapularis muscle portion was present in about one-fourth of the patients and in all patients with a positive postoperative belly-press test. Arthroscopic repair of isolated subscapularis tendon tears achieves substantial improvement of shoulder function and a low rerupture rate. Despite excellent clinical results, a significant postoperative subscapularis strength deficit compared with the contralateral shoulder persists that can be quantified with use of the force measurement plate. Atrophy of the upper subscapularis muscle is present in 25% of the patients in the postoperative course."}
{"id": "21324416", "title": "Outcomes of arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs in obese patients.", "content": "Outcomes of arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs in obese patients. Rotator cuff tears are common orthopedic injuries and their arthroscopic treatment can be technically challenging. This study evaluated the outcomes of arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs in obese patients. We hypothesized that there would be a direct correlation between worse outcomes of arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs and increasing body mass index (BMI). A retrospective review of patients undergoing arthroscopic rotator cuff repair by one orthopedic surgeon between 2005 and 2008 was performed. The study included 149 rotator cuff repairs. Recorded data included age, sex, BMI, size of rotator cuff tear on magnetic resonance imaging and intraoperatively, number of anchors used for repair, functional outcomes (American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons and University of Pennsylvania scores), surgery time, total time for anesthesia, positioning, and hospital stay. Tears were classified by size. Strict inclusion and exclusion criteria were used. Surgical procedures were performed with general anesthesia, interscalene block, beach chair positioning, and a standardized operative technique. Patients followed a standard postoperative rehabilitation protocol. Mean patient age was 66 years. Mean follow-up was 16.3 months. Tears were classified as high grade partial (12%), small (23%), medium (29%), large (22%), and massive (14%). Patients were classified as normal weight (38%), overweight (23%), obese (20%), and morbidly obese (19%). A statistically significant correlation was found between obesity and worse functional outcomes, longer operative times, and longer length of hospital stay. This study reports new data concerning the association of BMI and early clinical outcome after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair surgery. Even though the obese group had greater limitations and lower rates of satisfaction at final follow-up than their non-obese counterparts, they still reported significant improvements from the surgery. Obesity has a negative impact on the operative time of arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs, length of hospitalization, and functional outcomes."}
{"id": "21318383", "title": "Structure of retracted tendons after staged repair following continuous traction.", "content": "Structure of retracted tendons after staged repair following continuous traction. The effect of staged repair involving continuous re-lengthening of the retracted musculotendinous unit after rotator cuff tear is not known. We quantified changes in chronically retracted tendons undergoing no repair or a staged repair involving an initial re-lengthening of the musculotendinous unit by traction in a sheep model of massive rotator cuff tear. Infraspinatus tendons of 12 sheep were released and allowed to retract for 4 months. Repair was performed after the retracted musculotendinous unit had been progressively returned to its original length through continuous traction in 8 sheep (group I). In the other 4 sheep (group II) traction was not successful and the tendons remained retracted. Tendon structure was assessed macroscopically, by MRI, histology, and TEM. Normalized to their contralateral controls, at sacrifice, tendon thickness was unchanged in group I (116%, n.s) and increased in group II (129%, P < 0.05), however with substantial shortening. Increased collagen fiber crimping and disorganization was found in group II, whereas in group I the differences from normal tendon were less pronounced. Retracted musculotendinous units have deteriorated tendons, characterized by increased collagen fiber crimp, and ultrastructural collagen fibril atrophy and disorganization. Continuous traction may arrest and partially restore degenerative changes in retracted tendon. The findings of this study might contribute to new approaches for the treatment of chronic \"irreparable\" rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "21310940", "title": "Natural history of nonoperatively treated symptomatic rotator cuff tears in patients 60 years old or younger.", "content": "Natural history of nonoperatively treated symptomatic rotator cuff tears in patients 60 years old or younger. Rotator cuff tears are the most frequent tendon injury in the adult population. However, the natural history of nonoperatively treated full-thickness tears is poorly defined. Knowledge of the expected evolution in tear size is important when considering nonoperative versus surgical care, especially in relatively young, active patients. To evaluate the size change of nonoperatively treated full-thickness rotator cuff tears over 2 to 3 years' follow-up. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. The authors prospectively followed patients 60 years old or younger who had a full-thickness rotator cuff tear equal to or larger than 5 mm, as diagnosed by bilateral shoulder ultrasound, and who were treated nonoperatively. At 2 to 3 years after the index ultrasound examination, a repeat ultrasound examination was performed by the same ultrasonographer. Results of the follow-up ultrasound examinations of both shoulders were compared with those of the index ultrasound examinations for change in rotator cuff tear size. The correlations were examined between these changes and age, sex, history of initial trauma, size of tear on the index ultrasound, and current shoulder symptoms. Fifty-one patients with 61 rotator cuff tears were evaluated. At a follow-up of 25 to 39 months (mean, 29), 49% of the tears (30 tears) increased in size, 43% (26 tears) had not changed, and 8% (5 tears) decreased in size. For 25% (10 shoulders ) of initially intact shoulders (41 shoulders), a new full-thickness rotator cuff tear was diagnosed. No correlation was found between the change in tear size and age of the patient (P = .85), sex (P = .93), existence of a prior trauma (P = .63), size of tear at index ultrasound (P = .62), and bilateral tears (P = 1.00). There was a correlation between the existence of considerable pain at the time of the follow-up ultrasound and a clinically significant increase in tear size (P = .002). Full-thickness rotator cuff tears tend to increase in size in about half of patients aged 60 years or younger. Surgery should be initially considered in these patients to prevent a probable increase in size tear. Patients treated nonoperatively should be routinely monitored for tear size increase, especially if they remain symptomatic."}
{"id": "21307715", "title": "EMG and MRI are independently related to shoulder external rotation function in neonatal brachial plexus palsy.", "content": "EMG and MRI are independently related to shoulder external rotation function in neonatal brachial plexus palsy. Few studies exist with regard to the ability of electromyography (EMG) and volumetric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the infraspinatus muscle to complement the physical assessment of active global shoulder external rotation (GER) in the neonatal brachial plexus palsy (NBPP) population. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to evaluate the relationships of EMG and MRI with active GER based on analysis of the infraspinatus muscle. Seventy-four NBPP patients (mean age, 5 y 1 m; range, 1 y 1 m to 13 y 3 m) who had undergone physical examination of the shoulder, EMG evaluation of the infraspinatus muscle, and shoulder MRI were included in this study. The outcome variable active GER was dichotomized into <0 degree active GER (poor) and \u22650 degree active GER (good). The interference pattern on EMG of the infraspinatus muscle was graded on a 6-point scale and dichotomized into \u22644 and \u22655. On shoulder MRI, infraspinatus muscle volume was measured. The infraspinatus muscle interference pattern and volume were compared with active GER. Interference pattern on EMG of the infraspinatus muscle was significantly related to the Mallet Score (P=0.0022), with a poor interference pattern associated with an approximately 7 times higher likelihood [odds ratio=7.391; 95% confidence interval (2.054, 26.588)] of poor active GER. Infraspinatus muscle volume decrease on MRI was also significantly related to active GER (P=0.0413), with each percent volume decrease corresponding to an increase of 0.094 in the odds of having a poor Mallet Score for active GER [odds ratio=1.094; 95% confidence interval (1.004, 1.193)]. The interference pattern of the infraspinatus muscle on EMG and the infraspinatus muscle volume on MRI are strongly related to active GER as assessed by the Mallet Score. Integrating clinical assessment with electrophysiological and imaging findings may improve the accuracy in evaluating shoulder dysfunction in NBPP and provide improved guidance in selecting interventions specific to the patient's pattern of deficits. Diagnostic study, level II."}
{"id": "21294368", "title": "[Shoulder dislocation: diagnosis and treatment].", "content": "[Shoulder dislocation: diagnosis and treatment]."}
{"id": "21277807", "title": "Partial repair of irreparable supraspinatus tendon tears: clinical and radiographic evaluations at long-term follow-up.", "content": "Partial repair of irreparable supraspinatus tendon tears: clinical and radiographic evaluations at long-term follow-up. Irreparable rotator cuff tears are a common source of pain and disability even in middle-aged patients. Although most rotator cuff tears can be completely repaired to bone, a significant proportion of these cannot be sutured by traditional methods. In these cases it is possible to perform a functional repair of the cuff to help restore the force couple of the cuff on the humeral head and to increase the acromion-humeral distance (AHD). This technique provides peripheral repair of the cuff tear without complete closure of the cuff defect. Our hypothesis was that arthroscopic partial suture of the cuff leads to pain relief and functional improvement for the patients while restoring the AHD. All patients (67 cases) were arthroscopically treated with functional repair of the posterior cuff. The follow-up was at least 5 years. All the patients had clinical and radiographic evaluations and assessment with the Simple Shoulder Test and Constant score. The mean Constant score increased from 44 points to a mean of 73 points, the mean Simple Shoulder Test score increased from 4.6 to 9.0, and the mean AHD increased from 6.1 mm to 9.1 mm. Functional repair of the infraspinatus, leaving the greater tuberosity uncovered, in patients with irreparable cuff tears gives good results in terms of patient satisfaction and in restoring the AHD even at long-term follow-up. Complications were rare and in line with the usual sequelae of a rotator cuff repair."}
{"id": "21277734", "title": "The presence of fatty infiltration in the infraspinatus: its relation with the condition of the supraspinatus tendon.", "content": "The presence of fatty infiltration in the infraspinatus: its relation with the condition of the supraspinatus tendon. We aim to determine the prevalence of fatty infiltration and tears in the infraspinatus and to identify any associated risk factors. Shoulder magnetic resonance imaging scans from 2006 to 2009 were reviewed. Arthrograms, inflammatory arthropathies, neoplasms, and fractures were excluded. Rotator cuff tears were graded in 4 categories: no tear, partial tear, and complete tear with and without retraction. Fatty infiltration was graded by radiologists using the modified Goutallier classification. Supraspinatus muscle atrophy (size) was measured by use of the ratio of the cross-sectional area of the muscle to the supraspinatus fossa on a sagittal T1-weighted sequence. Three hundred seventy-seven scans were included. The prevalence of infraspinatus tears was as follows: no tear, 74.8%; partial tear, 17.5%; complete tear, 3.2%; and complete tear with retraction, 4.5%. Fatty infiltration of grade 2 or higher was found in 18.1% of the infraspinatus without tears, 39.4% with partial tears, 66.7% with a complete tear, and 82.4% with a complete tear with retraction. In the infraspinatus without tears, increasing fatty infiltration was correlated with the severity of a concomitant supraspinatus tear. Fatty infiltration of grade 2 or higher in the infraspinatus without tears was found in 7.8% of shoulders with an intact supraspinatus, 18.6% with a partial supraspinatus tear, 23.5% with a complete supraspinatus tear, and 54.6% with a retracted complete supraspinatus tear. Supraspinatus muscle atrophy was correlated with infraspinatus fatty infiltration. Increased infraspinatus fatty infiltration was correlated with the severity of an infraspinatus tear. However, substantial fatty infiltration of the infraspinatus was seen even in the absence of a tear, and it was correlated with a worsening severity of a concomitant supraspinatus tear and atrophy. Concern over tear progression and increasing fatty infiltration of the infraspinatus may impact the management of isolated supraspinatus tendon tears. Level IV, prognostic case series."}
{"id": "21269421", "title": "Clinical and radiological outcome of conservative vs. surgical treatment of atraumatic degenerative rotator cuff rupture: design of a randomized controlled trial.", "content": "Clinical and radiological outcome of conservative vs. surgical treatment of atraumatic degenerative rotator cuff rupture: design of a randomized controlled trial. Subacromial impingement syndrome is a frequently observed disorder in orthopedic practice. Lasting symptoms and impairment may occur when a subsequent atraumatic rotator cuff rupture is also present. However, degenerative ruptures of the rotator cuff can also be observed in asymptomatic elderly individuals. Treatment of these symptomatic degenerative ruptures may be conservative or surgical. Acceptable results are reported for both treatment modalities. No evidence-based level-1 studies have been conducted so far to compare these treatment modalities. The objective of this study is to determine whether there is a difference in outcome between surgical reconstruction and conservative treatment of a degenerative atraumatic rotator cuff tendon rupture. A randomized controlled trial will be conducted. Patients aged between 45 and 75 with a symptomatic atraumatic rotator cuff rupture as diagnosed by MRI will be included. Exclusion criteria are traumatic rotator cuff rupture, frozen shoulder and diabetes mellitus. Patients will be randomized into two groups. Conservative treatment includes physical therapy according to a standardized protocol, NSAIDs and, if indicated, subacromial infiltration with a local anesthetic and corticosteroids. Surgical reconstruction is performed under general anesthesia in combination with an interscalenus plexus block. An acromioplasty with reconstruction of the rotator cuff tendon is performed, as described by Rockwood et al. Measurements take place preoperatively and 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months and 1 year postoperatively. The primary outcome measure is the Constant score. Secondary measures include both disease-specific and generic outcome measures, and an economic evaluation. Additionally, one year after inclusion a second MRI will be taken of all patients in order to determine whether extent and localization of the rupture as well as the amount of fatty degeneration are prognostic factors. Both surgical as conservative treatment of a symptomatic atraumatic rotator cuff tendon rupture is used in current practice. There is a lack of level-1 studies comparing surgical vs. conservative treatment. This randomized controlled trial has been designed to determine whether the surgical treatment of a degenerative atraumatic rotator cuff tendon rupture may lead to a better functional and radiological outcome than conservative treatment after one year of follow-up. Netherlands Trial Register (NTR): NTRTC2343."}
{"id": "21267574", "title": "Tears at the rotator cuff footprint: prevalence and imaging characteristics in 305 MR arthrograms of the shoulder.", "content": "Tears at the rotator cuff footprint: prevalence and imaging characteristics in 305 MR arthrograms of the shoulder. To evaluate the prevalence, imaging characteristics and anatomical distribution of tears at the rotator cuff (RC) footprint with MR arthrography (MR-A) of the shoulder. MR arthrograms obtained in 305 patients were retrospectively reviewed. Partial articular-sided supraspinatus tendon avulsions (PASTA), concealed interstitial delaminations (CID), reverse PASTA lesions and full-thickness tears (FT) at the humeral tendon insertion were depicted. Anatomical locations were determined and depths of tears were classified. 112/305 patients showed RC tears, including 63 patients with 68 footprint tears. 34 PASTA lesions were detected with 20/34 involving the anterior supraspinatus (SSP) tendon and 17/34 PASTA lesions were grade I lesions. Most CID lesions (14/23) occurred at the posterior SSP and 20/23 were classified as grade I or II. 9 FT and 2 reverse PASTA lesions were found. Statistical analysis revealed no difference in anatomical location (p\u2009=\u20090.903) and no correlation with overhead sports activity (p\u2009=\u20090.300) or history of trauma (p\u2009=\u20090.928). There were significantly more PASTA lesions in patients < 40 years of age (p\u2009=\u20090.029). Most RC tears detected with MR-A involve the SSP footprint and are articular-sided with predominance in younger patients, but concealed lesions are not as uncommon as previously thought."}
{"id": "21261028", "title": "[The role of ultrasonography in evaluation of pathomorphological changes in humeroscapular periarthritis].", "content": "[The role of ultrasonography in evaluation of pathomorphological changes in humeroscapular periarthritis]. The aim of this study was to present the distribution and representation of shoulder ultrasonographic (US) examination findings in patients with diagnosis of humeroscapular periarthritis. US examination findings in 141 patients, that is 147 symptomatic shoulders with diagnosis of humeroscapular periarthritis, were evaluated retrospectively. Outcomes of ultrasonography were distributed in groups by anatomical location, US examination finding and age. Descriptive statistics were used to analyze the data. Out of 147 analyzed shoulders, 87 (59.2%) were positive and 60 (40.8%) were negative upon US examination. The most frequent US abnormalities were detected in a supraspinatus tendon (55.3%), followed by long head of the biceps tendon (15.2%), bursitis (12.6%), subscapularis tendinitis (10.6%) and infraspinatus tendinitis (0.7%). The highest number of US abnormalities, as well as negative ultrasonographies, were detected at the age 40 to 65. The least negative US examination findings were at age over 65, where also the highest number of supraspinatus tears were detected. Due to high specificity and sensitivity in the evaluation of the rotator cuff, subacromial bursa and long head of the biceps tendon changes, ultrasound is a reliable method for evaluation of patients with painful shoulder. Its availability, noninvasivity and relatively low cost make it a method of choice for inital evaluation of such patients. Detailed history and clinical examination are going to lessen inadequate medical requests for ultrasonography."}
{"id": "21258779", "title": "A comparison of early versus delayed repair of traumatic rotator cuff tears.", "content": "A comparison of early versus delayed repair of traumatic rotator cuff tears. The purpose of this study was to compare the clinical and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) results between early and delayed operative treatment in patients with traumatic rotator cuff tears (RCT). Thirty-five patients with a traumatic RCT who have been treated surgically during a 4-year period were included in the study. The results of early versus delayed repair of traumatic rotator RCT were assessed using the Constant and UCLA scores. In addition, all patients underwent a postoperative MRI to evaluate repair integrity. Early repair (within 3\u00a0weeks) was performed in 15 patients (group I) and delayed repair (after 3\u00a0weeks) in the rest 20 patients (group II). The time interval between injury and operation was 12 and 131\u00a0days on average for group I and II, respectively. Follow-up time was 34 and 38\u00a0months for group I and II, respectively. Postoperatively, the UCLA score was 31 and 26 (P\u00a0<\u00a00.05) for group I and II, respectively. The Constant score was 82 and 70 (P\u00a0<\u00a00.05) for group I and II, respectively. Range of motion was significantly better in group I. According to MRI, 5 patients (33%) in the group I and 7 patients (35%) in the group II had a retear. Early repair of a traumatic RCT provides better results in terms of shoulder function in comparison with a delayed repair. A delayed diagnosis of a traumatic RCT leads to difficulties in surgery and less good results. Level III, therapeutic, retrospective, comparative study."}
{"id": "21240157", "title": "Comparison between ultrasound and plain X-ray in evaluating the cause of shoulder pain.", "content": "Comparison between ultrasound and plain X-ray in evaluating the cause of shoulder pain. Painful shoulder is a common painful condition among patients. Apart from acute traumatic lesions such as fractures, dislocations, contusions, sprains and ruptured tendons, 85 to 90% of painful shoulders are due to adhesive capsulitis, acute or chronic calcific tendinitis, bursitis, bicipital tendinitis and lesions of the musculotendinous cuff. Arthritis is the cause of less than 5% of painful shoulders. For evaluating conditions of shoulder joint, X-ray has been regarded as only method of choice for long time. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is an alternative procedure but the cost limits its utilization especially in Bangladesh. Ultrasonography is an effective imaging modality in the evaluation of both rotator and non-rotator cuff disorders. Because of low cost and availability, it can be an alternative procedure for the diagnosis of painful shoulder. The present study was conducted to assess ultrasonography as a useful modality in evaluating cases of shoulder pain and to compare the findings with X-ray findings. Thirty two patients with shoulder pain were evaluated by X-ray and Ultrasonography (USG). Clinical diagnosis was done for correlation. To identify the cause of shoulder pain, 100% patients were found normal in plain X-ray. On Ultrasonography (USG) 12.5% patients had displaced long head of biceps, 21.9% had biceps tendinitis, and 3.1% had bursitis. In the assessment of shoulder pathology, USG had a sensitivity of 73.3%, specificity of 88.2%, Positive predictive value (PPV) of 84.6%, Negative predictive value (NPV) of 78.9% and an accuracy of 81.3%. USG is a useful modality for evaluation the shoulder joint in case of painful shoulder even plain X-ray is non conclusive."}
{"id": "21223748", "title": "[Relationship between glenoid inclination or version and supraspinatus tendon full-thickness tears].", "content": "[Relationship between glenoid inclination or version and supraspinatus tendon full-thickness tears]. To investigate the relationship between glenoid inclination or version and supraspinatus tendon full-thickness tears. Forty-two cases of unilateral supraspinatus tendon full-thickness tears were confirmed by clinical examinations and MRI scans. The bilateral glenoid inclination and version angles, measured by the volume rendering technique (VRT) and multi-planar reformation (MPR) of multi-slice computed tomography (MSCT) under 16-slice spiral CT scans, were compared by paired t test in all cases. The average inclination angle was (97.6 \u00b1 4.0)\u00b0 and (96.1 \u00b1 2.9) at affected and healthy sides respectively. And the difference had statistical significance (P = 0.001); the average version angle was (-3.2 \u00b1 5.0)\u00b0 and (-3.1 \u00b1 4.7)\u00b0 at affected and healthy sides respectively. And the difference had no statistical significance (P = 0.79). The glenoid inclination angles are correlated with supraspinatus tendon full thickness tears while but the glenoid version angles are not. A larger glenoid inclination angle may be a positive predictive factor of supraspinatus tendon full-thickness tears."}
{"id": "21208449", "title": "What do standard radiography and clinical examination tell about the shoulder with cuff tear arthropathy?", "content": "What do standard radiography and clinical examination tell about the shoulder with cuff tear arthropathy? This study evaluates the preoperative conventional anteroposterior radiography and clinical testing in non-operated patients with cuff tear arthropathy. It analyses the radiological findings in relation to the status of the rotator cuff and clinical status as also the clinical testing in relation to the rotator cuff quality. The aim of the study is to define the usefulness of radiography and clinical examination in cuff tear arthropathy. This study analyses the preoperative radiological (AP-view, (Artro-)CT-scan or MRI-scan) and clinical characteristics (Constant-Murley-score plus active and passive mobility testing) and the peroperative findings in a cohort of 307 patients. These patients were part of a multicenter, retrospective, consecutive study of the French Orthopaedic Society (SOFCOT-2006). All patients had no surgical antecedents and were all treated with prosthetic shoulder surgery for a painful irreparable cuff tear arthropathy (reverse-(84%) or hemi-(8%) or double cup-bipolar prosthesis (8%)). A positive significancy could be found for the relationship between clinical testing and the rotator cuff quality; between acromiohumeral distance and posterior rotator cuff quality; between femoralization and posterior rotator cuff quality. A conventional antero-posterior radiograph can not provide any predictive information on the clinical status of the patient. The subscapular muscle can be well tested by the press belly test and the teres minor muscle can be well tested by the hornblower' sign and by the exorotation lag signs. The upward migration index and the presence of femoralization are good indicators for the evaluation of the posterior rotator cuff. An inferior coracoid tip positioning suggests rotator cuff disease."}
{"id": "21189357", "title": "Open repair of isolated traumatic subscapularis tendon tears.", "content": "Open repair of isolated traumatic subscapularis tendon tears. Diagnosis, operative treatment, and outcome assessment of isolated traumatic subscapularis tendon tears have not been widely studied. To report the clinical outcome, value of clinical tests, predictive outcome factors, and return to sports in the management of isolated traumatic subscapularis tendon tears. Case series; level of evidence, 4. Thirty consecutive patients with a confirmed isolated subscapularis tear, except for associated biceps tendon injury or humeral avulsion of the glenohumeral ligaments (HAGL) lesions, found at arthroscopy were included in the study. The average age of the study population was 43.1 years. In all 30 patients, a traumatic event caused the onset of symptoms. The mean delay between trauma and surgery was 4 months. All patients underwent open tendon reconstruction with a suture anchor technique via a deltopectoral approach. Clinical assessment was done using the Constant score and specific subscapularis tests. Postoperative tendon integrity was assessed with ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging. Sports activity, including competition level, sports discipline, and postoperative return to sports, was evaluated. The average duration of follow-up was 46 months (range, 25-72 months). Seven patients had a full-thickness tear of the upper third of the tendon, 11 patients a full-thickness tear of the upper two-thirds of the tendon, and 12 patients had a complete subscapularis tendon tear. The Constant score increased from 51.3 preoperatively to 82.2 postoperatively (P < .01). Twenty-seven patients rated their postoperative result as excellent or good. Most positive preoperative lift-off and belly-press tests were reversed by surgery, with a rate of 6 (20%) persistent positive tests after surgery. Positive postoperative subscapularis tests were more likely related to a higher preoperative degree of fatty subscapularis muscle infiltration (P < .05). Ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging revealed a structural intact repair at follow-up in 28 shoulders (93%). Seventy-five percent of athletes returned to their previous competition level. Early repair of isolated traumatic subscapularis tendon tears and associated biceps tendon lesions or HAGL lesions achieves good functional outcomes with a low re-rupture rate and allows return to sports activity. Delay of surgery and higher degrees of preoperative fatty infiltration of the subscapularis muscle impair postoperative subscapularis function."}
{"id": "21176900", "title": "Surgical results of concomitant treatment of deltoid contracture and rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Surgical results of concomitant treatment of deltoid contracture and rotator cuff tear. Contracture of the deltoid muscle is an uncommon disorder. The symptoms usually are nonspecific and the diagnosis may be missed, especially when combined with other shoulder disorders, such as rotator cuff lesions. Few reports have described the surgical treatment of combined deltoid contracture and a torn rotator cuff. The purpose of this study was to share our experiences in the diagnosis and treatment of patients, who sustained deltoid contracture combined with rotator cuff tearing. Between April 2001 and December 2006, 18 consecutive patients underwent concomitant treatment for distal release of deltoid contracture and repair of a torn rotator cuff. The mean age at operation was 55.1 years. There were eight female and ten male patients. The acromial type, winging angle of the scapula and thickest diameter of the deltoid fibrotic band were measured using preoperative magnetic resonance imaging studies. The abduction-contracture angle, extension-contracture angle, horizontal-adduction angle and Constant and Murley scores were measured preoperatively and at the latest follow-up. There were nine complete rotator cuff tears and nine partial tears. At an average of 5 years and 3 months' follow-up, the mean abduction-contracture angle significantly improved from 27\u00b0 to 0\u00b0 (p<0.001), the mean extension-contracture angle improved from 13\u00b0 to 0\u00b0 (p<0.001), and, the mean horizontal-adduction angle improved from 8\u00b0 to 44\u00b0 (p<0.001). The mean Constant score also improved from 69 points to 95 points (p<0.001). If a symptomatic torn rotator cuff and deltoid contracture co-exist, simultaneous operative treatment of both conditions is highly recommended."}
{"id": "21176658", "title": "[Arthroscopic treatment of bursal-side partial-thickness rotator cuff tears].", "content": "[Arthroscopic treatment of bursal-side partial-thickness rotator cuff tears]. To study the surgical techniques and results of arthroscopic treatment of bursal-side partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. From June 2002 to December 2007, 57 patients with bursal-side partial-thickness rotator cuff tears underwent arthroscopic treatment. There were 34 male and 15 female patients, the average age was 49.7 years (25 - 71 years). Fifteen left shoulder and 34 right ones were involved. Seven cases were classified as degree I, 6 as II and 36 as III according to Ellman classification. The anterior-posterior and the supraspinatus outlet projection of the X-rays were obtained before surgery. Twenty-nine patients had been received by sonography and 36 patients had undergone MRI examinations. All the patients underwent subacromial bursectomy and acromioplasty, 13 cases underwent cuff debridement, 36 cases underwent cuff repair. Among them, 3 cases were treated by side to side suture of rotator cuff, 26 cases were treated by suture anchor, 7 cases were treated by side to side suture combined with suture anchor. UCLA scoring system was adopted before operation and at the final evaluation. Forty-nine patients had been reviewed at least 2 years after the operation with an average of 48 months (2 to 7 years). The average score was 32.1 \u00b1 3.8 postoperatively, and the mean pain score was 2.9 \u00b1 1.0 vs 8.4 \u00b1 1.7 (P = 0.000) for pre- vs. post-operation, the function score was 5.4 \u00b1 1.2 vs. 9.1 \u00b1 1.4 (P = 0.000), the mean forward flexion score was 4.3 \u00b1 1.1 vs. 4.9 \u00b1 0.2 (P = 0.000), the mean forward flexion strength was 4.0 \u00b1 0.4 vs. 4.8 \u00b1 0.4 (P = 0.000), the results were 16 excellent, 31 good and 2 bad. Forty-seven patients were satisfied with the operation. Arthroscopy is an effective method for the treatment of bursal-side partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. The key to the operation lies in bleeding control, proper acromioplasty and correct suturing method. This surgery has many advantages such as mini-invasion and rapid recovery."}
{"id": "21161250", "title": "Asymptomatic acromioclavicular joint arthritis in arthroscopic rotator cuff tendon repair: a prospective randomized comparison study.", "content": "Asymptomatic acromioclavicular joint arthritis in arthroscopic rotator cuff tendon repair: a prospective randomized comparison study. Arthroscopic acromioclavicular joint (ACJ) resection for asymptomatic ACJ arthritis combined with rotator cuff repair leads to more satisfactory pain relief and decrease reoperation rate when inferiorly directed osteophytes present at the undersurface of ACJ. Between January 2006 and May 2008, a total of 83 patients (83 shoulders), 40 males and 43 females, who were planned to have arthroscopic repair of a tear measuring 1-3\u00a0cm in the anterior-posterior dimension with advanced ACJ arthritis with inferiorly directed osteophytes at the undersurface of the ACJ on MRI were entered into this study. Patients were randomized into two groups. Group 1 included 31 patients, who underwent arthroscopic distal clavicle resection combined with rotator cuff repair. Group 2 included 52 patients, who underwent isolated rotator cuff repair. Patients were evaluated preoperatively and postoperatively using the University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) score and the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) score. Pain, tenderness on ACJ, and cross body adduction test were compared between groups. The mean follow-up was 31.7\u00a0months (range 34-38). The UCLA scores and ASES scores were lower in group 1 at week 6 (p\u00a0<\u00a0.05), and week 12 (p\u00a0<\u00a0.05), but higher at the last follow-up at 2\u00a0years (p\u00a0<\u00a0.05) postoperatively. VAS score was higher in group 1 at week 6 (p\u00a0<\u00a0.05), and at week 12 (p\u00a0<\u00a0.05), but lower in group 2 at the last follow-up (p\u00a0<\u00a0.05). Only in group 2, two (3.8%) cases developed ACJ pain during follow-up and one (1.9%) case underwent reoperation for additional ACJ resection. This study shows that distal clavicle resection combined with rotator cuff repair for asymptomatic ACJ arthritis with inferiorly directed osteophytes lower functional scores due to temporary pain in early postoperative periods, but better functional outcomes with satisfactory pain relief and no reoperation rate were observed after 2\u00a0years."}
{"id": "21160018", "title": "Platelet-rich plasma augmentation for arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: a randomized controlled trial.", "content": "Platelet-rich plasma augmentation for arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: a randomized controlled trial. After reinsertion on the humerus, the rotator cuff has limited ability to heal. Growth factor augmentation has been proposed to enhance healing in such procedure. This study was conducted to assess the efficacy and safety of growth factor augmentation during rotator cuff repair. Randomized controlled trial; Level of evidence, 1. Eighty-eight patients with a rotator cuff tear were randomly assigned by a computer-generated sequence to receive arthroscopic rotator cuff repair without (n = 45) or with (n = 43) augmentation with autologous platelet-rich fibrin matrix (PRFM). The primary end point was the postoperative difference in the Constant score between the 2 groups. The secondary end point was the integrity of the repaired rotator cuff, as evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging. Analysis was on an intention-to-treat basis. All the patients completed follow-up at 16 months. There was no statistically significant difference in total Constant score when comparing the results of arthroscopic repair of the 2 groups (95% confidence interval, -3.43 to 3.9) (P = .44). There was no statistically significant difference in magnetic resonance imaging tendon score when comparing arthroscopic repair with or without PRFM (P = .07). Our study does not support the use of autologous PRFM for augmentation of a double-row repair of a small or medium rotator cuff tear to improve the healing of the rotator cuff. Our results are applicable to small and medium rotator cuff tears; it is possible that PRFM may be beneficial for large and massive rotator cuff tears. Also, given the heterogeneity of PRFM preparation products available on the market, it is possible that other preparations may be more effective."}
{"id": "21151852", "title": "Xanthomatous infiltration of the rotator cuff and long head of biceps with rotator cuff tear in a patient with mixed hyperlipidemia: a case report with MRI imaging.", "content": "Xanthomatous infiltration of the rotator cuff and long head of biceps with rotator cuff tear in a patient with mixed hyperlipidemia: a case report with MRI imaging. Xanthomatous infiltration may rarely affect the rotator cuff muscles and long head of the biceps tendon. It is the deposition of cholesterol within the rotator cuff muscles and long head of the biceps tendon resulting from hyperlipidemia, specifically high triglyceride and total cholesterol levels. As more commonly seen with xanthomatous infiltration and tear of the Achilles tendon, there may also be an association with rotator cuff tendon deposition and tear. MRI images of xanthomatous infiltration with rotator cuff tear in a 77 year old man with hyperlipidemia are detailed in the following case report."}
{"id": "21148143", "title": "Evaluation of fatty degeneration of the supraspinatus muscle using a new measuring tool and its correlation between multidetector computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Evaluation of fatty degeneration of the supraspinatus muscle using a new measuring tool and its correlation between multidetector computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. The assessment of fatty degeneration of rotator cuff muscles with a reliable grading system is very important. However, there is no generally accepted tool to measure it quantitatively. This work was undertaken to introduce a new method to evaluate fatty degeneration by calculating the occupation ratio of the supraspinatus, to determine the correlation between this occupation ratio and the degree of Goutallier's fatty degeneration or tear size of rotator cuff muscles and to assess the correlation between multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) using this new measuring tool. Cohort study (diagnosis); Level of evidence, 2. Sixty-one patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears who had undergone arthroscopic rotator cuff repair were included. The occupation ratio was measured using the magic selection tool in Photoshop on MDCT and both T1- and T2-weighted oblique sagittal magnetic resonance images of Y-view. One-way analysis of variance was used to determine the association between this occupation ratio and the degree of fatty degeneration as assessed by Goutallier's method. The correlation between the occupation ratio and tear size, and the correlation of the occupation ratio between MDCT and MRI, were evaluated using the Pearson correlation coefficient. In addition, the interobserver and intraobserver reliabilities of this measuring tool were assessed on each image by 2 orthopaedic surgeons and analyzed using interclass correlation coefficients. Comparison of the occupation ratio measured by this new method with the Goutallier grade of fatty degeneration on MDCT and MRI revealed a highly significant correlation, with all P values < .001. Also, comparison of this new occupation ratio and cuff tear size showed a reverse correlation on MDCT, T1-weighted magnetic resonance images, and T2-weighted images, with Pearson correlation coefficients of -.61, -.56, and -.50 (all P < .001) by rater 1, and -.57, -.53, and -.43 (all P < .001) by rater 2. Comparison of the occupation ratio between MDCT and MRI demonstrated significant correlation, with Pearson correlation coefficients of .78 and .87 between MDCT and T1-weighted magnetic resonance images and .73 and .82 between MDCT and T2-weighted images. The interobserver and intraobserver reliabilities of this new measuring tool on MDCT and both T1- and T2-weighted magnetic resonance images were excellent in all images, with interobserver correlation of .89, .92, and .91 and intraobserver correlation of .89 and .96, .90 and .98, and .85 and .97, respectively. This new quantitative measuring tool to evaluate the fatty degeneration of rotator cuff muscles was reliable and correlated well with both the preexisting grade of fatty degeneration and cuff tear size. Also, there was a significant correlation between oblique sagittal images of MDCT and MRI using this method; therefore, MDCT can be another option for imaging modality, comparable with MRI, for the evaluation of fatty degeneration of rotator cuff muscles."}
{"id": "21138564", "title": "Sonographic evaluation of the shoulder in asymptomatic elderly subjects with diabetes.", "content": "Sonographic evaluation of the shoulder in asymptomatic elderly subjects with diabetes. The prevalence of rotator cuff tears increases with age and several studies have shown that diabetes is associated with symptomatic shoulder pathologies. Aim of our research was to evaluate the prevalence of shoulder lesions in a population of asymptomatic elderly subjects, normal and with non insulin - dependent diabetes mellitus. The study was performed on 48 subjects with diabetes and 32 controls (mean age: 71.5 \u00b1 4.8 and 70.7 \u00b1 4.5, respectively), who did not complain shoulder pain or dysfunction. An ultrasound examination was performed on both shoulders according to a standard protocol, utilizing multiplanar scans. Tendons thickness was greater in diabetics than in controls (Supraspinatus Tendon: 6.2 \u00b1 0.09 mm vs 5.2 \u00b1 0.7 mm, p < 0.001; Biceps Tendon: 4 \u00b1 0.8 mm vs 3.2 \u00b1 0.4 mm, p < 0.001). Sonographic appearances of degenerative features in the rotator cuff and biceps were more frequently observed in diabetics (Supraspinatus Tendon: 42.7% vs 20.3%, p < 0.003; Biceps Tendon: 27% vs 7.8%, p < 0.002).Subjects with diabetes exhibited more tears in the Supraspinatus Tendon (Minor tears: 15 (15.8%) vs 2 (3.1%), p < 0.03; Major tears: 15 (15.8%) vs 5 (7.8%), p = ns), but not in the long head of Biceps. More effusions in subacromial bursa were observed in diabetics (23.9% vs 10.9%, p < 0.03) as well as tenosynovitis in biceps tendon (33.3% vs 10.9%, p < 0.001).In both groups, pathological findings were prevalent on the dominant side, but no difference related to duration of diabetes was found. Our results suggest that age - related rotator cuff tendon degenerative changes are more common in diabetics.Ultrasound is an useful tool for discovering in pre - symptomatic stages the subjects that may undergo shoulder symptomatic pathologies."}
{"id": "21126848", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging tendon integrity assessment after arthroscopic partial-thickness rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging tendon integrity assessment after arthroscopic partial-thickness rotator cuff repair. Our goal was to assess the integrity of the repaired rotator cuff in patients with partial-thickness rotator cuff tears who underwent a technique of tear completion followed by surgical repair, using post-repair magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at a minimum of 2 years' follow-up. An all-arthroscopic surgical technique was used for these marked partial-thickness tears, by use of double-loaded footprint anchors and/or lateral sutures or anchors as appropriate for tissue quality. A total of 22 patients who had completion of the tear followed by repair were reimaged with 2-sequence noncontrast MRI to determine the integrity of the rotator cuff repair at a minimum of 2 years postoperatively. Of the 22 patients, 18 (82%) had no evidence of a full-thickness or near full-thickness defect on follow-up MRI. The presence of a defect on follow-up MRI (18%) did not correlate with clinical results. Younger patients showed a trend toward maintaining better integrity. In 18 of 22 patients (82%) with partial-thickness rotator cuff tears treated with tear completion followed by surgical repair, there was no evidence of a full-thickness or near full-thickness defect on follow-up MRI at a minimum of 2 years. The patient's age may be an important factor in tendon healing. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "21119934", "title": "Rotator cuff deficient arthritis of the glenohumeral joint.", "content": "Rotator cuff deficient arthritis of the glenohumeral joint. Rotator cuff deficient arthritis of the glenohumeral joint, especially cuff tear arthropathy, has proved a challenging clinical entity for orthopaedic surgeons ever since Charles Neer originally detailed the problem in 1983. Understanding has improved regarding the pathophysiology and pathomechanics underlying cuff tear arthropathy. Surgical reconstruction options can lead to excellent outcomes for patients afflicted with these painful and functionally limited shoulders. Humeral hemiarthroplasty and reverse total shoulder arthroplasty have jumped to the forefront in the treatment of cuff tear arthropathy. As studies continue to look at the results of these procedures in cuff tear arthropathy, existing indications and treatment algorithms will be further refined. In this article the history and pathophysiology of cuff tear arthropathy are reviewed. Additionally, the clinical findings and results of surgical reconstruction are discussed."}
{"id": "21112475", "title": "Clinical evidence for suture anchor repair of rotator cuff tears does add up: some just do not want to see it.", "content": "Clinical evidence for suture anchor repair of rotator cuff tears does add up: some just do not want to see it."}
{"id": "21106404", "title": "Rotator cuff repair augmentation using a novel polycarbonate polyurethane patch: preliminary results at 12 months' follow-up.", "content": "Rotator cuff repair augmentation using a novel polycarbonate polyurethane patch: preliminary results at 12 months' follow-up. Preventing anatomic failure after rotator cuff repair (RCR) remains a challenge. Augmentation with a surgical mesh may permanently reinforce the repair and decrease failure rates. The purpose of this study is to assess the postoperative outcomes of open RCR augmented with a novel reticulated polycarbonate polyurethane patch. Ten patients with supraspinatus tendon tears underwent open RCR augmented with a polycarbonate polyurethane patch secured in a 6-point fixation construct placed over the repaired tendon. Patients were evaluated with preoperative and postoperative outcome measures, including the Simple Shoulder Test, visual analog pain scale, American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons shoulder score, Cumulative Activities of Daily Living score, and University of California, Los Angeles shoulder scale, as well as range of motion. Postoperative magnetic resonance imaging was used to evaluate repair status. Patients showed significant improvements in visual analog pain scale, Simple Shoulder Test, and American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons shoulder scores at both 6 and 12 months postoperatively (P < .05 and P < .01, respectively). The University of California, Los Angeles postoperative score was good to excellent in 7 patients at 6 months and in 8 patients at 12 months. Range of motion in forward flexion, abduction, internal rotation, and external rotation was significantly improved at both 6 and 12 months postoperatively (P < .05 and P < .01, respectively). Magnetic resonance imaging at 12 months showed healing in 90%; one patient had a definitive persistent tear. We found no adverse events associated with the patch, including the absence of fibrosis, mechanical symptoms, or visible subacromial adhesions. The polycarbonate polyurethane patch was designed to support tissue in growth and enhance healing as shown by preclinical animal studies. Clinically, the patch is well tolerated and shows promising efficacy, with a 10% retear rate at the 12-month time point."}
{"id": "21098844", "title": "Comparison between exclusively long-axis and multiple-axis sonographic protocols for screening of rotator cuff lesions in symptomatic shoulders.", "content": "Comparison between exclusively long-axis and multiple-axis sonographic protocols for screening of rotator cuff lesions in symptomatic shoulders. The purpose of this study was to determine whether exclusively long-axis sonography differs from a multiple-axis scanning protocol as a screening tool for rotator cuff lesions in symptomatic shoulders when compared with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). A total of 509 consecutive patients (mean age, 52.8 years) referred for MRI were also routinely evaluated by sonography. We initially performed exclusively long-axis sonography and graded the rotator cuff as normal or abnormal. Patients subsequently underwent a full sonographic protocol using multiple-axis views. Magnetic resonance imaging findings were compared with sonographic findings for both techniques. The overall accuracy of sonography was greater than 90%. We found divergent results from different sonographic techniques in 34 patients. Of these, 8 were multiple-axis false-negative; 14 were exclusively long-axis false-negative; 6 were exclusively long-axis false-positive; and 6 were multiple-axis false-positive. All cases with divergent false-negative findings on multiple-axis sonography showed tendinosis on MRI. Causes for false-negative findings on exclusively long-axis sonography included tendinosis and partial-thickness tears of the supraspinatus. No statistically significant difference was seen between both sonographic techniques compared with MRI in terms of accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value (P > .05). Sonography is reliable for detecting rotator cuff abnormalities. Exclusively long-axis sonography seems appropriate as a screening tool for rotator cuff lesions in symptomatic shoulders."}
{"id": "21098196", "title": "Temporal evolution of MRI findings after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Temporal evolution of MRI findings after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. The purpose of this article is to assess the changes occurring over time in the MRI appearance of repaired rotator cuff tendons and to correlate MRI appearance with clinical outcomes. MRI examinations were performed on 40 patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears preoperatively and at 6 weeks, 3 months, and 12 months after arthroscopic repair. Preoperative scans were assessed for size of tear. Postoperative scans were evaluated for size of footprint, tendon thickness, signal intensity of the repaired tendon, and presence of full-thickness tear. Footprint and tendon thickness were graded from 1 to 4 according to percentage of normal. Tendon signal intensity was graded from 1 to 4 on the basis of the length of abnormal tendon. A composite score of footprint, tendon thickness, and tendon signal intensity was used to compare overall tendon appearance relative to the intact tendon. Rasch analysis was used to transform ordinal scale data into interval scale data. Using interval scale data, MRI findings were correlated to shoulder strength and the Constant-Murley score of clinical outcome. Four recurrent tendon tears occurred during the first postoperative year. Tendons appeared most disorganized compared with native tendon 3 months after surgery. Twenty-four of 36 intact tendons showed a decreased tendon score between 6 weeks and 3 months. There was considerable variability in tendon appearance among patients. There was no correlation between MRI appearance and clinical outcome score. MRI appearance of the repaired tendon changes over time but does not correlate with function or predict clinical outcomes at 1 year after surgery."}
{"id": "21098177", "title": "Ultrasound detection of rotator cuff tears: observer agreement related to increasing experience.", "content": "Ultrasound detection of rotator cuff tears: observer agreement related to increasing experience. Ultrasound of the rotator cuff is considered to be operator-dependent with its accuracy being related to the operator's level of experience. This study was conducted to test the hypothesis that ultrasound performed by operators with different levels of experience will give nonreproducible results. Two radiologists, one general radiologist with no experience in musculoskeletal ultrasound and one experienced musculoskeletal radiologist, independently performed ultrasound on 200 shoulders in 183 consecutive patients. Agreement was assessed. Cohen's kappa values with standard errors were calculated. In 71 patients the ultrasound findings could be related to surgical findings. The diagnoses of full-thickness and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears were made with agreements of 98% (\u03ba-value: 0.95 [standard error, 0.03]) and 90% (\u03ba-value: 0.79 [0.05]), respectively. Agreement for full-thickness tears was constant; the agreement for partial-thickness tears improved from 80% to 98% in the last quarter of the study period. Based on the 71 patients who underwent shoulder surgery, sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy for detecting full-thickness tears by the experienced and general radiologists were 94%, 94%, and 94% and 89%, 91%, and 90%, respectively. Sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy for detecting partial-thickness tears by the experienced and general radiologists were 100%, 32%, and 57% and 84%, 35%, and 53%, respectively. The hypothesis that ultrasound of the shoulder is operator-dependent and related to experience was refuted. In this study, there was excellent agreement for the detection of rotator cuff tears, which only slightly improved with the increasing experience of the general radiologist. Accuracy of rotator cuff tear detection was high and in accordance with the results in the literature."}
{"id": "21094406", "title": "Imaging pediatric sports injuries: upper extremity.", "content": "Imaging pediatric sports injuries: upper extremity. With increasing youth participation in organized sports, more injuries in this age group are being treated by primary care and sports medicine physicians. Overuse injuries are much more common now than in past decades, with Little League shoulder, Little League elbow, and gymnast wrist being particular concerns. Rotator cuff tears and glenoid labral injuries, once thought to be rare in this age group, are also more common now. Osteochondritis dissecans of the elbow is relatively common and typically fares poorly without surgery. Wrist abnormalities that occur nowadays include triangular fibrocartilage tears. Tendonitis, which is now observed frequently in clinical practice in this age group, rarely requires imaging."}
{"id": "21094403", "title": "Overhead throwing injuries of the shoulder and elbow.", "content": "Overhead throwing injuries of the shoulder and elbow. Injuries to the shoulder and elbow are common in athletes involved in sporting activities that require overhead motion of the arm. An understanding of the forces involved in the throwing motion, the anatomic structures most at risk, and the magnetic resonance imaging appearances of the most common associated injuries can help to improve diagnostic accuracy when interpreting imaging studies in these patients."}
{"id": "21094402", "title": "Imaging of triathlon injuries.", "content": "Imaging of triathlon injuries. Injuries in triathletes are common and are mostly overuse injuries. Rotator cuff tendinitis is the most common complaint from swimming, but the incidence of tendinopathy and rotator cuff tears on magnetic resonance imaging is comparable in triathletes without and with shoulder pain. Cycling injuries are mainly to the knee, including patellar tendinosis, iliotibial band syndrome, and patellofemoral stress syndrome, and to the Achilles tendon and the cervical and lumbar spine. Running is associated with most injuries in triathletes, during both training and racing, causing the athlete to discontinue the triathlon. In addition to knee injuries from running, triathletes may also develop foot and ankle, lower leg, and hip injuries similar to single-sport distance runners. Some injuries in triathletes may be mainly symptomatic during one of the three sports but are exacerbated by one or both of the other disciplines."}
{"id": "21088956", "title": "[Proximal and distal rupture of the m. biceps brachii].", "content": "[Proximal and distal rupture of the m. biceps brachii]. Ruptures of the biceps tendon account for a high percentage of tendon ruptures. The aetiology of proximal ruptures of the long head of the biceps tendon is often degenerative and they are frequently associated with lesions of the rotator cuff. The clinical findings are often not specific and long lasting. Distal ruptures of the biceps tendon mostly occur during eccentric contraction of the biceps muscle.Clinical tests, the associated haematoma and a distalisation or proximalisation of the muscle belly in combination with ultrasound or MRI to rule out combined diseases lead to the diagnosis. The possible options include conservative and operative treatment. Tenotomy and tenodesis lead to comparable results in the literature. Therefore, conservative treatment is mostly recommended in proximal ruptures. Operative treatment is preferred in distal ruptures of the biceps tendon in order to achieve an anatomical reconstruction of the muscle function. Chronic ruptures of the distal biceps tendon can be successfully treated with free autografts or allografts."}
{"id": "21088456", "title": "Simultaneous repair of chronic full-thickness rotator cuff tears during fixation of proximal humerus fractures and clinical results.", "content": "Simultaneous repair of chronic full-thickness rotator cuff tears during fixation of proximal humerus fractures and clinical results. We investigated the incidence of chronic rotator cuff tears encountered during fixation of proximal humerus fractures with locking plate-screw systems, and evaluated the functional results of simultaneous surgical repair of these injuries. A total of 111 patients underwent surgical treatment for proximal humerus fractures. Of these, nine patients (8 females, 1 male; mean age 73 years; range 56 to 84 years) who had concomitant chronic full-thickness rotator cuff tears were included in the study. According to the AO classification, the fractures were type 11A1 (12C1 also present) in one patient, 11A2 (12C2 also present) in one patient, 11B1 in two patients, 11B2 in three patients, and 11C2 in two patients. None of the patients underwent preoperative magnetic resonance imaging. Fracture fixation was made with the PHILOS plate in five patients, and with the S3 Proximal Humerus Plate in four patients. All full-thickness rotator cuff tears were detected during the operation. Following open reduction and internal fixation after a deltoid splitting incision, rotator cuff tears were repaired by primary suture in two patients, and with a suture anchor in seven patients. All the patients used a padded shoulder-arm sling for six weeks and received a standard rehabilitation program. All the patients were evaluated radiographically and functionally using the Constant-Murley shoulder score at postoperative 6 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months. The mean follow-up period was 17.3 months (range 8 to 30 months). The incidence of full-thickness rotator cuff tears was 8.1%. All the patients had supraspinatus tears, which were accompanied by infraspinatus tears in three patients. The sizes of the tears were classified as large (between 3-5 cm) in three patients, intermediate (between 1-3 cm) in five patients, and small (<1 cm) in one patient. One patient had L-shaped, two patients had U-shaped, and six patients had C-shaped tears. None of the patients had healing problems or avascular necrosis. The mean Constant-Murley shoulder score was 85.4 (range 67 to 100). All the patients were satisfied with the results of surgical treatment. The integrity of the rotator cuff must be checked after reduction and fixation of proximal humerus fractures and, when present, the tears should be repaired simultaneously either primarily or with suture anchors. Simultaneous repair of rotator cuff tears does not negatively affect functional outcomes."}
{"id": "21084574", "title": "Symptomatic progression of asymptomatic rotator cuff tears: a prospective study of clinical and sonographic variables.", "content": "Symptomatic progression of asymptomatic rotator cuff tears: a prospective study of clinical and sonographic variables. The purposes of this study were to identify changes in tear dimensions, shoulder function, and glenohumeral kinematics when an asymptomatic rotator cuff tear becomes painful and to identify characteristics of individuals who develop pain compared with those who remain asymptomatic. A cohort of 195 subjects with an asymptomatic rotator cuff tear was prospectively monitored for pain development and examined annually for changes in various parameters such as tear size, fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff muscle, glenohumeral kinematics, and shoulder function. Forty-four subjects were found to have developed new pain, and the parameters before and after pain development were compared. The forty-four subjects were then compared with a group of fifty-five subjects who remained asymptomatic over a two-year period. With pain development, the size of a full-thickness rotator cuff tear increased significantly, with 18% of the full-thickness tears showing an increase of >5 mm, and 40% of the partial-thickness tears had progressed to a full-thickness tear. In comparison with the assessments made before the onset of pain, the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores for shoulder function were significantly decreased and all measures of shoulder range of motion were decreased except for external rotation at 90\u00b0 of abduction. There was an increase in compensatory scapulothoracic motion in relation to the glenohumeral motion during early shoulder abduction with pain development. No significant changes were found in external rotation strength or muscular fatty degeneration. Compared with the subjects who remained asymptomatic, the subjects who developed pain were found to have significantly larger tears at the time of initial enrollment. Pain development in shoulders with an asymptomatic rotator cuff tear is associated with an increase in tear size. Larger tears are more likely to develop pain in the short term than are smaller tears. Further research is warranted to investigate the role of prophylactic treatment of asymptomatic shoulders to avoid the development of pain and loss of shoulder function."}
{"id": "21084572", "title": "Commentary on an article by Nathan A. Mall, MD, et al.: \"Symptomatic progression of asymptomatic rotator cuff tears: a prospective study of clinical and sonographic variables\".", "content": "Commentary on an article by Nathan A. Mall, MD, et al.: \"Symptomatic progression of asymptomatic rotator cuff tears: a prospective study of clinical and sonographic variables\"."}
{"id": "21053871", "title": "Isolated rupture of the teres major tendon.", "content": "Isolated rupture of the teres major tendon. Acute isolated rupture of the teres major is an uncommon injury. This article presents the first report of midterm subjective and objective functional results following nonoperative management of an isolated teres major rupture. A 30-year-old right hand dominant man presented after a waterskiing traction injury to his left upper extremity. On physical examination, the patient had swelling and retraction of the teres major at the lower scapular border, which was accentuated with resisted adduction of the extremity. His teres major attachment at the humerus was not palpable. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed an isolated teres major tendon rupture. The patient was treated non-operatively with a rehabilitation protocol emphasizing rotator cuff, periscapular, and latissimus muscle strengthening. By 3 months postinjury, the patient had returned to all of his usual sporting activities, despite a persistent muscle retraction deformity over the teres major. At 3-year follow-up, the patient had no subjective complaints in the injured extremity and excellent functional outcome scores. A mean 37 kg loss of internal rotation strength (as measured by dynamometer) in the affected extremity with the arm abducted to 90\u00b0 existed, although this difference was not subjectively appreciable. Although previously published reports have presented various options for the management of teres major injuries, the present case demonstrates that nonoperative treatment can produce excellent midterm subjective results in spite of objective internal rotation weakness."}
{"id": "21052116", "title": "[Non-traumatic shoulder pain].", "content": "[Non-traumatic shoulder pain]. Shoulder pain (usually non-traumatic) is the third most common cause of consultations for musculoskeletal pain in primary health care. This article discusses challenges within diagnostics and treatment of non-traumatic shoulder pain. The article is based on literature identified through a non-systematic search in PubMed and the Cochrane library. One clinical test alone is generally not sufficient to make a pathoanatomical diagnosis. The incidence of degenerative changes in the normal population makes it difficult to interpret diagnostic images. MR is mainly indicated as part of a preoperative assessment and upon a specific indication. For diagnosis of the rotator cuff, ultrasound is as good as MR. Clinical studies do not show clear effects of specific treatment. This may be caused by methodological weaknesses of the trials evaluated and that patient characteristics and placebo effects contribute to the diagnosis. Injection with glucocorticoids seems to be well founded in patients with adhesive capsulate (frozen shoulder). With subacromial pain, supervised physical exercise and surgical treatment have similar effects, but there is not sufficient evidence to recommend particular treatments for rupture. Non-traumatic shoulder pain is usually diagnosed adequately from the medical history and a combination of clinical tests; conservative treatment is most often adequate. When diagnostic imaging is required, ultrasound should be the first choice."}
{"id": "21030564", "title": "Factors affecting healing rates after arthroscopic double-row rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Factors affecting healing rates after arthroscopic double-row rotator cuff repair. Double-row arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs were developed to improve initial biomechanical strength of repairs to improve healing rates. Despite biomechanical improvements, failure of healing remains a clinical problem. To evaluate the anatomical results after double-row arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with ultrasound to determine postoperative repair integrity and the effect of various factors on tendon healing. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Forty-eight patients (49 shoulders) who had a complete arthroscopic rotator cuff repair (double-row technique) were evaluated with ultrasound at a minimum of 6 months after surgery. Outcome was evaluated at a minimum of 1-year follow-up with standardized history and physical examination, visual analog scale for pain, active forward elevation, and preoperative and postoperative shoulder scores according to the system of the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons and the Simple Shoulder Test. Quantitative strength was measured postoperatively. Ultrasound and physical examinations were performed at a minimum of 6 months after surgery (mean, 16 months; range, 6 to 36 months) and outcome questionnaire evaluations at a minimum of 12 months after surgery (mean, 29 months; range, 12 to 55 months). Of 49 repairs, 25 (51%) were healed. Healing rates were 67% in single-tendon tears (16 of 24 shoulders) and 36% in multitendon tears (9 of 25 shoulders). Older age and longer duration of follow-up were correlated with poorer tendon healing (P < .03). Visual analog scale for pain, active forward elevation, American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores, and Simple Shoulder Test scores all had significant improvement from baseline after repair (P < .0001). Increased age and longer duration of follow-up were associated with lower healing rates after double-row rotator cuff repair. The biological limitation at the repair site, as reflected by the effects of age on healing, appears to be the most important factor influencing tendon healing, even after maximizing repair biomechanical strength with a double-row construct."}
{"id": "21030274", "title": "Asymptomatic rotator cuff tears: patient demographics and baseline shoulder function.", "content": "Asymptomatic rotator cuff tears: patient demographics and baseline shoulder function. The purpose of this study is to characterize the demographic features and physical function of subjects with asymptomatic rotator cuff tears and to compare their shoulder function with control subjects with an intact rotator cuff. This study enrolled 196 subjects with an asymptomatic rotator cuff tear and 54 subjects with an intact rotator cuff presenting with a painful rotator cuff tear in the contralateral shoulder. Various demographic features, shoulder function (American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score and Simple Shoulder Test score), range of motion, and strength were compared. The demographic features of the study and control groups were similar. Hand dominance was associated with the presence of shoulder pain (P < .05). Subjects with an intact rotator cuff had greater but clinically insignificant American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (P < .05) and Simple Shoulder Test (P < .05) scores than those with an asymptomatic tear. No differences in functional scores, range of motion, or strength were seen between partial-thickness tears (n = 61) and full-thickness tears (n = 135). Of the full-thickness tears, 36 (27%) were classified as small, 85 (63%) as medium, and 14 (10%) as large. No differences were seen in functional scores among full-thickness tears of various sizes. When asymptomatic, a rotator cuff tear is associated with a clinically insignificant loss of shoulder function compared with an intact rotator cuff. Therefore a clinically detectable decline in shoulder function may indicate an \"at-risk\" asymptomatic tear. The presence of pain is important in cuff-deficient shoulders for creating a measurable loss of shoulder function. Hand dominance appears to be an important risk factor for pain."}
{"id": "20970761", "title": "Effect of an intense wheelchair propulsion task on quantitative ultrasound of shoulder tendons.", "content": "Effect of an intense wheelchair propulsion task on quantitative ultrasound of shoulder tendons. To investigate acute ultrasound changes of biceps and supraspinatus tendon appearance after an intense wheelchair propulsion task, and how these changes relate to demographic and biomechanical risk factors. A survey. Research laboratory and research space at the National Veterans Wheelchair Games. A convenience sample of 60 manual wheelchair users were recruited through research registries and rehabilitation clinics as well as from participants at the 2007 and 2008 National Veterans Wheelchair Games. The subjects were between 18 and 65 years of age at least 1 year after injury and did not have progressive disabilities. Quantitative ultrasound (QUS) measures of biceps and supraspinatus tendon appearance, stroke frequency, resultant force, tendinopathy score, and duration of wheelchair use. Biceps tendon appearance after an intense propulsion task was significantly related to chronic biceps tendinopathy, duration of wheelchair use, stroke frequency, and resultant force. The subjects with a higher stroke frequency or resultant force tended to have a brighter, more organized tendon appearance compared with the prepropulsion imaging session (baseline). The subjects with tendinopathy or a longer duration of wheelchair use were more likely to have a darker, diffuse tendon appearance immediately after the propulsion task. Supraspinatus tendon appearance after propulsion was only significantly predicted by baseline QUS measures. QUS has proven to be sensitive to risk factors for tendon pathology. Future studies can apply grayscale-based QUS to study the development and prevention of repetitive strain injuries, particularly on an individual basis."}
{"id": "20965645", "title": "Detection and quantification of rotator cuff tears with ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging - a prospective study in 77 consecutive patients with a surgical reference.", "content": "Detection and quantification of rotator cuff tears with ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging - a prospective study in 77 consecutive patients with a surgical reference. The aim of this study was to compare the accuracy of ultrasonography (US) and magnetic resonance artrography (MRA) for the detection and measurement of rotator cuff tears, using surgical findings as a standard. A total of 77 consecutive patients with suspected rotator cuff tears were prospectively studied with US and MRA. Rotator cuff tears were identified by US with sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive and negative predictive values of 92%, 45%, 91% and 50%, respectively, and by MRA with values of 97%, 82%, 97% and 82%, respectively. US was not reliable for differentiating between partial and full thickness tears. US and MRA underestimated the tear sizes by an average of 15 mm and 4 mm, respectively. Our results suggest that US could be used as a screening test to confirm a suspected rotator cuff tear. In patients with negative findings, an MRA should be considered for substantiation."}
{"id": "20965626", "title": "Changes in infraspinatus cross-sectional area and shoulder range of motion with repetitive eccentric external rotator contraction.", "content": "Changes in infraspinatus cross-sectional area and shoulder range of motion with repetitive eccentric external rotator contraction. Repetitive eccentric loading results in muscle damage and subsequent changes in muscle stiffness and edema accumulation, which manifest as reduced joint range of motion and increased muscle cross-sectional area. The purpose of the study was to evaluate changes in shoulder range of motion and the infraspinatus cross-sectional area with repetitive eccentric contraction. Twenty physically active participants performed 9 sets of 25 repetitions of eccentric external rotator contractions. The ultrasonographic measurement of the infraspinatus cross-sectional area, and shoulder internal/external rotation and horizontal adduction range of motion were measured before, immediately after, and 24h after the intervention. Infraspinatus cross-sectional area significantly increased from baseline immediately after exercise (P<0.001), and remained elevated from baseline at the 24-hour follow up (P<0.001). Internal rotation and horizontal adduction range of motion did not change significantly between baseline and post-exercise (P>0.05), but were significantly decreased at the 24-hour follow up from the baseline (internal rotation: P<0.001, horizontal adduction: P<0.001) and the immediate post-exercise (internal rotation: P=1.012, horizontal adduction: P=0.016). These changes observed after the eccentric contractions may have implications for injury development in pitchers, because 1) the infraspinatus endures repetitive eccentric loading with pitching and 2) decreased internal rotation and horizontal adduction range of motion have been linked to upper extremity injuries. However, since the muscle response after eccentric loading varies by the task and previous exposure to similar stress, future study needs to investigate the time course of recovery of the muscle cross-sectional area and range of motion after pitching in competitive pitchers."}
{"id": "20957795", "title": "[Damage of teres minor branch of axillary nerve].", "content": "[Damage of teres minor branch of axillary nerve]. Atrophy demarcating to musculus teres minor is seen in magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder region in 3 to 5.5% of investigations. We describe seven patients with prolonged or recurrent pain of the shoulder region, who were diagnosed in ENMG with damage of the axillary nerve brand to m. teres minor. Probable causes included tear of the rotator cuff, luxation of the shoulder joint, nerve entrapment in the quadrilateral space, neuritis of the brachial plexus and iatrogenic damage associated with shoulder arthroscopy. This nerve damage cannot be proved clinically."}
{"id": "20949326", "title": "Rotator cable at MR imaging: considerations on morphological aspects and biomechanical role.", "content": "Rotator cable at MR imaging: considerations on morphological aspects and biomechanical role. The rotator cable (RC) is a thickening of the coracohumeral ligament. It extends from the coracohumeral ligament to the inferior border of the infraspinatus tendon, with fibres running perpendicularly to the rotator cuff fibres. According to some authors, the RC tends to thicken with age, thus allowing some individuals with a cuff lesion to preserve normal shoulder function. We evaluated the RC with magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and investigated its possible role in the biomechanics of the shoulder affected by cuff lesions. Between November 2007 and May 2008, we performed shoulder MR examinations for shoulder pain or disability on 94 patients (46 males, 48 females; age range 16-79 years; mean age 54.09 \u00b1 15.09 years) for a total of 104 shoulders (62 right, 42 left). RC was more easily detectable in oblique coronal scans where it appeared as a crescent-shaped, regularly marginated structure adjacent to the articular surface of the supraspinatus tendon and medial to the insertion point of this tendon on the greater tuberosity. Its thickness was 2.8 \u00b1 0.3 mm. The structure was identified in 62% of cases (mean patient age 55.3 \u00b1 14.9 years). No statistically significant difference in age was found between patients with and without evidence of RC (Student's t test=0.05; p=0.82). Among patients with partial- or full-thickness supraspinatus tendon lesions at MR imaging, no statistically significant difference was found between the presence or absence of RC and disability on Jobe's test (\u03c7(2)=1.17; p>0.05). RC can be observed at MR imaging in >60% cases. In our sample it did not seem to influence shoulder function in patients with cuff lesions."}
{"id": "20932296", "title": "The association between retraction of the torn rotator cuff and increasing expression of hypoxia inducible factor 1\u03b1 and vascular endothelial growth factor expression: an immunohistological study.", "content": "The association between retraction of the torn rotator cuff and increasing expression of hypoxia inducible factor 1\u03b1 and vascular endothelial growth factor expression: an immunohistological study. Differing levels of tendon retraction are found in full-thickness rotator cuff tears. The pathophysiology of tendon degeneration and retraction is unclear. Neoangiogenesis in tendon parenchyma indicates degeneration. Hypoxia inducible factor 1\u03b1 (HIF) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) are important inducers of neoangiogenesis. Rotator cuff tendons rupture leads to fatty muscle infiltration (FI) and muscle atrophy (MA). The aim of this study is to clarify the relationship between HIF and VEGF expression, neoangiogenesis, FI, and MA in tendon retraction found in full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Rotator cuff tendon samples of 33 patients with full-thickness medium-sized rotator cuff tears were harvested during reconstructive surgery. The samples were dehydrated and paraffin embedded. For immunohistological determination of VEGF and HIF expression, sample slices were strained with VEGF and HIF antibody dilution. Vessel density and vessel size were determined after Masson-Goldner staining of sample slices. The extent of tendon retraction was determined intraoperatively according to Patte's classification. Patients were assigned to 4 categories based upon Patte tendon retraction grade, including one control group. FI and MA were measured on standardized preoperative shoulder MRI. HIF and VEGF expression, FI, and MA were significantly higher in torn cuff samples compared with healthy tissue (p < 0.05). HIF and VEGF expression, and vessel density significantly increased with extent of tendon retraction (p < 0.05). A correlation between HIF/VEGF expression and FI and MA could be found (p < 0.05). There was no significant correlation between HIF/VEGF expression and neovascularity (p > 0.05) Tendon retraction in full-thickness medium-sized rotator cuff tears is characterized by neovascularity, increased VEGF/HIF expression, FI, and MA. VEGF expression and neovascularity may be effective monitoring tools to assess tendon degeneration."}
{"id": "20926731", "title": "Suprascapular neuropathy.", "content": "Suprascapular neuropathy. Suprascapular neuropathy has often been overlooked as a source of shoulder pain. The condition may be more common than once thought as it is being diagnosed more frequently. Etiologies for suprascapular neuropathy may include repetitive overhead activities, traction from a rotator cuff tear, and compression from a space-occupying lesion at the suprascapular or spinoglenoid notch. Magnetic resonance imaging is useful for visualizing space-occupying lesions, other pathological entities of the shoulder, and fatty infiltration of the rotator cuff. Electromyography and nerve conduction velocity studies remain the standard for diagnosis of suprascapular neuropathy; however, data on interobserver reliability are limited. Initial treatment of isolated suprascapular neuropathy is typically nonoperative, consisting of physical therapy, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and activity modification; however, open or arthroscopic operative intervention is warranted when there is extrinsic nerve compression or progressive pain and/or weakness. More clinical data are needed to determine if treatment of the primary offending etiology in cases of traction from a rotator cuff tear or compression from a cyst secondary to a labral tear is sufficient or whether concomitant decompression of the nerve is warranted for management of the neuropathy."}
{"id": "20884978", "title": "Treatment of massive rotator-cuff tears with a polyester ligament (Dacron) augmentation: clinical outcome.", "content": "Treatment of massive rotator-cuff tears with a polyester ligament (Dacron) augmentation: clinical outcome. We describe the clinical outcome of a technique of surgical augmentation of chronic massive tears of the rotator cuff using a polyester ligament (Dacron) in 21 symptomatic patients (14 men, seven women) with a mean age of 66.5 years (55.0 to 85.0). All patients had MRI and arthroscopic evidence of chronic massive tears. The clinical outcome was assessed using the Constant and Murley and patient satisfaction scores at a mean follow-up of 36 months (30 to 46). The polyester ligament (500 mm \u00d7 10 mm) was passed into the joint via the portal of Neviaser, medial to the tear through healthy cuff. The two ends of the ligament holding the cuff were passed through tunnels made in the proximal humerus at the footprint of the insertion of the cuff. The ligament was tied with a triple knot over the humeral cortex. All the patients remained free from pain (p < 0.001) with improvement in function (p < 0.001) and range of movement (p < 0.001). The mean pre-operative and post-operative Constant scores were 46.7 (39.0 to 61.0) and 85.4 (52.0 to 96.0), respectively (p < 0.001). The mean patient satisfaction score was 90%. There were two failures, one due to a ruptured ligament after one year and the other due to deep-seated infection. The MR scan at the final follow-up confirmed intact and thickened bands in 15 of 17 patients. This technique of augmentation gives consistent relief from pain with improved shoulder movement in patients with symptomatic massive tears of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "20875724", "title": "Accuracy of preoperative magnetic resonance imaging in predicting a subscapularis tendon tear based on arthroscopy.", "content": "Accuracy of preoperative magnetic resonance imaging in predicting a subscapularis tendon tear based on arthroscopy. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan assessments of subscapularis tendon tears by comparing the preoperative MRI interpretations of radiologists with the actual results determined by arthroscopic evaluations of the same shoulders. This retrospective review comprised all 120 patients who underwent primary arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs performed by the senior author during 2006. Of the 120 patients, 90 had high-field strength, conventional MRI scans performed within 190 days before their arthroscopic procedures. All 16 patients with preoperative MRI scans that were interpreted by the radiologists as positive for subscapularis tendon tears were confirmed to be positive by arthroscopy, resulting in perfect specificity. However, the radiologists diagnosed only 16 of 44 subscapularis tears (36%) identified by arthroscopy. This resulted in an overall sensitivity of 36%, specificity of 100%, positive predictive value of 100%, negative predictive value of 62%, and accuracy of 69%. Preoperative MRI scans of the shoulder do not reliably predict which rotator cuff injury patients have subscapularis tendon tears. Subscapularis tendon tears that extend at least half the cephalad-to-caudal distance are more easily detected by MRI scans, whereas smaller tears are usually missed on MRI scans. Level III, development of diagnostic criteria with universally applied reference (nonconsecutive patients)."}
{"id": "20875720", "title": "Comparative analysis of single-row versus double-row repair of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Comparative analysis of single-row versus double-row repair of rotator cuff tears. Our goal in this analysis was to compare clinical outcomes and radiographic healing rates of double-row (DR) transosseous-equivalent versus single-row (SR) Mason-Allen configuration (MAC) arthroscopic repair techniques. A prospective, nonrandomized assessment of 132 arthroscopic rotator cuff repair patients included 78 SR repair patients and 54 with DR repair. Tears measured between 1.5 and 4.5 cm. Patients were evaluated with a visual analog scale; University of California, Los Angeles score; American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score; active range of motion; and dynamometric strength. Scores and measurements were obtained preoperatively and at 3, 6, 12, and 24 months postoperatively. The SR repairs were performed with the arthroscopic MAC. For DR repairs, two 5.5-mm fully threaded Bio-Corkscrew anchors (Arthrex, Naples, FL), single loaded with FiberWire (Arthrex), were used for the medial row. The lateral row was secured with PushLock bioabsorbable anchors (Arthrex). Forty-four patients in the SR group and 37 patients in the DR group returned for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) evaluation of repair integrity between 12 and 28 months postoperatively. DR repairs resulted in higher outcome scores, though not significantly. Patient satisfaction rates were 95% in the SR group and 92% in the DR group. MRI showed a statistically significantly improved healing rate with SR repair compared with DR repair in our entire patient population (P \u2264 .017). A more homogeneous subset of patients with tears between 2.5 and 3.5 cm showed a significantly improved healing rate for the DR repair (P \u2264 .03). Our short-term results suggest that SR MAC repair provides comparable clinical results to DR repair. Although our MRI data suggest improved healing rates in our SR repairs in the entire patient population, when similar-sized tears were compared, the DR repair group showed improved radiographic healing. Level III, retrospective comparative study."}
{"id": "20875523", "title": "Accuracy of diagnostic ultrasound in patients with suspected subacromial disorders: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "content": "Accuracy of diagnostic ultrasound in patients with suspected subacromial disorders: a systematic review and meta-analysis. To determine the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound for detecting subacromial disorders in patients presenting in primary and secondary care settings. Medline and Embase were searched on June 9, 2010. In addition, the reference list of 1 systematic review and all included articles were searched to identify relevant studies. Two reviewers independently selected the articles evaluating the accuracy of ultrasound for detecting subacromial disorders from the title and abstracts retrieved by the literature search. Selection criteria were ultrasound frequency greater than or equal to 7.5MHz as index test, surgery, magnetic resonance imaging and/or radiography as reference standards, and subacromial disorders as target conditions. Two reviewers independently extracted the data on study characteristics and results to construct 2 by 2 tables and performed a methodologic quality assessment. Twenty-three studies were included: 22 reported on full-thickness rotator cuff tears, 15 on partial-thickness tears, 3 on subacromial bursitis, 2 on tendinopathy, and 2 on calcifying tendonitis, respectively. For full-thickness tears, pooled sensitivity of ultrasound was .95 (95% confidence interval, .90-.97), and specificity .96 (.93-.98). For partial-thickness tears, pooled sensitivity was .72 (.58-.83), and specificity .93 (.89-.96). Statistical pooling was not possible for the other disorders. For subacromial bursitis, sensitivity ranged from .79 to .81, and specificity from .94 to .98. For tendinopathy, sensitivity ranged from .67 to .93, specificity from .88 to 1.00. Sensitivity for calcifying tendonitis was 1.00 in both studies, with specificity ranging from .85 to .98. We strongly recommend ultrasound in patients for whom conservative treatment fails, to rule in or out full-thickness tears, to rule in partial-thickness tears, and to a lesser extent to diagnose tendinopathy, subacromial bursitis, and calcifying tendonitis. These results can help physicians tailor treatment."}
{"id": "20870349", "title": "Comparison of ultrasonographic findings of the rotator cuff between diabetic and nondiabetic patients with chronic shoulder pain: a retrospective study.", "content": "Comparison of ultrasonographic findings of the rotator cuff between diabetic and nondiabetic patients with chronic shoulder pain: a retrospective study. It is still unclear whether diabetic mellitus (DM) is associated with rotator cuff lesions. The object of this retrospective study was to compare the ultrasonographic (US) findings of rotator cuffs in diabetic patients with those of nondiabetic patients with chronic shoulder pain. In total, 419 patients (80 diabetic, 339 nondiabetic) who had chronic shoulder pain and had been referred to receive US examination between January 2005 and January 2008 in a medical center were included in this study. The US findings of rotator cuff lesions were classified into two main categories: rotator cuff tears (RCTs) and calcifying tendinopathy (CT). In total, 114 (25.2%) shoulders with CT of the rotator cuff and 160 (35.3%), 15 (3.3%) and 5 (1.1%) shoulders with supraspinatus, infraspinatus and subscapularis tears, respectively, were noted. No difference in the ratio of tears of RCTs was found on US examinations between two groups. The crude odds ratio (OR) for CT of diabetic patients was 1.85 (p = 0.014); however, the adjusted OR for CT in diabetic patients became insignificant after controlling for the other variables (OR = 1.59, p = 0.08). To our knowledge, this is the first study to explore US findings among diabetic and nondiabetic patients with chronic shoulder pain. Further study is advised to confirm our findings."}
{"id": "20844178", "title": "Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tears: a modified technique to improve tendon transfer integrity: surgical technique.", "content": "Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tears: a modified technique to improve tendon transfer integrity: surgical technique. Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer is a well-established method for the treatment of massive irreparable posterosuperior defects of the rotator cuff. Subsequent rupture of the transferred tendon may contribute to the rate of failure of the index procedure. We hypothesized that modification of our technique of tendon harvesting would lead to greater fixation stability and a reduced failure rate. Forty-two patients (mean age, fifty-eight years) with a massive irreparable posterosuperior tear of the rotator cuff were managed with a latissimus dorsi tendon transfer. Sharp separation of the latissimus tendon from the humerus was performed in twenty-two patients (Group A), whereas the tendon harvest was carried out with a modified technique that involved removal of some bone along with the tendon at the humeral insertion in a subsequent group of twenty patients (Group B). The mean duration of follow-up was forty-seven months. Outcome measures included the Constant and American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) scores and a patient subjective satisfaction scale. Standard radiographs were made to determine the stage of osteoarthritis and proximal migration of the humeral head, and magnetic resonance imaging was performed to assess the integrity of the transferred muscle. In Group A, the mean Constant score improved from 43.4 preoperatively to 64.8 points at the time of follow-up and the mean ASES score improved from 49.3 to 69.6 points (p < 0.05). In Group B, the mean Constant score increased from 40.2 to 74.2 points and the mean ASES score, from 47.2 to 77.1 points (p < 0.05). The Constant pain score improved from 5.6 to 11.9 points in Group A and from 5.2 to 13.8 points in Group B. The results in Group B were significantly superior to those in Group A (p < 0.05). Magnetic resonance imaging revealed complete rupture at the tendon insertion with tendon retraction in four patients in Group A and none in Group B. The final outcome was rated as poor in 27% of the patients in Group A and in 10% in Group B. Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer achieves satisfactory clinical results in most patients who have a massive irreparable posterosuperior tear of the rotator cuff. Harvesting the tendon along with a small piece of bone enables direct bone-to-bone transosseous fixation, resulting in better tendon integrity and clinical results."}
{"id": "20850042", "title": "Clinical and MRI findings after high dosage medical exercise therapy in patients with long lasting subacromial pain syndrome: a case series on six patients.", "content": "Clinical and MRI findings after high dosage medical exercise therapy in patients with long lasting subacromial pain syndrome: a case series on six patients. SUMMARY BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The primary aim of this case series was to investigate the effect of a high dosage medical exercise therapy program on shoulder pain in patients with subacromial pain syndrome. Six subjects were assigned to a medical exercise therapy group. They received three treatments a week over three months. Outcome measures were descriptions of the subacromial space including supraspinatus tendon diameter, function, pain, and active range of motion in the shoulder girdle. The subjects showed improvement posttest compared to pretest with respect to pain, function, range of motion, and isometric strength. An MRI demonstrated no change in tendon thickness after the treatment. Inflammatory signs such as fluid in the subacromial bursa decreased in some patients. In patients with uncomplicated subacromial pain syndrome, high dosage medical exercise therapy might be an efficient treatment approach. The clinical effects might be explained by morphological changes in the subacromial space."}
{"id": "20848574", "title": "Unsuspected sonographic findings in patients with posttraumatic shoulder complaints.", "content": "Unsuspected sonographic findings in patients with posttraumatic shoulder complaints. To prospectively assess the frequency of abnormal sonographic findings in patients with posttraumatic shoulder pain and/or disability in whom ultrasound (US) was not considered and to assess the effect of sonographic findings on working diagnosis and therapeutic strategy, to analyze the possible role of US in the diagnostic workup of these patients. A survey was performed under general practitioners and orthopedic surgeons. They were requested to refer patients with persistent posttraumatic complaints for an US examination of the shoulder and to fill out a questionnaire concerning working diagnosis and therapy. In 50 patients examinations were performed separately by two radiologists. Findings were confirmed with additional radiographs and/or MRI and/or surgery. Four weeks after the US examination, the survey was repeated to inquire about changes in diagnosis and/or treatment that resulted from US. US showed relevant pathology in 45 (90%) of 50 patients, a proximal humerus fracture in 25 (50%) patients, and a rotator cuff tear in 43 (86%) patients. Twenty-three (92%) fractures were accompanied by a rotator cuff tear, and 23 (54%) rotator cuff tears were accompanied by a fracture. Ten fractures were initially missed radiographically. US findings changed the working diagnosis and therapeutic strategy in 37 (74%) and 26 (52%) patients, respectively. In patients with posttraumatic shoulder complaints, US showed a high rate (90%) of relevant pathology. This changed the initial working diagnosis in 74% of the patients and the therapeutic strategy in more than half of the patients. Active referral for US examination may identify these abnormalities in an earlier phase and improve clinical outcome."}
{"id": "20846159", "title": "Early effects of muscle atrophy on shoulder joint development in infants with unilateral birth brachial plexus injury.", "content": "Early effects of muscle atrophy on shoulder joint development in infants with unilateral birth brachial plexus injury. Shoulder deformities in children with a birth brachial plexus injury (BBPI) are caused by muscle imbalances; however, the underlying mechanisms are unclear. The aim of this study was to assess the early interactions between shoulder muscles and shoulder joint development. In a retrospective magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) study of 36 infants (21 males, 15 females) younger than 12 months (mean 4.8 mo) with unilateral BBPI, volumes and thicknesses of standardized segments of the infraspinatus, subscapularis, and deltoid muscles were measured in both shoulders and expressed as ratios of pathological/unaffected side. The relation between muscle ratios and humeral head subluxation, passive external rotation, glenoid version, and deformity was analysed. Compared with the unaffected side, the muscles of the affected side were of significantly smaller volume and thickness. The subscapularis was the most severely affected muscle, its volume being only 64% (SD 21%) and its thickness only 79% (SD 23%) of the corresponding values on the unaffected side (p < 0.001). Severe subluxation was predicted by the combination of low infraspinatus and subscapularis volume ratios (r(2) = 0.223; p = 0.014), but not by muscle thickness ratios. Subluxation was related to passive external rotation (p < 0.05), glenoid version (p < 0.01), and deformity (p < 0.01). In infants with BBPI, muscle size is decreased during in the first months of life by both atrophy and, possibly, by a reduction in the number of sarcomeres in series. These effects are strongly related to shoulder joint subluxation."}
{"id": "20844777", "title": "Heterotopic ossification of the deltoid muscle after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Heterotopic ossification of the deltoid muscle after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. Heterotopic ossification (HO), a well-known sequela of trauma, burns, head injury, and certain congenital or acquired metabolic conditions, has a predilection for the hip and the elbow. This disease has uncommonly been found after elective open shoulder surgery but extremely seldom after minimally invasive surgery. In our search of the peer-reviewed literature, we found no reports of HO after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. The clinical importance of heterotopic bone after shoulder surgery remains unclear because of inconsistent definitions, varying correlations of symptom severity and radiographic findings, and lack of treatment efficacy data. Here we report a case of severely symptomatic HO after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair - successfully treated with excision of the heterotopic bone, interval release, and manipulation."}
{"id": "20844774", "title": "Arthroscopic management of a chronic primary anterior shoulder dislocation.", "content": "Arthroscopic management of a chronic primary anterior shoulder dislocation. Chronic anterior dislocation of the glenohumeral joint often leads to functional impairment and pain. Duration of dislocation is correlated with complications, and this injury is traditionally treated with an open procedure. A right-hand - dominant woman in her late 70s presented with traumatic chronic anterior dislocation of the glenohumeral joint. Her physical exam and imaging studies were consistent with anterior shoulder dislocation, a large Hill-Sachs deformity, and rotator cuff and anterior labral tears. A shoulder reduction under anesthesia was performed followed by an arthroscopic double-row rotator cuff repair. In addition, a labral repair was performed via percutaneously inserted suture anchors. Following this treatment, stability was restored to the glenohumeral joint. The patient progressed well with physical therapy and, at 1-year follow-up, the patient had returned to all routine activities pain-free. Arthroscopic repair of chronic primary traumatic anterior shoulder dislocations requiring surgical treatment is a valuable alternative to open procedures and should be considered in higher-functioning elderly patients. Percutaneous suture anchor placement minimizes trauma to an already pathologic rotator cuff and joint capsule."}
{"id": "20829415", "title": "In vivo visualization of vascular patterns of rotator cuff tears using contrast-enhanced ultrasound.", "content": "In vivo visualization of vascular patterns of rotator cuff tears using contrast-enhanced ultrasound. Hypoxia and decreased blood supply have been proposed as risks for tendon rupture. Visualization of the vascularity of intact and torn rotator cuffs would be useful for improving treatments for rotator cuff tear. To assess vascularity inside a tendon or an adjacent rotator cuff insertion point in patients differing in age and extent of damage to the tendon. Cross-sectional study; Level of evidence, 3. Ten volunteers (all men) and 15 patients (10 men, 5 women) consented to participate in the study. Contrast agent for enhanced ultrasound was injected intravenously. Enhanced ultrasound images of the torn cuff and the contralateral shoulder were recorded for 1 minute. Four small regions of interest, the articular and bursal sides of the tendon and the medial and lateral sides of the bursa, were studied in all shoulders. There was a significant decrease in blood flow in the intratendinous region in elderly subjects compared with young subjects, but age had no effect on blood flow in bursal tissue. Blood flow in ruptured rotator cuffs did not differ from that in intact rotator cuffs. The intraclass correlation coefficient for intraobserver reproducibility was 0.82 (95% confidence interval: 0.77-0.86). The findings of this investigation were the hypovascular pattern in intratendinous tissue compared with the subacromial bursa, the age-related decrease in intratendinous vascularity, and the hypovascular pattern in the tendon, regardless of rupture of the tendon. Clarification of vascular patterns inside or around the torn ends of a rotator cuff will assist in the development of successful treatments for torn rotator cuffs."}
{"id": "20824269", "title": "Clinical and structural evaluation of arthroscopic double-row suture-bridge rotator cuff repair: early results of a novel technique.", "content": "Clinical and structural evaluation of arthroscopic double-row suture-bridge rotator cuff repair: early results of a novel technique. Assessment of repair integrity and clinical outcome after arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears in double-row suture-bridge technique with the use of a new knotless suture-anchor system. The first treated 25 patients with arthroscopic rotator cuff repair in the suture-bridge technique using a novel knotless anchor and chain-link suture system were evaluated. Patients with isolated full-thickness supraspinatus tears were selected. They were followed clinically with functional scores (Constant score, ASES index), visual analog scale (VAS), and instrumentally with Isobex digital strength analyzer preoperatively, at 6 and 14 months postoperatively. The repair integrity was evaluated with MRI at an average of 14 months postoperatively. Significant improvement of pain, strength, range of motion, and functional scores occurred (P < 0.05). There was a re-tear rate of 20%. The subjective parameters (VAS and ASES Index) showed non-significant (n.s.) differences between the re-tear and intact repair groups, whereas the objective parameters (Constant score, muscle power and active ROM) showed significant differences between both groups (P < 0.05). The functional outcome has improved significantly with this new knotless anchor-chain system and was more superior in shoulders with intact repair, whereas the resulted repair integrity was not better than other types of double-row repair techniques mentioned in the recent literature. However, this early report of the novel technique may show limited power for comparison due to the relatively small sample size."}
{"id": "20818664", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging findings of shoulders in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging findings of shoulders in Parkinson's disease. The aim of this study is to evaluate shoulder disturbances in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) which is the best tool in the demonstration of complex shoulder pathologies; and to determine probable relations between shoulder pathologies and PD clinical features. Twenty-eight PD patients with a total of 56 shoulders were used as the study group while 13 age-matched cases with 26 shoulders were used as the control group (CG) in the study. Both patients with PD and the CG underwent shoulder MRI. The Hoehn and Yahr (H&Y) disability scale and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rated Scale (UPDRS) were used to determine the severity of the disease. Our results showed that patients with full-thickness supraspinatus (SSP) tear have statistically significant higher UPDRS (P = 0.012), tremor (P = 0.023), rigidity (P = 0.023), and total (P = 0.002) scores. Mild group patients (P = 0.045) showed significantly higher frequency resting tremor and subcoracoid effusion than those of severe group patients (P = 0.002). Subcoracoid effusion was observed in patients with significantly higher UPDRS (P = 0.045) and rigidity (P = 0.022) scores. When the resting tremor and subcoracoid effusion groups were compared according to the severity of the resting tremor but not according to the H&Y, higher frequency of full-thickness tear in SSP tendon was detected in the group of resting tremor (P = 0.053). Longer duration of disease was also observed in patients with full-thickness SSP tear (P = 0.029) and acromioclavicular joint changes (P = 0.018). Higher UPDRS, tremor, rigidity and total scores and longer PD duration appear as the predisposing factors for the development of shoulder disturbances in PD in this study."}
{"id": "20808696", "title": "Comparisons of the various partial-thickness rotator cuff tears on MR arthrography and arthroscopic correlation.", "content": "Comparisons of the various partial-thickness rotator cuff tears on MR arthrography and arthroscopic correlation. To assess the diagnostic performance of MR arthrography in the diagnosis of the various types of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears by comparing the MR imaging findings with the arthroscopic findings. The series of MR arthrography studies included 202 patients consisting of 100 patients with partial-thickness rotator cuff tears proved by arthroscopy and a control group of 102 patients with arthroscopically intact rotator cuffs, which were reviewed in random order. At arthroscopy, 54 articular-sided, 26 bursal-sided, 20 both articular- and bursal-sided partial-thickness tears were diagnosed. The MR arthrographies were analyzed by two radiologists for articular-sided tears, bursal-sided tears, and both articular- and bursal-sided tears of the rotator cuff. The sensitivity and specificity of each type of partial-thickness tears were determined. Kappa statistics was calculated to determine the inter- and intra-observer agreement of the diagnosis of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. The sensitivity and specificity of the various types of rotator cuff tears were 85% and 90%, respectively for articular-sided tears, 62% and 95% for bursal-sided tears, as well as 45% and 99% for both articular- and bursal-sided tears. False-negative assessments were primarily observed in the diagnosis of bursal-sided tears. Conversely, both articular- and bursal-sided tears were overestimated as full-thickness tears. Inter-observer agreement was excellent for the diagnosis of articular-sided tears (k = 0.70), moderate (k = 0.59) for bursal-sided tears, and fair (k = 0.34) for both articular- and bursal-sided tears, respectively. Intra-observer agreement for the interpretation of articular- and bursal-sided tears was excellent and good, respectively, whereas intra-observer agreement for both articular- and bursal-sided tears was moderate. MR arthrography is a useful diagnostic tool for partial-thickness rotator cuff tears, but has limitations in that it has low sensitivity in bursal- and both articular- and bursal-sided tears. In addition, it shows only fair inter-observer agreement when it comes to predicting both articular- and bursal-sided tears."}
{"id": "20806759", "title": "Arthroscopic treatment of pigmented villonodular synovitis involving bilateral shoulders.", "content": "Arthroscopic treatment of pigmented villonodular synovitis involving bilateral shoulders. Pigmented villonodular synovitis (PVNS) is a lesion of benign proliferative synovium that invades joint, tendon sheath, and bursa. It mainly occurs in 1 joint, the knee joint or hand, and multi-joint invasion is reported to be <1%. Rare cases have been reported of PVNS occurring in the shoulder joint. Generally, total synovectomy is a standard treatment of PVNS. However, complete synovectomy is sometimes impossible because of difficulty of visualization and access to the whole joint and subacromial space. Therefore, recurrence of the disease is always of concern. This article presents a case of 64-year-old patient with pain and swelling of bilateral shoulder joints of 4 months' duration. Physical examination showed atrophy of the deltoid and infraspinatus and a mass-like protrusion on the anterior portion of left shoulder. Active forward elevation was limited to 30 degrees on the right and 90 degrees on the left. Overall synovial hyperplasia and nodular mass was observed on magnetic resonance imaging. Massive rotator cuff tear and invasion of the lesion toward the subacromial space and deltoid muscle was noted as well. Arthroscopic examination revealed a typical finding of PVNS: yellowish brown pigmentation over the overall joint capsule and subacromial space. Arthroscopic total synovectomy without rotator cuff repair was performed for both shoulders. Clinical outcomes showed good pain relief and no recurrence of the disease, although range of motion and muscle strength was not significantly improved, possibly due to accompanied massive rotator cuff tear. Arthroscopic total synovectomy in the treatment of PVNS of the shoulder joint is a minimally invasive and effective method, which makes it possible to access the whole joint space and subacromial space."}
{"id": "20733590", "title": "Suprascapular nerve entrapment in a patient with a spinal cord injury.", "content": "Suprascapular nerve entrapment in a patient with a spinal cord injury. Case report. To describe a case of suprascapular nerve entrapment (SNE) in a patient with a spinal cord injury (SCI) as a cause of shoulder pain. Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Institute, Nancy, France. Six months after the occurrence of acute paraplegia T9 ASIA, a 45-year-old man complained of pain in the posterior and lateral areas of the left shoulder. A clinical assessment found an atrophy of the infraspinatus muscle and a muscular weakness during external shoulder rotation. SNE was suggested as a cause of pain and confirmed by nerve conduction recording. Magnetic resonance imaging excluded any compressive cyst. SNE at the spinoglenoid notch, related to upper limb overuse, was suggested. A gluco-corticoid injection in the proximity of the suprascapular nerve eliminated the pain in a few hours. Two months after the injection, the pain had not reappeared, the infraspinatus muscle atrophy was resolved, and supraspinal nerve conduction was normalized. Shoulder pain is common in individuals with paraplegia, but this is the first time that SNE has been reported as a cause of pain. This micro-traumatic pathology, well known in athletes, is probably under-diagnosed in patients with SCI who overuse their upper limbs for wheelchair propulsion and body transfers."}
{"id": "20729432", "title": "The rotator interval: a review of anatomy, function, and normal and abnormal MRI appearance.", "content": "The rotator interval: a review of anatomy, function, and normal and abnormal MRI appearance. The purpose of this article is to review imaging of the rotator interval, an anatomically complex region in the shoulder that plays an important role in the normal function of the shoulder joint. The rotator interval can be difficult to evaluate by imaging, and it is not routinely evaluated arthroscopically unless the clinical examination or imaging findings suggest an abnormality of the rotator interval. Rotator interval pathology is implicated in glenohumeral instability, biceps instability and adhesive capsulitis-entities which remain a challenge to diagnose and treat. Imaging can play an important role in increasing suspicion for injury to the rotator interval so that this region can be evaluated and appropriate treatment can be initiated."}
{"id": "20720072", "title": "Do patients with structural abnormalities of the shoulder experience pain after MR arthrography of the shoulder?", "content": "Do patients with structural abnormalities of the shoulder experience pain after MR arthrography of the shoulder? To assess the pain course after intraarticular injection of a gadolinium-containing contrast material admixed with anesthetic for magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography of the shoulder in relation to internal derangements of the shoulder. Institutional review board approval and informed consent were obtained for this study. The study sample consisted of 655 consecutive patients (249 female, 406 male; median age, 54 years) referred for MR arthrography of the shoulder. Pain level was measured at baseline, directly after intraarticular injection of the gadolinium-containing contrast material admixed with anesthetic, 4 hours after injection, 1 day (18-30 hours) after injection, and 1 week (6-8 days) after injection with a visual analog scale (range, 0-10). MR arthrography was used to assess the following internal derangements: lesions of the rotator cuff tendons and long biceps tendon, adhesive capsulitis (frozen shoulder), fluid in the subacromial bursa, labral tears, and osteoarthritis of the glenohumeral joint. History of shoulder surgery was recorded. Linear regression models were calculated for the dependent variable (difference between follow-up pain and baseline pain), with the independent variable grouping adjusted for age and sex. There was no significant association between pain level over time and internal derangements of the shoulder, nor was there significant association between pain level over time in patients with a history of shoulder surgery and patients without a history of shoulder surgery. Neither internal derangements nor prior surgery have an apparent effect on the pain course after MR arthrography of the shoulder."}
{"id": "20713275", "title": "Bicipital groove morphology on MRI has no correlation to intra-articular biceps tendon pathology.", "content": "Bicipital groove morphology on MRI has no correlation to intra-articular biceps tendon pathology. Multiple authors have debated the contribution of intertubercular groove morphology to biceps tendon pathology. It has been proposed that the shallow groove, combined with the supertubercular ridge of Meyer, predisposes patients to bicipital disease. In this study we hypothesized that there would be a correlation between bicipital groove morphology and the intraoperative finding of biceps pathology. Seventy-five consecutive patients (average age of 63) undergoing arthroscopic rotator cuff repair surgery had their biceps tendons and intertubercular groove morphologies prospectively evaluated on closed MRI T1 axial cut images. The opening angle and medial wall angle of the bicipital groove was measured for each patient. At the time of surgery, the biceps tendon was classified as normal, inflamed, partially ruptured, or ruptured and the findings correlated to the bicipital groove measurements. The average opening angle was 81 degrees for normal biceps tendons and 77 degrees for torn biceps tendons. The average medial wall angle was 47 degrees for normal biceps tendons and 49 degrees for torn biceps tendons. Using Chi-square analysis, we found no statistically significant correlation between the bicipital groove average opening angle and medial wall angle on MRI and intraoperative biceps tendon pathology. This study does not support any correlation between intraarticular biceps tendon pathology and bicipital groove morphology."}
{"id": "20710092", "title": "Effect of posture on acromiohumeral distance with arm elevation in subjects with and without rotator cuff disease using ultrasonography.", "content": "Effect of posture on acromiohumeral distance with arm elevation in subjects with and without rotator cuff disease using ultrasonography. Controlled laboratory study. To examine the effects of altering posture on the subacromial space (SAS) in subjects with rotator cuff disease and subjects without shoulder pain. Poor upper quadrant posture has been linked to altered scapular mechanics, which has been theorized to excessively reduce SAS. However, no study has examined the direct effects of altering upper quadrant posture on SAS. We hypothesized that upright posture would increase and slouched posture would decrease the SAS, as compared to a normal posture, when measured both with the shoulder at rest along the side of the trunk and when maintained in 45\u00b0 of active shoulder abduction. Participants included 2 groups: the subjects with shoulder pain and rotator cuff disease, as diagnosed via magnetic resonance imaging (n = 31), and control subjects without shoulder pain (n = 29). The SAS was imaged with ultrasound using a 7.5-MHz linear transducer placed in the coronal plane over the posterior to midportion of the acromion. The SAS was measured on ultrasound images using the acromiohumeral distance (AHD), defined as the shortest distance between the acromion and the humerus. The AHD was measured in 2 trials at 2 arm angles (at rest along the trunk and at 45\u00b0 of active abduction) and across 3 postures (normal, slouched, and upright), and averaged for data analysis. Two mixed-model analyses of variance, 1 for each arm angle, were used to compare AHD across postures and between groups. There was no interaction between group and posture, and no significant main effect of group for either arm position. There was no significant main effect of posture for the arm at rest (P = .26); however, there was a significant main effect of posture on AHD at the 45\u00b0 abduction arm angle (P = .0002), with a significantly greater AHD in upright posture (mean AHD, 9.8 mm), as compared to normal posture (mean AHD, 8.6 mm). The effect of posture on SAS, as measured by the 2-dimensional AHD using ultrasound of the posterior to middle aspect of the SAS, is small. The AHD increased with upright posture by 1.2 mm compared to normal posture, when the arm was in 45\u00b0 active abduction."}
{"id": "20690871", "title": "Interrater and intrarater reliability of ultrasonographic measurements of acromion-greater tuberosity distance in healthy people.", "content": "Interrater and intrarater reliability of ultrasonographic measurements of acromion-greater tuberosity distance in healthy people. Acromion-greater tuberosity (AGT) distance could potentially be used to assess rotator cuff tears and shoulder subluxation in patients with poststroke hemiplegia. The aim of this study was to assess the interrater and intrarater reliability of ultrasonographic measurements of AGT distance in healthy people prior to testing on patient populations. Twenty healthy individuals (9 male, 11 female) with a mean age of 21 years (SD \u00b1 2) were recruited. Three final year physiotherapy students (mean age 23 years) recorded the ultrasonographic measurements of AGT distance by using a standardised protocol. Reliability was assessed by intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) and standard error of measurements (SEM). The mean AGT distances, as measured by rater one, two, and three were 2.24 \u00b1 0.45 cm, 2.27 \u00b1 0.37 cm, and 2.21 \u00b1 0.31, respectively. The interrater reliability coefficient was ICC = 0.79, and the intrarater reliability coefficients were 0.88, 0.84, and 0.91 for each rater. The SEM for the AGT distance measurements was ?0.15?cm for all three raters. Ultrasonographic measurements of AGT distance demonstrate good intrarater and interrater reliability in healthy individuals even when measured by three relatively inexperienced raters. It has potential to provide quantitative measurements for the clinical management of pathologies such as poststroke shoulder subluxation and rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "20675154", "title": "The timing of rotator cuff repair for the restoration of function.", "content": "The timing of rotator cuff repair for the restoration of function. This study was developed to test the hypothesis that there is a period in which a painful, traumatic rotator cuff tear, with associated weakness and the inability to abduct above shoulder level, should be repaired to allow for improvement in function. Forty-two consecutive, prospectively followed patients met the criteria for entrance into this study. Of those, 36 patients were available for a minimum 9 months follow-up (average, 31 months; range, 9-71) by office visit. Patient outcomes were measured using the UCLA End-Result and ASES scoring systems. Patient variables, including time from injury to repair, tear size, degree of preoperative fat infiltration, patient satisfaction, and improvement in pain, were evaluated for their association with surgical outcome using independent t testing. Time to repair was evaluated at 0-2 months, 2-4 months, and greater than 4 months. Pain scores improved from 7 to 1.4 (P < .01) and active elevation improved from 55\u00b0 to 133\u00b0 (P\u00a0< .01). UCLA/ASES scores improved from 8/30 to 26/79, respectively (P < .01, P < .01). All but 2 of the 36 patients were satisfied with their result. Preoperative fatty atrophy did not correlate with postoperative function. Rotator cuff tear size had no influence on patient outcome if repaired before 4 months. Massive tears repaired after 4 months had the worst outcome. Our results emphasize that the treatment outcome for traumatic rotator cuff tears of all sizes, with associated weakness, is not compromised up to 4 months after their injury."}
{"id": "20675153", "title": "Repair results of 2-tendon rotator cuff tears utilizing the transosseous equivalent technique.", "content": "Repair results of 2-tendon rotator cuff tears utilizing the transosseous equivalent technique. The purpose of this study was to examine the healing rate of 2-tendon rotator cuff tears repaired by the use of a transosseous-equivalent (TOE) suture bridge technique. Forty-three patients with combined supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendon tears underwent arthroscopic repair using TOE technique. Forty of these patients were then evaluated by MRI and clinical exam at a minimum of 1-year follow-up to determine the rate of healing of the repair and clinical outcomes associated with healing. Eighty-three percent of the repairs demonstrated intact rotator cuff repairs at a mean of 16 months post-op. Larger tears (3.5 vs 2.8 cm) were associated with failure (P = .01), as was more advanced fatty infiltration (Goutallier 1.3 vs 0.3, P = .01). Age was not different between intact and nonintact tendons. Strength was the only clinical finding that differed between intact and nonintact tendons. Two-tendon tears of the rotator cuff can heal at a high rate with the use of TOE suture bridge repair technique. Furthermore, tear size and Goutallier grading were negatively correlated with postoperative healing. The incremental improvement in the rate of observed rotator cuff healing still does not translate to statistical differences in the objective shoulder scoring systems."}
{"id": "20655763", "title": "Does slower rehabilitation after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair lead to long-term stiffness?", "content": "Does slower rehabilitation after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair lead to long-term stiffness? Conservative rehabilitation after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair does not result in long-term stiffness and improves rates of tendon healing. We retrospectively evaluated 43 patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears who underwent a standardized, conservative protocol of full-time sling immobilization without formal therapy for 6 weeks after arthroscopic repair. At 6 to 8 weeks of follow-up, we categorized patients as \"stiff\" if they demonstrated forward elevation of less than 100\u00b0 and external rotation of less than 30\u00b0 passively; all others were designated \"nonstiff.\" Active range of motion in forward elevation, external rotation, and internal rotation was assessed at 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year. American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) and Constant-Murley scores were assessed at 1 year. Follow-up magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was obtained in all patients to assess tendon healing. Ten patients (23%) were considered stiff after rotator cuff surgery. At 1 year, there was no difference in mean forward elevation (166\u00b0 vs 161\u00b0, P = .2), external rotation (62\u00b0 vs. 58.4\u00b0, P = .5), or internal rotation (T7.4 vs T8.2, P = .07) between the stiff and nonstiff groups, respectively. There were no differences in final ASES (83 vs 79, P = .57) and Constant-Murley scores (77 vs. 74, P = .5). Repeat MRI suggested a trend toward a lower retear rate among the stiff patients (70% intact in stiff group vs 36% in nonstiff group, P = .079). Two clinically significant cuff retears occurred in the nonstiff cohort. Concerns for recalcitrant stiffness have led some to favor early postoperative therapy. We found that early restriction of motion did not lead to long-term stiffness after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, even in patients who were clinically stiff in the early postoperative period. Sling immobilization for 6 weeks after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair does not result in increased long-term stiffness and may improve the rate of tendon healing."}
{"id": "20636254", "title": "Factors related to successful outcome of conservative treatment for rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Factors related to successful outcome of conservative treatment for rotator cuff tears. Much controversy exists as to the management of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff. Not all patients with rotator cuff tears require surgical treatment. We have little information whether there are factors that are related to successful outcome of conservative treatment. AIM. The purpose of this study was to determine the factors related to the successful outcome following conservative treatment. This study included 123 shoulders in 118 patients with full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff diagnosed by high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging with a microscopy coil. All patients were treated conservatively for at least 3 months. Clinical symptoms improved in 65 shoulders in 62 patients by conservative treatment (conservative group), but remained unchanged or aggravated in 58 shoulders in 56 patients, who eventually underwent surgical repair (surgical group). The following parameters showed significant differences: 1) integrity of the intramuscular tendon of the supraspinatus (24.1% in the surgical group and 58.4% in the conservative group showed an intact intramuscular tendon); 2) supraspinatus muscle atrophy (occupancy ratio was 69.8% in the surgical group and 78.0% in the conservative group); 3) impingement sign (positive in 79.3% in the surgical group and 30.7% in the conservative group); and 4) external rotation angle (35.0 degrees in the surgical group and 52.2 degrees in the conservative group). The success rate of conservative treatment was 87% in the cases with at least three of these four factors. These four factors are useful in selecting patients who will respond well to conservative treatment before initiating the treatment."}
{"id": "20621524", "title": "Functional outcome and structural integrity following mini-open repair of large and massive rotator cuff tears: a 3-5 year follow-up study.", "content": "Functional outcome and structural integrity following mini-open repair of large and massive rotator cuff tears: a 3-5 year follow-up study. Mini-open approach has been considered for years the gold standard for rotator cuff repairs. Nevertheless, the rate of tendon-to-bone healing, and that of cuff re-tear, still remains unclear. Between 2001 and 2004, 37 shoulders (32 patients) with a mean age of 54.8 years (range, 34-72) and a large or massive cuff tear were repaired with a mini-open procedure. At a minimum of 3 years postoperatively (range, 36-60 months), 27 shoulders (23 patients) underwent functional evaluation and US investigation of cuff integrity. The rotator cuff was completely healed and watertight in 13 cases (48.1%), while recurrent defects were detected in the remaining 14 shoulders (51.9%). In 12 cases (92.5%), the recurrent tears were smaller and in 2 (7.5%) larger than the initial tear. Despite the high re-tear rate, the overall Constant and UCLA scores improved from of 38.4 to 72.1 and 11.2 to 29.4, respectively. However, only \"large\" re-tears were correlated with a worse functional outcome (P < .005). The preoperative tear size was negatively associated with tendon healing. Patients with an intact rotator cuff repair were, on average, 15 years younger (49.9) than those who sustained a tear recurrence (64.14) (P < .005). Our results suggest that large and massive rotator cuff tears treated with mini-open technique using a tendon-grasping suture have a very satisfactory clinical outcome, despite a significant re-tear rate. Patient age, the size of the initial tear, as well as the size of a potential re-tear are factors affecting the final clinical outcome."}
{"id": "20617916", "title": "Subscapularis tendon integrity: an examination of shoulder index tests.", "content": "Subscapularis tendon integrity: an examination of shoulder index tests. The systematic review focused on various index tests for the shoulder. We concentrated on the subscapularis tendon results to determine the accuracy of reported index tests for clinically diagnosing subscapularis integrity. Studies were identified by an OVID search using MEDLINE, SPORTDiscus, and CINHAL databases (1966-2006) and a hand search by 2 authors (E.J.H. and S.C.). Primary search terms were shoulder, examination, and diagnosis. In addition to the database searches, personal files were hand searched by one of the authors (E.J.H.) for publications, posters, and abstracts. The reference lists in review articles were cross-checked, and all individual names of each special test were queried using MEDLINE and PubMed. The search was limited to English-language journals. Studies were eligible for inclusion if the criterion standard was surgery, magnetic resonance imaging, or injection (subacromial or acromioclavicular joint); at least 1 physical examination test or special test was studied; and one of the paired statistics of sensitivity and specificity was reported or could be determined. Excluded were studies in which the index test was performed under anesthesia or in cadavers, studies in which the index test was assigned the status of composite physical examination, and review articles. Studies were grouped according to the subscapularis index test assessed: lift off, internal-rotation lag sign, Napoleon sign, bear hug, belly off, and belly press. Studies were selected in a 2-stage process. First, all abstracts and articles found through the search process were independently reviewed by 2 authors (E.J.H. and S.C.). Disagreement on inclusion of an article was resolved by consensus. Second, each selected study was assessed by each reviewer independently. A third reviewer made the final decision on any disagreements for the selected studies. The primary outcome measures were sensitivity and specificity and positive and negative likelihood ratios. The quality of a study was determined by assessing its internal and external validity. Validity was determined by the primary author (E.J.H.) using the Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies (QUADAS) statement. Our work required data extraction from the original articles, which we used to generate 2 x 2 contingency tables for each index test. Pooled indices of clinical usefulness were then determined for each index test. The specific search criteria identified 922 articles for review. Of these, 4 met the inclusion and exclusion criteria for subscapularis tendon tears, resulting in the number of studies assessing each index test as follows: 4 for lift off, 2 for internal-rotation lag sign, 2 for Napoleon sign, 1 for bear hug, 1 for belly off, and 1 for belly press. Subscapularis tears were identified by the criterion standard of surgery to visually assess the torn fibers. Across all 4 studies, a total of 304 shoulders were examined, 95 of which had a subscapularis tear (45 full thickness, 50 partial thickness), and 106 were injury free. Indices of clinical usefulness for full-thickness and partial-thickness subscapularis tears are reported in Tables 1 and 2 , respectively."}
{"id": "20607465", "title": "Does the upward migration index predict function and quality of life in arthroscopic rotator cuff repair?", "content": "Does the upward migration index predict function and quality of life in arthroscopic rotator cuff repair? Although upward humeral head migration is a well-recognized phenomenon in patients with tears of the cuff, it is unclear whether it relates to patient function after cuff repair. The upward migration index (UMI) assesses proximal migration of the humeral head while controlling for patients' bony morphologic features. We asked whether functional and quality-of-life (QOL) improvement occurs longitudinally in patients with low, moderate, or high degrees of proximal humeral migration after arthroscopic cuff repair and whether differences occur between groups. We retrospectively reviewed 118 patients with full-thickness tears treated by arthroscopic cuff repair. Patients were divided into three groups depending on the severity of preoperative proximal humeral migration seen on MRI. We determined function using two functional scores and the Western Ontario Rotator Cuff Index (a QOL index). Evaluations were performed preoperatively and 6 and 12 months postoperatively. A general linear model analysis controlled for patient characteristics, including the UMI, to determine their effects on functional and QOL scores. Function and QOL improved after surgery in all three groups. The UMI did not correlate with final functional or QOL scores. Six-month functional and QOL scores correlated with final scores. The best predictor of final strength was initial strength. Preoperative UMI did not correlate with functional or QOL improvements after surgery. The data suggest substantial proximal migration of the humeral head, as measured by the UMI, should not be considered a contraindication to arthroscopic rotator cuff repair."}
{"id": "20595569", "title": "Clinical, radiographic, and ultrasonographic comparison of subscapularis tenotomy and lesser tuberosity osteotomy for total shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Clinical, radiographic, and ultrasonographic comparison of subscapularis tenotomy and lesser tuberosity osteotomy for total shoulder arthroplasty. Recently, a lesser tuberosity osteotomy has been promoted as an alternative to tenotomy for release of the subscapularis during shoulder arthroplasty. To our knowledge, no direct comparison of the clinical results of the two techniques has been presented. Thirty-five shoulders in thirty-four consecutive patients with osteoarthritis who had a primary total shoulder arthroplasty, performed with use of a standard subscapularis tenotomy (Group 1) or lesser tuberosity osteotomy (Group 2) to release the subscapularis, were evaluated retrospectively at an average of thirty-three months. Group 1 consisted of fifteen shoulders in fourteen patients (seven in males and eight in females, with an average age of sixty-seven years). Group 2 consisted of twenty shoulders in twenty patients (fourteen males and six females, with an average age of sixty-nine years). Assessment included a physical examination, clinical outcome questionnaires, conventional radiography, ultrasound examination of the subscapularis, and measurement of internal rotation strength. The postoperative total Penn Shoulder Scores improved significantly from the preoperative levels in both groups (mean and standard deviation, 29 +/- 15 points to 81 +/- 20 points [p < 0.00001] in Group 1 and 29 +/- 16 points to 92 +/- 11 points [p < 0.00001] in Group 2). However, the postoperative mean total Penn Shoulder Score was higher in Group 2 (92 +/- 11 points) than in Group 1 (81 +/- 20 points) (p = 0.04). At one year, an abnormal subscapularis on ultrasound was associated with a lower mean Penn Shoulder Score in Group 1 (73 +/- 19 points compared with 92 +/- 3 points; p = 0.01). However, at a minimum two-year follow-up, this difference was not significant (mean, 74 +/- 24 points and 86 +/- 15 points, respectively; p = 0.25). There were more abnormal subscapularis tendons in Group 1 (six attenuated tendons and one full-thickness tear) than in Group 2 (two attenuated tendons). Internal rotation strength did not differ between the groups when controlled for sex (mean, 117 +/- 8 N and 127 +/- 21 N for males in Group 1 and Group 2, respectively [p = 0.22] and 77 +/- 27 N and 101 +/- 26 N, respectively, for females [p = 0.1]). Both techniques resulted in improved clinical outcome scores. The lesser tuberosity osteotomy resulted in higher clinical outcome scores, a lower rate of subscapularis tendon tears, and universal healing of the osteotomy. This technique offers a means by which the rate of postoperative subscapularis tears may be reduced in patients undergoing total shoulder arthroplasty."}
{"id": "20578021", "title": "Magnetic resonance histologic correlation in rotator cuff tendons.", "content": "Magnetic resonance histologic correlation in rotator cuff tendons. To relate histologic changes in rotator cuff tendons to the appearance on T1-weighted as well as fat-suppressed T2-weighted and proton density-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) sequences. T1-weighted, fat-suppressed T2-weighted and fat-suppressed proton density-weighted sequences of 18 cadaveric shoulders were acquired. The supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis tendons were evaluated histologically. Twenty-six abnormalities were found in 23 of 37 tendons. In addition, histologically normal tendon parts (n = 32), including three segments with normal histology but abnormal MR signal, considered to represent magic angle effects, were defined. All regions of interest (ROIs) were evaluated by two musculoskeletal radiologists independently and blinded to histology. In the 26 areas with anatomically intact tendons but abnormal histological findings mucoid degeneration (n = 13), chondroid metaplasia (n = 11), fatty infiltration (n = 1), and foreign-body granuloma (n = 1) after tendon suture were found. Compared to normal tendon, mucoid degeneration was hyperintense on T2-weighted fat-suppressed (P = 0.007) and on proton density-weighted fat-suppressed images (P = 0.006). Chondroid metaplasia was hyperintense compared to normal tendon in all sequences (P < 0.05). Mucoid degeneration was hypointense compared to chondroid metaplasia on T2-weighted fat-suppressed images (P = 0.038) and hypointense compared to magic angle artifacts on T1-weighted images (P = 0.046). Chondroid metaplasia of rotator cuff tendons appears to be more common than expected. Both mucoid degeneration and chondroid metaplasia may explain increased tendon signal on MR images of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "20563802", "title": "Magnetic resonance arthrography of the shoulder: accuracy of gadolinium versus saline for rotator cuff and labral pathology.", "content": "Magnetic resonance arthrography of the shoulder: accuracy of gadolinium versus saline for rotator cuff and labral pathology. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the necessity of intra-articular gadolinium versus saline alone in magnetic resonance arthrography (MRA) of the shoulder. Our database was reviewed for 100 consecutive shoulder MRA examinations performed between January 2007 and December 2007. Patient information was blinded and images were retrospectively reviewed by at least two radiologists with dedicated musculoskeletal training. T2-weighted (T2W) images were initially analyzed in isolation to simulate MRA with saline alone. After a delay, the full study was analyzed including T1-weighted (T1W) and T2W images. If there was a significant discordance between the two analyses with regard to rotator cuff or labral pathology, the study was again reviewed by all evaluators in consensus to determine if the T1W images offered additional diagnostic information and increased diagnostic confidence. Of the 100 MRA examinations, there were 15 discordant cases. Two cases were discordant with regard to rotator cuff pathology and 13 were discordant on the basis of labral pathology. When the discordant cases were reviewed in consensus, the T2W images appeared to display rotator cuff and labral pathology as definitively as the T1W images. Interobserver and intraobserver variability was favored to have played a role in causing the discordances. MRA of the shoulder performed with joint distention provided by saline alone appears to offer equivalent diagnostic information to MRA performed with gadolinium enhancement. This protocol modification improves efficiency by eliminating several image series and provides a small cost savings by eliminating gadolinium."}
{"id": "20559798", "title": "Tendon patch grafting using the long head of the biceps for irreparable massive rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Tendon patch grafting using the long head of the biceps for irreparable massive rotator cuff tears. Surgical treatment of massive rotator cuff tears is challenging for shoulder surgeons. The purpose of this study was to investigate both clinical outcomes and cuff integrity after tendon patch grafting using the long head of the biceps (LHB) tendon for irreparable massive rotator cuff tears. A short deltoid splitting approach was used to expose the torn cuff tendon stump. After tenodesis of the LHB tendon, its intraarticular portion was resected. If the size of the harvested tendon was smaller than that of the cuff defect, it was split into two layers. Then, the LHB tendon was sutured to the remnant cuff tendons and fixed to the footprint using the transosseous suture technique. A total of 14 patients (12 men, 2 women; average age 64 years) underwent this procedure. The average postoperative follow-up period was 28 months (range 12-51 months). Active elevation angle of the shoulder as well as the Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) score were assessed before surgery and at the time of follow-up. Postoperative cuff integrity was assessed using T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). All cuff defects were successfully closed with this technique. Average active elevation angle improved from 69 degrees to 149 degrees . Total JOA score also improved from 54.7 points to 83.1 points. Thirteen shoulders showed no re-tearing on T2-weighted MRI; a minor discontinuity of the repaired cuff tendon was observed in the other shoulder. The LHB tendon is available in case tenodesis or tenotomy is needed. The resected tendon may be used as a graft for rotator cuff repair without any additional skin incision, which could reduce both the surgical invasion and the risk of infection. The LHB tendon patch grafting may be one of the useful options for surgical treatment of irreparable massive rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "20543217", "title": "Ultrasonographic evaluation of the shoulder in elite wheelchair tennis players.", "content": "Ultrasonographic evaluation of the shoulder in elite wheelchair tennis players. Wheelchair tennis has been identified as a high-risk sport for shoulder injury, so understanding shoulder pathology in these athletes is important. This study investigated the incidence and pattern of shoulder injuries in wheelchair tennis players using high-resolution ultrasonography. Descriptive study. International Wheelchair Tennis Open. 33 elite-level wheelchair tennis players. Wheelchair tennis players completed a self-administered questionnaire, and shoulders of each athlete were investigated using high-resolution ultrasonography (linear probe 7.5 MHz). The most common pathology in the dominant shoulder was acromioclavicular pathology, in 21 players (63.6%). Full-thickness rotator-cuff tears involving the supraspinatus were found in 8 dominant shoulders and 6 nondominant shoulders. There were no correlations between identified shoulder pathology and the different variables studied, such as age, training time per day, length of wheelchair use, and length of career as a wheelchair tennis player. High prevalence of rotator-cuff and acromioclavicular pathology was found by ultrasonographic examination in the elite wheelchair tennis players in both dominant and nondominant shoulders. A high index of suspicion of these pathologies in wheelchair athletes is required."}
{"id": "20532011", "title": "Accuracy of ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging for detection of full thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Accuracy of ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging for detection of full thickness rotator cuff tears. Rotator cuff problems are frequently seen by orthopedic surgeons and accurate diagnosis is essential for appropriate management. Value of the clinical assessment of a shoulder is often limited, therefore, imaging studies have important implications in the management of rotator cuff pathologies. The purpose of this retrospective study is to compare the accuracy of ultrasonography (US) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for detection of full-thickness rotator cuff tears. We reviewed 91 consecutive cases of shoulder arthroscopy and open rotator cuff repair, who had undergone preoperative investigation in the form of either an ultrasound or MRI. Thirty-six patients had an ultrasound and 55 had an MRI for their affected shoulders. We compared the accuracy of US and MRI for detection of full-thickness rotator cuff tears, using the operative findings as the 'gold standard'. Data regarding a supraspinatus tear was assessed for the purpose of this study. Ultrasonography correctly diagnosed 15 out of 17 tears (sensitivity of 0.88). There were 17 true-negative and two false-positive ultrasounds (specificity of 0.89). MRI accurately identified 33 of the 36 tears (sensitivity of 0.91). There were 16 true-negative and three false-positive tears on MRI (specificity of 0.84). The positive predictive value (PPV) was 88% for US and 92% for MRI. The negative predictive value (NPV) was 89% for US and 84% for MRI. The overall accuracy of the ultrasound was 88.89% (95% confidence interval (CI) = 74.09 to 96.18) as compared to 89.09% (95% CI = 77.82% to 95.26%) for the MRI. Full-thickness rotator cuff tears can be identified using ultrasound and MRI with comparable accuracy. US being a dynamic study and better tolerated by the patient, can therefore be used as the first-line investigation for rotator cuff tear, where appropriate skills are available to reduce the waiting time and cost of investigation."}
{"id": "20526849", "title": "Intraosseous foreign body granuloma in rotator cuff repair with bioabsorbable suture anchor.", "content": "Intraosseous foreign body granuloma in rotator cuff repair with bioabsorbable suture anchor. Biodegradable implants lead to problems such as cyst formation, soft-tissue inflammation, loose implant fragments or local osteolysis. This report represents the first published case of an intraosseous foreign body granuloma in the humeral head after arthroscopic rotator cuff tear fixation with a poly-L: -lactide (PLLA) suture anchor. A 48-year-old female patient presented with pain in her right shoulder. A refixation of her right supraspinatus tendon with a biodegradable suture anchor was performed 11 months ago at an external hospital. Laboratory tests showed normal values for C-reactive protein, leukocytes and the erythrocyte sedimentation rate. No signs of infection or instability were noted. The visual analogue scale (VAS) was 8, the simple shoulder test (SST) was 4 and the American shoulder and elbow surgeons score (ASES) was 44. Plain radiographs showed high lucency in the area of the tuberculum majus. MRI showed an intra- and extraosseous mass surrounded by fluid in this area. Surgical care involved arthroscopic debridement and removal of the suture anchor. Histological examination revealed a foreign body granuloma. At the 18-month follow-up the patient was nearly pain-free. The VAS was 2, SST was 10 and ASES was 88. Foreign body granulomas are a well known but rarely described complication that arises after the use of biodegradable suture anchors in shoulder surgery. Every patient presenting with shoulder pain after usage of a biodegradable fixation material should be evaluated closely. Orthopaedic surgeons should be aware of the possibility of delayed foreign body reactions, especially after using PLLA anchors."}
{"id": "20514507", "title": "Infraspinatus scapular retraction test: a reliable and practical method to assess infraspinatus strength in overhead athletes with scapular dyskinesis.", "content": "Infraspinatus scapular retraction test: a reliable and practical method to assess infraspinatus strength in overhead athletes with scapular dyskinesis. Alteration of normal scapulohumeral rhythm due to the fatigue of scapular-stabilizing muscles induces decrease of rotator cuff strength. In this study we analyzed the interobserver and intraobserver realibility of the infraspinatus strength test (IST) and infraspinatus scapular retraction test (ISRT) in 29 overhead athletes with scapular dyskinesis, before and after 6 months of scapular musculature rehabilitation. Subjects with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings of labral injuries (2 cases, 5%) and cuff tears (4 cases, 11%) were excluded. Scapular dyskinesis patterns were evaluated according to Kibler et al. (J Shoulder Elbow Surg 11:550-556, 2002). We found a type I dyskinesis in 24 cases (83%) and a type II in 5 cases (17%). Patients were tested by using IST and ISRT and the maximum infraspinatus strength (kg) was registered by a handheld dynamometer. Changes in shoulder IR were measured by using a standard goniometry. Rehabilitation continued for 6 months and was focused on the restoration of scapular muscular control and balance. We used a paired Student t test for the significance of the force values (alpha = 0.01). Intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and standard error (SE) were applied to determine the realibility of repeated values collected within testers and between testers. Values of ICC close to 1 at baseline and at 6 months indicated a higher interexaminer and intraexaminer realibility. IST force values registered a significant increase at 6 months for both examiners (P < 0.01). The mean difference between IST and ISRT values were not significant at 6 months (P > 0.01). The increase of glenohumeral internal rotation was significant at 6 months (P < 0.01). The good realibility and the easy reproducibility make the ISRT an excellent test to assess patients with infraspinatus weakness due to scapular dyskinesis and address them toward an appropriate program of rehabilitation aimed to restore scapular musculature balance and control."}
{"id": "20512880", "title": "Pain related to rotator cuff abnormalities: MRI findings without clinical significance.", "content": "Pain related to rotator cuff abnormalities: MRI findings without clinical significance. MRI has become an important diagnostic tool in the evaluation of rotator cuff pathology and the technology continues to evolve. Direct MR arthrography, diagnosis-specific sequencing such as fat suppression, special positioning such as abducted externally rotated (ABER) views and ultra high field magnets allow for an unprecedented level of detail in imaging. In this article, we review MRI findings in patients with rotator cuff abnormalities that are anatomic variants or incidental findings. Although MRI findings may be diagnostic in some cases, we find that clinical correlation with history and physical examination is critical to differentiate between anatomic variants, incidental findings, and true pathology. We conclude that good communication between the orthopedic surgeon and the radiologist is necessary to optimize diagnostic yield."}
{"id": "20511030", "title": "The value of clinical tests in acute full-thickness tears of the supraspinatus tendon: does a subacromial lidocaine injection help in the clinical diagnosis? A prospective study.", "content": "The value of clinical tests in acute full-thickness tears of the supraspinatus tendon: does a subacromial lidocaine injection help in the clinical diagnosis? A prospective study. Early repair of rotator cuff tears leads to superior results. To detect symptomatic full-thickness tears of the supraspinatus tendon at an early stage, we conducted a prospective study to evaluate the value of clinical examination with and without subacromial lidocaine within the first weeks after an acute injury to the shoulder. Of 104 patients included in a prospective investigation, 52 patients were selected to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of clinical tests in acute full-thickness tears of the supraspinatus tendon. Clinical tests and ultrasound examination were performed at a median of 13 days (range, 3 to 49 days) after the initial injury. The study group consisted of 29 patients (median age, 56 years [range, 39 to 75 years]) who all had an acute complete tear of the supraspinatus tendon verified by ultrasound and arthroscopy. The control group consisted of 23 patients who all had an intact tendon confirmed by ultrasound (median age, 38 years [range, 19 to 73 years]). The Hawkins sign (0.83) and the painful arc test (0.97) had high sensitivity but low specificity (0.23 and 0.05, respectively). The external rotation lag sign (ERLS) and the drop-arm test (DAT) had a sensitivity of 0.39 and 0.37, respectively, and specificity of 0.91 and 0.86, respectively, in diagnosing acute full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff. After a subacromial lidocaine injection, sensitivity of all lag sign tests was reduced, whereas specificity and likelihood ratios of the Jobe test, the ERLS, and the DAT improved. Active abduction was significantly reduced in the full-thickness tear group. A positive lag sign (ERLS or DAT) is indicative of a full-thickness supraspinatus tear, but a negative lag sign does not preclude a tear. After a subacromial injection of lidocaine, the specificity improves whereas the sensitivity is reduced. Overall, in patients with suspected acute rotator cuff tear, clinical tests cannot stand alone in the evaluation the first weeks after an acute injury. Level I, diagnostic study-testing of previously developed criteria in a series of consecutive patients (by use of arthroscopy and ultrasound as the gold standard)."}
{"id": "20510631", "title": "Integrity and function of the subscapularis after total shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Integrity and function of the subscapularis after total shoulder arthroplasty. Reported healing rates of a subscapularis tenotomy have been extremely variable in the literature. The purpose of this study was to document the subscapularis healing rate after subscapularis tenotomy using ultrasound, and to correlate healing with physical examination findings and shoulder internal rotation strength. Fifteen patients who underwent total shoulder arthroplasty due to unilateral osteoarthritis were evaluated after a minimum of 6 months follow-up with ultrasound, physical examination, and internal rotation strength testing. At surgery, a subscapularis tenotomy utilized to approach the shoulder. Postoperatively, no formal physical therapy program was utilized. Seven of the 15 shoulders had a complete tear of the repaired subscapularis tendon based on ultrasound examination. The lift-off and abdominal compression tests correlated poorly with the ultrasonographic condition of the subscapularis. The bear hug test using dynamometry did correlate with tendon integrity. Patients with a subscapularis tear after arthroplasty experienced significant weakness in isometric (P = .01) and isokinetic (P < .01) internal rotation strength testing, as well as significantly worse DASH scores (P = .04). No patient demonstrated anterior subluxation on examination or by radiograph. Subscapularis tear after total shoulder arthroplasty is a common finding, which cannot be diagnosed reliably by physical examination or radiographs. In this population, subscapularis integrity did not correlate with pain or subjective patient outcome. Failure to heal the subscapularis tenotomy is probably more common than has been previously reported based on only physical examination testing."}
{"id": "20506954", "title": "Infraspinatus muscle atrophy as a function of the sagittal extent of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Infraspinatus muscle atrophy as a function of the sagittal extent of rotator cuff tears. Infraspinatus muscle atrophy is sometimes observed in rotator cuff tears that appear to involve only the supraspinatus tendon. The goal of this study was to evaluate infraspinatus muscle atrophy as a function of the sagittal extent of tears, using magnetic resonance imaging. Forty-three patients (45 shoulders) were enrolled, including 23 men and 20 women with a mean age of 60 years. Patients were divided into 4 groups reflecting the sagittal extent of their tears: 16 shoulders with intact cuff (group A), 8 tears localized to the anterior half of the superior facet (group B), 10 tears extending to the posterior half of the superior facet (group C), and 11 tears extending to the middle facet (group D). The infraspinatus muscle was divided into 4 compartments using proximal muscular slices in oblique sagittal images; muscle atrophy in each compartment was graded on a scale of I to IV. Within each compartment, differences in degree of atrophy between the 4 groups were statistically tested. No shoulders in groups A and B had more than grade II atrophy in all compartments. However, grade III and IV atrophy was observed in group C in the anterosuperior compartment and in group D in all compartments. Considering the new anatomical finding that the infraspinatus inserts into the posterior portion of the superior facet as well as the middle facet, infraspinatus muscle atrophy in group C patients may have resulted from infraspinatus tendon involvement in this type of tear."}
{"id": "20505629", "title": "Ultrasonographic study of the painful shoulder in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and patients with degenerative shoulder disease.", "content": "Ultrasonographic study of the painful shoulder in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and patients with degenerative shoulder disease. to compare ultrasound (US) changes of the painful shoulder between patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and patients with degenerative shoulder disease (DSD). Patients with painful shoulder (n=178) were divided according to clinical diagnosis made by rheumatologist: Group1-77 patients with RA, Group2-101 patients with DSD. US changes were evaluated by linear transducer 7.5 MHz for: long head biceps tendon-LHB, supraspinatus tendon-SSP, infraspinatus tendon-ISP, subscapularis tendon-SSC, subacromial/subdeltoid bursa-SA/SD-B, glenohumeral joint effusion-JE, bone cartilage-BC and humeral erosions-HE. The ultrasound examiner was blinded for clinical findings, diagnosis and patient identification. Frequent pathological changes were found in: SSP tendon (84.4% RA and 71.7% DSD), LHB tendon (81,8% RA and 69,3% DSD), ISP tendon (58.4% RA and 56.4% DSD) and SSC tendon (49,4% RA and 46,5% DSD) (p=0.045 p=0.058 p=0.951 and p=0.710 respectively). Evaluating changes separately, statistical differences were noted in: LHB tenosynovitis, SSP tendon rupture (three times more in RA patients), ISP tendon rupture (five times more in RA patients), as well as in glenohumeral JE, BC reduction and HE (p=0,019 p=0.001 p=0.005 p=0.000 p=0.003 and p=0.007, respectively). LHB tendon pathology (tendinopathy, subluxatio and rupture), SSC tendinopathy, global SSP and ISP tendinopathy as well as bursitis of SA/SD did not show statistical difference between the patient groups. Using logistic regression model, the following set of items: glenohumeral JE, BC reduction and HE has shown to be distinctive between RA and DSD group. Ultrasound detected different frequencies of LHB tenosynovitis, SSP and ISP tendon ruptures, glenohumeral JE, BC reduction and HE in RA and DSD patients comparisons. Combination of glenohumeral joint effusion, bone cartilage reduction and humeral erosions was able to identify patients with RA in a population of patients with painful shoulder disease with a moderately high degree of confidence."}
{"id": "20471342", "title": "Is external rotation the correct immobilisation for acute shoulder dislocation? An MRI study.", "content": "Is external rotation the correct immobilisation for acute shoulder dislocation? An MRI study. Anterior dislocation of the shoulder is frequent, with high rates of recurrence. Immobilization in external rotation (ER) seems to improve results, although few studies have actually demonstrated this. The present MRI study examined the impact of ER on labral and capsular ligamentous complex lesions after primary dislocation. A prospective study was started up on January 1st, 2007. Inclusion criteria were: acute initial anteromedial dislocation of the shoulder, without past history of shoulder trauma. There were 23 such patients, with a mean age of 37 years. Early MRI scan used the following protocol: one acquisition in internal rotation followed by one in ER. Study criteria were: hemarthrosis, ER amplitude, rotator cuff status, bone lesion, and labral lesion stage (Habermeyer's classification) and displacement (Itoi criteria). There were 12 right and 11 left shoulders. Mean time to MRI was 3.7 days. There were three rotator cuff tears, no glenal lesions, and 14 humeral notches. Hemarthrosis was almost systematically present, with its distribution modified by ER in 75% of cases; three patients showed no posterior hemarthrosis, in whatever rotation. Mean ER was 37 degrees. On Habermeyer's classification, there were 12 stage-1 lesions, and 10 stage-2; one patient had no labral lesion. All separated labra were reduced in ER, five (21%) totally. In six cases, labral displacement changed according to rotation. All anterior joint effusion was reduced in ER, in three cases totally. According to Itoi among others, immobilization in ER is the way to reduce recurrence of anterior dislocation. The present study confirmed that labral reduction was systematic with ER, but it was by no means always complete. ER seemed more effective in reducing the separation. Results further confirmed that ER reduced anterior capsule volume, a recurrence factor. ER reduced hemarthrosis, anterior capsule detachment and labral lesions, and never the contrary. The interest of immobilization in ER to prevent shoulder instability needs confirming by long-term clinical studies; we are therefore extending the present MRI study by a clinical study of ER immobilization in all patients showing significant labral lesion reduction. Level IV. Retrospective therapeutic study."}
{"id": "20450423", "title": "MRI of symptomatic and asymptomatic full-thickness rotator cuff tears. A comparison of findings in 100 subjects.", "content": "MRI of symptomatic and asymptomatic full-thickness rotator cuff tears. A comparison of findings in 100 subjects. Why some full-thickness rotator cuff tears are symptomatic and others are asymptomatic is not understood. By comparing MRI findings in symptomatic and asymptomatic tears, we wanted to identify any tear characteristics that differed between groups. 50 subjects with asymptomatic and 50 subjects with symptomatic full-thickness tears were examined by MRI. Tear characteristics including tear size, tear location, the condition of the long head of the biceps, atrophy, and fatty degeneration of the muscles were compared between groups. Single factor logistic regression analysis showed that there were statistically significant associations between symptoms and tear size exceeding 3 cm in the medial-lateral plane, positive tangent sign, and fatty degeneration exceeding grade 1 of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles. We found associations between the symptomatic status of a rotator cuff tear and MRI-derived tear characteristics. The causal relationships are unclear."}
{"id": "20439653", "title": "Location and initiation of degenerative rotator cuff tears: an analysis of three hundred and sixty shoulders.", "content": "Location and initiation of degenerative rotator cuff tears: an analysis of three hundred and sixty shoulders. It has been theorized that degenerative rotator cuff tears most commonly involve the supraspinatus tendon, initiating at the anterior portion of the supraspinatus insertion and propagating posteriorly. The purposes of this study were to determine the most common location of degenerative rotator cuff tears and to examine tear location patterns associated with various tear sizes. Ultrasonograms of 360 shoulders with either a full-thickness rotator cuff tear (272) or a partial-thickness rotator cuff tear (eighty-eight) were obtained to measure the width and length of the tear and the distance from the biceps tendon to the anterior margin of the tear. Tears were grouped on the basis of their size (anteroposterior width) and extent (partial or full-thickness). Each tear was represented numerically as a column of consecutive numbers representing the tear width and distance posterior to the biceps tendon. All tears were pooled to graphically represent the width and location of the tears within groups. Frequency histograms of the pooled data were generated, and the mode was determined for each histogram representing various tear groups. The mean age (and standard deviation) of the 233 subjects (360 shoulders) was 64.7 +/- 10.2 years. The mean width and length of the tears were 16.3 +/- 12.1 mm and 17.0 +/- 13.0 mm, respectively. The mean distance from the biceps tendon to the anterior tear margin was 7.8 +/- 5.7 mm (range, 0 to 26 mm). Histograms of the various tear groups invariably showed the location of 15 to 16 mm posterior to the biceps tendon to be the most commonly torn location within the posterior cuff tendons. The histograms of small tears (a width of <10 mm) and partial-thickness tears showed similar distributions of tear locations, indicating that the region approximately 15 mm posterior to the biceps tendon may be where rotator cuff tears most commonly initiate. Degenerative rotator cuff tears most commonly involve a posterior location, near the junction of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus. The patterns of tear location across multiple tear sizes suggest that degenerative cuff tears may initiate in a region 13 to 17 mm posterior to the biceps tendon."}
{"id": "20436053", "title": "Arthroscopic supraspinatus tendon repair with suture-bridging technique: functional outcome and magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Arthroscopic supraspinatus tendon repair with suture-bridging technique: functional outcome and magnetic resonance imaging. The suture-bridging technique is a new arthroscopic technique to repair rotator cuff tears. Biomechanical advantages compared with double-row fixations have been described. The authors hypothesized that arthroscopic suture-bridging repair of the supraspinatus tendon would result in a superior clinical outcome and lower retear rates compared with previously published results after double-row fixation. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Fifty-one consecutive patients, with a median age of 62 years (range, 37-76 years), who had undergone an arthroscopic suture-bridging repair of an isolated supraspinatus tendon tear were evaluated in this prospective study 4, 12, and a median of 24 months postoperatively. Subjective and functional outcome was assessed using the simple shoulder test and Constant score. With magnetic resonance imaging 12 months postoperatively, the tendon integrity and potential predictors of failures were evaluated. The simple shoulder test scores improved significantly from 9 points (range, 1-12 points) at 4 months, to 12 points (range, 1-12 points) at 12 months, and 12 points (range, 5-12 points) at 24 months postoperatively. The Constant score increased significantly from preoperative 64% (range, 37%-92%) to 82% (range, 36%-100%) at 4 months, 96% (range, 49%-100%) at 12 months, and 96% (range, 64%-100%) at 24 months postoperatively. Magnetic resonance imaging 12 months after surgery showed retears in 28.9%. Two different types of retears could be observed: insufficiently healed and medially retorn supraspinatus tendons. The Constant score did not differ significantly between the groups with retears and intact repairs. A patient age of more than 60 years was found to influence tendon healing significantly. The hypothesis, that arthroscopic suture-bridging repair of the supraspinatus tendon would result in a superior clinical outcome and lower retear rates compared with previously published results after double-row fixation, could not be confirmed. The functional outcome after the new suture-bridging technique was good and comparable with the reported results after double-row repair from the literature. A structural failure of tendon repair was not identical to clinical failure."}
{"id": "20428862", "title": "Using chemical-shift MR imaging to quantify fatty degeneration within supraspinatus muscle due to supraspinatus tendon injuries.", "content": "Using chemical-shift MR imaging to quantify fatty degeneration within supraspinatus muscle due to supraspinatus tendon injuries. The objective of this study was to prospectively quantify the fatty degeneration of supraspinatus (SSP) muscle due to SSP tendon injuries by using chemical-shift magnetic resonance imaging (CS-MRI). Forty-one patients with suspected rotator cuff tear or impingement examined with MR arthrography were included in the study. The following images were obtained after injection of diluted gadolinium chelate into glenohumeral joint: fat-saturated T1-weighted spin echo in the coronal, axial, and sagittal-oblique plane; fat-saturated T2-weighted and intermediate-weighted fast spin-echo in the coronal-oblique plane; and T1-weighted spin echo in the sagittal-oblique plane. CS-MRI was performed in the coronal plane using a double-echo fast low-angle shot (FLASH) sequence. SSP tendon changes were classified as normal, tendinosis, and partial and complete tear according to MR arthrography findings. Fatty degeneration was quantified after measurement of signal intensity values within the region of interest (ROI) placed over SSP muscle. Signal intensity (SI) suppression ratio and SI index were calculated with the values obtained. Degrees of fatty degeneration depicted in normal subjects and subjects with rotator cuff injuries were compared. Median (min:max) was used as descriptive values. SI suppression ratio was -3.5% (-15.5:3.03) in normal subjects, whereas it was -13.5% (-28.55:-6.60), -30.7% (-41.5:-20.35), and -43.75% (-62:-24.90) in tendinosis, partial and complete tears, respectively. SI index was 0.75% (-6:11.5) in normal subjects. It was 10% (4.50:27), 26.5% (19.15:35.5), and 41% (23.9:57) in tendinosis, partial and complete tears, respectively. The increase in degree of fatty degeneration parallels the seriousness of tendon pathology. CS-MRI is a useful method for grading fat accumulation within SSP muscle."}
{"id": "20421173", "title": "Posterior shoulder instability secondary to reverse humeral avulsion of the glenohumeral ligament.", "content": "Posterior shoulder instability secondary to reverse humeral avulsion of the glenohumeral ligament. Posterior shoulder instability resulting from a disruption of the posterior capsular structures has been reported. We present the largest series of these injuries in the published literature, propose a definition and highlight the clinical presentation, radiological findings, and associated injuries. A retrospective review of a single shoulder surgeons database was performed identifying posterior instability cases associated with disruption of the posterior capsule. Chart, radiological imaging, and intra-operative findings were reviewed. Nineteen patients were identified with an average age lower than the overall posterior instability group. All occurred via a traumatic mechanism, the most common being a forced cross-body adduction. The only consistent symptom was posterior joint line pain. MRI reporting was found to be only 50% sensitive, increased to 78.6% when reviewed by the treating surgeon. Associated injuries are common with 58% having a labral tear, 32% a SLAP lesion, 26% a reverse Bankart lesion, 21% a chondral injury, 21% rotator cuff injury, and 11% extension of the tear into the posterior band of the inferior glenohumeral ligament. Disruption of the posterior capsule is a rare cause of recurrent posterior instability. There are no specific symptoms that identify the injury, though a mechanism of forced cross-body adduction should raise suspicion. Identification of the injury requires specific attention to the posterior capsule on MRI, preferably performed with the arm in slight external rotation and routine visualization of the posterior capsule via viewing from the anterior portal."}
{"id": "20421169", "title": "Outcomes of distal deltoid release for symptomatic cuff-tear arthropathy.", "content": "Outcomes of distal deltoid release for symptomatic cuff-tear arthropathy. The author designed release and recession of the distal deltoid to decompress the subacromial space and possibly provide better shoulder function in patients with cuff-tear arthropathy. The indications include elderly low-demand patients in whom this condition was the cause of chronic unremitting and intractable pain with severe functional impairment of the shoulder. A cohort of 22 patients with cuff-tear arthropathy, who were an average age of 73 years (range, 53-78 years), underwent distal deltoid release and recession. Clinical follow-up averaged 5.3 years (range, 2-7 years). A modified University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) Shoulder Rating Scale was used. No complications occurred. At final follow-up the clinical results were graded as excellent in 15 patients (68.2%), good in 4 (18.2%), fair in 1, and poor in 2. The most striking and gratifying result was pain relief, but active range of motion also significantly increased, leading to functional improvements and satisfaction. Muscular strength slightly improved or remained the same compared with preoperative status. In many cases, postoperative radiographs showed widening of the subacromial space, with no or only slight progression of glenohumeral joint osteoarthritis. Distal deltoid recession is a less invasive, extra-articular procedure that may be considered an alternative to a shoulder prosthesis and other surgical options, including muscle transfers, in patients with cuff-tear arthropathy."}
{"id": "20415310", "title": "Simultaneous acute rotator cuff tear and distal biceps rupture in a strongman competitor.", "content": "Simultaneous acute rotator cuff tear and distal biceps rupture in a strongman competitor. Acute rotator cuff tear is commonly associated with tearing of the proximal biceps tendon, but has never been reported to occur simultaneously with a distal biceps tendon rupture. A 38-year-old right-hand-dominant strongman competitor attempted a 300-pound overhead axle press and experienced immediate pain in the right shoulder and elbow. He had no known systemic risk factors for tendon ruptures including hyperparathyroidism, hemodialysis, alcoholism, rheumatoid arthritis, statin medications, fluoroquinolones, and steroid use.Right shoulder magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a full-thickness supraspinatus tear with 3 cm of retraction. There was minimal fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus on the sagittal cuts consistent with acute rupture. The subscapularis was intact. The long head of the biceps tendon had mild medial subluxation but was completely within the bicipital groove. Right elbow MRI showed a complete distal biceps tendon rupture. Thirteen days after his injury, the patient underwent arthroscopic supraspinatus repair and proximal biceps tenodesis. Distal biceps tendon repair was performed using the modified 2-incision muscle-splitting technique. At 24-month follow-up, the patient was pain free and had returned to full activity including weightlifting but had not returned to strongman competition.This is the first report of simultaneous acute full thickness ruptures of the rotator cuff and distal biceps tendon. This case report underscores the importance of a complete physical examination and a high index of suspicion for additional concomitant injuries, particularly in athletes with unusually high stresses to the body."}
{"id": "20414859", "title": "US-guided therapy of calcific tendinopathy: clinical and radiological outcome assessment in shoulder and non-shoulder tendons.", "content": "US-guided therapy of calcific tendinopathy: clinical and radiological outcome assessment in shoulder and non-shoulder tendons. To analyze the effectiveness and complication rate of ultrasound (US)-guided perforation and lavage using a two-needle technique with 16 - 18 G needles in the treatment of patients with calcific tendinopathy in the shoulder, elbow, hip, and knee by radiological and clinical follow-up. A retrospective chart review was performed and 40 patients (13 male, 27 female; mean age, 53.5 years; range 24 -74 years) were identified as having received US-guided perforation and lavage due to symptomatic calcific tendinopathy of the rotator cuff tendons, triceps, extensor and flexor tendons at the elbow, rectus femoris tendon and patellar tendons. The radiographic outcome was assessed by comparison of the size and quality of the calcification before and 6 weeks after the procedure. On US images, the quality of the acoustic shadow was assessed, together with other alterations of the tendon and surrounding tissue. Patients were interviewed by telephone to assess the clinical outcome regarding pre-treatment and post-treatment pain and tendon function. 34 shoulder tendons and 6 non-shoulder tendons were identified. The mean calcium reduction was 39.9 mm(2) (range, 0 - 215; p < 0.001), while 80 % of patient showed a resolution of more than 60 % resulting in good clinical improvement. A very low complication rate was found (1 partial tear). The US-guided perforation and lavage technique is an effective and safe treatment for rotator cuff calcifications as well as for other body tendons. Although the two-needle technique and large needles were used in this study, a very low complication rate was detected."}
{"id": "20404756", "title": "Effect of proximal humeral fractures on the age-specific prevalence of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Effect of proximal humeral fractures on the age-specific prevalence of rotator cuff tears. This study examined the effect of proximal humeral fractures on the age- and shoulder-specific prevalence of rotator cuff tears (RCTs) as well as the association with fracture severity, patient age, and clinical outcome. Sixty-three fractures were treated conservatively; in 114 cases, minimally invasive osteosynthesis, and in 125 cases, open reduction and plate fixation were performed without rotator cuff reconstruction. After 4.4 years, all 302 patients were clinically and sonographically examined. We examined 139 two-part, 95 three-part, and 68 four-part fractures according to Neer and 134 A, 86 B, and 82 C fractures according to the AO classification. There were 52 patients (17%) with a complete rotator tear (RCT) only at the injured shoulder and 11 patients (4%) with a complete RCT only at the contralateral shoulder (p < 0.0001). Independent of the patient's age at follow-up, the prevalence of an RCT in the fractured shoulder was 13% higher than the prevalence in the opposite shoulder. Four-part fractures showed a significant association with a complete RCT (p = 0.047).Of 74 patients with a satisfactory or poor Constant Score, 33 (44.6%) had RCTs. In the remaining 228 patients with a good to excellent result, only 26 (11.4%) had RCTs. We showed that 66% of the RCTs observed at the fractured shoulder were caused by trauma. There was no association between treatment modality and a complete RCT. RCTs may need special attention in initial diagnostics, management, and follow-up especially in severe proximal humeral fractures."}
{"id": "20401480", "title": "Unusual variation of the rotator interval: insertional abnormality of the pectoralis minor tendon and absence of the coracohumeral ligament.", "content": "Unusual variation of the rotator interval: insertional abnormality of the pectoralis minor tendon and absence of the coracohumeral ligament. To evaluate the anomalous insertion of the pectoralis minor tendon with absence of the coracohumeral ligament on MR arthrography and to demonstrate the associated findings seen with this anatomical variation. We retrospectively reviewed the 335 MR arthrograms of the shoulder joint (mean age 37.8 years) performed from March 2000 to February 2008. Images were evaluated with attention to anomalous insertion of the pectoralis minor tendon and the coracohumeral ligament. Anomalous insertion of the pectoralis minor tendon was demonstrated in 5 out of 335 shoulders (1.5%). The pectoralis minor tendons crossed over the coracoid process and attached directly to a glenohumeral joint capsule, and the coracohumeral ligament was absent in these 5 patients. In these patients, injected contrast material was noted to extend over the coracoid process along the course of the pectoralis minor tendon. Among 5 patients, 3 patients (60%) were diagnosed with SLAP (superior labrum anterior to posterior) lesions. Anomalous insertion of the pectoralis minor tendon to the glenohumeral joint capsule and associated absence of the coracohumeral ligament is well demonstrated on MR arthrography. It is an unusual variant of the pectoralis minor muscle insertion, and may be a possible contributing factor in the development of a SLAP lesion."}
{"id": "20392649", "title": "Surgical treatment of confirmed intratendinous rotator cuff tears: retrospective analysis after an average of eight years of follow-up.", "content": "Surgical treatment of confirmed intratendinous rotator cuff tears: retrospective analysis after an average of eight years of follow-up. This study evaluated clinical features, diagnostic techniques, and summarized the results of open repair in a series of surgically confirmed cases of intratendinous rotator cuff tears. Between 1986 and 1999, 19 patients (17 men and 2 women) with intratendinous rotator cuff tears underwent surgery. Clinical findings, diagnostic results, and surgical findings were evaluated. The shoulder scores of the Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) and the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) were used to assess recovery at an average of 92 months (range, 31-231 months). All patients had symptoms consistent with rotator cuff tendonitis. History of overt trauma was noted in 16 (84.2%). Neither ultrasound nor magnetic resonance imaging proved reliable for preoperative diagnosis. Surgery was performed if at least 6 months of conservative treatment, such as rest, heat, and physical therapies, failed. The definitive diagnosis was established intraoperatively with a longitudinal split along the fibers of the supraspinatus tendon. None of the intratendinous lesions had communication to the subacromial bursa or the glenohumeral joint. Excision of the intratendinous tear and repair resulted in improvement in pain and total scores of both JOA (66.8 vs 94.1) and ASES (37.1 vs 91.0). Intratendinous rotator cuff tears were difficult to diagnose preoperatively. Our data suggest that conservative treatment failed, anterior acromioplasty and excision of the diseased portion of the tendon, followed by tenorrhaphy, proved effective. Satisfactory outcomes were achieved in 18 patients (94.7%) in this series."}
{"id": "20376896", "title": "The spectrum of lesions and clinical results of arthroscopic stabilization of acute anterior shoulder instability.", "content": "The spectrum of lesions and clinical results of arthroscopic stabilization of acute anterior shoulder instability. The purpose of this study is to investigate and analyze accompanying lesions including injury types of anteroinferior labrum lesion in young and active patients who suffered traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation for the first time. The study used magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) to 40 patients with acute anterior shoulder dislocation from April 2004 to April 2008, and of those, 36 with abnormal MRA finding were treated with arthroscopy. There was a total of 25 cases of anteroinferior glenoid labrum lesions. A superior labrum anterior-posterior lesion (SLAP) lesion was observed in 8 cases. For bony lesions, 22 cases of Hill-sachs lesions, 4 cases of lesions in greater tuberosity fracture of humerus, and 4 cases of loose body were found. For lesions involving rotator cuff, partial articular side rupture was found in 2 cases and 2 cases were found to have a complete rupture. Under MRA and arthroscopy performed on patients with acute anterior shoulder dislocation, it was observed to have varying types of anteroinferior labrum lesions such as Perthes, Bankart, ALPSA, and bony Bankart lesion. that MRA is a remarkably useful tool to classify various lesions in acute anterior dislocation of the shoulder and to make a diagnosis, making it a useful tool to decide a treatment method while consulting patients and their families."}
{"id": "20372911", "title": "Intraosseous calcium migration in calcifying tendinitis: a rare cause of single sclerotic injury in the humeral head (2010: 2b).", "content": "Intraosseous calcium migration in calcifying tendinitis: a rare cause of single sclerotic injury in the humeral head (2010: 2b). Intratendinous deposits of hydroxyapatite crystals are very common, particularly in the rotator cuff. In rare cases, the calcium located in the thickness of the supraspinatus tendon can suffer intraosseous migration into the greater tuberosity. We present a case of this rare entity: a 28-year-old patient who attended with pain and functional weakness in the left shoulder. The plain radiograph showed a sclerotic lesion in the greater tuberosity of the humeral head with a radiolucent halo. The MRI showed a lytic lesion containing the calcium inside and associated with an extensive pattern of oedema of the accompanying bone marrow. A plain radiograph taken 6 months before showed a calcifying tendinitis in the thickness of the supraspinatus tendon. A large number of entities can present as single sclerotic lesions of the humeral head. The diagnostic key lies in the existence of the calcifying tendinitis in the earlier study. The treatment of this disease consists of surgical removal of the calcium. The recognition of this entity is important to avoid unnecessary complementary tests and aggressive surgery, given that the surgical treatment is curative and leads to disappearance of the symptoms."}
{"id": "20371556", "title": "Diagnosis and management of superior labrum anterior posterior lesions in overhead athletes.", "content": "Diagnosis and management of superior labrum anterior posterior lesions in overhead athletes. Shoulder pain is a common complaint in overhead athletes, and superior labrum anterior posterior (SLAP) lesions are a common cause of this pain. The pathological cascade which results in the SLAP lesion consists of a combination of posterior inferior capsular tightness and scapular dyskinesis, resulting in a 'peel back' phenomenon at the biceps anchor and leading to the SLAP tear. Physical exam tests vary in their sensitivity and specificity in detecting SLAP lesions, so MRI is helpful in demonstrating the anatomical alteration. Treatment can be conservative, with posterior inferior capsular stretching and scapular open and closed chain exercises. Many SLAP lesions in overhead athletes require surgical treatment that involves repair of the labrum back to the glenoid. Treatment of concomitant injuries such as rotator cuff tears and Bankart lesions in conjunction with the SLAP repair may be necessary."}
{"id": "20363160", "title": "Natural history of infraspinatus fatty infiltration in rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Natural history of infraspinatus fatty infiltration in rotator cuff tears. Muscular fatty infiltration (FI) represents an important prognostic factor in rotator cuff repair. The goal of this study was to analyze the natural history of infraspinatus FI in rotator cuff tears to determine the timing of the appearance and the speed of progression of this phenomenon. The preoperative MRI or CT-arthrograms of 1688 patients operated for rotator cuff tears were reviewed. The degree of infraspinatus FI was correlated with the type of tendon tear, patient sex, dominant hand, presence of traumatic injury, delay between the onset of symptoms and imaging studies, and age of the patients at imaging. Infraspinatus FI was graded on axial images according to Goutallier classification and described as minimal (stage 0 or 1), medium (stage 2), and severe (stages 3 and 4). Statistical regression was used to determine the most significant factors. Infraspinatus FI increased significantly in presence of an infraspinatus tendon tear and when multiple tendons were torn (P < .0005), with increasing delay between the onset of symptoms and imaging studies (P < .0005) and increasing patient age (P < .0005). Medium FI appeared on average 2 and a half years after the onset of symptoms, and severe FI appeared at an average of 4 years after symptom onset. Larger tendon tears, longer delays after tendon rupture and older patient age are associated with more severe and frequent FI. Stage 2 FI appears at an average of 2 and a half years after the onset of symptoms, and surgical repair should be done within this time frame if possible."}
{"id": "20363159", "title": "Reverse shoulder arthroplasty in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.", "content": "Reverse shoulder arthroplasty in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The purpose of this study was to describe the pathoanatomy of patients diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis and rotator cuff deficiency and report their outcomes following reverse shoulder arthroplasty. Twenty-one shoulders were evaluated prospectively. Nine had no prior surgery, 9 had a failed rotator cuff repair, and 3 had a failed arthroplasty. Patients were followed for a minimum of 2 years (average, 36 months). All patients had preoperative radiographs and 19 shoulders had an MRI or CT available for evaluation of muscular and bony deficiency. Radiographs at most recent follow-up were evaluated for loosening and scapular notching. All outcome measures improved significantly: ASES scores improved from 28 preoperatively to 82 postoperatively (P < .0001); SST scores improved from 1 to 7 (P < .0001); VAS pain scores improved from 7 to 1 (P < .0001); VAS function scores improved from 3 to 6 (P=.0058); elevation improved from 52\u00b0 to 126\u00b0 (P < .0001); abduction improved from 55\u00b0 to 116\u00b0 (P=.0002); external rotation improved from 19\u00b0 to 33\u00b0 (P=.02); and internal rotation improved from S1 to L4 (P=.02). Twelve patients rated their outcome as excellent, 6 as good, 2 as satisfactory, and 1 as unsatisfactory. Severe glenoid erosion was seen in 10 of the shoulders and 5 of the defects required structural grafting. Three patients (14%) sustained a complication that required reoperation: 2 for infection and 1 for periprosthetic fracture. In patients with rheumatoid arthritis and rotator cuff deficiency, reverse shoulder arthroplasty can provide improvement in function and decreased pain."}
{"id": "20360518", "title": "Structural changes in muscle and glenohumeral joint deformity in neonatal brachial plexus palsy.", "content": "Structural changes in muscle and glenohumeral joint deformity in neonatal brachial plexus palsy. Internal rotation contracture of the shoulder is common in children with neonatal brachial plexus palsy. A long-standing contracture may cause osseous deformities in the developing shoulder. The purpose of the study was to evaluate the relationship between osseous deformities of the glenohumeral joint and structural differences due to muscle denervation in the rotator cuff muscles. One hundred and two children with residual neonatal brachial plexus palsy underwent magnetic resonance imaging of both shoulders. The glenoid version and posterior, medial, and superior subluxation of the humeral head were measured. The shapes of the glenoid and the humeral head were categorized, and the infraspinatus, supraspinatus, subscapularis, and deltoid muscles were scored as being normal, atrophic, or atrophic with fatty degeneration. Muscle degeneration was most prominent in the subscapularis muscle. Glenoid version correlated with the structural differences in the subscapularis muscle. Posterior subluxation of the humeral head and the shape of the glenoid correlated with all abnormal rotator cuff muscles. Superior humeral subluxation correlated only with changes in the supraspinatus muscle. Medialization and the shape of the humeral head were not associated with atrophic changes of the rotator cuff. Regeneration of the rotator cuff muscles was not significantly different in patients with a C5-C6 (C7) or a complete brachial plexus lesion. However, the changes in glenoid version, the degree of posterior humeral subluxation, and the degree of medial humeral subluxation were significantly more severe in patients with a C5-C6 (C7) lesion compared with those in patients with a complete lesion of the brachial plexus. Structural differences in the rotator cuff muscles alter the direction of the humeral head forces on the developing glenoid fossa and can lead to osseous deformities. Glenohumeral deformities are significantly greater with a C5-C6 (C7) lesion than with a complete brachial plexus lesion in which the large internal rotators are also affected. Reducing the muscular imbalance that occurs with a C5-C6 (C7) lesion could diminish glenohumeral joint incongruency and may improve the outcome of subsequent soft-tissue release or tendon transfer surgery."}
{"id": "20360505", "title": "Relationship of tear size and location to fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Relationship of tear size and location to fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff. Fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff muscles may have detrimental effects on both anatomical and functional outcomes following shoulder surgery. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between tear geometry and muscle fatty degeneration in shoulders with a deficient rotator cuff. Ultrasonograms of both shoulders of 262 patients were reviewed to assess the type of rotator cuff tear and fatty degeneration in the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles. The 251 shoulders with a full-thickness tear underwent further evaluation for tear size and location. The relationship of tear size and location to fatty degeneration of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles was investigated with use of statistical comparisons and regression models. Fatty degeneration was found almost exclusively in shoulders with a full-thickness rotator cuff tear. Of the 251 shoulders with a full-thickness tear, eighty-seven (34.7%) had fatty degeneration in either the supraspinatus or infraspinatus, or both. Eighty-two (32.7%) of the 251 full-thickness tears had a distance of 0 mm between the biceps tendon and anterior margin of the tear. Ninety percent of the full-thickness tears with fatty degeneration in both muscles had a distance of 0 mm posterior from the biceps, whereas only 9% of those without fatty degeneration had a distance of 0 mm. Tears with fatty degeneration had significantly greater width and length than those without fatty degeneration (p < 0.0001). Tears with fatty degeneration had a significantly shorter distance posterior from the biceps than those without fatty degeneration (p < 0.0001). The distance posterior from the biceps was found to be the most important predictor for supraspinatus fatty degeneration, whereas tear width and length were found to be the most important predictors for infraspinatus fatty degeneration. Fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff muscles is closely associated with tear size and location. The finding of this study suggests that the integrity of the anterior supraspinatus tendon is important to the development of fatty degeneration. Patients with full-thickness tears that extend through this area may benefit from earlier surgical intervention if fatty degeneration has not already occurred. Additionally, the findings suggest the importance of secure fixation and healing of the anterior aspect of the supraspinatus with surgical repair."}
{"id": "20308974", "title": "Bilateral suprascapular nerve entrapment by glenoid labral cysts associated with rotator cuff damage and posterior instability in an amateur weightlifter.", "content": "Bilateral suprascapular nerve entrapment by glenoid labral cysts associated with rotator cuff damage and posterior instability in an amateur weightlifter. Suprascapular nerve entrapment is a common condition in athletes. The entrapment is most frequently due to a \"glenoid labral cyst\" produced by joint fluid extrusion in consequence of labral degenerative changes. The bilaterality of the entrapment and the association with rotator cuff pathology are a rare evidence. We present the case of a 38-year-old amateur weightlifter with an history of left shoulder chronic posterior pain and progressive external rotation weakness, and with an acute right shoulder pain and weakness. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a bilateral glenoid labral cyst in association with partial tear of the supraspinatus tendon, atrophy of the infraspinatus muscle and type 2 SLAP lesion at the left shoulder and subacromial impingement syndrome (due to acromio-clavicular osteophyte), mild atrophy of the infraspinatus muscle and type 1-2 SLAP lesion at the right side."}
{"id": "20306958", "title": "Management of full thickness rotator cuff tears. A survey amongst members of the Flemish Elbow and Shoulder Surgeons Society (FLESSS).", "content": "Management of full thickness rotator cuff tears. A survey amongst members of the Flemish Elbow and Shoulder Surgeons Society (FLESSS). The purpose of this study was to determine the attitude of the members of the Flemish Elbow and Shoulder Surgeons Society (FLESSS) towards full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff and their treatment in their daily practice. A survey form was sent to 123 shoulder surgeons between January and March 2008. Seventy-three responses were returned, a 60% response rate. For 40% of the respondents, arthro-CT was the gold standard diagnostic method for assessment, 36% preferred arthro-MRI. Arthroscopic, mini-open and open cuff repair were preferred by 64%, 19% and 16% of the responders respectively. Fewer years in practice, a higher volume of shoulder operations and a higher volume of rotator cuff repairs were significantly correlated with a higher percentage of arthroscopic repairs (p > or = 0.001). With respect to the type of fixation, 91% preferred screw-type anchors, and of these 81% were metal anchors. Our results show that all-arthroscopic techniques are becoming the gold standard for the repair of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff in Flanders."}
{"id": "20188275", "title": "Arthroscopic GraftJacket repair of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Arthroscopic GraftJacket repair of rotator cuff tears. Management of massive, degenerative, and irreparable rotator cuff tears is challenging. Excessive re-tear rates and poor clinical outcome after standard repair have led to alternative methods of treatment. Tendon transfers and shoulder arthroplasty have had mixed results; both are invasive procedures with high potential morbidity. We began performing rotator cuff augmentation and replacement using GraftJacket allograft acellular human dermal matrix as a biologic minimally invasive alternative in this difficult population almost 6 years ago. This article highlights our preferred arthroscopic technique and early results. From January 2004 to June 2007, 45 patients (36 men, 9 women) with massive rotator cuff tears were treated arthroscopically with the GraftJacket allograft. All patients completed a preoperative University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) score. Follow-up was a minimum of 2 years (range, 24-68 months) and patients completed UCLA, Western Ontario Rotator Cuff (WORC), and American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) scores. Analysis was performed using the 3 validated outcomes measurement scores. The mean UCLA score increased from 18.4 preoperatively to 27.5 postoperatively (P < .000). The average WORC score was 75.2, and the ASES score was 84.1 at the final follow-up. Evidence-based data to outline an algorithm for management of irreparable rotator cuff tears is being developed. We documented significant clinical improvement with arthroscopic rotator cuff reconstruction using the GraftJacket allograft acellular human dermal matrix. The procedure is safe and associated with high patient satisfaction, without the morbidity of tendon transfer or arthroplasty. For those few cases where further surgery is required, no bridges are burned. The early success of this procedure warrants further study with more patients, longer follow-up, and higher levels of evidence-based investigation."}
{"id": "20188265", "title": "Reversed shoulder arthroplasty with modified L'Episcopo for combined loss of active elevation and external rotation.", "content": "Reversed shoulder arthroplasty with modified L'Episcopo for combined loss of active elevation and external rotation. In patients with a rotator cuff-deficient shoulder, a combined loss of active elevation and external rotation (CLEER) can occur when both the infraspinatus and teres minor muscles are absent. A reverse shoulder arthroplasty (RSA) can restore active elevation in these patients but cannot restore active external rotation because there are no other external rotator cuff muscles. We hypothesized that a modified L'Episcopo procedure (latissimus dorsi [LD] and teres major [TM] transfer) with a simultaneous RSA would restore shoulder function and activities of daily living (ADLs). Seventeen consecutive patients (mean age, 71 years) with CLEER underwent this combined procedure through a single deltopectoral approach and were prospectively monitored for at least 12 months. All patients had severe cuff tear arthropathy and advanced atrophy or fatty infiltration of the infraspinatus/teres minor muscles on preoperative magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography scans. The patients were immobilized in 30 degrees of abduction and external rotation for 6 weeks postoperatively before starting rehabilitation. Mean active elevation increased from 74 degrees preoperatively to 149 degrees postoperatively (+75 degrees ), and external rotation increased from -21 degrees to 13 degrees (+34 degrees ). Patient satisfaction, subjective shoulder value, Constant-Murley scores and ADLs all improved significantly. DISCUSSION & CONCLUSIONS: In patients with CLEER, the association of RSA with LD/TM transfer restores active elevation and external rotation. The combined procedure, performed in the same session through a deltopectoral approach, is indicated in a selected subgroup of patients with a rotator cuff-deficient shoulder and an absent or atrophied infraspinatus/teres minor muscles. Our technique is easier to perform than the two-incision procedure and appears to avoid problems such as extensive scarring, adhesions and axillary nerve lesions. Transferring both the LD and TM, rather than the LD alone, results in better active external rotation."}
{"id": "20206055", "title": "Medial-row failure after arthroscopic double-row rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Medial-row failure after arthroscopic double-row rotator cuff repair. We report 4 cases of medial-row failure after double-row arthroscopic rotator cuff repair (ARCR) without arthroscopic subacromial decompression (ASAD), in which there was pullout of mattress sutures of the medial row and knots were caught between the cuff and the greater tuberosity. Between October 2006 and January 2008, 49 patients underwent double-row ARCR. During this period, ASAD was not performed with ARCR. Revision arthroscopy was performed in 8 patients because of ongoing symptoms after the index operation. In 4 of 8 patients the medial rotator cuff failed; the tendon appeared to be avulsed at the medial row, and there were exposed knots on the bony surface of the rotator cuff footprint. It appeared that the knots were caught between the cuff and the greater tuberosity. Three retear cuffs were revised with the arthroscopic transtendon technique, and one was revised with a single-row technique after completing the tear. ASAD was performed in all patients. Three of the four patients showed improvement of symptoms and returned to their preinjury occupation. Impingement of pullout knots may be a source of pain after double-row rotator cuff repair."}
{"id": "20206053", "title": "The geometric classification of rotator cuff tears: a system linking tear pattern to treatment and prognosis.", "content": "The geometric classification of rotator cuff tears: a system linking tear pattern to treatment and prognosis. A valuable classification system allows for communication among surgeons and/or other investigators and offers information on treatment and prognosis. It provides a means for comparison of epidemiologic data and treatment outcomes. There is no current standard classification for rotator cuff tears. Authors and practicing orthopaedists use a variety of descriptions when communicating about cuff tears. Older classifications do not use 3-dimensional information derived from the present use of arthroscopy and magnetic resonance imaging. The new geometric classification offers guidance on treatment and prognosis. Type 1, crescent-shaped tears are repaired end to bone and have a good to excellent prognosis. Type 2, longitudinal (L- or U-shaped) tears are repaired side to side with margin convergence and have a good to excellent prognosis. Type 3, massive contracted tears have coronal and sagittal dimensions greater than 2 x 2 cm on preoperative magnetic resonance imaging; are repaired with interval slides or partial repair; and have a fair to good prognosis. Type 4, rotator cuff arthropathy tears have end-stage degenerative changes of the glenohumeral joint and have articulation of the humeral head with the undersurface of the acromion; are irreparable; and require arthroplasty if surgery is considered. This classification describes complete tears of the superior and posterior rotator cuff, supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor. Additional notation can be made regarding the presence of related pathology including tears of the subscapularis, biceps, or labrum; instability or arthritic change of the glenohumeral or acromioclavicular joints; or fatty degeneration of the cuff."}
{"id": "20206051", "title": "Does the literature confirm superior clinical results in radiographically healed rotator cuffs after rotator cuff repair?", "content": "Does the literature confirm superior clinical results in radiographically healed rotator cuffs after rotator cuff repair? Because recurrent or persistent defects in the rotator cuff after repair are common, we sought to clarify the correlation between structural integrity of the rotator cuff and clinical outcomes through a systematic review of relevant studies. Medline, CINAHL (Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature), and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials were searched for all literature published from January 1966 to December 2008 that used the key words shoulder, rotator cuff, rotator cuff tear, rotator cuff repair, arthroscopic, integrity, healed, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography arthrography (CTA), and ultrasound. The inclusion criteria were studies (Levels I to IV) that reported outcomes after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair in healed and nonhealed repairs based on ultrasound, CTA, and/or MRI. Exclusionary criteria were studies that included open repair or subscapularis repair and studies that did not define outcomes based on healed versus nonhealed but rather used another variable (i.e., repair technique). Data were abstracted from the studies including patient demographics, tear characteristics, surgical procedure, rehabilitation, strength, range of motion, clinical scoring systems, and imaging studies. Thirteen studies were included in the final analysis: 5 used ultrasound, 4 used MRI, 2 used CTA, and 2 used combined CTA/MRI for diagnosis of a recurrent tear. Statistical improvement in patients who had an intact cuff at follow-up was seen in Constant scores in 6 of 9 studies; in University of California, Los Angeles scores in 1 of 2 studies; in American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores in 0 of 3 studies; and in Simple Shoulder Test scores in 0 of 2 studies. Increased range of motion in forward elevation was seen in 2 of 5 studies and increased strength in forward elevation in 5 of 8 studies. The results suggest that some important differences in clinical outcomes likely exist between patients with healed and nonhealed rotator cuff repairs. Further study is needed to conclusively define this difference and identify other important prognostic factors related to clinical outcomes. Level IV, systematic review."}
{"id": "20198404", "title": "Massive rotator cuff tears: functional outcome after debridement or arthroscopic partial repair.", "content": "Massive rotator cuff tears: functional outcome after debridement or arthroscopic partial repair. The surgical treatment of massive rotator cuff tears (RCT) is still controversial and can be based on a variety of different surgical repair methods. This study investigated the effectiveness of arthroscopic debridement or arthroscopic partial repair in patients with massive RCT. This prospective, randomized study involved forty-two patients with massive RCT (fatty infiltration stage 3 or 4) treated with either arthroscopic partial repair or arthroscopic debridement were selected to detect possible differences in functional outcome. Both groups were matched according to age and gender. Patients were examined before, and 16 +/- 3 and 24 +/- 2 months after surgery. The status of the rotator cuff repair was determined using ultrasonographic evaluation. Regardless of the treatment group, postoperative results demonstrated highly significant improvements compared with preoperative values in most parameters. The overall Constant score in the partial repair group was superior to the outcome in the debridement group (P < 0.01, F = 8.561), according to better results in abduction (P < 0.01, F = 13.249), activity (P < 0.01, F = 21.391) and motion (P < 0.01, F = 4.967). All treatment groups had similar pain relief (P = 0.172, F = 1.802) and satisfaction, reflected in equal values of disabilities of the arm, shoulder and hand (DASH) score (P = 0.948, F = 0.004). Ultrasonography revealed structural failure of the partial rotator cuff repair in 52% at final follow-up. During the follow-up period all patients in our series had good or satisfactory outcome after rotator cuff surgery. Regardless of high rates of structural failure of the partial rotator cuff repair, the results of arthroscopic partial rotator cuff repair demonstrated slightly better functional outcome than debridement."}
{"id": "20194317", "title": "Revision arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: repair integrity and clinical outcome.", "content": "Revision arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: repair integrity and clinical outcome. Literature regarding the outcomes of revision rotator cuff repair is limited. The purposes of the present study were to report the tendon repair integrity and clinical outcomes for a cohort of patients following revision arthroscopic rotator cuff repair and to examine factors related to tendon healing and the influence of healing on clinical outcomes. Twenty-one of twenty-nine consecutive revision arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs with a minimum of two years of postoperative follow-up were retrospectively reviewed. Outcomes were evaluated on the basis of a visual analog pain scale, the range of motion of the shoulder, the Simple Shoulder Test, the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score, and the Constant score. Ultrasonography was used to examine repair integrity at a minimum of one year following surgery. Ten shoulders underwent arthroscopic repair of a recurrent single-tendon posterior rotator cuff tear, whereas eleven shoulders had repair of both the supraspinatus and infraspinatus. The mean age of the twenty-one subjects was 55.6 years; thirteen subjects were male and eight were female. Complete preoperative and postoperative clinical data were available for nineteen subjects after an average duration of follow-up of thirty-three months. Significant improvements were seen in terms of postoperative pain (p < 0.05), the Simple Shoulder Test score (p < 0.05), the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons function (p < 0.05) and total scores (p < 0.05), active forward elevation (p < 0.05), and active external rotation (p < 0.05). Postoperative ultrasound data were available for all twenty-one shoulders after a mean duration of follow-up of twenty-five months. Ten (48%) of the twenty-one shoulders had an intact repair. Seven (70%) of the ten single-tendon repairs were intact, compared with three (27%) of the eleven supraspinatus/infraspinatus repairs (p = 0.05). Patient age (p < 0.05) and the number of torn tendons (p = 0.05) had significant effects on postoperative tendon repair integrity. Shoulders with an intact repair had better postoperative Constant scores (p < 0.05) and scapular plane elevation strength (p < 0.05) in comparison with those with a recurrent tear. Revision arthroscopic rotator cuff repair results in reliable pain relief and improvement in shoulder function in selected cases. Approximately half of the revision repairs can be expected to be intact at a minimum of one year following surgery. Patient age and the number of torn tendons are related to postoperative tendon integrity. The postoperative integrity of the rotator cuff can have a significant influence on shoulder abduction strength and the Constant score."}
{"id": "20179563", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging and clinical findings before and after tendon transfers about the shoulder in children with residual brachial plexus birth palsy: a 3-year follow-up study.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging and clinical findings before and after tendon transfers about the shoulder in children with residual brachial plexus birth palsy: a 3-year follow-up study. Incomplete recovery after brachial plexus birth palsy often results in decreased movement and muscle imbalance about the shoulder, as rotator cuff and deltoid innervation are incomplete. Tendon transfers redistribute the forces about the joint and were thought to promote glenohumeral joint remodeling. Early reports, however, indicate limited ability to affect joint configuration. Our previous report and conclusions to this regard were based upon short follow-up. The purpose of this study was to assess the magnetic resonance imaging and clinical outcome after tendon transfers about the shoulder in children with residual brachial plexus birth palsy. This was a retrospective chart review of 24 children who underwent transfer of the latissimus dorsi and teres major to the posterior rotator cuff with or without concomitant musculotendinous lengthenings. Follow-up magnetic resonance imaging data were available for all subjects at 1-year postsurgery and 19 subjects at 3-year follow-up. Preoperative average glenoid version was -25+/-13 degrees (range, -51- -11 degrees). Compared with preoperative version, there was no statistical difference at 1 year (-25+/-14 degrees; range, -56- -7 degrees; P=1.00) or at 3 years (-22+/-11 degrees; range, -54- -8 degrees; P=1.00). Preoperative average percent of humeral head anterior was 29%+/-15% (range, 0%-44%). Compared with preoperative percent of humeral head anterior, there was no statistical difference at 1 year (28%+/-16%; range, 0%-52%; P=1.00) or at 3 years (35%+/-13%; range, 0%-51%; P=0.32). Clinical evaluation showed significant improvements (P<0.05) in preoperative (-3+/-21) to 1-year (18+/-32) external rotation Significant improvements in abduction were found from 116+/-39 degrees before surgery to 151+/-30 degrees and 161+/-20 degrees at 1 and 3 years after surgery, respectively. These results demonstrate that tendon transfers improve overall shoulder motion, but do not reduce humeral head subluxation or improve glenohumeral joint realignment. Level IV."}
{"id": "20158433", "title": "Superior-capsular elongation and its significance in atraumatic posteroinferior multidirectional shoulder instability in magnetic resonance arthrography.", "content": "Superior-capsular elongation and its significance in atraumatic posteroinferior multidirectional shoulder instability in magnetic resonance arthrography. Redundancy of the capsule has been considered to be the main pathologic condition responsible for atraumatic posteroinferior multidirectional shoulder instability; however, there is a paucity of measurements providing quantitative diagnosis. To determine the significance of superior-capsular elongation and its relevance to atraumatic posteroinferior multidirectional shoulder instability at magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography. MR arthrography was performed in 21 patients with atraumatic posteroinferior multidirectional shoulder instability and 21 patients without shoulder instability. One observer made the measurements in duplicate and was blinded to the two groups. The superior-capsular measurements (linear distance and cross-sectional area) under the supraspinatus tendon, and the rotator interval were determined on MR arthrography and evaluated for each of the two groups. For the superior-capsular measurements, the linear distance under the supraspinatus tendon was significantly longer in patients with atraumatic posteroinferior multidirectional shoulder instability than in control subjects (P<0.001). The cross-sectional area under the supraspinatus tendon, and the rotator interval were significantly increased in patients with atraumatic posteroinferior multidirectional shoulder instability compared to control subjects (P<0.001 and P=0.01, respectively). Linear distance greater than 1.6 mm under the supraspinatus tendon had a specificity of 95% and a sensitivity of 90% for diagnosing atraumatic posteroinferior multidirectional shoulder instability. Cross-sectional area under the supraspinatus tendon greater than 0.3 cm(2), or an area under the rotator interval greater than 1.4 cm(2) had a specificity of more than 80% and a sensitivity of 90%. The superior-capsular elongation as well as its diagnostic criteria of measurements by MR arthrography revealed in the present study could serve as references for diagnosing atraumatic posteroinferior shoulder instability and offer insight into the spectrum of imaging findings corresponding to the pathologies encountered at clinical presentation."}
{"id": "20141993", "title": "Proper insertion angle is essential to prevent intra-articular protrusion of a knotless suture anchor in shoulder rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Proper insertion angle is essential to prevent intra-articular protrusion of a knotless suture anchor in shoulder rotator cuff repair. The advent of new arthroscopic devices has led to the development of novel techniques of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. However, failure to recognize specific technical aspects and improper application of these devices can lead to complications. We report a case of intra-articular protrusion of knotless anchors (PEEK PushLock SP, 4.5 x 18.5 mm; Arthrex, Naples, FL), used in the lateral row of a suture-bridging technique for arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. This case draws attention to the increased length of such devices when compared with traditional suture anchors, the technical aspects of proper device use, the possible patient-related factors such as implant-patient size mismatch, and the importance of additional imaging for the investigation of failure to progress postoperatively."}
{"id": "20130480", "title": "Clinical value of single versus composite provocative clinical tests in the assessment of painful shoulder.", "content": "Clinical value of single versus composite provocative clinical tests in the assessment of painful shoulder. The aims of the present study were to investigate the clinical value of the provocative clinical tests and propose a composite index for the assessment of painful shoulder, using ultrasonography (US) as reference method. Two hundred three patients with painful shoulder underwent both clinical and US evaluations. The physical examination was carried out performing the Hawkins, Jobe, Patte, Gerber, and Speed tests. Each test was included in a composite index namely, SNAPSHOT (Simple Numeric Assessment of Pain by SHOulder Tests). The US examination was performed by a rheumatologist experienced in US and blinded to clinical findings. Sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values, positive and negative likelihood ratio of each clinical test were calculated. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was used to assess the performance of the composite SNAPSHOT index. Sensitivity was low for the clinical diagnosis of all shoulder abnormalities. The highest sensitivity and smallest negative likelihood ratio were found for the Hawkins (63.88% and 0.50%) and Patte (62.21% and 0.52%) tests. Specificity was good for Speed (76.33%), Gerber (75.42%), and Patte (74.20%) tests. Patte and Speed tests were the most accurate (71.12% and 66.41%, respectively). The calculated area under the ROC curve related to the SNAPSHOT composite index was 0.881 +/- 0.026. With an optimal cut-off point of 3, the sensitivity and specificity were 75.8% and 87.5%, respectively. The results of the present study showed that SNAPSHOT is a feasible, informative and quantitative composite index for the assessment of painful shoulder in the clinical setting."}
{"id": "20117623", "title": "Abnormal translation in SLAP lesions on magnetic resonance imaging abducted externally rotated view.", "content": "Abnormal translation in SLAP lesions on magnetic resonance imaging abducted externally rotated view. The purpose of this study was to measure in vivo axial-plane translation of the glenohumeral joint by use of magnetic resonance imaging in patients with and without SLAP lesions between the conventional adducted neutral rotation (AD) view and an abducted externally rotated (ABER) view. Seven patients with an intraoperative SLAP lesion that was unstable and required repair were selected into the SLAP group. Although they did not have normal shoulders, 15 patients were selected into the control or comparison group, most of whom had rotator cuff pathology. The glenohumeral contact point (CP) and humeral head center (HHC) were calculated and compared with the glenoid surface as a relative anterior or posterior translation. The relative posterior translation between the ABER and AD views for each patient was calculated as Delta CP and Delta HHC. These values were compared between the SLAP and control groups. There was a significant difference in Delta CP between the SLAP and control groups (3.62 v 0.79 mm of relative posterior translation, P = .005). There was not a similar significant difference found in Delta HHC between the SLAP and control groups (3.19 mm v 1.48 mm of relative posterior translation, P = .14). There was a significant difference between the mean translations of the SLAP-ABER group and the SLAP-AD group for both CP (-3.65 mm v -0.04 mm, P = .008) and HHC (-2.22 mm v +0.97 mm, P = .03). The difference between the control-ABER group and the control-AD group was not as pronounced. The magnetic resonance imaging ABER view in patients with unstable SLAP lesions requiring repair showed in vivo glenohumeral posterior translation relative to the adducted neutral rotation view of greater than 3 mm. This finding furthers the understanding of the pathokinematics in SLAP lesions."}
{"id": "20103576", "title": "The value of physical tests for subacromial impingement syndrome: a study of diagnostic accuracy.", "content": "The value of physical tests for subacromial impingement syndrome: a study of diagnostic accuracy. To determine the diagnostic accuracy of commonly used physical tests for subacromial impingement syndrome, using ultrasound as the reference standard. A cross-sectional study of 59 participants with chronic shoulder pain of more than four months duration with a referral for diagnostic ultrasound scanning were invited to participate in the study. Thirty-four participants met the inclusion criteria and had an ultrasound scan followed immediately by application of the following tests: Neer's sign, Hawkins and Kennedy test, painful arc of abduction, empty and full can tests, resisted isometric shoulder abduction and resisted isometric shoulder external rotation. Using the two-way contingency table method sensitivity, specificity, likelihood ratios and overall accuracy were calculated for each physical test. Diagnostic values for each test varied considerably. The Hawkins and Kennedy test was the most accurate test for diagnosing any degree of subacromial impingement syndrome (71.0%). The most accurate tests for diagnosing subcategories of impingement were pain on resisted external rotation and weakness during the full can test (63.6%) for presence of subdeltoid fluid, pain on resisted external rotation (58.8%) for partial thickness tears and the painful arc test (62.1%) for full thickness tears. As the predictive values of these tests are shown to be variable in this study it indicates that the clinical tests identified have limited use in informing diagnosis. Emphasis on the management of dysfunction may be more appropriate rather than reliance on clinical tests with inconclusive sensitivity and specificity if ultrasound scanning is not available."}
{"id": "20094853", "title": "Natural history of fatty infiltration and atrophy of the supraspinatus muscle in rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Natural history of fatty infiltration and atrophy of the supraspinatus muscle in rotator cuff tears. In some patients nonoperative treatment of a rotator cuff tear is sufficient, while in others it is only the first stage of treatment prior to surgery. Fatty infiltration progresses throughout the nonoperative treatment although it is not known at what point fatty infiltration contributes to poor functional outcomes, absence of healing, or increased rerupture rates. We therefore identified factors related to the appearance of supraspinatus muscle fatty infiltration, determined the speed of appearance and progression of this phenomenon, and correlated fatty infiltration with muscular atrophy. We retrospectively reviewed 1688 patients with rotator cuff tears and recorded the following: number of tendons torn, etiology of the tear, time between onset of shoulder symptoms and diagnosis of rotator cuff tear. Fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus was graded using either CT or MRI classification. Muscular atrophy was measured indirectly using the tangent sign. Moderate supraspinatus fatty infiltration appeared an average of 3 years after onset of symptoms and severe fatty infiltration at an average of 5 years after the onset of symptoms. A positive tangent sign appeared at an average of 4.5 years after the onset of symptoms. Our results suggest that rotator cuff repair should be performed before the appearance of fatty infiltration (Stage 2) and atrophy (positive tangent sign)-especially when the tear involves multiple tendons. Level IV, prognostic study. See Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "20082510", "title": "Peripheral nerve entrapment and injury in the upper extremity.", "content": "Peripheral nerve entrapment and injury in the upper extremity. Peripheral nerve injury of the upper extremity commonly occurs in patients who participate in recreational (e.g., sports) and occupational activities. Nerve injury should be considered when a patient experiences pain, weakness, or paresthesias in the absence of a known bone, soft tissue, or vascular injury. The onset of symptoms may be acute or insidious. Nerve injury may mimic other common musculoskeletal disorders. For example, aching lateral elbow pain may be a symptom of lateral epicondylitis or radial tunnel syndrome; patients who have shoulder pain and weakness with overhead elevation may have a rotator cuff tear or a suprascapular nerve injury; and pain in the forearm that worsens with repetitive pronation activities may be from carpal tunnel syndrome or pronator syndrome. Specific history features are important, such as the type of activity that aggravates symptoms and the temporal relation of symptoms to activity (e.g., is there pain in the shoulder and neck every time the patient is hammering a nail, or just when hammering nails overhead?). Plain radiography and magnetic resonance imaging are usually not necessary for initial evaluation of a suspected nerve injury. When pain or weakness is refractory to conservative therapy, further evaluation (e.g., magnetic resonance imaging, electrodiagnostic testing) or surgical referral should be considered. Recovery of nerve function is more likely with a mild injury and a shorter duration of compression. Recovery is faster if the repetitive activities that exacerbate the injury can be decreased or ceased. Initial treatment for many nerve injuries is nonsurgical."}
{"id": "20065375", "title": "The influence of the acromioclavicular joint degeneration on supraspinatus outlet impingement and the acromion shape.", "content": "The influence of the acromioclavicular joint degeneration on supraspinatus outlet impingement and the acromion shape. To assess the anatomic association of acromioclavicular joint degeneration to supraspinatus outlet impingement and the acromion shape. Sagittal oblique magnetic resonance images of 49 shoulders in 49 patients were reviewed. 29 of them (mean age, 59 years) underwent surgery for impingement with or without rotator cuff tear (group 1), whereas the 20 controls (mean age, 27 years) were treated for shoulder instability without rotator cuff disease or acromioclavicular joint derangement (group 2). The supraspinatus outlet and the acromion shape of the 2 groups were compared. The difference in the mean supraspinatus outlet between groups 1 and 2 was 11% (514 vs 577 mm[2], p=0.095) and between the subgroup (of group 1) with full thickness rotator cuff tears and group 2 was 17% (481 vs 577 mm[2], p=0.036). Six of the acromions in group 1 were type III (hooked) compared to none in group 2. In severe acromioclavicular degeneration, distal clavicular excision is recommended, even in cases with an asymptomatic acromioclavicular joint, so as to prevent further osteophyte formation."}
{"id": "20049352", "title": "Porcine small intestine submucosa xenograft augmentation in repair of massive rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Porcine small intestine submucosa xenograft augmentation in repair of massive rotator cuff tears. In this prospective study, we evaluated the efficacy of using porcine small intestine submucosa (SIS) xenograft to augment the repair of massive rotator cuff tears. Our hypothesis was that SIS xenograft would help restore tendon tissue in the human model, as has been shown in several animal studies. Eleven patients were followed clinically for a mean of 26 months (range, 14-38 months). Mean University of California Los Angeles end-result scores improved from 13.9 before surgery to 25.7 after surgery, American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores improved from 36.3 to 71.8, and the visual analog scale pain score decreased from 6.6 to 2.0. All findings were statistically significant (P<.01). At a mean of 25 months after surgery, magnetic resonance arthrography (MRA) showed the repairs partially or completely intact in 44% of shoulders. Intact repairs were thin and wispy. There were 3 complications, which included 1 infection and 2 localized skin reactions that resolved spontaneously. SIS xenograft did not reconstitute rotator cuff tissue or add to the quality of the rotator cuff repair. Given clinical concerns about localized reactions in this series and suboptimal MRA findings, use of SIS xenograft to augment rotator cuff repairs is not recommended."}
{"id": "20048492", "title": "Upper extremity injuries in golf.", "content": "Upper extremity injuries in golf. Golf is an asymmetric sport with unique patterns of injury depending upon the skill level. Higher handicap players typically experience injuries that result from swing mechanics, whereas lower handicap and professional players have overuse as the major cause of their injuries. The majority of shoulder injuries affecting golfers occur in the nondominant shoulder. Common shoulder injuries include subacromial impingement, rotator cuff pathology, glenohumeral instability, and arthritis involving the acromioclavicular and/or glenohumeral joints. Lead arm elbow pain resulting from lateral epicondylosis (tennis elbow) is the leading upper extremity injury in amateur golfers. Tendon injury is the most common problem seen in the wrist and forearm of the golfer. Rehabilitation emphasizing improvement in core muscle streng is important in the treatment of golf injury. Emerging treatments for tendinopathy include topical nitrates, ultrasound-guided injection of therapeutic substances, and eccentric rehabilitation. There is evidence supporting physiotherapy, and swing modification directed by a teaching professional, for treatment of upper extremity golf injuries. This article focuses on upper extremity injuries in golf, including a discussion of the epidemiology, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of injuries occurring in the shoulder, elbow, wrist, and hand."}
{"id": "20048092", "title": "Prevalence of rotator cuff tear in paraplegic patients compared with controls.", "content": "Prevalence of rotator cuff tear in paraplegic patients compared with controls. Musculoskeletal injuries of the shoulder in paraplegic patients with long-term survival can result from overuse and/or inappropriate use of wheelchairs. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the prevalence and risk of pathological changes in the weight-bearing shoulder girdle of paraplegic patients who have been wheelchair-dependent for more than thirty years in comparison with able-bodied volunteers. One hundred paraplegic patients were matched for sex and age with a group of 100 able-bodied volunteers. Two hundred shoulders from each group were evaluated with use of magnetic resonance imaging. Collected outcome measures included a standardized clinical examination protocol, the Constant score, and a visual analog score for pain intensity. Shoulder function according to the Constant score was significantly worse in the paraplegic patients than in the able-bodied volunteers. Similarly, the visual analog scale pain scores were significantly worse for the paraplegic patients. Magnetic resonance imaging showed that the prevalence of rotator cuff tears in either shoulder was significantly higher in the paraplegic patients than in the able-bodied volunteers (63% compared with 15%), resulting in a tenfold higher risk of rotator cuff rupture among paraplegic patients. The present study demonstrates that the structural and functional changes of the shoulder joint are more severe and the risk of development of shoulder girdle damage is significantly higher in individuals with long-term paraplegia than in age-matched controls."}
{"id": "20040768", "title": "Retear patterns after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: single-row versus suture bridge technique.", "content": "Retear patterns after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: single-row versus suture bridge technique. A subset of patients is often seen with an unusual pattern of tendon failure after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using a suture bridge technique. To evaluate retear patterns in cases with structural failure after arthroscopic primary repairs of rotator cuff tears. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 3. Forty-six cases revealing retear on magnetic resonance imaging performed at least 6 months after arthroscopic repair for the treatment of full-thickness rotator cuff tear were evaluated. A single-row technique had been performed in 19 cases and a suture bridge in 27 cases. According to retear patterns on postoperative magnetic resonance imaging, cases were divided into type 1 (cuff tissue repaired at the insertion site of rotator cuff was not observed remaining on the greater tuberosity) and type 2 (remnant cuff tissue remained at the insertion site in spite of retear). In the single-row group, 14 cases (73.7%) had type 1 and 5 cases (26.3%) type 2 retear. In the suture bridge group, 7 cases (25.9%) had type 1 and 20 cases (74.1%) type 2. There were statistically significant differences between groups (P = .049). Extent of fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff did not affect retear patterns in the single-row group (P = .160). In the suture bridge group, the percentage of type 1 retear increased with severity of fatty degeneration (P = .030). Extent of muscle atrophy did not affect retear patterns of the single-row group; in the suture bridge group, the percentage of type 1 retear increased with severity of muscle atrophy (P = .904 vs .029). The suture bridge technique tended to better preserve the cuff tissue repaired to the insertion site of the rotator cuff than a single-row technique did; the retear in cases with a suture bridge technique was mainly in the musculotendinous junction. Direct retear at the footprint of the rotator cuff increased with severity of fatty degeneration or muscle atrophy in cases with a suture bridge technique."}
{"id": "20033673", "title": "Humeral head osteonecrosis following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Humeral head osteonecrosis following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. Humeral head chondrolysis and osteonecrosis of the glenoid have been reported; however, there is no report to date about humeral head osteonecrosis following arthroscopic shoulder procedure. We report a case of osteonecrosis of the humeral head following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair what we believe is probably secondary to disruption of its blood supply after placement of multiple metallic suture anchors. The surgical records were also reviewed in an attempt to identify the cause of the humeral head osteonecrosis."}
{"id": "20033149", "title": "The subscapularis: anatomy, injury, and imaging.", "content": "The subscapularis: anatomy, injury, and imaging. The subscapularis is the largest and most powerful of the rotator cuff muscles and fulfills an important role in glenohumeral movement and stability. The spectrum and implications of subscapularis muscle or tendon injury differ from injury to other rotator cuff components because of its unique structure and function. Diagnosing subscapularis injury is clinically difficult and assessment of subscapularis integrity may be limited during arthroscopy or open surgery. Diagnostic imaging plays an important part in diagnosing and evaluating the extent of subscapularis injury. The radiologist should be aware of the anatomy of the subscapularis, the variations in muscle or tendon injury, and the potential implications for treatment and prognosis."}
{"id": "20020125", "title": "Teres minor innervation in the context of isolated muscle atrophy.", "content": "Teres minor innervation in the context of isolated muscle atrophy. Teres minor atrophy occurs either in isolation, associated with other rotator cuff muscle pathologies or in quadrilateral space syndrome. In the latter condition, compression of the axillary nerve is the likely cause; however, the anatomy of the nerve to teres minor and how this may relate to isolated teres minor atrophy have not been extensively investigated. In light of the significance of teres minor atrophy in shoulder pathology, we performed a combined radiological and anatomical study of teres minor and its nerve supply. Cadaveric dissection of nine shoulder specimens from eight cadavers was performed to investigate the anatomical variability in course, length and branching pattern of both the teres minor nerve and the axillary nerve. Radiological imaging and reports were analysed on all shoulder magnetic resonance images performed over a 1-week period at four radiology clinic locations in an attempt to identify the incidence of isolated teres minor atrophy and review teres minor atrophy in association with other shoulder pathology. Finally, we studied a case of isolated teres minor atrophy identified during a routine undergraduate dissection class. Considerable anatomical variation was noticed in cadaver dissections in the nerve(s) supplying teres minor muscle revealing several various points where it may be vulnerable to impingement or injury at along its course. Analysis of 61 shoulder MR images revealed two patients with shoulder complaints that had isolated teres minor atrophy. Case-based study of these two male patients revealed other associated shoulder injury but the presentation was markedly different and clinically distinct from quadrilateral space syndrome. Isolated teres minor atrophy is a relatively common shoulder pathology which appears to be clinically distinct from other syndromes with rotator cuff muscle atrophy including quadrilateral space syndrome. The exact aetiology is unknown but cadaveric dissection in this study suggests the considerable anatomical variation in both the origin and length of teres minor nerve(s) increase the risk of impingement and subsequent isolated teres minor atrophy."}
{"id": "20001474", "title": "Magnetic resonance arthrography including ABER view in diagnosing partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff: accuracy, and inter- and intra-observer agreements.", "content": "Magnetic resonance arthrography including ABER view in diagnosing partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff: accuracy, and inter- and intra-observer agreements. Partial-thickness tear of the rotator cuff is a common cause of shoulder pain. Magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography has been described as a useful measure to diagnose rotator cuff abnormalities. To determine the reliability and accuracy of MR arthrography with abduction and external rotation (ABER) view for the diagnosis of partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff. Among patients who underwent MR arthrographies, 22 patients (12 men, 10 women; mean age 45 years) who had either partial-thickness tear or normal tendon on arthroscopy were included. MR images were independently scored by two observers for partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff. Interobserver and intraobserver agreements for detection of partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff were calculated by using kappa coefficients. The differences in areas under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were assessed with a univariate Z-score test. Differences in sensitivity and specificity for interpretations based on different imaging series were tested for significance using the McNemar statistic. Sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of each reader on MR imaging without ABER view were 83%, 90%, and 86%, and 83%, 80%, and 82%, respectively, whereas on overall interpretation including ABER view, the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of each reader were 92%, 70%, and 82%, and 92%, 80%, and 86%, respectively. Including ABER view, interobserver agreement for partial-thickness tear increased from kappa=0.55 to kappa=0.68. Likewise, intraobserver agreements increased from kappa=0.79 and 0.53 to kappa=0.81 and 0.70 for each reader, respectively. The areas under the ROC curves for each reader were 0.96 and 0.90, which were not significantly different. Including ABER view in routine sequences of MR arthrography increases the sensitivity, and inter- and intraobserver agreements for detecting partial-thickness tear of rotator cuff tendon."}
{"id": "19999869", "title": "Relocation of a dislocated long head of biceps tendon is no better than biceps tenodesis.", "content": "Relocation of a dislocated long head of biceps tendon is no better than biceps tenodesis. A displaced Long Head of Biceps (LHB) tendon is commonly encountered in association with subscapularis rotator cuff tears. Management options for the displaced tendon consist of tenotomy, tenodesis or relocation with reconstruction of the biceps pulley. We present 16 patients in whom LHB relocation and reconstruction of the biceps pulley, was performed in association with subscapularis rotator cuff repair. During follow-up ultrasound scanning was used to assess LHB mobility and location. Eight of the 16 patients had a static LHB tendon at an average follow-up of 26 months. Four of the 6 patients who had a groove deepening procedure combined with the tendon relocation had a static tendon on ultrasound scanning. Relocation of the LHB and reconstruction of the biceps pulley appears to offer no advantage over tenotomy or tenodesis alone when managing the displaced LHB tendon in conjunction with subscapularis tears."}
{"id": "19998033", "title": "Arthroscopic-assisted locking compression plate clavicular hook fixation for unstable fractures of the lateral end of the clavicle: a prospective study.", "content": "Arthroscopic-assisted locking compression plate clavicular hook fixation for unstable fractures of the lateral end of the clavicle: a prospective study. The aim of this prospective study was to assess the clinical outcomes of an unstable fracture of the lateral end of the clavicle treated with an arthroscopic-assisted locking compressive plate (LCP) clavicular hook plate. Twenty-three patients underwent arthroscopic assisted LCP clavicular hook plate fixation for these fractures. All patients achieved clinical and radiological union over a mean of 4.2 months (range, 3.4-5 months). Four patients (17%) showed some degree of acromial osteolysis. Three patients (13%) showed radiological signs of arthrosis of the acromioclavicular joint. In one patient, a second fracture (stress) was observed between the medial two screws of the plate without an additional injury. Five patients (22%) showed subacromial bursitis on dynamic ultrasonography. The mean Constant and Murley score was 91 points (range, 81-98). The average level of pain in the shoulder at rest and on abduction was 1 (range, 0-2) and 2.4 (range, 0-4), respectively. Based on our experience, arthroscopic-assisted LCP hook plate fixation for the treatment of unstable fractures of the lateral end of the clavicle is not without complications. However, it is an acceptable alternative method that is easy to apply with good results. Furthermore, it prevents rotator cuff impingement, allows early mobilisation and maintains the acromioclavicular joint biomechanics."}
{"id": "19963404", "title": "Complete rotator cuff tendon avulsion and glenohumeral joint incarceration in a young patient: a case report.", "content": "Complete rotator cuff tendon avulsion and glenohumeral joint incarceration in a young patient: a case report."}
{"id": "19963403", "title": "Effect of sodium hyaluronate treatment on rotator cuff lesions without complete tears: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.", "content": "Effect of sodium hyaluronate treatment on rotator cuff lesions without complete tears: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of sodium hyaluronate (ARTZ Dispo) treatment was performed in 51 patients with rotator cuff lesions without complete tears. We hypothesized that ARTZ Dispo would render better results than the placebo. Twenty-five patients (ARTZ Dispo group) had injections of 25 mg/wk of sodium hyaluronate into the subacromial bursa for 5 consecutive weeks. Twenty-six patients (placebo group) were given 2.5 mL of normal saline solution with the same injection protocol as the ARTZ Dispo group. No significant difference in age, height, weight, gender, vocation, involved shoulder, duration of symptoms, baseline Constant score, or visual analog scale (VAS) score existed between the 2 groups. The 2 groups did not significantly differ with regard to Constant scores, VAS scores, or global improvement assessments 1 week after injections. The ARTZ Dispo group had a better Constant score (P = .0095) and VAS score (P = .0018) than the placebo group 6 weeks after treatment. Patients in the placebo group were given 5 sodium hyaluronate injections, rather than placebo, after disclosure of the blind list, if they wished. Forty-one patients who underwent hyaluronate injection exhibited a significantly improved Constant score, from 64.0 +/- 11.7 at baseline to 88.9 +/- 10.4 (P < .0001), and a significantly improved VAS score, from 6.4 +/- 1.3 to 1.5 +/- 1.6 (P < .0001), at a mean follow-up of 33.1 months. No significant adverse effect was noted. Subacromial injections of sodium hyaluronate are effective in treating rotator cuff lesions without complete tears."}
{"id": "19955165", "title": "Clinical and diagnostic tests for shoulder disorders: a critical review.", "content": "Clinical and diagnostic tests for shoulder disorders: a critical review. The shoulder is one of the most complex joints in the human body and, as such, presents an evaluation and diagnostic challenge. The first steps in its evaluation are obtaining an accurate history and physical examination and evaluating conventional radiography. The use of other imaging modalities (eg, ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography) should be based on the type of additional information needed. The goals of this study were to review the current limitations of evidence-based medicine with regard to shoulder examination and to assess the rationale for and against the use of diagnostic physical examination tests."}
{"id": "19941361", "title": "Investigation of the static and dynamic musculotendinous architecture of supraspinatus.", "content": "Investigation of the static and dynamic musculotendinous architecture of supraspinatus. To date, the architecture of supraspinatus (SP) and its relation to joint position has not been investigated. The purpose of this study was to quantify the dynamic architecture of the distinct regions of SP using ultrasound (US). Seventeen subjects (8 M/9 F), mean age 36.4 +/- 12.7 years, without tendon pathology were recruited. The SP was scanned in relaxed and contracted states. For the contracted state, SP was scanned with the shoulder actively abducted to 60 degrees and the glenohumeral joint in neutral rotation; 80 degrees external rotation; 80 degrees internal rotation. Fiber bundle length (FBL) and pennation angle (PA) of distinct regions, and muscle thickness were computed. Measurements of the posterior region were limited because of acromion shadowing. Parameters between regions and changes between relaxed and contracted states were analyzed using paired t-tests and repeated measures ANOVA (P < 0.05). On contraction in the anterior region, mean percentage of FBL shortening ranged between 9% and 21%. However, in the posterior region, shortening of approximately 2% only occurred in two of the three positions; lengthening of approximately 2.5% occurred in internal rotation. For the anterior region, the mean PA increased the least in the externally rotated position, and the mean PA of the middle part was smaller than the deep part for all states. Findings suggest changes in the architecture are not uniform throughout the muscle and joint position may play an important role in force production. The US protocol may serve as an outcome measure of adaptive changes of muscle function following surgery, training, and rehabilitation."}
{"id": "19941245", "title": "[Ultrasound-guided intraarticular injection for MR arthrography of the shoulder].", "content": "[Ultrasound-guided intraarticular injection for MR arthrography of the shoulder]. To evaluate ultrasound guidance for intraarticular contrast injection via an anterolateral approach in comparison with fluoroscopic guidance. Contrast agent injection was performed in 40 consecutive patients, 20 under sonographic guidance and 20 under fluoroscopic guidance. None of the patients had previous shoulder surgery. The procedure time was measured and the efficiency of joint distension, incidence of extravasation and intraarticular air on the consecutive MR arthrograms were assessed by three blinded radiologists with musculoskeletal radiology experience. Statistical analysis was performed using the Kruskal-Wallis test. Intraarticular contrast injection was successfully accomplished in all 40 patients. Subsequent MR arthrograms did not show any significant difference between sonographic and fluoroscopic guidance with respect to diagnostic quality, joint distension (p=0.6665), intraarticular air bubbles (p=0.1567) and occurrence of contrast extravasation (p=0.8565). The mean duration of ultrasound-guided injection was 7:30 min compared to a shorter procedure time of 4:15 min for fluoroscopic guidance. In both groups, no procedural complications were observed. Ultrasound-guided injection for MR arthrography of the shoulder via an anterolateral approach represents a simple, safe, and effective technique which yields comparable results to those of injection under fluoroscopic guidance, but is slightly more time-consuming."}
{"id": "19933654", "title": "Cysts within and adjacent to the lesser tuberosity and their association with rotator cuff abnormalities.", "content": "Cysts within and adjacent to the lesser tuberosity and their association with rotator cuff abnormalities. The purpose of our study was to determine the incidence of cysts in and adjacent to the lesser tuberosity and their association with rotator cuff abnormalities and subcoracoid impingement. A retrospective review of 1,000 consecutive MRI examinations of the shoulder was performed by consensus of two radiologists. Cysts were grouped by location into one of two groups: those within the lesser tuberosity and those adjacent to the lesser tuberosity. The rotator cuff was defined as intact, partial tear or tendinosis, or full-thickness tear. The shortest distance from the coracoid to the humeral head was measured on axial images. Forty-eight patients (26 women, 22 men; age range, 35-79 years; mean age, 61 years) had cysts adjacent to or within the lesser tuberosity. Thirty-two patients (67%) had cysts just superior to the tuberosity and 16 (33%) had cysts in the lesser tuberosity, resulting in an incidence of 3.2% and 1.6%, respectively. All 16 patients (100%) with lesser tuberosity cysts had subscapularis and supraspinatus tendon abnormalities including 11 (69%) full-thickness supraspinatus tears. Patients with cysts superior to the tuberosity had 20 (63%, p = 0.004) abnormal subscapularis tendons and 28 (88%) abnormal supraspinatus tendons, including six (19%) full-thickness tears (p = 0.002). The coracohumeral distance was noted to be less than 10 mm in 10 patients (63%) with lesser tuberosity cysts as compared with 10 patients (31%, p = 0.06) with cysts superior to the tuberosity. Cysts located within the lesser tuberosity are rare and are indicative of subscapularis and supraspinatus tendon abnormalities."}
{"id": "19918423", "title": "Surgical treatment of an aseptic fistulized acromioclavicular joint cyst: a case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Surgical treatment of an aseptic fistulized acromioclavicular joint cyst: a case report and review of the literature. An acromioclavicular joint cyst is an uncommonly reported condition, which seems to result from a massive rotator cuff tear and degenerative osteoarthritis of the acromioclavicular joint. We present the case of an 81-year-old man affected by an acromioclavicular joint cyst, associated to a massive rotator cuff tear, proximal migration of the humeral head and osteoarthritis of the gleno-humeral joint. The mass was 7 x 2.5 cm in size and the overlying skin presented a fistula that drained clear synovial-like fluid. Plain X-ray examination of the left shoulder showed proximal migration of the humeral head migration and osteoarthritis of the gleno-humeral joint, and further MRI evaluation confirmed the clinical diagnosis of a complete rotator cuff tear and observed a large subcutaneous cyst in communication with the degenerative acromioclavicular joint. The patient underwent surgical excision of the cyst and lateral resection of the clavicle to prevent disease recurrence. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case of an acromioclavicular joint cyst complicated by an aseptic fistula resulting from multiple aspirations."}
{"id": "19898856", "title": "Degenerative changes of the deltoid muscle have impact on clinical outcome after reversed total shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Degenerative changes of the deltoid muscle have impact on clinical outcome after reversed total shoulder arthroplasty. Despite a high complication rate, subjective and objective results of reversed shoulder arthroplasty for severe rotator cuff lesions associated with osteoarthritis, fracture sequelae, or revision of hemiarthroplasty are favorable. However, whether the changes in biomechanics of the joint may lead to structural changes in the remaining rotator cuff and the deltoid muscle, and may thereby alter the clinical result, has rarely been described. This study investigates the context between postoperative fatty infiltration of the remaining rotator cuff and the deltoid muscle, and the clinical outcome after reversed shoulder arthroplasty. Twenty-three patients with an average age of 73.1 +/- 5.6 years were evaluated at an average of 26 +/- 16.8 months. Evaluation included assessment of Constant Score, disabilities of the arm, shoulder and hand score, radiographic evaluation with measurement of the humeral lengthening and medialization of the center of rotation, and magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography to classify changes in the rotator cuff and the deltoid muscle. Results There was a significant correlation between fatty infiltration of the deltoid muscle and the clinical score results. Patients with a longer follow-up showed a higher amount of degenerative changes of the deltoid than patients with a shorter follow-up. Degenerative changes of the rotator cuff showed no significant correlation to clinical results. The amount of arm lengthening, medialization of the center of rotation, and scapula notching showed no correlation to clinical results or degenerative changes of the deltoid and the rotator cuff. These data show that degeneration of the deltoid muscle is of impact for clinical outcome. Although other factors like disuse or pain as a reason for muscular changes cannot be fully excluded, this degeneration might occur after time due to biomechanical changes after reversed arthroplasty. However, prospective studies with longer follow-up periods and repetitive assessment of muscle quality are necessary to further support these results."}
{"id": "19887291", "title": "Overuse and impingement syndromes of the shoulder in the athlete.", "content": "Overuse and impingement syndromes of the shoulder in the athlete. Overuse and impingement syndromes in the shoulders of athletes are predominantly caused by instability of the glenohumeral joint. Glenohumeral joint instability is usually acquired from repetitive overuse of the rotator cuff and shoulder girdle muscles, or injury of the static and dynamic stabilizers of the glenohumeral joint. Congenital hypermobility of the joint may also contribute to these syndromes in some individuals. The throwing action may lead to a cascade of injuries to the static and dynamic stabilizers of the posterosuperior glenohumeral joint, caused by the repetitive, high-energy nature of the action rather than a specific injury. Injury to the anterosuperior stabilizers of the glenohumeral joint may also lead to anterosuperior impingement syndrome. The role of MR in overuse and impingement syndromes of the shoulder is to accurately diagnose the underlying structural changes and serves to assist the clinician in instituting the appropriate conservative or surgical treatment for individual athletes."}
{"id": "19885061", "title": "The factors affecting the clinical outcome and integrity of arthroscopically repaired rotator cuff tears of the shoulder.", "content": "The factors affecting the clinical outcome and integrity of arthroscopically repaired rotator cuff tears of the shoulder. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the functional and anatomic results of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, and to analyze the factors affecting the integrity of arthroscopically repaired rotator cuff tears of the shoulder. One hundred sixty-nine consecutive shoulders that underwent arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, had a postoperative MRI evaluation and were followed for at least two years were enrolled in this study. The mean age was 57.6 years (range, 38 to 74 years) and the mean follow-up period was 39 months (range, 24 to 83 months). The rotator cuff was completely healed in 131 (77.5%) out of 169 shoulders and recurrent tears occurred in 38 shoulders (22.5%). At the last follow-up visit, the mean score for pain during motion was 1.53 (range, 0 to 4) in the completely healed group and 1.59 (range, 0 to 4) in the group with recurrent tears (p = 0.092). The average elevation strength was 7.87 kg (range, 4.96 to 11.62 kg) and 5.25 kg (range, 4.15 to 8.13 kg) and the mean University of California at Los Angeles score was 30.96 (range, 26 to 35) and 30.64 (range, 23 to 34), respectively (p < 0.001, p = 0.798). The complete healing rate was 87.8% in the group less than 50 years of age (49 shoulders), 79.4% in the group over 51 years but less than 60 years of age (68 shoulders), and 65.4% in the group over 61 years of age (52 shoulders, p = 0.049); it was 96.7% in the group with small-sized tears (30 shoulders), 87.3% in the group with medium-sized tears (71 shoulders), and 58.8% in the group with large-sized or massive tears (68 shoulders, p = 0.009). All of the rotator cuffs with a global fatty degeneration index of greater than two preoperatively had recurrent tears. Arthroscopic repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears led to a relatively high rate of recurrent defects. However, the minimum two-year follow up demonstrated excellent pain relief and improvement in the ability to perform the activities of daily living, despite the structural failures. The factors affecting tendon healing were the patient's age, the size and extent of the tear, and the presence of fatty degeneration in the rotator cuff muscle."}
{"id": "19863417", "title": "Tears of the supraspinatus tendon: assessment with indirect magnetic resonance arthrography in 67 patients with arthroscopic correlation.", "content": "Tears of the supraspinatus tendon: assessment with indirect magnetic resonance arthrography in 67 patients with arthroscopic correlation. Magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography is generally regarded as the gold standard for shoulder imaging. As an alternative to direct MR arthrography, the less invasive indirect MR arthrography technique was proposed, offering logistic advantages because fluoroscopic or ultrasonographic guidance for joint injection is not required. To assess the diagnostic performance of indirect MR arthrography in the diagnosis of full- and partial-thickness supraspinatus tears in a symptomatic population. Two radiologists with different levels of experience independently and retrospectively interpreted indirect MR (1.5T) arthrograms of the shoulder obtained in 67 symptomatic patients who underwent subsequent arthroscopy. On MR, the supraspinatus tendon was evaluated for full- or partial-thickness tear. With arthroscopy as the standard of reference, sensitivity, specificity, and diagnostic accuracy of indirect MR arthrography in the detection of full- and partial-thickness tears of the supraspinatus tendon was calculated. Kappa (kappa) statistics were used for the assessment of the agreement between arthroscopic and imaging findings and for the assessment of interobserver agreement. For full-thickness tears of the supraspinatus tendon, sensitivities, specificities, and accuracies exceeded 90% for both observers, with excellent interobserver agreement (kappa = 0.910). For partial-thickness tears, sensitivities (38-50%) and accuracies (76-78%) were poor for both reviewers, and interobserver agreement was moderate (kappa = 0.491). Discrepancies between MR diagnosis and arthroscopy were predominantly observed with small partial-thickness tears. Indirect MR arthrography is highly accurate in the diagnosis of full-thickness rotator cuff tears. However, the diagnosis of partial-thickness tears with indirect MR arthrography remains faulty, because exact demarcation of degenerative change and partial rupture is difficult. On the basis of the above findings, we do not recommend indirect MR arthrography on patients for whom rotator cuff disease is suspected clinically."}
{"id": "19826811", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance arthrography of the shoulder: dependence on the level of training of the performing radiologist for diagnostic accuracy.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance arthrography of the shoulder: dependence on the level of training of the performing radiologist for diagnostic accuracy. Discrepancies were identified between magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and clinical findings in patients who had MR imaging examinations evaluated by community-based general radiologists. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic performance of MR imaging examinations of the shoulder with regard to the training level of the performing radiologist. A review of patient charts identified 238 patients (male/female, 175/63; mean age, 40.4 years) in whom 250 arthroscopies were performed and who underwent MR imaging or direct MR arthrography in either a community-based or hospital-based institution prior to surgery. All MR imaging and surgical reports were reviewed and the diagnostic performance for the detection of labral, rotator cuff, biceps, and Hill-Sachs lesions was determined. Kappa and Student's t test analyses were performed in a subset of cases in which initial community-based MR images were re-evaluated by hospital-based musculoskeletal radiologists, to determine the interobserver agreement and any differences in image interpretation. The diagnostic performance of community-based general radiologists was lower than that of hospital-based sub-specialized musculoskeletal radiologists. A sub-analysis of re-evaluated cases showed that musculoskeletal radiologists performed better. kappa values were 0.208, 0.396, 0.376, and 0.788 for labral, rotator cuff, biceps, and Hill-Sachs lesions (t test statistics: p = <0.001, 0.004, 0.019, and 0.235). Our results indicate that the diagnostic performance of MR imaging and MR arthrography of the shoulder depends on the training level of the performing radiologist, with sub-specialized musculoskeletal radiologists having a better diagnostic performance than general radiologists."}
{"id": "19824592", "title": "Upper airway compromise by extravasated fluid: a rare complication after arthroscopic repair of atrophic cuff tear.", "content": "Upper airway compromise by extravasated fluid: a rare complication after arthroscopic repair of atrophic cuff tear. During arthroscopic procedures, leakage of irrigation fluid into surrounding tissue planes is a frequently noticed phenomenon usually clinically asymptomatic and resolving within 12 hours postoperatively. Although rare, this fluid may produce life-threatening complications such as airway compromise. This article describes a case of upper airway obstruction in a 60-year-old man undergoing arthroscopic repair for an atrophic rotator cuff tear. The patient presented with a 6-month history of pain and weakness in the left shoulder. Magnetic resonance imaging studies revealed a massive rotator cuff tear with significant retraction and fatty degeneration of cuff musculature. Perioperatively, all vital cardiorespiratory parameters were within normal limits. Postoperatively, immediately on extubation, he was dyspneic, and examination revealed a diffuse swelling extending from the left shoulder up to the neck and face. He was reintubated and sent to the recovery room, where he recovered 12 hours later. This article highlights the possibility of respiratory compromise due to the extravasation of irrigation fluid into the neck and chest during arthroscopic repair of massive and atrophied cuff tears, even with shorter surgical time as is this case. The widened suprascapular space will offer less resistance to the spread of fluid into the neck and chest from the shoulder. We advocate monitoring the patient continuously to prevent this serious complication from becoming life-threatening."}
{"id": "19818700", "title": "Musculotendinous infraspinatus ruptures: an overview.", "content": "Musculotendinous infraspinatus ruptures: an overview. Musculotendinous infraspinatus ruptures belong to the category of \"muscle strain injuries\". They differ from a classic rotator cuff tear by the following features: tendon attachment remains intact and the acute initial stage typically undergoes an intense muscular edema, replaced, 6 to 12 months later, by complete and permanent fatty infiltration of this muscle. Between 1993 and 2007, we prospectively identified 59 musculotendinous ruptures of the infraspinatus muscle tendon complex. Fifty-eight percent of these patients were females. The average age at presentation was 50 years old. Onset was non traumatic in 78% of these cases. Twenty-nine patients were seen at the acute lesion stage with pain and, on T2 fat saturated MRI sequences, muscular edema. A second group of 30 patients presented with a stage 4 fatty infiltration of the infraspinatus muscle associated with a musculotendinous disruption. Twenty-three patients underwent EMG testing which was normal in all cases. None of these patients had a full thickness tear of the rotator cuff tendons, 21% of the patients presenting in the acute phase had a partial thickness tear of the supraspinatus, which increased to 70% in patients presenting in the chronic phase suggesting a more degenerative etiology. Calcific tendonitis was seen in 61% of patients. Twenty-four patients underwent surgery, while the remaining 35 were treated conservatively. The average follow-up, for all of them, was 46 months (12-125). The Constant score increased from 51.7 to 69.4 (p<0.001). There was no significant difference between the operated and the non-operated groups (p=0.325). All the patients seen at the acute painful edematous stage progressed to stage 4 complete fatty infiltrations, irrespective of selected treatment. None of the patients who underwent surgery had any regression of their fatty infiltration. Early diagnosis of this lesion can be made using T2 fat saturated MRI imaging. We hypothesize that early tendon repair which restores muscle tension in the infraspinatus may halt the progression of this entity and prevent complete functional loss of this muscle. Level IV: Therapeutic study."}
{"id": "19817195", "title": "[MR image-guided anterior direct arthrography of the shoulder].", "content": "[MR image-guided anterior direct arthrography of the shoulder]. To investigate the method of MR guided anterior direct arthrogaphy of shoulder and its clinical applications. From 2008.4 to 2008.10, 40 patients with rotator-cuff tear (29 males and 11 females, ranging in age from 22 to 70 years, with an average of 35 years) underwent MR guided anterior direct arthrogaphy of shoulder, so as to diagnosis shoulder wound. The results were compared to that of arthroscopy. Shoulder arthrography showed lesons in 36 patients, and failure in 2 patients, including contrast media extravasation in 1 patient, and gas entry to joint cavity in 1 patient. Two patients showed no rotator cuff injuries. Twenty-eight patients were confirmed by arthroscopy as rotator-cuff injured in different degree. Twenty-six patients were confirmed injuries by both arthroscopy and MR guided anterior direct arthrogaphy. MR guided anterior direct arthrogaphy of shoulder as a minimally invasive method in displaying the rotator-cuff tear has higher accuracy and wide clinical application prospect."}
{"id": "19801287", "title": "Rotator cuff integrity after arthroscopic repair for large tears with less-than-optimal footprint coverage.", "content": "Rotator cuff integrity after arthroscopic repair for large tears with less-than-optimal footprint coverage. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical results and healing status of rotator cuff repairs with less than 50% footprint coverage. During the 18-month period from October 2005 to March 2007, 89 large to massive rotator cuff tears were arthroscopically repaired. Among them, 23 consecutive large to massive rotator cuff tears were repaired completely but with less than 50% of the original footprint. All tears were arthroscopically repaired with suture anchors. Preoperative and postoperative clinical assessments were performed with the Constant score, American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score, and pain visual analog scale. The healing status of repaired tendon was evaluated by postoperative magnetic resonance imaging with a focus on tendon integrity, muscle fatty degeneration, and muscle atrophy. The mean follow-up period was 30.2 months (range, 24 to 41 months). At final follow-up visits, American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score, Constant score, and score on pain visual analog scale were found to have improved significantly from 40.1, 35.9, and 57.7 to 82.4, 86.6, and 12.3, respectively (P < .01). The overall retear rate was 45.5% (10 cases). However, clinical results showed no difference between the retear group and no retear group. Furthermore, rerupture size was smaller than original tear size in all 10 patients, and no significant progression of fatty degeneration or muscle atrophy of rotator cuff muscles was observed. Less-than-optimal coverage of the original greater tuberosity footprint during arthroscopic repair of large to massive rotator cuff tears was found to be associated with a relatively high retear rate (45.5%). However, clinical results improved significantly, and no significant difference was observed in the clinical results between the retear and no retear groups. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "19797571", "title": "Correlation of radiographic muscle cross-sectional area with glenohumeral deformity in children with brachial plexus birth palsy.", "content": "Correlation of radiographic muscle cross-sectional area with glenohumeral deformity in children with brachial plexus birth palsy. Muscle imbalance about the shoulder in children with persistent brachial plexus birth palsy is thought to contribute to glenohumeral joint deformity. We quantified cross-sectional areas of the internal and external rotator muscles in the shoulder by magnetic resonance imaging in patients with chronic brachial plexopathy and the correlation between these muscle cross-sectional area ratios and glenohumeral deformity. The purposes of this investigation were to evaluate differences in the ratios between affected and unaffected shoulders in the same individual and to assess whether an increased internal to external rotator muscle cross-sectional area correlated with greater glenohumeral deformity. This cohort study consisted of magnetic resonance imaging of seventy-four patients with chronic neuropathic changes about the shoulder from brachial plexus birth palsy. There were at least nine patients with scans available for each of the five classified subtypes of glenohumeral deformity: type I (fifteen patients), type II (seventeen), type III (seventeen), type IV (sixteen), and type V (nine). Cross-sectional areas of the pectoralis major, teres minor-infraspinatus (external rotators), and subscapularis muscles were measured. The supraspinatus muscle cross-sectional area could not be reliably measured. The ratio of subscapularis to external rotators, the ratio of pectoralis major to external rotators, and the compound ratio of subscapularis and pectoralis major to external rotators were compared with the severity of the glenohumeral deformity. Passive range of motion, Mallet and Toronto clinical scores, and Narakas type were also compared with the severity of the glenohumeral deformity and the muscle cross-sectional area measurements. Muscle cross-sectional area ratios were significantly correlated with glenohumeral deformity type. The mean ratio of pectoralis major to external rotators for affected shoulders over all deformity types compared with that for unaffected shoulders was significantly increased by 30% (p < 0.001); the mean ratio for subscapularis and pectoralis major to external rotators, by 19% (p = 0.015), and the mean ratio for subscapularis to external rotators, by 10% (p = 0.008). There was a significant increase in the ratio of pectoralis major to external rotators in affected shoulders within each type of deformity. Analysis of variance indicated higher ratios of pectoralis major to external rotator muscle cross-sectional areas in more severe deformity types (p < 0.001). There were significant differences in external rotation measurements with the shoulder at 90 degrees of abduction only among glenohumeral deformity types I, II, and III (p < 0.05). The degree of muscle imbalance between internal and external rotators about the shoulder is measurable by magnetic resonance imaging in children with persistent brachial plexopathy, and the imbalance correlates with the degree of glenohumeral deformity. Our results may provide useful information to guide the timing and the choice of operative intervention in these children."}
{"id": "19788957", "title": "Range of motion limitation after rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Range of motion limitation after rotator cuff repair. This study was conducted to identify preoperative factors correlating with limited motion after rotator cuff repair (RCR) and to evaluate the affect of loss of motion on outcome. We hypothesized that patients with preoperative ROM loss, diabetes, and workman's compensation claims would exhibit postoperative ROM loss at 3 months. Preoperative and postoperative evaluations, including outcomes assessment and physical examination parameters, were reviewed for 345 patients who underwent RCR. Correlations between demographic, physical examination, and surgical variables and postoperative limitation of motion and need for capsular release were determined. At 3-month follow-up, mean active forward elevation (AFE), active external rotation (AER), and passive internal rotation (PIR) were 90%, 78%, and 80% of the contralateral side. Limitation of preoperative motion correlated with limitation of postoperative AFE, AER, and PIR (P < .001). Forty-seven patients considered clinically stiff were followed at 1 year postoperatively. Three patients required arthroscopic capsular release for persistent range of motion loss. Early postoperative limitation of motion after RCR is associated with restricted preoperative motion. Other factors, including diabetes mellitus and worker's compensation claim, are also associated with range of motion loss. Most shoulders with early motion loss recover motion and rarely require capsular release."}
{"id": "19784644", "title": "Efficacy of ultrasonography-guided shoulder MR arthrography using a posterior approach.", "content": "Efficacy of ultrasonography-guided shoulder MR arthrography using a posterior approach. Shoulder MR arthrography has an important role in the assessment of rotator cuff lesions, labral tears, glenohumeral ligaments, rotator interval lesions, and postoperative shoulder status. Injection in direct MR arthrography can be performed with palpation, fluoroscopy, ultrasonography (US), or MRI. Recently, the posterior approach is the preferred method due to the presence of fewer stabilizers, absence of important articular structures and less extravasation, has been advocated. Our aim was to assess the efficacy of US-guided MR arthrography via a posterior approach on the glenohumeral joint. Thirty MR arthrographies were performed on 29 patients. Ultrasonography (Xario, Toshiba) examinations were conducted by a wide-band 5-12 Mhz linear array transducer set to muscle-skeleton. Diluted contrast medium (1 ml gadolinium chelate and 100 ml saline, approximately 15 ml) was delivered into the glenohumeral joint space from between the humeral head and posterior labrum with a 20-gauge spinal needle. MRI examination was conducted by a 1.5 T scanner. Fat-saturated T1-weighted spin echo was applied on coronal, axial, and sagittal planes within the first 30 min after contrast material injection. One (3.3%) arthrography was not successful due to technical reasons associated with obesity. Contrast extravasation around the infraspinatus and teres min\u00f6r muscles was depicted in twelve examinations. One (3.3%) patient developed vasovagal collapse. Ultrasonography-guided posterior approach is an easy, reliable, fast, and comfortable method in experienced hands. It may be an alternative for fluoroscopy-guided shoulder MR arthrography."}
{"id": "19774825", "title": "Hemi resurfacing of the humeral head for an osteochondral lesion affecting the entire head surface.", "content": "Hemi resurfacing of the humeral head for an osteochondral lesion affecting the entire head surface. An osteochondral lesion of the entire articular surface of the humeral head has not previously been reported. We report the case of a 73-year-old woman with a huge osteochrondal lesion which affected virtually the whole articular surface of the humeral head, caused by an unusal mechanism of injury. Clinical examination revealed a stiff, weak, painful shoulder. Radiographs were unremarkable and an ultrasound scan suggested a supraspinatus tear with retraction. At arthroscopy the lesion was identified but the lesion was to large for arthroscopic removal. A humeral head hemi-resurfacing as a treatment for this lesion produced excellent results, the patient returned to her pre-injury level of function with no pain."}
{"id": "19766022", "title": "Anchor fracture leading to supraspinatus failure.", "content": "Anchor fracture leading to supraspinatus failure."}
{"id": "19763715", "title": "Healed cuff repairs impart normal shoulder scores in those 65 years of age and older.", "content": "Healed cuff repairs impart normal shoulder scores in those 65 years of age and older. It is unclear whether repaired rotator cuffs heal in older patients and whether the function in those shoulders compares with those of similarly aged patients with untreated tears. We questioned whether, in patients 65 years of age and older, shoulders with rotator cuff repairs that remained intact would have Simple Shoulder Test (SST) scores and Constant scores similar to those of untreated individuals with intact rotator cuffs. We retrospectively reviewed 39 patients (42 shoulders) 65 years of age and older in whom 42 full-thickness rotator cuff tears were repaired with a mini open technique. All patients completed SST and Constant scores 12 to 60 months postoperatively; all patients also had ultrasound at those times to assess the status of the repair. These findings were compared with 200 untreated similarly aged shoulders assessed in the same fashion. Shoulders with healed repairs (33 of 42) had similar mean SST scores and Constant scores to those in untreated shoulders with intact rotator cuffs. Those with healed repairs also had higher SST and Constant scores than those with unhealed repairs. Finally, shoulders with healed repairs had higher SST and Constant scores than those with untreated tears. When rotator cuffs healed the function was comparable to that of similarly-aged patients without tears and better than that of patients with untreated tears. Level III, therapeutic study. See Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "19763696", "title": "Subacromial injection improves deltoid firing in subjects with large rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Subacromial injection improves deltoid firing in subjects with large rotator cuff tears. Previous studies demonstrate that scapulohumeral mechanics improve after subacromial injection. However, it is unclear how injection affects muscle firing. Forty-one subjects with two-tendon rotator cuff tears and 23 volunteer subjects with normal rotator cuffs documented by ultrasonography were examined. Electromyographic activity from 12 muscles was collected during ten functional tasks. Nine symptomatic subjects with rotator cuff tears underwent subacromial injection of anesthetic and underwent repeat electromyographic examination. Subjects with rotator cuff tears demonstrate global electromyographic differences when compared to normal controls. Asymptomatic subjects with rotator cuff tears had significantly increased anterior deltoid firing when compared to symptomatic counterparts during forward shoulder elevation. After subacromial injection, symptomatic subjects demonstrate increased anterior deltoid firing. Previous in vitro and in vivo studies have suggested that pain leads to deltoid inhibition and that subacromial injection leads to improved deltoid firing and, subsequently, improved shoulder function. This study provides direct evidence that subacromial injection improves deltoid firing in symptomatic subjects with rotator cuff tears. These findings reinforce the concept that deltoid inhibition resulting from pain is an important component of the motor disability associated with rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "19762407", "title": "Supraspinatus tendon rupture in lupus: a rarity.", "content": "Supraspinatus tendon rupture in lupus: a rarity."}
{"id": "19760471", "title": "Classification and clinical significance of acromial spur in rotator cuff tear: heel-type spur and rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Classification and clinical significance of acromial spur in rotator cuff tear: heel-type spur and rotator cuff tear. Acromial spurs reportedly relate to the impingement syndrome and rotator cuff tears. We classified the morphologic characteristics of the acromion (shape and thickness) and acromial spurs and determined whether they correlated with rotator cuff tears. We measured acromial shape and thickness using simple radiography and MR arthrography or CT arthrography in 106 patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears and in 102 patients without tears. Acromial spurs could be classified morphologically into six types: heel, lateral/anterior traction, lateral/anterior bird beak, and medial. We found acromial spurs in 142 of the 208 patients (68%), and their incidence increased with age. The acromial spur was more common in the cuff tear group. The heel type was most common and detected in 59 patients (56%) in the cuff tear group and in 36 patients (35%) in the control group. The flat acromion was more common (60%) than curved and hooked acromion; however, there was no major difference between acromial shape and cuff tear. The mean acromial thickness was 8.0 mm, and the cuff tear group had thicker acromion. These data suggest acromial spurs can be classified according to the distinct morphology, and the most common heel-type spur might be a risk factor for full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Level IV, diagnostic study. See Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "19753994", "title": "[Diagnosis and treatment of rotator cuff injuries in elder patients].", "content": "[Diagnosis and treatment of rotator cuff injuries in elder patients]."}
{"id": "19752204", "title": "The long-term outcome of recurrent defects after rotator cuff repair.", "content": "The long-term outcome of recurrent defects after rotator cuff repair. Retears of the rotator cuff are not uncommon after arthroscopic and mini-open rotator cuff repairs. In most studies, the clinical results in patients with persistent defects demonstrated significantly less pain and better function and strength compared with their preoperative state at an early follow-up. The clinical and structural outcomes of patients with known rotator cuff defects will remain unchanged after a longer period of follow-up. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. This study was performed in 15 patients (18 shoulders) from a previous study who had recurrent rotator cuff defects 3.2 years after repair. Each patient completed the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons Scoring Survey, the Simple Shoulder Test, the L'Insalata Scoring Survey, and a visual analog scale for pain. Eleven patients (13 shoulders) were clinically reexamined at an average of 7.9 years for range of motion and strength, with targeted ultrasound. At the 7.9 year follow-up the average scores were 95 (American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons), 95 (L'Insalata), 11 (Simple Shoulder Test), and 0 (visual analog for pain), which were not statistically significantly different from the scores at 3.2 years. There was no change in the average range of motion; however, there was a statistically significant reduction in forward flexion strength and external rotation strength, as measured by a dynamometer. The average external rotation strength decreased by a mean of 42% and the mean forward flexion strength decreased by a mean of 45% (P < .001). Furthermore, there was a statistically significant increase in the mean size of the defect, from 273 mm(2) to 467 mm(2) (P < .001). Finally, the size of the defect increased in all patients, and no defects healed structurally. At an average of 7.9 years, patients with recurrent defects after rotator cuff repair still had an improvement in terms of pain, function, and satisfaction. However, the rotator cuff defect significantly increased in size, and there was a progression of strength deficits. These findings suggest that patients with recurrent defects can remain asymptomatic over the long term but will predictably lose strength in the involved extremity. Furthermore, the study demonstrated that defects after rotator cuff repair increase in size but often remain asymptomatic."}
{"id": "19750444", "title": "[Osteoathritis after SLAP Lesion? Clinical and arthro-MRI evaluation after arthroscopic SLAP refixation].", "content": "[Osteoathritis after SLAP Lesion? Clinical and arthro-MRI evaluation after arthroscopic SLAP refixation]. The development of glenohumeral osteoarthritis is sufficiently described after instability and rotator cuff pathologies. The purpose of this work was to evaluate a coherency between glenohumeral osteoarthritis and SLAP lesions by means of MR arthrography which has not been described up to now in the literature. 20 patients with a SLAP lesion type II were treated with arthroscopic SLAP repair. MR arthrography was performed after intra-articular administration of diluted gadolinium (after positive vote of the ethics committee) after a mean FU of 36 months (26 to 54 months). The MR arthrography data were analysed by 3 investigators (two radiologists, one orthopaedic surgeon) in consensus. Osteoarthritis was graded according to the modified Outerbridge classification for MRI. Besides image quality and artifacts, adhesions from the tendon to the bone and the rotator cuff were evaluated. Intraoperative documented findings were used for comparison. The clinical investigation encompassed Roweand Constant score, clinical investigation of instability and SLAP lesion (O'Brian test, SLAP apprehension test) as well as the subjective contentment. The statistical evaluation was performed with SAS reverse. In 12 of 20 cases an increase of glenohumeral osteoarthritis was seen, in 4 cases a circumscribed entire cartilage defect appeared in the MRI. Osteoarthritis did not correlate with the subjective and objectively collected clinical results or the aetiology of the SLAP lesion at the time of the re-examination. Results of the MR arthrography revealed that, in six cases, the biceps anchor did not show proper bony ingrowth. Nonetheless, these cases do not correlate with a poorer clinical result. Due to the small case number a correlation between SLAP lesion and osteoarthritis cannot be postulated statistically, however, the results still indicate a trend which should be pursued in the long-term course."}
{"id": "19734058", "title": "Deltoid flap reconstruction for massive rotator cuff tears: mid- and long-term functional and structural results.", "content": "Deltoid flap reconstruction for massive rotator cuff tears: mid- and long-term functional and structural results. Various open and arthroscopic techniques for irreparable massive rotator cuff tears have been described. Muscle-tendon transfers may be considered in order to improve range of motion and strength. We assessed retrospectively the functional and structural results of 31 deltoid flap transfers for massive postero-superior rotator cuff tears at 2 time points: Mid- and long-term follow-up exams were performed after a mean of 53 and 175 months, respectively. Functional gains were minor, but improvement in pain and patient satisfaction was high. The mean Constant score improved from 31 preoperatively to 46 points at mid-term follow-up. At long-term follow-up, 16 shoulders were still available for exam and presented with a mean Constant score of 66 points. Survival rates of the deltoid flap, confirmed by ultrasound, were 16.5% at mid-term and 12.5% at long-term follow-up, and correlated with better clinical outcome. Cranial migration of the humeral head progressed in all cases and could not be prevented by the interposition of a deltoid flap. Based on the results of this series, we no longer use nor recommend this technique."}
{"id": "19732525", "title": "[Luxatio erecta--a rare type of shoulder dislocation].", "content": "[Luxatio erecta--a rare type of shoulder dislocation]. Inferior dislocation of the shoulder (luxatio erecta) is a rare type of shoulder dislocation. In this short article we review a case of a 56-year-old man who sustained a subcoracoid inferior dislocation of the right shoulder after accidental axial loading of the right arm. Post-reduction magnetic resonance scan showed supraspinatus tendon rupture. Such type of shoulder dislocation is associated with significant complications (such as rotator cuff tears) and also late complications (including instability, chronic pain and reduced motion). A brief description of presentation, diagnosis and management of this injury is presented."}
{"id": "19730855", "title": "MRI findings associated with luxatio erecta humeri.", "content": "MRI findings associated with luxatio erecta humeri. Luxatio erecta humeri is a rare type of inferior glenohumeral dislocation with a unique radiographic appearance; however, the magnetic resonance imaging findings associated with this dislocation have not been described in the radiology literature. The purpose of this study is to identify magnetic resonance imaging findings associated with this uncommon type of glenohumeral dislocation. The magnetic resonance imaging features of four patients with clinical and radiographic evidence of luxatio erecta humeri were reviewed retrospectively by two musculoskeletal-trained radiologists. The reported mechanism of injury in all four patients was falling. The MR imaging examinations were evaluated for the presence of rotator cuff and biceps tendon pathology, glenoid labrum pathology, joint capsule and glenohumeral ligament injury, fractures and bone marrow contusions, articular cartilage injury, and joint effusions. All four patients demonstrated pathology of the glenohumeral joint. Three of the four patients demonstrated rotator cuff tears, including large full thickness tears of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons in two patients, and small full thickness tear of the supraspinatus tendon with partial thickness tear of the infraspinatus tendon in the third patient. In the two patients with large full thickness tears of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons, one patient demonstrated tearing of the subscapularis tendon with dislocation of a partially torn long head of the biceps tendon, and the second patient demonstrated full thickness tearing of the intra-articular biceps tendon. All four patients demonstrated injuries to the glenoid labrum and both anterior and posterior bands of the inferior glenohumeral ligament. Contusions or fractures of the humeral head were seen in two of the patients. Three of the four patients demonstrated cartilage abnormalities including a focal cartilage defect in the anterior inferior glenoid in one patient, and cartilage surface irregularity of the glenoid in the other two patients. Common magnetic resonance imaging findings in patients with a prior luxatio erecta humeri dislocation include rotator cuff tears, injury to the glenoid labrum, and injury to both the anterior and posterior bands of the inferior glenohumeral ligament. These findings are compatible with the mechanism of dislocation in luxatio erecta, and noting these findings on magnetic resonance imaging may suggest that the patient has sustained a prior inferiorly directed glenohumeral dislocation such as luxatio erecta."}
{"id": "19727754", "title": "Detection of rotator cuff tears: the value of MRI following ultrasound.", "content": "Detection of rotator cuff tears: the value of MRI following ultrasound. To evaluate the need for additional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) following ultrasound (US) in patients with shoulder pain and/or disability and to compare the accuracy of both techniques for the detection of partial-thickness and full-thickness rotator cuff tears (RCT). In 4 years, 5,216 patients underwent US by experienced musculoskeletal radiologists. Retrospectively, patient records were evaluated if MRI and surgery were performed within 5 months of US. US and MRI findings were classified into intact cuff, partial-thickness and full-thickness RCT, and were correlated with surgical findings. Additional MR imaging was performed in 275 (5.2%) patients. Sixty-eight patients underwent surgery within 5 months. US and MRI correctly depicted 21 (95%) and 22 (100%) of the 22 full-thickness tears, and 8 (89%) and 6 (67%) of the 9 partial-thickness tears, respectively. The differences in performance of US and MRI were not statistically significant (p = 0.15). MRI following routine shoulder US was requested in only 5.2% of the patients. The additional value of MRI was in detecting intra-articular lesions. In patients who underwent surgery, US and MRI yielded comparably high sensitivity for detecting full-thickness RCT. US performed better in detecting partial-thickness tears, although the difference was not significant."}
{"id": "19725488", "title": "Diagnosis and treatment of biceps tendinitis and tendinosis.", "content": "Diagnosis and treatment of biceps tendinitis and tendinosis. Biceps tendinitis is inflammation of the tendon around the long head of the biceps muscle. Biceps tendinosis is caused by degeneration of the tendon from athletics requiring overhead motion or from the normal aging process. Inflammation of the biceps tendon in the bicipital groove, which is known as primary biceps tendinitis, occurs in 5 percent of patients with biceps tendinitis. Biceps tendinitis and tendinosis are commonly accompanied by rotator cuff tears or SLAP (superior labrum anterior to posterior) lesions. Patients with biceps tendinitis or tendinosis usually complain of a deep, throbbing ache in the anterior shoulder. Repetitive overhead motion of the arm initiates or exacerbates the symptoms. The most common isolated clinical finding in biceps tendinitis is bicipital groove point tenderness with the arm in 10 degrees of internal rotation. Local anesthetic injections into the biceps tendon sheath may be therapeutic and diagnostic. Ultrasonography is preferred for visualizing the overall tendon, whereas magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography arthrography is preferred for visualizing the intra-articular tendon and related pathology. Conservative management of biceps tendinitis consists of rest, ice, oral analgesics, physical therapy, or corticosteroid injections into the biceps tendon sheath. Surgery should be considered if conservative measures fail after three months, or if there is severe damage to the biceps tendon."}
{"id": "19711170", "title": "Transtendon arthroscopic repair of partial-thickness, articular surface tears of the supraspinatus: results at 2 years.", "content": "Transtendon arthroscopic repair of partial-thickness, articular surface tears of the supraspinatus: results at 2 years. Partial-thickness articular tears of the supraspinatus represent a not uncommon event in shoulder pathology, but their treatment remains controversial. We believe that these lesions must be treated with surgical repair: we hereby describe our technique of transtendon arthroscopic repair. We have treated 33 patients with an average age of 53.3 years (range 34-69). The average follow-up was 33 months (range 26-45). The post-operative Constant score values have shown a total increase of 48.2 points (from preoperative 44.4 points to post-operative 91.6 points). In the MRI follow-up assessment no cases of retears have occurred. The use of this technique enables the reconstitution of the tendon with complete reconstruction of its footprint without damaging its intact part. We believe that this can allow a better recovery."}
{"id": "19708627", "title": "Intramuscular lipoma of the supraspinatus causing impingement syndrome.", "content": "Intramuscular lipoma of the supraspinatus causing impingement syndrome. Impingement syndrome is a common ailment of the shoulder, particularly in individuals who perform repetitive overhead activities, such as athletes and laborers. Patients typically report progressive shoulder pain often exacerbated by flexion and abduction and may demonstrate a classic painful arc of motion. This article describes a case of a 45-year-old man with signs and symptoms consistent with impingement syndrome. Workup revealed a well-circumscribed, homogeneous lesion within the supraspinatus muscle on magnetic resonance imaging. The patient underwent uncomplicated marginal excision of the mass with a final diagnosis of benign lipoma. Lipomas represent one of the most common soft tissue tumors, although there are no reports of an intramuscular supraspinatous lipoma causing impingement syndrome. In our case, there were no findings on history, physical examination, or radiographs that would place neoplasm high on a differential. Magnetic resonance imaging provided the crucial information necessary to narrow the differential diagnosis and formulate a preoperative plan. Marginal resection of the mass was curative in this patient, as he remained pain free and regained excellent motion postoperatively."}
{"id": "19696281", "title": "Transverse thickening along the articular surface of the rotator cuff consistent with the rotator cable: identification with MR arthrography and relevance in rotator cuff evaluation.", "content": "Transverse thickening along the articular surface of the rotator cuff consistent with the rotator cable: identification with MR arthrography and relevance in rotator cuff evaluation. The purposes of this study were to describe the imaging appearance of transverse thickening along the articular surface of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons presumed to represent the rotator cable on MR arthrographic images obtained with the shoulder in abduction and external rotation (ABER) and in the non-ABER position and to assess the role of the rotator cable in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. The study group comprised 54 patients who underwent arthroscopy of the shoulder and preoperative MR arthrography in which ABER images were obtained. Two blinded reviewers independently examined the ABER and non-ABER images for the presence of the rotator cable and rotator cuff tears. In intact rotator cuffs, the presumed rotator cable was not well visualized on non-ABER images. In one case of prominent rotator cable, MR arthrography showed no tear on non-ABER images, but at arthroscopy, a partial-thickness undersurface tear was found. On non-ABER images, both readers readily visualized the rotator cable in eight and 10 of 18 cases (44% and 56%) of partial-thickness undersurface tear and four of five cases (80%) of full-thickness tear. On ABER images, both readers readily visualized the rotator cable in 15 and 17 of 31 cases (48% and 55%) of intact cuff, 14 and 15 of 18 cases (78% and 83%) of undersurface tear, and four and five cases (80% and 100%) of full-thickness tear. Interobserver agreement on cable visualization was almost perfect (kappa = 0.86). On non-ABER MR arthrographic images, thickening along the articular side of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons presumed to represent the rotator cable suggests the presence of a partial-thickness rotator cuff tear. On ABER images, the cable is well defined in intact and torn rotator cuffs."}
{"id": "19685265", "title": "Modified L'Episcopo tendon transfers for irreparable rotator cuff tears: 5-year follow-up.", "content": "Modified L'Episcopo tendon transfers for irreparable rotator cuff tears: 5-year follow-up. Patients with posterosuperior cuff tears lose functional external rotation of the shoulder. Latissimus dorsi and teres major transfer is performed to restore external rotation. Twenty patients with a mean age was 55.8 +/- 6 years underwent this procedure and were examined at averages of 24.7 (n = 17) and 70.6 (n = 13) months. Two patients did not improve presumably because of failure of the transfer. The Constant and Murley score increased from 55.6 to 90.4 after 2 years and to 87.9 after 5 years. The mean active flexion increased from 119.4 degrees to 169.3 degrees and reached 170 degrees after 5 years, and mean external rotation increased from 12 degrees to 35 degrees , finally reaching 23 degrees . The grade of cuff arthritis progressed from initially Grade 1 in 17% and Grade 2 in 28% to Grade 2 in 8%, Grade 3 in 69%, and Grade 4 in 15% at final followup. The acromiohumeral distance increased from 4.5 mm to 6 mm and decreased to 3.8 mm after 5 years. Electromyographic analysis showed activity during isometric internal and external rotation in the transferred muscle in all patients. The L'Episcopo procedure can restore shoulder function, but cuff arthropathy may progress. Level IV, therapeutic study. See Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "19685061", "title": "Rotator cuff tears in proximal humeral fractures: an MRI cohort study in 76 patients.", "content": "Rotator cuff tears in proximal humeral fractures: an MRI cohort study in 76 patients. The aim was to evaluate if concomitant injury to the rotator cuff is important for functional outcome in proximal humerus fractures, and to relate loss of function to malunion of the fractures. A total of 76 patients treated conservatively for proximal humerus fracture were included in this cohort study. Performing an MRI: examination at the time of injury and after 12 months, tears of the rotator cuffs were classified as partial- or full thickness. The fractures were classified, according to the AO classification, and the degree of tubercle displacement and humeral head inclination evaluated at 12 months. Constant score was used as outcome measure. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examinations confirmed 22 rotator cuff tears (four full thicknesses) diagnosed at the time of injury, and 10 additional tears (three full thicknesses) at one year. Functional loss at one year significantly corresponded to the tears at the time of injury (P = 0.004), varus malunion of the head and displacement of tubercles (P < 0.001). Partial- as well as full thickness tears of the rotator cuff are important for functional outcome. Skeletal deterioration seems even more important."}
{"id": "19651951", "title": "Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tears: a modified technique to improve tendon transfer integrity.", "content": "Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tears: a modified technique to improve tendon transfer integrity. Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer is a well-established method for the treatment of massive irreparable posterosuperior defects of the rotator cuff. Subsequent rupture of the transferred tendon may contribute to the rate of failure of the index procedure. We hypothesized that modification of our technique of tendon harvesting would lead to greater fixation stability and a reduced failure rate. Forty-two patients (mean age, fifty-eight years) with a massive irreparable posterosuperior tear of the rotator cuff were managed with a latissimus dorsi tendon transfer. Sharp separation of the latissimus tendon from the humerus was performed in twenty-two patients (Group A), whereas the tendon harvest was carried out with a modified technique that involved removal of some bone along with the tendon at the humeral insertion in a subsequent group of twenty patients (Group B). The mean duration of follow-up was forty-seven months. Outcome measures included the Constant and American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) scores and a patient subjective satisfaction scale. Standard radiographs were made to determine the stage of osteoarthritis and proximal migration of the humeral head, and magnetic resonance imaging was performed to assess the integrity of the transferred muscle. In Group A, the mean Constant score improved from 43.4 preoperatively to 64.8 points at the time of follow-up and the mean ASES score improved from 49.3 to 69.6 points (p < 0.05). In Group B, the mean Constant score increased from 40.2 to 74.2 points and the mean ASES score, from 47.2 to 77.1 points (p < 0.05). The Constant pain score improved from 5.6 to 11.9 points in Group A and from 5.2 to 13.8 points in Group B. The results in Group B were significantly superior to those in Group A (p < 0.05). Magnetic resonance imaging revealed complete rupture at the tendon insertion with tendon retraction in four patients in Group A and none in Group B. The final outcome was rated as poor in 27% of the patients in Group A and in 10% in Group B. Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer achieves satisfactory clinical results in most patients who have a massive irreparable posterosuperior tear of the rotator cuff. Harvesting the tendon along with a small piece of bone enables direct bone-to-bone transosseous fixation, resulting in better tendon integrity and clinical results."}
{"id": "19651947", "title": "Outcome of nonoperative treatment of symptomatic rotator cuff tears monitored by magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Outcome of nonoperative treatment of symptomatic rotator cuff tears monitored by magnetic resonance imaging. Rotator cuff tears are very common, but little is known about the outcome of nonoperative treatment of symptomatic tears in terms of progression and the need for surgical intervention. Fifty-nine shoulders in fifty-four patients (thirty-three women and a mean age of 58.8 years) with rotator cuff tears on initial magnetic resonance imaging who had been managed nonoperatively were studied retrospectively. All had magnetic resonance imaging scans acquired six months or more after the initial study. The progression of the rotator cuff tears was associated with age, anatomical and associated parameters, follow-up time, and structural and other magnetic resonance imaging findings. Baseline magnetic resonance imaging scans demonstrated thirty-three full-thickness tears, twenty-six partial-thickness tears, and four combined full-thickness and partial-thickness tears. Fifty-eight of the fifty-nine tears involved the supraspinatus tendon, and ten involved multiple tendons. Progression in tear size occurred more often among the patients who were followed more than eighteen months (thirteen [48%] of twenty-seven shoulders) compared with those who were followed for less than eighteen months (six [19%] of thirty-two shoulders). Five tears (one partial-thickness tear) decreased in size. More than half (52%; seventeen) of the thirty-three full-thickness tears increased in size compared with 8% (two) of the twenty-six partial-thickness tears (p = 0.0005). Only 17% (six) of the thirty-five tears in patients who were sixty years old or less deteriorated compared with 54% (thirteen) of the twenty-four tears in patients who were more than sixty years old (p = 0.007). No shoulder in a patient with a partial-thickness tear demonstrated supraspinatus atrophy, whereas 24% of those with a full-thickness tear demonstrated atrophy (p = 0.007). The proportion with an increase in tear size was significantly larger for shoulders with fatty infiltration than for those without it (p = 0.0089). Factors that are associated with progression of a rotator cuff tear are an age of more than sixty years, a full-thickness tear, and fatty infiltration of the rotator cuff muscle(s). In the long-term follow-up of nonoperatively treated rotator cuff tears, magnetic resonance imaging can be used to monitor rotator cuff changes and guide patient management."}
{"id": "19629607", "title": "Does an arthroscopic suture bridge technique maintain repair integrity?: a serial evaluation by ultrasonography.", "content": "Does an arthroscopic suture bridge technique maintain repair integrity?: a serial evaluation by ultrasonography. Biomechanical studies suggest a suture bridge technique enhances rotator cuff tendon footprint contact area, holding strength, and mean contact pressure. Based on these studies, we asked whether (1) the suture bridge technique would provide a high rate of cuff integrity after surgery, (2) the status of the repaired cuff would change with time, (3) preoperative factors could predict postoperative cuff integrity, and (4) patients with retears had less favorable pain, functional scores, range of motion (ROM), and muscle strength compared with those with intact repairs. We prospectively followed 78 patients with arthroscopic repairs in whom we used the suture bridge technique. The integrity of the rotator cuff repair was determined using ultrasonographic evaluation at 4.5 and 12 months after surgery. Ultrasonography revealed intact cuffs in 91% at 4.5 months postoperatively, all of which were maintained at the 12-month followup. Failure rates were 17.6% (three of 17) for massive tears, 11.1% (two of 18) for large tears, 6.3% (two of 32) for medium tears, and no failures for small tears. Preoperative fatty degeneration of the supraspinatus muscle was a strong predictor of cuff integrity. We found no correlation between the integrity and clinical outcomes except for a temporary decrease of abduction strength at 6 months. Arthroscopic repair using suture bridge technique can achieve a low retear rate in shoulders treated for rotator cuff tears, but the occurrence of retear did not influence the outcome. Level IV, therapeutic study. See Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "19627936", "title": "Shoulder Ultrasound vs MRI for rotator cuff pathology.", "content": "Shoulder Ultrasound vs MRI for rotator cuff pathology."}
{"id": "19627884", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging abnormalities in the shoulder and wrist joints of asymptomatic elite athletes.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging abnormalities in the shoulder and wrist joints of asymptomatic elite athletes. To characterize abnormalities on magnetic resonance images (MRI) in the shoulder and wrist joints of asymptomatic elite athletes to better define the range of \"normal\" findings in this population. Cohort study. Academic medical center. Division IA collegiate volleyball players (n=12), swimmers (n=6), and gymnasts (n=15) with no history of injury or pain and normal physical examination results. None. Grade of severity of MRI changes of the shoulder and wrist joints. A 3- to 4-year follow-up questionnaire was administered to determine the clinical significance of the asymptomatic findings. All athletes demonstrated at least mild imaging abnormalities in the joints evaluated. Shoulder: Volleyball players had moderate and severe changes primarily in the labrum (50% moderate, 8% severe), rotator cuff (25% moderate, 17% severe), bony structures (33% moderate), and tendon/muscle (25% moderate, 8% severe). Swimmers had moderate changes primarily in the labrum (83% moderate) and ligament (67% moderate). Wrist: All gymnasts had changes in the wrist ligaments (40% mild, 60% moderate), tendons (53% mild, 47% moderate), and cartilage (60% mild, 33% moderate, 7% severe). Most gymnasts exhibited bony changes (20% normal, 47% mild, 26% moderate, 7% severe), the presence of cysts/fluid collections (80%), and carpal tunnel changes (53%). Swimmers had no wrist abnormalities. At follow-up interview, only 1 swimmer and 1 volleyball player reported shoulder problems during the study. Additionally, only 1 gymnast reported a wrist injury during their career. Asymptomatic elite athletes demonstrate MRI changes of the shoulder (swimmers and volleyball players) and wrist (gymnasts) similar to those associated with abnormalities for which medical treatment and sometimes surgery are advised. Given the somewhat high frequency of these asymptomatic findings, care must be taken to correlate clinical history and physical examination with MRI findings in these patients with symptoms."}
{"id": "19618154", "title": "[Value of MRI in preoperative diagnostics of proximal humeral fractures compared to CT and conventional radiography].", "content": "[Value of MRI in preoperative diagnostics of proximal humeral fractures compared to CT and conventional radiography]. The diagnostic value of X-rays, computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for proximal humeral fractures (PHF) was compared in order to test the hypothesis that MRI gives relevant additional information. In this study 30 displaced PHFs were investigated with X-ray, CT and MRI procedures. Fracture analysis was performed and the diagnostic values of the three methods were compared to each other. In the MRI relevant musculotendinous concomitant injuries and prognostic factors of the head perfusion were also evaluated. In 7 out of 30 PHFs the X-rays did not show the correct number of fragments. The posteromedial metaphyseal extension and the caput-diaphysis angle were measured to be significantly greater in the X-rays than in CT and MRI. Relevant additional information obtained by MRI were 7 out of 30 rotator cuff tears and 11 out of 30 differentiated medial periostal hinges. X-ray imaging is the basis method for the diagnosis of PHF but needs further multiplanar imaging to demonstrate complete fracture patterns. Imaging of fractures is equally good for MRI and CT and MRI also provides additional therapy-relevant information about the rotator cuff and head perfusion."}
{"id": "19609774", "title": "[Acromioclavicular (AC) joint cyst. A case report and review of literature].", "content": "[Acromioclavicular (AC) joint cyst. A case report and review of literature]. The acromioclavicular (AC) joint cyst is a rare sequela of complete supraspinatus tendon rupture and arthritis of the AC joint. It appears as a swelling on the AC joint and must be distinguished from tumours of the shoulder and neck region. Besides physical examination, magnetic resonance imaging is the most useful tool for correct diagnosis. As reported in the literature, therapeutic procedures include observation, aspiration, excision of the cyst with or without resection of the AC joint, and repair of the underlying supraspinatus tendon rupture. All procedures should be based on consideration of the comorbidity and recurrence of the cyst. Combinations of cyst excision and rotator cuff repair or AC resection seem to be the most promising therapeutic options. We report on a 75-year-old patient with a painless swelling over the AC joint who had suffered shoulder trauma 15 years previously."}
{"id": "19586809", "title": "Muscle fatty infiltration in rotator cuff tears: descriptive analysis of 1688 cases.", "content": "Muscle fatty infiltration in rotator cuff tears: descriptive analysis of 1688 cases. Fatty infiltration (FI) is an important prognosis factor in the anatomical and functional outcomes of rotator cuff repairs. The objective of this study was to analyze the natural history of muscle FI and better evaluate its onset and aggravation time frame. A total of 1688 medical charts of patients operated on for rotator cuff tear and with a preoperative CT arthrogram (82%) or an MRI (18%) were reviewed. Surgery was performed between 1988 and 2005. The FI of each muscle was assessed as minimal (in Goutallier's stages 0 and 1), intermediate (in stage 2), and severe (in stages 3 and 4). Regarding supraspinatus, we retained the mean FI observed in the sagittal, coronal, and axial planes; for the infraspinatus and the subscapularis, we retained the observed mean on two views at the upper and lower levels of the glenoid in the axial plane. We found a statistically significant correlation (p<0.0005) between FI, the type of tendon lesion, and patient age for the supraspinatus, the infraspinatus, and the subscapularis. Statistically, the FI significantly increased (p<0.0005) with time elapsed for the supraspinatus and the infraspinatus but not significantly for the subscapularis. The mean time to tendon rupture observed for intermediate FI was three years for the supraspinatus and 2.5 years for the infraspinatus and the subscapularis when their tendons ruptured. The mean time observed to severe FI was five, four, and three years for the supraspinatus, the infraspinatus, and the subscapularis, respectively. The more extensive the lesion, the longer the time following rupture, and the older the patient is, the more severe the FI is. The objective of surgery is to intervene before intermediate FI sets in, which means irreversible functional loss. Level IV. Diagnostic Retrospective Study."}
{"id": "19567856", "title": "Genetic influences in the progression of tears of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Genetic influences in the progression of tears of the rotator cuff. The aim of this study was to investigate genetic influences on the development and progression of tears of the rotator cuff. From a group of siblings of patients with a tear of the rotator cuff and of controls studied five years earlier, we determined the prevalence of tears of the rotator cuff with and without associated symptoms using ultrasound and the Oxford Shoulder Score. In the five years since the previous assessment, three of 62 (4.8%) of the sibling group and one of the 68 (1.5%) controls had undergone shoulder surgery. These subjects were excluded from the follow-up. Full-thickness tears were found in 39 of 62 (62.9%) siblings and in 15 of 68 (22.1%) controls (p = 0.0001). The relative risk of full-thickness tears in siblings as opposed to controls was 2.85 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.75 to 4.64), compared to 2.42 (95% CI 1.77 to 3.31) five years earlier. Full-thickness tears associated with pain were found in 30 of 39 (76.9%) tears in the siblings and in eight of 15 (53.3%) tears in the controls (p = 0.045). The relative risk of pain associated with a full-thickness tear in the siblings as opposed to the controls was 1.44 (95% CI 2.04 to 8.28) (p = 0.045). In the siblings group ten of 62 (16.1%) had progressed in terms of tear size or development compared to one of 68 (1.5%) in the control group which had increased in size. Full-thickness rotator cuff tears in siblings are significantly more likely to progress over a period of five years than in a control population. This implies that genetic factors have a role, not only in the development but also in the progression of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "19559372", "title": "Fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus: a reliability study.", "content": "Fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus: a reliability study. The Goutallier classification of rotator cuff fatty infiltration is an accepted standard, yet no recommendations exist for which computed tomography plane is best to identify fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus. Our purpose was to determine the most reliable plane to evaluate supraspinatus fatty infiltration, assess reliability of the tangent sign, and to correlate fatty infiltration and muscle atrophy. Fatty infiltration in 87 computed tomography scans was reviewed by 3 shoulder surgeons using the 5-tiered Goutallier classification and a separate 3-grade scale. The supraspinatus muscle was evaluated in the axial, coronal, and sagittal plane. The tangent sign was used to assess muscle atrophy. The axial plane produced the highest agreement for both the 5-tiered and 3-tiered systems. An objective radiographic marker was described to reliably determine grade 3 fatty infiltration. The tangent sign produced excellent agreement for the presence of muscle atrophy. A significant relationship between the tangent sign and fatty infiltration was discovered (P < .0001); grades 3 and 4 fatty infiltration correlated statistically with supraspinatus atrophy. The tangent sign is acceptable for determining the presence of muscle atrophy and clinical decision making. A positive tangent sign is an indicator of advanced fatty infiltration. The axial computed tomography plane should be used when evaluating fatty infiltration. Level 3; Diagnostic study."}
{"id": "19556150", "title": "Effectiveness of multidetector computed tomography arthrography for the diagnosis of shoulder pathology: comparison with magnetic resonance imaging with arthroscopic correlation.", "content": "Effectiveness of multidetector computed tomography arthrography for the diagnosis of shoulder pathology: comparison with magnetic resonance imaging with arthroscopic correlation. This study evaluated the diagnostic efficacy of computed tomography arthrography (CTA) in the assessment of various shoulder pathologies with arthroscopic correlation. We hypothesized that CTA would be cost-effective and effectively comparable with magnetic resonance arthrography (MRA) for assessing labral detachments and full-thickness rotator cuff tears. A musculoskeletal radiologist interpreted CTAs for 78 patients and MRAs for 70 patients. Each imaging study was evaluated for the presence of bony (Hill-Sachs) or labral (Bankart or superior labrum anteroposterior [SLAP]) lesions, and rotator cuff disorder (full- or partial-thickness tears). All patients subsequently underwent arthroscopic surgery. Detailed arthroscopic findings were reported and compared with CTA and MRA findings. The sensitivity, specificity, kappa coefficients, and the area under the receiver operating characteristic (AUROC) curve were calculated. The sensitivity, specificity, and agreement were comparable in each imaging study for Bankart, SLAP, and Hill-Sachs lesions, and full-thickness rotator cuff tears, but those of CTA were significantly lower than MRA for partial-thickness cuff tears. The AUROC curve for CTA and MRA were not significantly different for any of the pathologies, except partial-thickness cuff tears. Our data suggest that CTA is a cost-effective, useful method in the preoperative evaluation of labral abnormalities, such as Bankart and SLAP lesions. It may also be useful for the detection of full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Level I; Diagnostic study."}
{"id": "19556145", "title": "Fewer rotator cuff tears fifteen years after arthroscopic subacromial decompression.", "content": "Fewer rotator cuff tears fifteen years after arthroscopic subacromial decompression. A successful clinical result is reported in 75% to 85% of impingement patients after arthroscopic subacromial decompression. The result is maintained over time, but few studies have investigated the integrity of the rotator cuff in these patients. Using ultrasonography, we examined the integrity of the rotator cuff in 70 patients 15 years after arthroscopic subacromial decompression. All patients had an intact rotator cuff at the index procedure. Tendons were still intact in 57 patients (82%), 10 (14%) had partial-thickness tears, and 3 (4%) had full-thickness tears. The total number of 18% tears (partial and full thickness) in this study, including patients clinically diagnosed with subacromial impingement at a mean age of 60 years, is unexpectedly low compared with 40% degenerative tears reported in asymptomatic adults of the same age. Arthroscopic subacromial decompression seems to reduce the prevalence of rotator cuff tears in impingement patients. This appears attributable to elimination of extrinsic factors such as mechanical wear and bursitis. The potential effect of surgery on intrinsic cuff degeneration is unknown, but intrinsic factors may explain tears still developing despite decompression. Level III, therapeutic study."}
{"id": "19543893", "title": "Supraspinatus tendon tears: comparison of 3D US and MR arthrography with surgical correlation.", "content": "Supraspinatus tendon tears: comparison of 3D US and MR arthrography with surgical correlation. The objective of the study was to compare the diagnostic reliability of 3D US with MR arthrography in diagnosing supraspinatus tendon tears, with arthroscopic findings used as the standard. In a prospective study 50 patients who later underwent arthroscopic surgery of the rotator cuff were examined pre-operatively by 3D US with MR arthrography. The presence or absence of a full- or partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tear and the tear size as demonstrated by each imaging and arthroscopy was recorded. The tear size was divided into three grades: small (<1 cm), medium (1-3 cm), and large (>3 cm). The arthroscopic diagnosis was a full-thickness tear in 40 patients, partial-thickness tears in 5, and intact supraspinatus tendon in 5. 3D US correctly diagnosed 35 out of 40 full-thickness tears and MR arthrography 39 out of 40 full-thickness tears. Regarding partial-thickness tears, 3D US underestimated 2 cases as no tear and overestimated 1 case as a full-thickness tear. MR arthrography underestimated 1 case as a partial-thickness tear and overestimated 2 cases as full-thickness and partial-thickness tears respectively. 3D US and MR arthrography yield a sensitivity for full-thickness tears of 87.5% and 97.5% with specificity of 90.0% and 90.0%. Based on the grading system, 3D US measurements correctly predicted the tear size of 23 (65.7%) of the 35 full-thickness tears and MR arthrography 30 (75.0%) of the 39 full-thickness tears. Three-dimensional ultrasound seems to be a promising imaging modality comparable to MR arthrography for the assessment of the supraspinatus tendon tears."}
{"id": "19541525", "title": "Treatment of shoulder calcifications of the cuff: a controlled study.", "content": "Treatment of shoulder calcifications of the cuff: a controlled study. About 1 in 10 patients with shoulder calcifications complains of chronic pain. Removal techniques have been developed. We carried out the first randomized study to validate bursoscopy (BS) and (needling fragmentation irrigation) (NFI) versus a control group (CT). 102 shoulders (96 patients) with calcifications >5 mm whose medical treatment had failed (>4 months) were first injected using a corticosteroid; 49 shoulders improved by more than 70%. The other 53 shoulders were randomized in 3 groups: NFI (n=16), BS (n=20), and CT (n=17). All patients were reviewed at T 1-4-12-24 months. After 4 months, we observed respectively in groups NFI-BS-CT: 62%, 65% and 29% patients showing global improvements >70% (NFI vs CT: p=0.03; BS vs CT: p=0.02); -37%, -29% and -11% pain VAS variation (ns), +16%, +12% and -15% Constant score variation (NFI vs CT: p=0.03; BS vs CT: p=0.02), and -58%, -77% and +4% area calcification variation (NFI vs CT: p=0.005; BS vs CT: p=0.0002; BS vs NFI: p=0.01). After 24 months, results were maintained in NFI and BS groups, and in the CT group only 6/17 patients were still improved. There were no significant differences between NFI and BS groups. Three partial tears of the cuff were found using MRI in failures, (1 in each group). NFI and BS are now validated removal techniques of shoulder calcifications when there is chronic pain and other medical treatments have failed. Results were maintained after 24 months, and were similar between NFI and BS. However NFI could be preferred because of its simplicity and low cost."}
{"id": "19540777", "title": "Prevalence and risk factors of a rotator cuff tear in the general population.", "content": "Prevalence and risk factors of a rotator cuff tear in the general population. Little information is available about the epidemiology of rotator cuff tears in a population-based study. The purpose of this study was to elucidate the true prevalence of rotator cuff tears regardless of the presence or absence of symptoms in the general population and to assess the relationship between tears and their backgrounds. A medical check-up was conducted for residents of a mountain village in Japan. The subjects consisted of 683 people (total of 1,366 shoulders), including 229 males and 454 females with a mean age of 57.9 years (range, 22-87). We examined their background factors, physical examinations and ultrasonographic examinations on both shoulders. Rotator cuff tears were present in 20.7% and the prevalence increased with age. Thirty-six percent of the subjects with current symptoms had rotator cuff tears, while 16.9% of the subjects without symptoms also had rotator cuff tears. Rotator cuff tears in the general population were most commonly associated with elderly patients, males, affected the dominant arm, engaged in heavy labor, having a history of trauma, positive for impingement sign, showed lesser active forward elevation and weaker muscle strength in abduction and external rotation. A logistic regression analysis revealed the risk factors for a rotator cuff tear to be a history of trauma, dominant arm and age. 20.7% of 1,366 shoulders had full-thickness rotator cuff tears in the general population. The risk factors for rotator cuff tear included a history of trauma, dominant arm and age. Level 3."}
{"id": "19533125", "title": "Correlations of isokinetic measurements with tendon healing following open repair of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Correlations of isokinetic measurements with tendon healing following open repair of rotator cuff tears. The aim of this study was to investigate the correlation of tendon integrity following open cuff repairs with functional and isokinetic strength measurements. Twenty-six shoulders of 25 patients were included in this study. At the final follow-up, 14 repairs (53.8%) were intact and 12 repairs (46.2%) had failed on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Mean UCLA score at latest follow-up was 28.5 and mean Constant score was 80.3. Constant scores were found to be significantly low for the failed group. Age was found to be significantly related to failed repair. Fatty infiltration stage in the failed repair group was significantly high, and a strong positive correlation for both groups existed pre and postoperatively. When both groups were compared, the failed group was found to have significantly low measurements at extension and internal rotation. Despite high failure rates, functional results were satisfactory. Increased age and fatty infiltration stage decrease success."}
{"id": "19531660", "title": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: prospective evaluation with sequential ultrasonography.", "content": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: prospective evaluation with sequential ultrasonography. Recent studies have demonstrated predictable healing after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair at a single time point, but few studies have evaluated tendon healing over time. Rotator cuff tears that are intact on ultrasound at 1 time point will remain intact, and clinical results will improve regardless of healing status. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 3. The Arthroscopic Rotator Cuff Registry was established to determine the effectiveness of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with clinical outcomes using the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score and ultrasound at 1 and 2 years, postoperatively. Patients were assigned to 1 of 3 groups based on ultrasound appearance: group 1, rotator cuff tendon intact at 1 and 2 years (n = 63); group 2, rotator cuff tendon defect at 1 and 2 years (n = 23); group 3, rotator cuff tendon defect at 1 year but no defect at 2 years (n = 7). The ultrasound appearance was consistent at 1 and 2 years for 86 of the 93 patients (92.5%). The patients in group 1 had a significantly lower mean age (57.8 +/- 9.8 years) than the patients of group 2 (63.6 +/- 8.6 years; P = .04). Group 2 had a significantly greater rotator cuff tear size (4.36 +/- 1.6 cm) than group 1 (2.84 +/- 1.1 cm; P = .00025). Each group had a significant improvement in American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores from baseline to 2-year follow-up. CONCLUSION All intact rotator cuff tendons at 1 year remained intact at 2 years. A small group of patients with postoperative imaging did not appear healed by ultrasound at 1 year but did so at 2 years. Patients demonstrated improvement in American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons shoulder scores, range of motion, and strength, regardless of tendon healing status on ultrasound."}
{"id": "19525129", "title": "Vascularity of the supraspinatus tendon three months after repair: characterization using contrast-enhanced ultrasound.", "content": "Vascularity of the supraspinatus tendon three months after repair: characterization using contrast-enhanced ultrasound. There has been limited in-vivo assessment of rotator cuff vascularity following repair. This study aims to characterize the vascularity of the shoulder 3 months following supraspinatus tendon repair. Twenty-nine patients (average age, 61.4 years) underwent Perflutren lipid microsphere contrast-enhanced shoulder ultrasound examinations 3 months after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. Each shoulder was scanned at rest and following exercise using linear phased array 9-MHz transducer optimized to detect the contrast agent. Blood flow was quantified off-line using ultrasound imaging quantification and analysis software (QLAB, Philips, Andover, MA). Peak enhancement (vascular volume) and rate of rise (perfusion) were determined for 3 regions of interest: peribursal area, supraspinatus tendon, and anchor site. Peak enhancement and rate of rise were greatest in the peribursal soft tissue and anchor site. Resting peak enhancement and rate of rise were significantly lower within the tendon compared to the other 2 regions (P < .001). Exercise resulted in increased enhancement and rate-of-rise to all 3 regions, but had a significant predilection towards increasing vascular volume within the peri-bursal region (P = .026). At 3 months following repair, the majority of blood flow to the repair is derived from the peribursal soft tissues and the anchor site. The tendon, particularly those with a defect at 3 months, is relatively avascular. Though limited by inclusion of only a single time point, this study introduces a new technique to quantify vascularity following supraspinatus repairs and suggests that the surrounding vascular milieu may play a role in tendon healing. Basic Science."}
{"id": "19507473", "title": "[Evaluation with ultrasound and arthro-ultrasonography of complete rotator cuff rupture].", "content": "[Evaluation with ultrasound and arthro-ultrasonography of complete rotator cuff rupture]. Shoulder ultrasonography is revised in the evaluation of complete rotator cuff tears. Also another technique known as artro-ultrasonography, which consist of a 10 mL solution injection inside the articular capsule to observe its escape to the subacromial-subdeltoidea bursae which implicates rotator cuff tear. It is compared against multiple standards like surgery, magnetic resonance, arthrography and rehabilitation to include positive and negative cases. 181 consecutive cases were studied with ultrasonography, 27 with artro-ultrasonography. The criteria for tear is the absence of the hyper-ecogenicity in the tendon, hypo-ecogenic gaps inside the rotator cuff and distention of the bursae due to the presence of liquid. 69% sensibility and 71% specificity for ultrasonography. 92% sensibility and specificity for artro-ultrasonography. The area under the COR curve is 70% for ultrasonography and 93% for artro-ultrasonography. The artro-ultrasonography modified the diagnosis in nine cases, the majority from normal to tear. Three Radiologists proved the agreement with good results. The study contributes to evaluate the performance of ultrasound against multiple standards to correct the great variability in results observed in literature. The contribution of artro-ultrasonography to diagnosis is evaluated. It can be useful in places where accuracy is important and more sophisticated methods like magnetic resonance are not available."}
{"id": "19503046", "title": "[Rotator cuff tears: value of 3.0T MRI].", "content": "[Rotator cuff tears: value of 3.0T MRI]. To demonstrate the value of 3.0T MR imaging for the detection of rotator cuff tendon tears and surgical planning by correlating imaging findings to surgical findings. Materials and methods. Prospective follow-up of patients who underwent 3.0T MR imaging of the shoulder in our department between November 2005 and June 2007. Surgical findings were correlated to imaging findings for 48 patients who underwent surgery: detection, size, partial thickness or complete, and tendon edges. In this patient group, the positive predictive value of MRI for detecting surgical tears was 100% (100% of complete tears and 92% of partial thickness tears). No change in surgical management was recorded when arthroscopy was performed based on MRI findings (size of tear). 3.0 T MRI is valuable for the detection of small tears, especially for partial thickness tears due to increased spatial resolution. The identification of surgical candidates and surgical planning are improved due to more accurate measurements of tear size and quality of the tendon edges."}
{"id": "19502669", "title": "Shoulder impingement syndrome: correlations between clinical tests and ultrasonographic findings.", "content": "Shoulder impingement syndrome: correlations between clinical tests and ultrasonographic findings. To compare the diagnosis of shoulder impingement syndrome (SIS) established by clinical and ultrasonographic examination and to evaluate the value of clinical tests for SIS as well as for rotator cuff pathology. One hundred patients with periathrophatia scapulohumeralis entered the study, including 64 females and 36 males aged between 20-84 years (mean 56.8 and 57.5, respectively). Clinical and ultrasonographic examinations were carried out by independent observers, a rheumatologist and a musculoskeletal-trained sonographer. Clinical tests for SIS and for each of the tendons of the rotator cuff, as well as static and dynamic ultrasonographic examinations were performed for both shoulders. Findings were compared and statistically analyzed. The Hawkins test (72.2%) proved to be the most sensitive clinical test for the identification of SIS and the Neer test (95.3%) was the most specific one. When four tests were simultaneously positive, the specificity for the diagnosis was 98.5% but the sensitivity decreased to 40.3%. Jobe's test indicated supraspinatus involvement with a specificity of 90% but it was not able to disclose the type of lesions. The sensitivity and specificity of the tests aiming to elicit infraspinatus tendon pathology were of low value whereas those addressing subscapularis tendon involvement were rather of moderate value. SIS was clinically correctly diagnosed in 80.5% of cases, but its characteristic stages were poorly recognized (stage I 50%, stage II 70%, and stage III 30.7%). Although clinical tests are insufficient for clinical diagnosis, the examination of the patient still plays an important role in rotator cuff disorders. Ultrasonography should be used for all patients suffering from painful shoulder in order to improve the diagnosis."}
{"id": "19501287", "title": "Arthroscopic removal of intraosseous and intratendinous deposits in calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Arthroscopic removal of intraosseous and intratendinous deposits in calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the surgical outcome of arthroscopic removal of intraosseous deposits in calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff. We studied the results of arthroscopic treatment in 30 shoulders in 28 patients with calcifying tendinitis (mean age, 48.3 years; age range, 26 to 83 years), with a mean follow-up of 38 months. According to the localization of calcification, the patients were divided into 2 groups: those with pure tendinous/soft-tissue involvement (n = 25) (group I) and those with tendinous/soft-tissue and osseous involvement (n = 5) (group II). After routine tendon debridement, debridement and curettage of the bone lesion were also performed in patients with bone involvement. Clinical outcome was evaluated by use of the pain score on a visual analog scale and the Constant score, and a special inquiry was used for self-assessment. The pain scores and functional Constant scores improved significantly after the operation in both groups (P = .043 for pain score and P = .0001 for Constant score in group I and P = .042 for pain score and P = .0001 for Constant score in group II). The median Constant score increased from 42 (range, 22 to 65) preoperatively to 100 (range, 80 to 100) postoperatively in group I and from 40 (range, 25 to 55) to 100 (range, 85 to 100) in group II. The mean pain score was 6.5 +/- 1.4 (range, 4 to 9) before treatment and 0.2 +/- 0.5 (range, 0 to 2) at follow-up in group I, and it was 6.2 +/- 1.48 (range, 4 to 8) and 0.4 +/- 0.55 (range, 0 to 1), respectively, in group II. There was no significant difference between the 2 groups in terms of the final Constant (P = .85) and pain scores (P = .26). Arthroscopic removal of intraosseous and intratendinous deposits to treat calcifying tendinitis with osseous involvement seems to be as safe and effective a treatment method as the arthroscopic removal of intratendinous deposits in cases of tendinous involvement only. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "19501286", "title": "A prospective therapeutic comparison of simple suture repairs to massive cuff stitch repairs for treatment of small- and medium-sized rotator cuff tears.", "content": "A prospective therapeutic comparison of simple suture repairs to massive cuff stitch repairs for treatment of small- and medium-sized rotator cuff tears. The purpose of this study was to compare the massive cuff stitch (MCS) with the simple stitch in terms of integrity at 2 years after surgery when used to repair small-sized to medium-sized full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Seventy-one patients underwent arthroscopic repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears between December 2004 and June 2006. The tear sizes ranged from 0.5 to 1.5 cm. The mean patient age was 53 years (range, 40 to 69 years), and the mean follow-up time was 33 months (range, 24 to 41 months). Group I (n = 35) underwent MCS repair, and group II (n = 36) underwent simple stitch repair. Results were analyzed by use of the Wilcoxon signed rank test and the Mann-Whitney test. Follow-up ultrasound was performed 24 to 41 months after repair. All patients showed improvements in the visual analog scale for pain, activities of daily living, and University of California, Los Angeles scores (P < .05), but there were no significant differences in scores between groups (P > .05). The satisfaction rating was similar for group I (4.7) and group II (4.3) (P > .05). The failure (retear) rate was significantly lower in group I (14.3%) than in group II (27.8%) (P < .05). The clinical outcomes between the MCS and simple stitch were not significantly different, but the MCS was superior to the simple stitch in maintaining repair integrity on ultrasound evaluation after arthroscopic repair of small-sized to medium-sized full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Level III, prospective therapeutic comparative study."}
{"id": "19501285", "title": "Correlation of arthroscopic repairability of large to massive rotator cuff tears with preoperative magnetic resonance imaging scans.", "content": "Correlation of arthroscopic repairability of large to massive rotator cuff tears with preoperative magnetic resonance imaging scans. The purpose of this study was to determine whether there are preoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) variables that could predict the repairability of large to massive rotator cuff tears (RCTs), especially in terms of distinguishing between complete repair and incomplete repair. Fifty-one consecutive patients who had large to massive RCTs were treated by arthroscopic repair with suture anchors. The primary repair was subclassified into 4 types. Types I and II were complete repairs with coverage of the lateral end of the greater tuberosity footprint (type I) or to the medial one half or less of the footprint (type II). Types III and IV were incomplete repairs with either small exposure of the humeral head (<10 mm) (type III) or moderate exposure of the head with repair of the force couple of the rotator cuff (type IV). Six preoperative MRI measurements (fatty degeneration index [FDI] in all planes, occupational grade, tangent sign, coronal oblique tear distance [COTD], sagittal oblique tear distance [SOTD], and coronal oblique thickness) that were reported in the previous literature were examined. These measurements were correlated with our classification of repair. There were 28 large and 23 massive tears. Interobserver reproducibility was good to excellent. When we compared the completely and incompletely repaired groups, the FDI values for sagittal oblique sections of the supraspinatus and the infraspinatus and the FDI values for COTD and SOTD showed statistically significant differences. The cutoff values for SOTD and COTD were 32 mm and 31 mm, respectively. Regarding FDI, values greater than 3 on sagittal oblique sections of the supraspinatus and greater than 2 on sagittal oblique sections of the infraspinatus can be discouraging findings for complete repair. On preoperative MRI of RCTs, FDI values of greater than 3 on sagittal oblique sections of the supraspinatus and greater than 2 on sagittal oblique sections of the infraspinatus with greater than 31 mm in COTD and 32 mm in SOTD can imply incomplete arthroscopic repair of the torn tendon or type III/IV repair. Level II, development of diagnostic criteria based on consecutive patients with universally applied gold standard."}
{"id": "19499278", "title": "Long-term clinical and MRI results of open repair of the supraspinatus tendon.", "content": "Long-term clinical and MRI results of open repair of the supraspinatus tendon. Open repair of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff generally improves function, although anatomic failures are not uncommon. We asked whether the presence or absence of an anatomic repair influenced outcomes. We retrospectively analyzed 47 patients (49 shoulders) treated by open proximalized reinsertion of the supraspinatus tendon for chronic retracted detachment. The mean age of the patients at the time of surgery was 59 years. At a minimum 60-month followup (mean, 87 months; range, 60-133 months), we observed an improvement in the age- and gender-adjusted Constant-Murley score from 67% preoperatively to 95% postoperatively and in the pain score. With the last followup MRI, the supraspinatus tendon had reruptured in five patients (12%); the presence of a rerupture did not negatively influence the functional result. Once healing of the repaired tendons was achieved, supraspinatus muscle atrophy never worsened. However, on MRI, fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis muscles increased postoperatively despite tendon healing. Radiographic centering of the humeral head was preserved and glenohumeral arthritis remained stable. Functional results were better when the standardized supraspinatus muscle area was greater than 0.5 at the final evaluation. Level IV, therapeutic study. See Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "19487518", "title": "Proximal humeral migration in shoulders with symptomatic and asymptomatic rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Proximal humeral migration in shoulders with symptomatic and asymptomatic rotator cuff tears. Proximal humeral migration is commonly seen in rotator-cuff-deficient shoulders. The specific effects of the size of the rotator cuff tear and of pain on glenohumeral kinematics have been poorly defined. The purpose of this study was to examine the influences of cuff tear size and pain, separately, on humeral migration in a series of patients with symptomatic and asymptomatic rotator cuff tears. Ninety-eight asymptomatic and sixty-two symptomatic shoulders were identified from a cohort of patients with unilateral shoulder pain related to rotator cuff disease. All shoulders underwent ultrasonographic evaluation of the rotator cuff and standardized radiographic evaluation. Humeral migration was measured by three observers using software-enhanced radiographic analysis. There was no significant difference in rotator cuff tear size between the asymptomatic and symptomatic shoulders, although more tears involved the infraspinatus in the symptomatic group (p = 0.01). Proximal humeral migration was greater in the shoulders with a symptomatic tear than it was in those with an asymptomatic tear (p = 0.03). Tears that involved the infraspinatus resulted in more migration than did isolated supraspinatus tears in both the symptomatic (p = 0.01) and the asymptomatic shoulders (p = 0.03). When the symptomatic tears of > or =175 mm(2) were analyzed separately, the size of the tear was found to correlate strongly with humeral migration (p = 0.01). However, when the symptomatic tears that were <175 mm(2) were analyzed, neither tear size nor pain was found to have a significant relationship with migration. When the analysis was limited to full-thickness symptomatic tears of > or =175 mm(2), both pain (p = 0.002) and tear area (p = 0.0002) were found to have a significant effect on migration. Multivariate analysis showed that tear size (p = 0.01) was the strongest predictor of migration in symptomatic shoulders. Proximal humeral migration correlates with rotator cuff tear size. Tears extending into the infraspinatus tendon are associated with greater humeral migration than is seen with isolated supraspinatus tears. Humeral migration resulting from symptomatic rotator cuff tears is greater than that resulting from asymptomatic tears. Additionally, there is a critical size for tendon tears resulting in humeral migration in painful shoulders. Although both pain and tear size influence glenohumeral kinematics in symptomatic shoulders, only tear size is an independent predictor of humeral migration."}
{"id": "19481859", "title": "Dynamic visualization of the coracoacromial ligament by ultrasound.", "content": "Dynamic visualization of the coracoacromial ligament by ultrasound. Subacromial impingement syndrome (SIS) is prevalent in athletes who make throwing motions over their heads, as well as in the normal population, but it is difficult to diagnose precisely using physical examination and traditional imaging modalities. Furthermore, the diagnostic testing protocols have not been strictly standardized. We used ultrasound to dynamically visualize coracoacromial ligament (CAL) morphology during shoulder impingement tests: the CAL is the key impinging structure in SIS. Fifty normal shoulders were examined. With the transducer placed on the CAL, the shoulders were examined with seven different testing protocols described in the literature. The degree of CAL bulge from the resting position was measured, and the degree of bulge in different testing protocols was compared. We found that the Hawkins-Kennedy impingement test caused more CAL bulge than the Neer's impingement test, and the most prominent morphological change in the CAL occurred with an internally rotated and horizontally abducted shoulder. We conclude that high-resolution ultrasound is an excellent tool for dynamically inspecting the impinging structures, is applicable in clinical settings, and allows more accurate diagnosis of SIS."}
{"id": "19480907", "title": "Ultrasound compared with magnetic resonance imaging for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears: a critically appraised topic.", "content": "Ultrasound compared with magnetic resonance imaging for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears: a critically appraised topic."}
{"id": "19462766", "title": "[Clinical-ultrasonographic assessment in arthroscopic rotator cuff repair after 1-year follow-up].", "content": "[Clinical-ultrasonographic assessment in arthroscopic rotator cuff repair after 1-year follow-up]. Arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff have shown have shown encouraging clinical results. However, few authors have assessed integrity of repair with ultrasound. The presence of re-rupture by ultrasonography in a rotator cuff repair may not relate to the patient's functional status. We used ultrasonography to assess the prevalence of re-rupture in rotator cuff repairs and its clinical relevance with minimum 1 year postoperatively. Evidence level IV (Case series). We evaluated 27 shoulders that underwent arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. Clinical evaluation was performed using UCLA functional scale, visual analogue scale (UCLA, VAS). Post-operative ultrasound was performed at least 1 year postoperatively. Statistical analysis was done with the SPSS 11.0 software. We examined 27 shoulders, mean age 56.4 (41-78), mean postoperative follow-up 19.6 (12 m-88 m). Clinical assessment with UCLA functional scale results were: good-excellent (77.4%); fair (22.2%). VAS results showed that 44.4% reported VAS of 0; in the range of 1-3 VAS was 55.5% of the patients. Ultrasound evaluation showed no injury in 37%; partial lesion 51.9%, and a total lesion 11.1%. Thirty-three % of the patients with VAS of 0 showed no injury when evaluated by ultrasonography, injury by ultrasound 33.3% with VAS (1-3) 22.2%. UCLA (good-excellent) without injury by ultrasound 33.3% with a 44.4% degree of injury, UCLA (Fair) without injury 3.7%, with some degree of lesion 18.5%. Results no statistically significant difference (p > 0.05). In our series, we find that integrity of rotator cuff postoperative ultrasound, it has no effect on the functional status of patients with postoperative follow-up of at least 1 year, with UCLA and VAS."}
{"id": "19458930", "title": "[Intramuscular rotator cuff cysts: are the cause and diagnosis that simple?].", "content": "[Intramuscular rotator cuff cysts: are the cause and diagnosis that simple?]."}
{"id": "19457838", "title": "Accuracy of MRI, MR arthrography, and ultrasound in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears: a meta-analysis.", "content": "Accuracy of MRI, MR arthrography, and ultrasound in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears: a meta-analysis. The purpose of this study was to compare the diagnostic accuracy of MRI, MR arthrography, and ultrasound for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears through a meta-analysis of the studies in the literature. Articles reporting the sensitivities and specificities of MRI, MR arthrography, or ultrasound for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears were identified. Surgical (open and arthroscopic) reference standard was an inclusion criterion. Summary statistics were generated using pooled data. Scatterplots of the data sets were plotted on a graph of sensitivity versus (1 - specificity). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were generated. Sixty-five articles met the inclusion criteria for this meta-analysis. In diagnosing a full-thickness tear or a partial-thickness rotator cuff tear, MR arthrography is more sensitive and specific than either MRI or ultrasound (p < 0.05). There are no significant differences in either sensitivity or specificity between MRI and ultrasound in the diagnosis of partial- or full-thickness rotator cuff tears (p > 0.05). Summary ROC curves for MR arthrography, MRI, and ultrasound for all tears show the area under the ROC curve is greatest for MR arthrography (0.935), followed by ultrasound (0.889) and then MRI (0.878); however, pairwise comparisons of these curves show no significant differences between MRI and ultrasound (p > 0.05). MR arthrography is the most sensitive and specific technique for diagnosing both full- and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. Ultrasound and MRI are comparable in both sensitivity and specificity."}
{"id": "19451760", "title": "Shoulder impingement: relationship of clinical symptoms and imaging criteria.", "content": "Shoulder impingement: relationship of clinical symptoms and imaging criteria. To establish, in patients with subacromial impingement syndrome, (1) the relationship between pain and shoulder function, as determined by the Constant score, and morphological findings, as determined by radiographs and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and (2) the relationship between acromial shape and minimum acromiohumeral distance (AHD). Cross-sectional study. Tertiary care center. Forty-seven patients (33 males and 14 females; mean age, 51.7 years) with unilateral subacromial impingement syndrome who had failed to respond to conservative therapy for at least 6 months. The Constant score was determined preoperatively; acromial shape (type I, flat; type II, curved; and type III, hooked) was evaluated on preoperative outlet view radiographs and oblique sagittal T1-weighted MRIs; AHD was evaluated on preoperative anteroposterior radiographs and oblique coronal T1-weighted MRIs. Correlation coefficients and the simple kappa statistic were calculated. Student t test and mean differences with 95% confidence limits were reported for group comparisons. The Constant score was fairly correlated with AHD (r = 0.39, P < 0.01) but not with acromial shape. Patients with an AHD < or =7 mm on MRI scored significantly lower than those with an AHD >7 (mean difference, 18.5; P < 0.01). Acromial shape and AHD were not correlated, neither on radiographs nor on MRI. AHD seems to better reflect the clinical status of patients with subacromial impingement, but without rotator cuff tears, than acromial shape. Acromial shape is not a good descriptor of subacromial space narrowing."}
{"id": "19450245", "title": "An MRI study on the relations between muscle atrophy, shoulder function and glenohumeral deformity in shoulders of children with obstetric brachial plexus injury.", "content": "An MRI study on the relations between muscle atrophy, shoulder function and glenohumeral deformity in shoulders of children with obstetric brachial plexus injury. A substantial number of children with an obstetric brachial plexus lesion (OBPL) will develop internal rotation adduction contractures of the shoulder, posterior humeral head subluxations and glenohumeral deformities. Their active shoulder function is generally limited and a recent study showed that their shoulder muscles were atrophic. This study focuses on the role of shoulder muscles in glenohumeral deformation and function. This is a prospective study on 24 children with unilateral OBPL, who had internal rotation contractures of the shoulder (mean age 3.3 years, range 14.7 months to 7.3 years). Using MR imaging from both shoulders the following parameters were assessed: glenoid form, glenoscapular angle, subluxation of the humeral head, thickness and segmental volume of the subscapularis, infraspinatus and deltoid muscles. Shoulder function was assessed measuring passive external rotation of the shoulder and using the Mallet score for active function. Statistical tests used are t-tests, Spearman's rho, Pearsons r and logistic regression. The affected shoulders showed significantly reduced muscle sizes, increased glenoid retroversion and posterior subluxation. Mean muscle size compared to the normal side was: subscapularis 51%, infraspinatus 61% and deltoid 76%. Glenoid form was related to infraspinatus muscle atrophy. Subluxation was related to both infraspinatus and subscapularis atrophy. There was no relation between atrophy of muscles and passive external rotation. Muscle atrophy was not related to the Mallet score or its dimensions. Muscle atrophy was more severe in the subscapularis muscle than in infraspinatus and deltoid. As the muscle ratios are not related to passive external rotation nor to active function of the shoulder, there must be other muscle properties influencing shoulder function."}
{"id": "19448877", "title": "Simultaneous bilateral contracture of the infraspinatus muscle.", "content": "Simultaneous bilateral contracture of the infraspinatus muscle. A case of bilateral fibrotic contracture of the infraspinatus muscles in a five-year-old Belgian Shepherd dog is described. The dog was presented with progressive forelimb lameness with postural and gait abnormalities three months after an episode of overexertion. When walking, the lower part of both forelimbs swung in a lateral arc causing a circumduction movement and in the standing position, the dog showed elbow adduction with external rotation of the distal part of both front limbs. Orthopaedic examination revealed bilateral atrophy of both infraspinatus and supraspinatus muscles and restriction in the range of motion of both shoulders, especially when attempting abduction and flexion. No specific findings were observed in the shoulder or elbow radiographs but hyperechogenic areas were evident in the ultrasonographic examination of both infraspinatus muscles. A diagnosis of fibrotic contracture of both infraspinatus muscles was established and bilateral tenectomy of the insertion tendons of the infraspinatus muscles was performed. Complete recovery of the animal was achieved after the surgery, which was confirmed in a long-term follow-up (10 months). In conclusion, physical examination and ultrasonography allowed a proper diagnosis of the condition, and tenectomy of the infraspinatus muscles resulted in a complete recovery of the patient even with bilateral involvement."}
{"id": "19448361", "title": "[Neuralgic amyotrophy as the primary cause of shoulder pain in a patient with rotator cuff tear].", "content": "[Neuralgic amyotrophy as the primary cause of shoulder pain in a patient with rotator cuff tear]. A 66-year-old woman with no history of trauma presented with severe shoulder pain. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed rupture of the supraspinatus tendon, for which surgical treatment was considered. However, it was noted that shoulder pain was accompanied by weakness in the shoulder muscles, and the patient underwent electroneuromyographic examination, which revealed neuralgic amyotrophy. Following physical therapy and rehabilitation combined with appropriate medical therapy, her symptoms significantly improved. In cases with severe shoulder pain without a trauma history, characteristics of pain should be thoroughly analyzed and neuralgic amyotrophy considered in the differential diagnosis."}
{"id": "19434410", "title": "Pectoralis major transfer for the treatment of irreparable anterosuperior rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Pectoralis major transfer for the treatment of irreparable anterosuperior rotator cuff tears. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the outcome of subcoracoid pectoralis major transfer for the treatment of irreparable anterosuperior rotator cuff tears. This type of tear involves complete rupture of the subscapularis in combination with either the supraspinatus alone or the supraspinatus and infraspinatus. These ruptures are characterised by a poor quality of the rotator cuff that does not allow for a direct tendon-to-bone reconstruction. Between 2000 and 2006, 15 patients were treated using a deltopectoral approach and transfer of the clavicular part of the pectoralis major to the lesser tuberosity and to the anterior part of the greater tuberosity. After an average follow-up (follow-up rate 100%) of 37 months the average functional rating using the Constant and Murley score (CS) increased from 51.73 +/- 16.18 to 68.17 +/- 8.84 points (p = 0.005). The mean subcategories of the Constant score for pain (p = 0.005), activities of daily living (p = 0.008) but not for range of motion (p = 0.9), significantly improved. At follow-up 13 patients (87%) were available for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the shoulder. Nine patients (70%) had an intact transferred pectoralis major muscle, two (15%) had one that was thin but intact and two patients a rupture (one complete). Two patients had postoperative haematoma and one patient developed cuff tear arthropathy. The good results confirm that pectoralis major transfer is a reliable treatment option for irreparable anterosuperior rotator cuff injuries with significant improvement in pain and function."}
{"id": "19428285", "title": "[Fracture of the glenoid cavity Goss-Ideberg type II with inferior dislocation of the shoulder].", "content": "[Fracture of the glenoid cavity Goss-Ideberg type II with inferior dislocation of the shoulder]. We report the case of a fracture of the glenoid, Goss-Ideberg type II, associated with an inferior dislocation of the shoulder, a combination that has not to our knowledge been previously reported. The injury had occurred after a fall of three metres. The radiological assessment included an anteroposterior view and a CT scan that guided the surgical approach by indicating that the fragment of the glenoid cavity was especially dorsal. We carried out a preoperative MRI to eliminate the possibility of a rotator cuff tear being present. The surgical treatment was carried out with the patient in lateral decubitus position and restored normal function to the shoulder."}
{"id": "19411453", "title": "Tendon integrity and functional outcome after arthroscopic repair of high-grade partial-thickness supraspinatus tears.", "content": "Tendon integrity and functional outcome after arthroscopic repair of high-grade partial-thickness supraspinatus tears. Partial-thickness rotator cuff tears are a common cause of shoulder pain, yet the appropriate surgical treatment is controversial. In particular, very little information is available regarding rotator cuff integrity after operative repair. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the functional outcome and anatomic healing rate after arthroscopic repair of high-grade partial (>50%) thickness tears of the supraspinatus tendon. Forty-one consecutive patients (forty-two shoulders) who had undergone arthroscopic conversion of a partial-thickness rotator cuff tear to a full-thickness tear and subsequent repair were evaluated with ultrasound for evidence of rotator cuff healing. Clinical outcomes were assessed with use of validated outcomes measures, and all patients were reexamined by an independent observer. The average patient age was fifty-three years. Thirty-seven (88%) of the forty-two shoulders had an intact rotator cuff repair seen on ultrasound at an average of eleven months postoperatively. The remaining five patients had a full-thickness defect in the tendon. The mean American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) score improved from 46.1 points preoperatively to 82.1 points at the time of follow-up. The overall rate of patient satisfaction was 93%. The average age of the patients with an intact rotator cuff was 51.8 years compared with 62.6 years for those with a persistent defect (p = 0.02). Arthroscopic repair of high-grade partial-thickness rotator cuff tears results in a high rate of tendon healing. Patient age is an important factor in tendon healing."}
{"id": "19409148", "title": "Correlation between rotator cuff tears and repeated subacromial steroid injections: a case-controlled study.", "content": "Correlation between rotator cuff tears and repeated subacromial steroid injections: a case-controlled study. Concern exists regarding potential damage to the rotator cuff from repeated corticosteroid injections into the subacromial space. In this retrospective, case-controlled study, 230 consecutive patients presenting to three orthopaedic units with subacromial impingement and investigated as an end-point with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the shoulder were divided into groups having received less than three or three or more subacromial injections of corticosteroids. With no significant difference in age and sex distribution, analysis by MRI showed no significant difference between the two groups in the incidence of rotator cuff tear (P < 1.0). This suggests that corticosteroid use in patients with subacromial impingement should not be considered a causative factor in rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "19384483", "title": "Arthroscopy surgery versus shock wave therapy for chronic calcifying tendinitis of the shoulder.", "content": "Arthroscopy surgery versus shock wave therapy for chronic calcifying tendinitis of the shoulder. There are several treatment modalities for calcifying tendinitis of the shoulder. If the pain becomes chronic after several months of conservative treatment, open or arthroscopic removal is usually recommended. Recently, extracorporeal shock wave therapy has shown encouraging results in treating calcific deposits. We report a retrospective study to compare the outcome after arthroscopic extirpation (group I, 22 cases) with the effect of low extracorporeal shock wave therapy (group II, 24 cases) in patients with a chronic homogeneous calcific deposit in the supraspinatus tendon. Patients included in the study had undergone unsuccessful conservative therapy in the previous six months with no evidence of subacromial impingement of the rotator cuff independent of the calcium deposit or rupture of the rotator cuff detected by sonography or magnetic resonance imaging. AP and LL radiographies were performed for all of the patients at least one week before the treatment and 24 months after the treatment. To keep the possibility of spontaneous resorption low, the deposit had to be sharply outlined and densely structured on the radiograph (types I and II in the G\u00e4rtner classification). In group II, the patients underwent an average of three treatment sessions of extracorporeal shock waves therapy with 1,500 impulses/session of 0.10-0.13 mJ/mm(2). Preoperative symptoms (P = 0.09), sex (P = 0.17), operated (P = 0.11) and dominant (P = 0.33) limbs, and age (P = 0.99) of the two groups did not show a significative difference between groups. According to the University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) rating system, the mean score in group I improved from 9.36 (+/-5.2) to 30.3 (+/-7.62) points after 24 months, with 81.81% reporting good or excellent results (P < 0.001). In group II the mean score after 24 months rose from 12.38 (+/-6.5) to 28.13 (+/-9.34) points, with 70.83% reporting good or excellent results (P < 0.001). Radiologically, after two years of follow up, there was no calcific deposit in 86.35% (P < 0.001) of the patients of group I and in 58.33 % (P < 0.001) of the patients of group II. According to the UCLA scores, there was no significant difference between the groups at two years of follow-up (P = 0.38). We conclude that shock wave therapy is equivalent to arthroscopy, and so shock wave therapy should be preferred because of its noninvasiveness."}
{"id": "19359418", "title": "The shoulders of professional beach volleyball players: high prevalence of infraspinatus muscle atrophy.", "content": "The shoulders of professional beach volleyball players: high prevalence of infraspinatus muscle atrophy. Beach volleyball is an Olympic overhead sport. It is not well known which clinical and imaging findings are normal and which are associated with symptoms. There are typical clinical and imaging findings in the hitting shoulders of fully competitive professional beach volleyball players, as compared with their nonhitting shoulders. Cross-sectional study; Level of evidence, 3. During the Beach Volleyball Grand Slam Tournament in Klagenfurt, Austria, 84 professional players (54 men, 30 women) underwent a questionnaire-based interview and a complete physical examination, including scoring and sonography of both shoulders. Twenty-nine players had shoulder MRIs. The mean age of the athletes was 28 years. Atrophy of the infraspinatus muscle was found in 30% of the hitting shoulders, and it was not typically recognized by the players. The absolute Constant score was significantly lower in the hitting shoulder (87 versus 93 points, P < .0001). Average external rotation strength was decreased in the hitting shoulder (8.2 versus 9.5 kg, P < .0001). There were more abnormalities on the sonography of the hitting shoulder (1.7 versus 0.4, P < .0001) and in the same shoulders on MRI than on sonography (P = .0231). Compression of the suprascapular nerve was not observed. Pain in the hitting shoulder was present in 63% of the players, without clear correlations to the investigated clinical and imaging parameters. The prevalence of infraspinatus muscle atrophy in professional beach volleyball players is 30%. The typical, fully competitive player has subjectively unrecognized decreased strength of external rotation and frequent unspecific shoulder pain. Therefore, abnormal clinical and imaging findings in the beach volleyball player should be interpreted with care."}
{"id": "19358488", "title": "MR arthrography of the shoulder: glenohumeral ligaments.", "content": "MR arthrography of the shoulder: glenohumeral ligaments. Knowledge of the anatomy of the glenohumeral ligaments is useful in detecting pathology. These ligaments are variable in number and variable in size. Stability of the glenohumeral joint is based on multiple factors. Therefore glenohumeral ligament lesions are associated with coexisting structural abnormalities including capsule, labrum, rotator cuff, coracoacromial arch and bone. Magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography is the method of choice to visualize intraarticular pathology."}
{"id": "19357996", "title": "[Long-term results of suprascapular pulsed radiofrequency in chronic shoulder pain].", "content": "[Long-term results of suprascapular pulsed radiofrequency in chronic shoulder pain]. Suprascapular nerve block has been shown to be effective in acute, postoperative and chronic shoulder pain. The understanding of providing analgesia without destruction of neural tissue makes pulsed radiofrequency (PRF) lesioning attractive as a nondestructive method. In this study, the effectiveness of suprascapular PRF in chronic shoulder pain in both the short- and long-term was assessed. Forty patients suffering from shoulder pain of at least two months' duration, diagnosed with rotator cuff rupture by MRI scanning and with no response to systemic or physical therapy, were enrolled. After a favorable response to a diagnostic suprascapular nerve block, PRF application was done. Pain assessment was done using a standardized 7-point Likert scale and shoulder joint function assessment by Oxford Shoulder Score (OSS). The outcome measures were assessed in the third week as short-term and in six months as long-term. Thirty-two patients completed the study. Eight patients were excluded from the study because of vagotony due to sitting position (20%). In comparison with baseline, Likert score of chronic shoulder pain was good (6.73+/-0.78; 6.50+/-1.07) (for both, p=0.000) and mean OSS was 16.28+/-3.15; 13.81+/-2.23 (for both, p<0.001) in the two assessment periods. Suprascapular nerve PRF lesioning was effective in chronic shoulder pain of rotator cuff lesion, and this effect was maintained in the long-term period. The improvement in shoulder joint function in parallel with decreased chronic shoulder pain was also notable."}
{"id": "19349223", "title": "Results of latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable cuff tears.", "content": "Results of latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable cuff tears. Rupture of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendon (and teres minor) can cause loss of active external rotation (ER), entailing severe functional disability in daily activities. Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer (LDTT), proposed by Gerber in 1988, appears to be the best adapted solution in these cases of irreparable posterior and superior cuff tears. Between 2001 and 2004, 30 patients were operated on by the technique described by Gerber, with the transfer fixed anteriorly to the subscapularis tendon and laterally to the greater tuberosity by transosseous suture. One patient, subsequently requiring revision with a reversed prosthesis, was considered as a failure. Twenty-six patients were reviewed with a mean follow-up delay of 34+/-12 months. There were 14 men and 13 women. Mean age was 55.5 years (36 to 71 years). Preoperatively, active ER was symmetric in seven cases, loss of active ER was moderate with positive lag sign in five cases, significant with positive dropping sign in six cases, and severe in nine cases. Fatty muscular degeneration was present and significant in all cases for the infraspinatus muscle and in 14 cases for the teres minor muscle (associated with significant ER loss). Subjectively, 85% of the patients were very satisfied or satisfied and the Subjective Shoulder Value (SSV) was 68+/-17%. The pain score improved from 4.8+/-3 preoperatively to 12.2+/-2 postoperatively, strength from 3.7+/-2 kg to 4.2+/-1.8 kg, mean Constant score from 50+/-12 to 74+/-9, and Constant score adjusted for age and gender from 62+/-15% to 91+/-11%. Mean active ER gain was 7 degrees (-30 degrees to +50 degrees). The loss of active ER was aggravated in one case, unchanged in three, improved in nine and corrected in six. Hornblower sign was corrected in six cases and persisted in nine. Postoperatively, 8% of the patients were unable to eat and drink, compared to 64.7% preoperatively. The results of this series are comparable to those found in the literature for first-intention cases. LDTT restored active ER, but the results were incomplete and variable. Improvement was better in case of severe preoperative active ER deficit and insufficiency of the teres minor muscle. Recovery of strength was not observed in the present series. A narrow subacromial space and grade-3 Hamada classification had negative impact. In spite of an expected tenodesis effect, LDTT did not recenter the humeral head. LDTT compensates the deficient teres minor muscle rather than the infraspinatus muscle. The optimal indication for LDTT is irreparable superior and posterior rotator cuff rupture with loss of active ER associated with a deficient teres minor muscle. It is debatable whether LDTT is indicated in the absence of active motion deficiency: improvement was observed in these cases, but only in terms of subjective criteria."}
{"id": "19347412", "title": "Reliability of the grading system for fatty degeneration of rotator cuff muscles.", "content": "Reliability of the grading system for fatty degeneration of rotator cuff muscles. Fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff muscles is considered one of the most important factors for the outcomes of cuff repair. However, the reliability of the grading system is not well validated. Two specialists in musculoskeletal radiology and three shoulder fellowship-trained orthopaedic surgeons reviewed the fatty degeneration grades of each cuff muscle of consecutive 75 full-thickness cuff tears. Fatty degeneration grades were assessed according to the systems of Goutallier et al. and Fuchs et al. using preoperative MR and postoperative CT arthrographies. The interclass correlation coefficient was analyzed to assess interobserver and intraobserver reliabilities. For interobserver reliability using the system of Goutallier et al. the interclass correlation coefficient was higher in MR arthrography (0.6-0.72) than in CT arthrography (0.43-0.6) and higher for radiologists (0.58-0.78) than for orthopaedic surgeons (0.32-0.68). There was no difference between the systems of Goutallier et al. and Fuchs et al. Intraobserver reliabilities showed a similar pattern (0.26-0.81), but the level of experience should be considered. Although the system of Goutallier et al. is most widely used in orthopaedics, reported data should be interpreted carefully because of the relatively low reliability. Level III, diagnostic study. See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "19307331", "title": "Biomechanical evaluation of knotless anatomical double-layer double-row rotator cuff repair: a comparative ex vivo study.", "content": "Biomechanical evaluation of knotless anatomical double-layer double-row rotator cuff repair: a comparative ex vivo study. The layered configuration of the rotator cuff tendon is not taken into account in classic rotator cuff tendon repair techniques. The mechanical properties of (1) the classic double-row technique, (2) a double-layer double-row (DLDR) technique in simple suture configuration, and (3) a DLDR technique in mattress suture configuration are significantly different. Controlled laboratory study. Twenty-four sheep shoulders were assigned to 3 repair groups of full-thickness infraspinatus tears: group 1, traditional double-row repair; group 2, DLDR anchor repair with simple suture configuration; and group 3, DLDR knotless repair with mattress suture configuration. After ultrasound evaluation of the repair, each specimen was cyclically loaded with 10 to 100 N for 50 cycles. Each specimen was then loaded to failure at a rate of 1 mm/s. There were no statistically significant differences among the 3 testing groups for the mean footprint area. The cyclic loading test revealed no significant difference among the 3 groups with regard to elongation. For the load-to-failure test, groups 2 and 3 showed no differences in ultimate tensile load when compared with group 1. However, when compared to group 2, group 3 was found to have significantly higher values regarding ultimate load, ultimate elongation, and energy absorbed. The DLDR fixation techniques may provide strength of initial repair comparable with that of commonly used double-row techniques. When compared with the knotless technique with mattress sutures, simple suture configuration of DLDR repair may be too weak. Knotless DLDR rotator cuff repair may (1) restore the footprint by the use of double-row principles and (2) enable restoration of the shape and profile. Double-layer double-row fixation in mattress suture configuration has initial fixation strength comparable with that of the classic double-row fixation and so may potentially improve functional results of rotator cuff repair."}
{"id": "19302053", "title": "Tendon transfers for irreparable rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Tendon transfers for irreparable rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "19294378", "title": "Fast MR arthrography using VIBE sequences to evaluate the rotator cuff.", "content": "Fast MR arthrography using VIBE sequences to evaluate the rotator cuff. The purpose of this paper was to evaluate if short volumetric interpolated breath-hold examination (VIBE) sequences can be used as a substitute for T1-weighted with fat saturation (T1-FS) sequences when performing magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography to diagnose rotator cuff tears. Eighty-two patients underwent direct MR arthrography of the shoulder joint using VIBE (acquisition time of 13 s) and T1-FS (acquisition time of 5 min) sequences in the axial and paracoronal plane on a 1.0-T MR unit. Two radiologists scored rotator cuff tendons on VIBE and T1-FS images separately as normal, small/large partial thickness and full thickness tears with or without geyser sign. T1-FS sequences were considered the gold standard. Surgical correlation was available in a small sample. Sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of VIBE were greater than 92% for large articular-sided partial thickness and full thickness tears. For detecting fraying and articular-sided small partial thickness tears, these parameters were 55%, 94%, 94%, and 57%, respectively. The simple kappa value was 0.76, and the weighted kappa value was 0.86 for agreement between T1-FS and VIBE scores. All large partial and full thickness tears at surgery were correctly diagnosed using VIBE or T1-FS MR images. Fast MR arthrography of the shoulder joint using VIBE sequences showed good concordance with the classically used T1-FS sequences for the appearance of the rotator cuff, in particular for large articular-sided partial thickness tears and for full thickness tears. Due to its very short acquisition time, VIBE may be especially useful when performing MR arthrography in claustrophobic patients or patients with a painful shoulder."}
{"id": "19294377", "title": "Detection of partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears: is a single direct MR arthrography series in ABER position as accurate as conventional MR arthrography?", "content": "Detection of partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears: is a single direct MR arthrography series in ABER position as accurate as conventional MR arthrography? The purpose of this study was to retrospectively evaluate sensitivity and specificity of a single magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography series in abduction external rotation (ABER) position compared with conventional MR arthrography for detection of supraspinatus tendon tears, with arthroscopy as gold standard, and to assess interobserver variability. Institutional review board approval was obtained; informed consent was waived. MR arthrograms of 250 patients (170 men and 80 women; mean age, 36 years) were retrospectively and independently evaluated by three observers. Oblique coronal T1-weighted fat-suppressed images, proton density, and T2-weighted images and axial T1-weighted images and oblique sagittal T1-weighted fat-suppressed images were analyzed to detect supraspinatus tendon tears. Separately, a single T1-weighted fat-suppressed oblique axial series in ABER position was evaluated. Both protocols were scored randomly without knowledge of patients' clinical history and arthroscopy results. Tears were subclassified, based on articular surface integrity and extension (Lee classification). Interobserver agreement was assessed by kappa statistics for all patients. Ninety-two of 250 patients underwent arthroscopy; sensitivity and specificity of ABER and conventional MR arthrography were calculated and compared using paired McNemar test. Weighted kappa values of ABER and conventional MR arthrography were 0.48-0.65 and 0.60-0.67, respectively. According to arthroscopy, 69 of 92 patients had an intact cuff, and 23 patients had a cuff tear (16 partial thickness and seven full thickness). There were no statistically significant differences between ABER and conventional MR arthrography regarding sensitivity (48-61% and 52-70%, respectively) and specificity (80-94% and 91-95%). Sensitivity and specificity of a single T1-weighted series in ABER position and conventional MR arthrography are comparable for assessment of rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "19292357", "title": "Efficacy of repeat shoulder magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Efficacy of repeat shoulder magnetic resonance imaging. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is frequently used in the assessment of patients with shoulder pain. Occasionally, physicians will obtain a repeat MRI of a shoulder that has not had surgical intervention. The purpose of this study was to determine whether repeat shoulder MRI is diagnostically efficacious. All shoulder MRIs (1252 studies) performed at the University of Texas Medical Branch (UTMB) over a 5-year period were retrospectively reviewed. Patients with a surgical intervention prior to repeat MRI were excluded. A total of 19 patients with 22 repeat shoulder MRIs (1.8% of all shoulder MRIs) were identified. The initial and repeat shoulder MRI findings were compared to determine whether a change in pathology could be detected. In 12 (54%) repeat shoulder MRIs studied, significant progression of pathology was noted. The initial MRI did not depict a rotator cuff tear in 17 patients, while subsequent MRI was remarkable for a cuff tear in 8 (47%) of these patients. Furthermore, of the 12 patients demonstrating considerable progression of disease, 4 (33%) had a repeat shoulder MRI within 90 days. The results of the study demonstrate that MRI is an effective modality for detecting shoulder pathology. In select cases in which the findings may be unremarkable, repeat shoulder MRI may be indicated."}
{"id": "19292319", "title": "Grammont inverted prosthesis for the treatment of cuff tear arthropathy: a 6-year follow-up study.", "content": "Grammont inverted prosthesis for the treatment of cuff tear arthropathy: a 6-year follow-up study. This study evaluated mid-term functional results of the Grammont inverted prosthesis for the treatment of shoulder osteoarthritis associated with massive cuff rupture. Twenty-eight patients with a minimum of 6 years of follow-up were evaluated. Clinical evaluation was performed on all patients preoperatively and at follow-up using the Constant score. Radiologic assessment included radiographs and magnetic resonance imaging preoperatively and radiographs at follow-up. Constant score improved from 27.4 preoperatively to 64.6 postoperatively. The inverted prosthesis is attractive and remains one of the options for treating cuff tear arthropathy. However, glenoid loosening remains a serious problem."}
{"id": "19283436", "title": "Cigarette smoking increases the risk for rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Cigarette smoking increases the risk for rotator cuff tears. There is little available evidence regarding risk factors for rotator cuff tears. Cigarette smoking may be an important risk factor for rotator cuff disease. The purpose of this study was to determine if cigarette smoking correlates with an increased risk for rotator cuff tears in patients who present with shoulder pain. A questionnaire was administered to 586 consecutive patients 18 years of age or older who had a diagnostic shoulder ultrasound for unilateral, atraumatic shoulder pain with no history of shoulder surgery. Three hundred seventy-five patients had a rotator cuff tear and 211 patients did not. Data regarding cigarette smoking were obtained for 584 of 586 patients. A history of smoking (61.9% versus 48.3%), smoking within the last 10 years (35.2% versus 30.1%), mean duration of smoking (23.4 versus 20.2 years), mean packs per day of smoking (1.25 versus 1.10 packs per day), and mean pack-years of smoking (30.1 versus 22.0) correlated with an increased risk for rotator cuff tear. We observed a dose-dependent and time-dependent relationship between smoking and rotator cuff tears. We observed a strong association between smoking and rotator cuff disease. This may indicate smoking is an important risk factor for the development of rotator cuff tears. Level III, prognostic study. See Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "19276777", "title": "Assessment of rotator cuff tendons after proximal humerus fractures: is preoperative imaging necessary?", "content": "Assessment of rotator cuff tendons after proximal humerus fractures: is preoperative imaging necessary?"}
{"id": "19269861", "title": "Prospective analysis of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: subgroup analysis.", "content": "Prospective analysis of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: subgroup analysis. The rotator cuff registry was established to evaluate prospectively the effectiveness of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. The purpose of the present study is to report the preliminary data at the 1- and 2-year time point and perform subgroup analysis to identify factors that may affect outcome. A total of 193 patients underwent all-arthroscopic repair of a rotator cuff tear and met the inclusion criteria and 127 (65.8%) completed 2-year follow-up. The outcome measurements included physical examination, manual muscle testing, the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) score, and ultrasonography. The pre-operative ASES score was 52.37 +/- 24.09 and improved to 83.88 +/- 19.28 at 1 year (P < .0001) and 92.65 +/- 11.36 at 2 years (P < 0.0001). The percent healing for all patients was 64.10% at 3 months and 64.34% at 1 year (P = .4080). At 2 years, there was a significant increase in the percentage of healed tendon at 75.42% compared to the 3-month (P (1/4) .0001) and 1-year (P = 0.0332) time points. Patients with intact tendons had an ASES score of 93.9 +/- 10.2 compared to tendon defects with a score of 88.0 +/- 15.6 (P = .0623). Gender, tear size, and acromioclavicular joint involvement have a significant effect on ASES score. Rotator cuff characteristics such as tear size, biceps pathology, acromioclavicular joint pathology, and tissue quality have a significant effect on postoperative tendon integrity. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair demonstrates significant improvement in clinical outcomes and good rate of healing by postoperative ultrasound. Longer-term studies are necessary to determine the efficacy over time."}
{"id": "19261424", "title": "Validation of an adapted MRI pulse sequence for quantification of fatty infiltration in muscle.", "content": "Validation of an adapted MRI pulse sequence for quantification of fatty infiltration in muscle. The long-term goal of our research is to develop a patient-specific biomechanical model of the supraspinatus muscle and tendon for analyzing the effects of fatty infiltration and pennation angle changes. One input of the model will be the amount and distribution of fat within the muscle. Therefore, the objective of this project was to adapt and validate a novel magnetic resonance imaging pulse sequence for quantifying the extent of fatty infiltration for the supraspinatus muscle. Samples of incremental combinations of muscle and fat from a cow were prepared and scanned with our quantitative MR technique. The MR results were compared to actual fat measurements taken using a Soxtec extraction analyzer. The MR fat quantification results closely match those values determined by Soxtec analysis (R(2)=.98, root mean square deviation=4.9). Our MR fat quantification protocol can be used to accurately quantify fatty infiltration in skeletal muscle. This ability to evaluate skeletal muscle tissue noninvasively will improve the efficacy of evaluation of fatty degeneration in assessing tissue quality preoperatively. This can be important in surgical planning of any musculoskeletal repairs, particularly rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "19260383", "title": "The \"Cascade\" membrane: a new PRP device for tendon ruptures. Description and case report on rotator cuff tendon.", "content": "The \"Cascade\" membrane: a new PRP device for tendon ruptures. Description and case report on rotator cuff tendon. Rotator cuff tears are common soft-tissue injuries that often require surgical treatment. Initial efforts to better tendon healing centered on improving the strength of repair. More recent studies have focused on abiologic enhancement of the healing process. Platelet rich plasma (PRP) is a fraction of plasma that has been isolated and used to enhance regeneration in bone and soft tissues. The healing potential of PRP has been attributed to the release of multiple growth factors from the highly concentrated platelets. The \"Cascade\" membrane is a thin layer of autologous fibrine that is very rich in platelets and is obtained by high speed centrifugation of a small quantity of PRP. The Authors present the case of C.U., a right-handed 53 year-old male that came to our attention complaining of severe right shoulder pain and ROM reduction. The MRI showed a thick tear of the sovraspinatus tendon with retraction of the muscle. The patient underwent surgical repair with arthroscopy and mini-open approach with acromionplasty, subacromial decompression, cuff repair by trans-bone suture and application of the \"Cascade\" membrane (A.T. Grade Milano, Italy) that was sutured side-to-side to close the 10 mm tear. A standard rehabilitation protocol for rotator cuff tears was performed. A MRI 6 months after surgical repair showed the complete integrity of the cuff under the membrane. Currently no widely accepted treatment for massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears is available. Allograft reconstruction to span the remaining defect in massive rotator cuff tears will lead to increase functional results; we believe that further studies are needed to describe and evaluate its potential in tendon healing; multiple MRI studies will demonstrate healing of the tendon with the graft."}
{"id": "19252895", "title": "Subacromial bony erosion: a rare presentation of pigmented villonodular synovitis of the shoulder.", "content": "Subacromial bony erosion: a rare presentation of pigmented villonodular synovitis of the shoulder. Pigmented villonodular synovitis (PVNS) rarely affects the shoulder. We describe two cases of PVNS arising from the shoulder joint, which caused rotator cuff tears and sub-acromial bony erosion, and which were treated arthroscopically. Sub-acromial erosion is frequently associated with various glenohumeral joint disorders, but it has not been reported in association with PVNS. We believe PVNS should also be considered in the differential diagnosis of patients who present with sub-acromial erosion."}
{"id": "19250238", "title": "Ultrasound in the diagnosis of noninflammatory musculoskeletal conditions.", "content": "Ultrasound in the diagnosis of noninflammatory musculoskeletal conditions. Sonography is an attractive tool for the diagnosis of musculoskeletal conditions. The clinician can evaluate the anatomic segment during active and/or passive flexion and extension maneuvers, and its real-time capability allows imaging in positions that trigger symptoms. Scanning the contralateral asymptomatic extremity can be used as a reference for normal anatomy in a given patient. A common application of ultrasound is for the assessment of rotator cuff tendons. It can also be used to assess soft tissue infections, nerve pathology, and various sports-related injuries."}
{"id": "20690485", "title": "Summary of an evidence-based guideline on soft tissue shoulder injuries and related disorders--Part 1: Assessment.", "content": "Summary of an evidence-based guideline on soft tissue shoulder injuries and related disorders--Part 1: Assessment. To provide a succinct summary of the diagnosis of soft tissue injuries to the shoulder for primary health care practitioners based on the New Zealand guideline. A multidisciplinary team developed the guideline by critically appraising and grading retrieved literature using the Graphic Appraisal Tool for Epidemiology (GATE). Recommendations were derived from resulting evidence tables. Diagnostic ultrasound is a valid tool for the diagnosis of a full thickness rotator cuff tear. If a significant tear is suspected, referral for diagnostic ultrasound is recommended. There is a paucity of evidence for the diagnosis of soft tissue shoulder injuries and most recommendations are based on the consensus of the guideline team. Assessment relies on thorough history-taking and physician examination with appropriate referral where there is evidence of serious damage or the diagnosis remains unclear."}
{"id": "19234269", "title": "Clinical significance of intramuscular cysts in the rotator cuff and their relationship to full- and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Clinical significance of intramuscular cysts in the rotator cuff and their relationship to full- and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. Secondary signs have been sought to help in the MR diagnosis of rotator cuff tears, especially partial-thickness tears. We sought to determine whether intramuscular cysts are always present with rotator cuff tears and the types of rotator cuff tears with which they present, and to establish the clinical significance of finding intramuscular cysts. Retrospective analysis of our institution's database of 5,101 MRI examinations of the shoulder during an 8-year period resulted in 187 examinations in 185 patients who were thought to have intramuscular cysts. Of the 187 examinations, 134 shoulders in 132 patients (62 women, 70 men) met our criteria for an intramuscular cyst. Of the 134 shoulders with intramuscular cysts, 102 (76.1%) showed imaging findings of both intramuscular cysts and rotator cuff tears. Thirty-two of the 134 (23.9%) shoulders were diagnosed with only an intramuscular cyst and were not associated with a rotator cuff tear. Fifty-five of 102 (53.9%) shoulders consisted of an intramuscular cyst associated with a full-thickness rotator cuff tear, and 47 of 102 (46.1%) shoulders presented with a partial-thickness rotator cuff tear. Forty-eight of 102 (47.1%) shoulders with both an intramuscular cyst and a rotator cuff tear also underwent the reference standard arthroscopy examination to confirm the MRI findings. In 46 of 48 (95.8%) shoulders that underwent arthroscopy, the findings confirmed the imaging evidence; the other two cases were shown to have an intact rotator cuff at arthroscopy. Our study echoes the findings of previous studies that suggest a relationship between intramuscular cysts and full- and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears but illustrates that the incidence of an isolated intramuscular cyst is higher than previously expected. When intramuscular cysts present with rotator cuff tears, they present with full- and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears in relatively equal proportions. The presence of an intramuscular cyst on MRI, although it may be an isolated finding, should prompt a thorough search of all the rotator cuff tendons for tears so that the patient may receive appropriate follow-up."}
{"id": "19226041", "title": "Magnetic resonance arthrographic findings of presumed stage-2 adhesive capsulitis: focus on combined rotator cuff pathology.", "content": "Magnetic resonance arthrographic findings of presumed stage-2 adhesive capsulitis: focus on combined rotator cuff pathology. The purpose of this study was to report the magnetic resonance arthrography (MRA) findings of patients considered to have stage-2 idiopathic adhesive capsulitis and to identify differences in rotator cuff pathologies between 2 age groups (ie, =or< and >60 years). Eighty-one patients, considered to have stage-2 idiopathic adhesive capsulitis based on medical history and a physical examination underwent MRA. Magnetic resonance evaluations focused on combined pathologies other than adhesive capsulitis, especially on the supraspinatus tendon. The pathologies of supraspinatus tendon were divided into 4 categories: normal, tendinosis, partial-tears, and full-thickness tears. Mean patient age was 66 years and mean symptom duration was 8.9 months. There were 38 men and 43 women. Overall, 50 patients (61.7%) showed some form of supraspinatus tendon pathology [small full-thickness tears 6 (7.4%), partial-thickness tears 25 (30.9%), and supraspinatus tendon tendinosis 19 (23.5%)]. The most common MRA finding, other than rotator cuff pathology, was the impression of adhesive capsulitis in 58 patients (71.6%). Group 2 (>60 years) showed a higher prevalence of full and partial-thickness tears (P<.05), however the overall prevalence of supraspinatus tendon pathologies were similar in those younger than and older than 60 years (P=.1795). Approximately 1/3 of stage-2 adhesive capsulitis patients showed some form of supraspinatus tendon tear by MRA, and <10% of patients who were considered to have idiopathic adhesive capsulitis had a full-thickness tear. Adhesive capsulitis patients older than 60 years appeared to be more likely to have a supraspinatus tendon tear."}
{"id": "19225775", "title": "Comparison study of indirect MR arthrography and direct MR arthrography of the shoulder.", "content": "Comparison study of indirect MR arthrography and direct MR arthrography of the shoulder. To compare the diagnostic value of indirect magnetic resonance arthrography (I-MRA) with that of direct MR arthrography (D-MRA) for labral tears, rotator cuff tears, and long head of biceps tendon (LHBT) tears using a 3-T MR unit. Institutional review board approval was given; written informed consent was obtained from all patients. From November 2005 to June 2006, 19 patients (eight men and 11 women; mean age, 51 years) who had undergone both I-MRA and D-MRA underwent arthroscopic surgery. Both methods were performed in fat-saturated axial, coronal oblique, and sagittal oblique T1-weighted sequences, as well as axial and coronal oblique T2-weighted sequences. Two radiologists independently and retrospectively evaluated two sets of MRA for the diagnosis of superior and anterior labral tears, subscapularis tendon (SSC), and supraspinatus-infraspinatus tendon (SSP-ISP) tears, and LHBT tears. With the arthroscopic finding as a gold standard, we analyzed statistical differences of sensitivities and specificities between two sets of MRA and inter-observer agreement was evaluated using the kappa value. The sensitivity and specificity of I-MRA and D-MRA for reader 1 were 79/80% and 71/80%, respectively, for superior labral tears; 100/100% and 100/100%, respectively, for anterior labral tears; 64/75% and 64/100%, respectively, for SSC tears; 100/86% and 100/100%, respectively, for SSP-ISP tears; and 67/100% and 78/100%, respectively, for LHBT tears. Those of I-MRA and D-MRA for reader 2 were 86/80% and 71/100%, respectively, for superior labral tears; 100/83% and 100/100%, respectively, for anterior labral tears; 64/88% and 82/100%, respectively, for SSC tears; 92/86% and 100/100%, respectively, for SSP-ISP tears; and 78/90% and 89/100%, respectively, for LHBT tears. No significant differences were found between the methods. Inter-observer agreements were higher than moderate (kappa > 0.41) with both methods. Based on a relatively small number of patients, no significant difference was detected between I-MRI and D-MRI with regard rotator cuff, labral, and LHBT tears."}
{"id": "19214690", "title": "Degenerated coracoacromial ligament in shoulders with rotator cuff tears shows higher elastic modulus: measurement with scanning acoustic microscopy.", "content": "Degenerated coracoacromial ligament in shoulders with rotator cuff tears shows higher elastic modulus: measurement with scanning acoustic microscopy. The purpose of this study was to determine the elasticity of the coracoacromial ligament in shoulders with and without rotator cuff tears. The coracoacromial ligaments from 20 cadaveric shoulders (average patient age 79.5 years; 8 men, 12 women) were divided into six portions--three portions (acromial, central, and coracoid) in two layers (superficial and deep). A total of 120 samples were studied. First, the samples were classified by the collagen fiber orientation into three degeneration patterns: wavy, straight, irregular. For each pattern, the tissue sound speed, which shows a positive correlation with elasticity, was measured with scanning acoustic microscopy. Next, the samples were divided into three groups: 60 samples from shoulders with rotator cuff tears (RCT group), 30 samples from shoulders with an intact rotator cuff and a subacromial spur (spur group), and 30 samples from shoulders with an intact rotator cuff without a subacromial spur (control group). All shoulders with rotator cuff tears had subacromial spurs. The tissue sound speed and the histological findings were compared among the groups. The sound speeds in the wavy, straight, and irregular patterns were 1592 +/- 17.2 m/s (mean +/- SD), 1626 +/- 28.0 m/s, and 1607 +/- 29.8 m/s, respectively (P < 0.0001). The sound speed in the straight pattern was higher than that in the wavy pattern (P < 0.0001), and that in the irregular pattern was lower than that in the straight pattern (P = 0.0023). The RCT group and the spur group had more straight patterns (P = 0.0002) and fewer wavy patterns (P < 0.0001) than did the control group. Significant differences in the sound speed were observed between the groups (P < 0.0001): 1596 +/- 19.1 m/s in the control group, 1630 +/- 31.5 m/s in the spur group, 1612 +/- 28.6 m/s in the RCT group. The coracoacromial ligament in shoulders with rotator cuff tears shows higher elastic modulus than in age-matched normal shoulders due to degeneration of the ligament."}
{"id": "19213574", "title": "Long-term functional and structural outcome in patients with intact repairs 1 year after open transosseous rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Long-term functional and structural outcome in patients with intact repairs 1 year after open transosseous rotator cuff repair. Tendon-to-bone suture and a fatty degeneration index (FDI) <or= 2 are required to achieve an intact cuff in the mid-term. Our primary objective was to determine the structural and functional long-term outcomes of repaired cuffs that were intact after one year. We studied 30 cuffs with FDI <or= 2 at surgery and no tear one year after tension-free tendon-to-bone suture. Mean follow-up was 9 +/- 0.8 years. Gross tendon-stump lesions were excised prior to repair. Re-tear after one year was rare: only one cuff showed a recurrent tear. In the 29 intact cuffs, mean un-weighted Constant score and sub-scores improved significantly (P values, < .0001- .0002; final Constant score = 77) for two years then remained stable. FDI values increased during the first year and then remained stable. Mild osteoarthritis was noted in one shoulder at last follow-up. Final functional outcomes correlated significantly to FDI at baseline and last follow-up. Tension free tendon-to-bone suture is effective functionally and structurally at nine years follow-up provided the FDI at surgery is <or= 2 and the repair is intact after one year. Level 3; Retrospective cohort therapeutic study."}
{"id": "19204551", "title": "Clinical update: MR imaging of the shoulder.", "content": "Clinical update: MR imaging of the shoulder. Magnetic resonance imaging has become an important diagnostic adjunct in the evaluation of shoulder conditions, and the technology continues to evolve. Direct magnetic resonance arthrography can improve detection of labral and rotator cuff pathology, especially partial thickness tears of the rotator cuff. Special positioning, such as abducted-externally rotated views, improves visualization of the rotator cuff and posterior superior labrum in throwing athletes. Diagnosis-specific sequencing such as fat suppression, spin-echo and proton-density techniques, and higher power magnets (3.0 T) allow for an unprecedented level of soft tissue detail. Clinical expertize is required to differentiate between normal anatomic variants, incidental findings, and true pathology. Although magnetic resonance imaging findings may be diagnostic in some cases, clinical correlation with history and physical examination findings is critical."}
{"id": "19204549", "title": "Diagnostic ultrasound in sports medicine: current concepts and advances.", "content": "Diagnostic ultrasound in sports medicine: current concepts and advances. Diagnostic ultrasound is a valuable imaging tool that is slowly gaining in popularity among sports medicine clinicians. Commonly referred to as \"musculoskeletal ultrasound,\" its valuable role in assisting with sports medicine diagnoses has been to date underused for a variety of reasons. Effective clinical usage for sports medicine diagnoses includes commonly seen conditions such as rotator cuff disease, ulnar collateral ligament of the elbow injury, and internal derangement of the knee, among many others. Limitation of clinical usage has been deterred by the cost of the unit, perception of time associated with assessment procedures, and the lack of formal training associated with diagnostic implementation. However, when properly used, musculoskeletal ultrasound can increase the accuracy of diagnosis and treatment, improve time to treatment intervention, and improve patient satisfaction. The purpose of this paper is to review the fundamentals of musculoskeletal ultrasound and present its specific diagnostic uses."}
{"id": "19204365", "title": "A prospective randomized clinical trial comparing arthroscopic single- and double-row rotator cuff repair: magnetic resonance imaging and early clinical evaluation.", "content": "A prospective randomized clinical trial comparing arthroscopic single- and double-row rotator cuff repair: magnetic resonance imaging and early clinical evaluation. Double-row arthroscopic rotator cuff repair has become more popular, and some studies have shown better footprint coverage and improved biomechanics of the repair. Double-row rotator cuff repair leads to superior cuff integrity and early clinical results compared with single-row repair. Randomized controlled trial; Level of evidence, 1. Forty patients were randomized to either single-row or double-row rotator cuff repair at the time of surgical intervention. Patients were followed with clinical measures (UCLA, Constant, WORC, SANE, ASES, as well as range of motion, internal rotation strength, and external rotation strength). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies were performed on each shoulder preoperatively, 6 weeks, 3 months, and 1 year after repair. Mean anteroposterior tear size by MRI was 1.8 cm. A mean of 2.25 anchors for single row (SR) and 3.2 for double row (DR) were used. There were 2 retears at 1 year in each group. There were 2 additional cases that had severe thinning in the DR repair group at 1 year. The MRI measurements of footprint coverage, tendon thickness, and tendon signal showed no significant differences between the 2 repair groups. At 1 year, there were no differences in any of the postoperative measures of motion or strength. At 1 year, mean WORC (SR, 84.8; DR, 87.9), Constant (SR, 77.8; DR, 74.4), ASES (SR, 85.9; DR, 85.5), UCLA (SR, 28.6; DR, 29.5), and SANE (SR, 90.9; DR, 89.9) scores showed no significant differences between groups. No clinical or MRI differences were seen between patients repaired with a SR or DR technique."}
{"id": "19204363", "title": "Endoscopic repair of gluteus medius tendon tears of the hip.", "content": "Endoscopic repair of gluteus medius tendon tears of the hip. Tears of the gluteus medius tendon at the greater trochanter have been termed \"rotator cuff tears of the hip.\" Previous reports have described the open repair of these lesions. Endoscopic repair of gluteus medius tears results in successful clinical outcomes in the short term. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Of 482 consecutive hip arthroscopies performed by the senior author, 10 patients with gluteus medius tears repaired endoscopically were evaluated prospectively. Perioperative data were analyzed on this cohort of patients. There were 8 women and 2 men, with an average age of 50.4 years (range, 33-66 years). Patients had persistent lateral hip pain and abductor weakness despite extensive conservative measures. Diagnosis was made by physical examination and magnetic resonance imaging and was confirmed at the time of endoscopy in all cases. At the most recent follow-up, patients completed the Modified Harris Hip Score and Hip Outcomes Score surveys. At an average follow-up of 25 months (range, 19-38 months), all 10 patients had complete resolution of pain; 10 of 10 regained 5 of 5 motor strength in the hip abductors. Modified Harris Hip Scores at 1 year averaged 94 points (range, 84-100), and Hip Outcomes Scores averaged 93 points (range, 85-100). There were no adverse complications after abductor repairs. Seven of 10 patients said their hip was normal, and 3 said their hip was nearly normal. With short-term follow-up, endoscopic repair of gluteus medius tendon tears of the hip appears to provide pain relief and return of strength in select patients who have failed conservative measures. Further long-term follow-up is warranted to confirm the clinical effectiveness of this procedure."}
{"id": "19190054", "title": "Large and massive tears of the rotator cuff: functional outcome and integrity of the repair after a mini-open procedure.", "content": "Large and massive tears of the rotator cuff: functional outcome and integrity of the repair after a mini-open procedure. The aim of this study was to determine the functional outcome and rate of re-tears following mini-open repair of symptomatic large and massive tears of the rotator cuff using a two-row technique. The 24 patients included in the study were assessed prospectively before and at a mean of 27 months (18 to 53) after surgery using the Constant and the Oxford Shoulder scores. Ultrasound examination was carried out at follow-up to determine the integrity of the repair. Patient satisfaction was assessed using a simple questionnaire. The mean Constant score improved significantly from 36 before to 68 after operation (p < 0.0001) and the mean Oxford Shoulder score from 39 to 20 (p < 0.0001). Four of the 24 patients (17%) had a re-tear diagnosed by ultrasound. A total of 21 patients (87.5%) were satisfied with the outcome of their surgery. The repair remained intact in 20 patients (83%). However, the small number of re-tears (four patients) in the study did not allow sufficient analysis to show a difference in outcome in relation to the integrity of the repair."}
{"id": "19190053", "title": "Prevalence and characteristics of asymptomatic tears of the rotator cuff: an ultrasonographic and clinical study.", "content": "Prevalence and characteristics of asymptomatic tears of the rotator cuff: an ultrasonographic and clinical study. We undertook clinical and ultrasonographic examination of the shoulders of 420 asymptomatic volunteers aged between 50 and 79 years. MRI was performed in selected cases. Full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff were detected in 32 subjects (7.6%). The prevalence increased with age as follows: 50 to 59 years, 2.1%; 60 to 69 years, 5.7%; and 70 to 79 years, 15%. The mean size of the tear was less than 3 cm and tear localisation was limited to the supraspinatus tendon in most cases (78%). The strength of flexion was reduced significantly in the group with tears (p = 0.01). Asymptomatic tears of the rotator cuff should be regarded as part of the normal ageing process in the elderly but may be less common than hitherto believed."}
{"id": "19184264", "title": "Open versus two forms of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Open versus two forms of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. There have been technologic advances in the methods for repairing torn rotator cuffs. We compared the clinical and structural outcomes of three different forms of rotator cuff repair with up to 24 months' followup. We wished to assess how surgical technique affected clinical outcomes and see how these correlated to repair integrity. Three cohorts of patients had repair of a symptomatic rotator cuff tear using (1) an open technique (n = 49); (2) arthroscopic knotted (n = 53); or (3) arthroscopic knotless (n = 57) by one surgeon. Standardized patient- and examiner-determined outcomes were obtained preoperatively and at 6 weeks, 3 and 6 months, and 2 years postoperatively. Ultrasound studies were performed with a validated protocol at 6 months and 2 years postsurgery. Clinical outcomes were similar with the exception that the arthroscopic groups had, on average, 20% better American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores than the open group at 6 months and 2 years. Retear correlated with tear size and operation time and occurred more frequently after open repair (39%) than after arthroscopic knotted (25%) and arthroscopic knotless (16%) repair. An intact cuff on ultrasound corresponded to better results for supraspinatus strength, patient outcomes, and rotator cuff functional ability. Level III, therapeutic study. See Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "19181972", "title": "Shoulder strength in asymptomatic individuals with intact compared with torn rotator cuffs.", "content": "Shoulder strength in asymptomatic individuals with intact compared with torn rotator cuffs. Normative data are essential to the evaluation of shoulder function. The purposes of this study were to establish a normative database of isometric shoulder strength measured in asymptomatic individuals verified to have intact rotator cuffs and to determine the effect of asymptomatic rotator cuff tears on shoulder strength. Two hundred and thirty-seven volunteers with no shoulder pain or history of shoulder injury were screened with ultrasonography bilaterally for rotator cuff tears and then underwent isometric strength measurements for abduction in the scapular plane and external rotation. Statistical analysis was performed to evaluate the effect of age, body habitus, hand dominance, and the presence of a rotator cuff tear on shoulder strength. Of the 237 volunteers, forty-one were found to have a torn rotator cuff in at least one shoulder. The prevalence of rotator cuff tears was 0% for the subjects between forty and forty-nine years old; 10%, between fifty and fifty-nine years old; 20%, between sixty and sixty-nine years old; and 40.7% for those seventy years old or older. Both abduction strength and external rotation strength in the male subjects showed an age-dependent decrease, whereas only abduction strength showed an age-dependent decrease in the female subjects. In multiple regression analysis, age and weight were the most important predictors of abduction strength and external rotation strength, respectively. In the shoulders with a large-to-massive full-thickness rotator cuff tear, abduction strength was significantly decreased (p = 0.007). Additionally, the ratio of abduction strength to external rotation strength was significantly decreased in the shoulders with a large-to-massive full-thickness tear compared with the shoulders with an intact rotator cuff (p < 0.001). There is a high prevalence of rotator cuff tears in elderly asymptomatic individuals. Asymptomatic shoulders with a large-to-massive full-thickness rotator cuff tear have significantly decreased abduction strength. When there is a substantial decrease in abduction strength in relation to external rotation strength, the presence of an asymptomatic full-thickness tear should be suspected in that shoulder. Previous studies establishing normative values for isometric shoulder strength may have been skewed by the presence of asymptomatic rotator cuff tears in elderly subgroups."}
{"id": "19171279", "title": "Arthroscopic biceps augmentation for avoiding undue tension in repair of massive rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Arthroscopic biceps augmentation for avoiding undue tension in repair of massive rotator cuff tears. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the outcome of massive rotator cuff tears repaired by use of an arthroscopic biceps augmentation technique, interpositioning the tenotomized biceps tendon to bridge the gap between the torn edges of the cuff tendon. Sixty-eight shoulders with massive rotator cuff tears were included in this study. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs with the biceps augmentation technique were performed in 37 patients (group A), whereas 31 patients underwent repair without biceps augmentation (group B). The mean follow-up period was 21 months (range, 14 to 78 months) in group A and 20 months (range, 13 to 63 months) in group B. The mean University of California, Los Angeles score improved from 14.1 points (range, 6 to 21 points) in group A and 13.9 points (range, 7 to 22 points) in group B preoperatively to 32.6 points (range, 22 to 35 points) and 30.3 points (range, 20 to 35 points) postoperatively, respectively (P < .001 and P < .001, respectively). However, the difference between the postoperative scores was not statistically significant (P = .198). At the last follow-up, group A showed better results than group B in forward flexion, external rotation, and internal rotation strength, with statistically significant differences (P = .017, P = .001, and P < .001, respectively). According to the postoperative repair integrity analyzed by use of magnetic resonance imaging, 58.3% of group A cases (14/24) and 26.3% of group B cases (5/19) had complete healing (P = .036). An arthroscopic augmentation technique using the tenotomized biceps tendon was effective in achieving fewer structural failures, equivalent clinical outcomes, and significant improvement in muscle strength in comparison traditional arthroscopic repairs by avoiding undue tension in cases with massive rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "19155413", "title": "Comparison of indirect isotropic MR arthrography and conventional MR arthrography of labral lesions and rotator cuff tears: a prospective study.", "content": "Comparison of indirect isotropic MR arthrography and conventional MR arthrography of labral lesions and rotator cuff tears: a prospective study. The purpose of our study was to prospectively compare the diagnostic accuracy of 3D isotropic indirect MR arthrography with conventional sequences of indirect MR arthrography for the diagnosis of labral and rotator cuff lesions on a 3-T MR unit. Thirty-six consecutive patients who were scheduled for shoulder arthroscopic surgery at our institution underwent indirect MR arthrography. Both conventional sequences and an additional 3D isotropic sequence were obtained 1 day before arthroscopic surgery. Two musculoskeletal radiologists prospectively evaluated the images in consensus for the presence of superior and anterior labral lesions and subscapularis and supraspinatus-infraspinatus tendon tears using the conventional sequences and the 3D isotropic sequence. We analyzed the statistical difference between the sensitivities and specificities of both methods using arthroscopic findings as the reference standard. Surgical findings confirmed the presence of 23 superior labral lesions, eight anterior labral lesions, 21 subscapularis tears, and 24 supraspinatus-infraspinatus tears. The sensitivity and specificity of the conventional sequences were 74% and 54% for superior labral lesions, 88% and 96% for anterior labral lesions, 67% and 85% for subscapularis tendon tears, and 96% and 75% for supraspinatus-infraspinatus tendon tears. The sensitivity and specificity of the 3D isotropic sequence were 70% and 85% for superior labral lesions, 100% and 100% for anterior labral lesions, 67% and 85% for subscapularis tendon tears, and 96% and 67% for supraspinatus-infraspinatus tendon tears. No statistically significant difference was seen in sensitivities and specificities for both methods. Three-dimensional isotropic MR arthrography sequences with multiplanar reconstruction can provide a similar capability for the diagnosis of labral and rotator cuff lesions as conventional MR arthrography sequences but in a shorter imaging time."}
{"id": "19155379", "title": "Sonography of patients with hemiplegic shoulder pain after stroke: correlation with motor recovery stage.", "content": "Sonography of patients with hemiplegic shoulder pain after stroke: correlation with motor recovery stage. This study was performed to clarify the cause of shoulder pain using sonography and to evaluate the relationship between the sonographic findings and the motor recovery stages in stroke patients with hemiplegic shoulder pain. Between March 2005 and January 2007, 71 consecutive stroke patients with hemiplegic shoulder pain underwent shoulder sonography. For comparison, bilateral shoulder joints were evaluated in 20 of the 71 patients. The interpretations of the sonographic findings were based on the findings of previously published studies. Whether a correlation existed between the sonographic findings and the motor recovery stages was determined. Subacromial-subdeltoid (SA-SD) bursal effusion (n = 36) was the most common abnormality seen on sonography. Tendinosis of the supraspinatus tendon (n = 7), partial-thickness tear of the supraspinatus tendon (n = 6), and full-thickness tear of the supraspinatus tendon (n = 2) were also noted. Biceps tendon sheath effusion (n = 39) and normal findings without any biceps tendon sheath effusion (n = 13) were detected. Clinicians managed each patient's shoulder pain on the basis of the sonographic findings. No statistically significant correlation was found between the grade of sonographic findings and Brunnstrom stage (p = 0.183). A shoulder with hemiplegia had a higher number of abnormal sonographic findings than a noninvolved shoulder (p = 0.007). The cause of shoulder pain was variable and there was no correlation between the stages of motor recovery and the grades of sonographic findings in patients with hemiplegic shoulder pain."}
{"id": "19153543", "title": "Clinical and functional profile of patients with the Painful Shoulder Syndrome (PSS).", "content": "Clinical and functional profile of patients with the Painful Shoulder Syndrome (PSS). The Painful Shoulder Syndrome (PSS) is characterized by varying degrees of pain and functional limitation. The aim of this study is to describe the clinical and functional profile of these patients. 136 patients undergoing clinical treatment for PSS were evaluated by a questionnaire regarding the following variables: sex, age, occupation, affected shoulder and its dominance, image diagnosis, pain location, intensity and characteristics, physical activity involving the shoulder, preferential position of upper limbs during occupational activity, limitation of movements during activities o daily living, and job absenteeism. 74.3% of the patients were women (p<0.001), and 54.4% were at or below the mean age of 50+/-12.5 years. The right shoulder was affected most frequently (58.8%) and dominant (91.9%). Rotator cuff tear was the most frequent shoulder pathology (75.4%). Treatment was sought more commonly in the chronic stage of pain (61.0%). Pain, moderate in intensity, predominated in males (54.3%) and severe pain was more frequent in females (47.5%), restricted to the shoulder in 44.1% and worsening at night (50%). The upper limbs were used more frequently below shoulder level during usual daily activities (68.4%), and limitation of movements was present mainly in women (63.4%, p=0.017). Rotator cuff tear is the most frequent cause of PSS. PSS produces pain and functional limitation, especially in women."}
{"id": "19134085", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging findings in dogs with confirmed shoulder pathology.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging findings in dogs with confirmed shoulder pathology. To evaluate the diagnostic potential of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) compared with a reference standard, arthroscopic and/or open surgery, in dogs with soft tissue shoulder pathology. Retrospective study. Dogs (n=21). Magnetic resonance (MR) images were retrospectively evaluated in 21 dogs that had surgically identified soft tissue shoulder pathology. The musculotendinous units of the biceps, infraspinatus, teres minor, supraspinatus, subscapularis, and the medial and lateral glenohumeral ligaments (MGHL and LGHL) were graded as either normal or abnormal. Abnormal structures were further classified as being either inflamed, partially torn, or fully torn. Impingement of the biceps tendon was also evaluated. Results were reported in terms of agreement and concordance between MRI findings and surgical findings. Agreement was defined as the percentage of times MRI findings concurred with surgical findings with respect to a structure being either normal or abnormal. Concordance was defined as the percentage of times MRI concurred with the exact surgically assessed pathology when abnormality was identified. The findings were biceps tendon: 90% agreement with 100% concordance; subscapularis: 95% agreement with 62% concordance; MGHL: 84% agreement with 83% concordance; LGHL: 88% agreement with 100% concordance; infraspinatus: 100% both agreement and concordance; biceps tendon impingement: 90% agreement with 100% concordance. Soft tissue abnormalities of the canine shoulder were readily identified on preoperative MR images. MRI shows great potential as a diagnostic tool in the evaluation of canine shoulder disease."}
{"id": "19133432", "title": "[Latissimus dorsi transfer for treatment of irreparable rotator cuff lesions].", "content": "[Latissimus dorsi transfer for treatment of irreparable rotator cuff lesions]. The paper presents results of treatment of irreparable rotator cuff lesions by means of latissimus dorsi transfer. Material consists of 10 patients treated in our center in 2003-2006. 9 male and 1 female patients were operated. The av. age was 56.3 (27-65). Follow-up period was 15.3 months on average. Evaluation included following measurements: range of motion, pain, UCLA score. 4 patients were evaluated also by ultrasound imaging and EMG. Average increase of active flexion was 70 degrees, active abducion--71 degrees, active external rotation--23 degrees. Pain was significantly diminshed in all patients. The result of treatment in our study group are similar to that presented in literature. Based on this paper latissimus dorsi transfer can be recommended as a technique for traetment of irreparable rotator cuff"}
{"id": "20616950", "title": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair in elite rugby players.", "content": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair in elite rugby players. Rugby is an increasingly popular collision sport. A wide spectrum of injuries can be sustained during training and match play. Rotator cuff injury is uncommon in contact sports and there is little published literature on the treatment of rotator cuff tears in rugby players. We therefore reviewed the results and functional outcomes of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair in elite rugby players. Eleven professional rugby players underwent arthroscopic rotator cuff repair at our hospital over a 2-year period. We collected data on these patients from the operative records. The patients were recalled for outcome scoring and ultrasound scans. There were seven rugby league players and four rugby union players, including six internationals. Their mean age was 25.7 years. All had had a traumatic episode during match play and could not return to the game after the injury. The mean time to surgery was 5 weeks. The mean width of the cuff tear was 1.8 cm. All were full- thickness cuff tears. Associated injuries included two Bankart lesions, one bony Bankart lesion, one posterior labral tear, and two 360 degrees labral tears. The biceps was involved in three cases. Two were debrided and a tenodesis was performed in one. Repair was with suture anchors. Following surgery, all patients underwent a supervised accelerated rehabilitation programme. The final follow-up was at 18 months (range: 6-31 months) post surgery. The Constant scores improved from 44 preoperatively to 99 at the last follow-up. The mean score at 3 months was 95. The Oxford shoulder score improved from 34 to 12, with the mean third month score being 18. The mean time taken to return to full match play at the preinjury level was 4.8 months. There were no complications in any of the patients and postoperative scans in nine patients confirmed that the repairs had healed. We conclude that full-thickness rotator cuff tears in the contact athlete can be addressed successfully by arthroscopic repair, with a rapid return to preinjury status."}
{"id": "19098184", "title": "3-T MRI of the shoulder: is MR arthrography necessary?", "content": "3-T MRI of the shoulder: is MR arthrography necessary? The purpose of this study is to report the diagnostic sensitivity of 3-T conventional MRI versus MR arthrography of the shoulder in the same patient population. One hundred fifty consecutive conventional shoulder MRI and MR arthrography examinations performed on patients 50 years or younger who subsequently underwent arthroscopy were reviewed retrospectively by consensus reading by two musculoskeletal radiologists. All patients selected for arthroscopy had abnormal findings on clinical examination and MRI or MR arthrography. All 150 patients were referred from one orthopedic group. All patients consented to undergo both MRI and MR arthrography. None had undergone prior shoulder surgery. Full- or partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears, superior labral anterior-to-posterior (SLAP) tears, and anterior or posterior labral tears were assessed. Three full-thickness and nine partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears, seven SLAP tears, six anterior labral tears, and two posterior labral tears were seen on MR arthrography but not on conventional MRI. All additional MR arthrography findings were confirmed at arthroscopy. On conventional MRI, sensitivities and specificities compared with arthroscopy were as follows: anterior labral tear, 83% sensitivity and 100% specificity; posterior labral tear, 84% and 100%; SLAP tear, 83% and 99%; supraspinatus tendon tear, 92% and 100%; partial-thickness articular surface tear, 68% and 100%; and partial-thickness bursal surface tear, 84% and 100%. On MR arthrography, sensitivities and specificities compared with arthroscopy were as follows: anterior labral tear, 98% sensitivity and 100% specificity; posterior labral tear, 95% and 100%; SLAP tear, 98% and 99%; supraspinatus tendon tear, 100% and 100%; partial-thickness articular surface tear, 97% and 100%; and partial-thickness bursal surface tear, 84% and 100%. MR arthrography showed a statistical improvement in sensitivity (p<0.05) for detection of partial-thickness articular surface supraspinatus tears, anterior labral tears, and SLAP tears at 3 T. In this series, MR arthrography showed statistically significant increased sensitivity for detection of partial-thickness articular surface supraspinatus tears, anterior labral tears, and SLAP tears compared with conventional MRI at 3 T. On the basis of the above findings, we perform 3-T MR arthrography on patients for whom anterior labral tears, SLAP tears, and partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears are suspected clinically."}
{"id": "19095462", "title": "Neer Award 2007: Reversion of structural muscle changes caused by chronic rotator cuff tears using continuous musculotendinous traction. An experimental study in sheep.", "content": "Neer Award 2007: Reversion of structural muscle changes caused by chronic rotator cuff tears using continuous musculotendinous traction. An experimental study in sheep. Chronic rotator cuff tears are associated with irreversible architectural muscle changes and a high rate of repair failure. The changes observed in man and their irreversibility with a single stage repair can be reproduced in sheep. It was the purpose of this experiment to test the hypothesis that slow, continuous elongation of a retracted musculotendinous unit allows reversal of the currently irreversible structural muscle changes. The infraspinatus tendon of 12 sheep was released using a greater tuberosity osteotomy and allowed to retract for 4 months. Then, a new device was mounted on the scapular spine and used to extend the infraspinatus muscuculotendinous unit transcutaneously by 1 mm per day. Thereafter, the tendon was repaired back to the greater tuberosity. We assessed the muscular architecture using magnetic resonance imaging, macroscopic dissection, histology, and electron microscopy. Fatty infiltration (in Hounsfield units 1/4 HU) and muscular cross-sectional area (in % of the control side) were monitored with computed tomography at tendon release, initiation of elongation, repair, and at sacrifice. Sixteen weeks after tendon release, the mean tendon retraction was 29 +/- 6 mm (14% of original length, P = .008). In 8 sheep, elongation was achieved as planned (group I), but in 4, the elongation failed technically (group II). The mean traction time was 24 +/- 6 days with a mean traction distance of 19 +/- 4 mm. At sacrifice, the mean pennation angle in the infraspinatus of group I was not different from the control side (29.8 degrees +/-7.5 degrees vs. 30 degrees +/-6 degrees , P = .575). In group II, the pennation angle had increased from 30 degrees +/-6 degrees to 55 degrees +/-14 degrees (P = .035). There was no fatty infiltration at the time of tendon release. After retraction, there was a significant increase in fatty infiltration of the infraspinatus muscle and a decrease of its cross-sectional area to 57% of the contralateral side (P = .0001). During traction, the degree of fatty infiltration remained unchanged (36 HU to 38 HU, P = .381), and atrophy improved to a muscle square area of 78% of the contralateral side (P = .0001) in group I. In group II, an increase of fatty infiltration was measured from 36 HU to 28 HU; however, this increase was not significant (P = .144). Atrophy did not change in group II (57-55%, P = .946). At sacrifice, the remaining muscle mass was 64% in group I and 46% in group II (P = .019). Our preliminary results document, that continuous elongation of a retracted, fatty infiltrated and atrophied musculotendinous unit is technically feasible. In the sheep, continuous elongation can lead to restoration of normal muscle architecture, to partial reversal of muscle atrophy, and to arrest of the progression of fatty infiltration. Basic science level 2; Prospective comparative therapeutic study."}
{"id": "19089538", "title": "Three-dimensional ultrasonography of shoulders with rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Three-dimensional ultrasonography of shoulders with rotator cuff tears. It is possible to evaluate the size of rotator cuff tears by ultrasonography (US) or magnetic resonance imaging. However, there are only a few reports on the imaging assessment of the configuration of cuff tears, which could provide important preoperative information that assists performing an optimal anatomical repair. The purpose of this study was to determine quantitatively the reproducibility of three-dimensional US in the assessment of rotator cuff tear configuration. Ten embalmed cadaveric shoulders with rotator cuff tears were examined. After resecting the proximal humerus with the rotator cuff, we put it in water and scanned it using high-resolution US with a three-dimensional linear probe. Actual tear lengths and widths were compared with sonographic measurements (Pearson correlation coefficient). By superimposing the real photographic image on the reconstructed three-dimensional image, we calculated the concordance rate (ratio of the concordance area to the tear area). The actual tear length (16.6 +/- 7.1 mm; mean +/- SD) and width (8.4 +/- 4.4 mm) were correlated with the tear length (16.4 +/- 7.5 mm) and width (8.2 +/- 4.4 mm) measured from reconstructed three-dimensional ultrasonograms (r = 0.998 and 0.994, respectively). The mean concordance rate was 91.4%, indicating that almost exactly the same configuration was reconstructed by US. Three-dimensional US is useful for evaluating the configuration of rotator cuff tears. This is the first report to quantify the similarity between the configuration evaluated by US and the actual configuration. Using this method, we can visualize the configuration of rotator cuff tears preoperatively, facilitating optimal repair design."}
{"id": "19087338", "title": "Atypical manifestation of late onset limb girdle muscular dystrophy presenting with recurrent falling and shoulder dysfunction: a case report.", "content": "Atypical manifestation of late onset limb girdle muscular dystrophy presenting with recurrent falling and shoulder dysfunction: a case report. Myopathies can be sub-classified into congenital, hereditary, mitochondrial, and secondary myopathies.Congenital myopathies are usually diagnosed post partal or in early childhood. Manifestation in adolescence is uncommon and most cases occur as sporadic mutations. Therefore, there is a risk of under diagnosing this disease in middle-aged patients showing pain, dysfunction, recurrent trauma or falls, where muscle atrophy is seen as a secondary injury. Our report is about a 54 year old Caucasian woman with an extended history of pain, loss of function and weakness in her right shoulder. The clinical picture showed a frozen right shoulder. The main finding was a marked limb-muscle atrophy of both delta- und biceps-muscles and a rotator cuff tear that had developed over years. Previous medical consultations attributed the atrophy to recurrent falls, shoulder dysfunction and pain. Conservative treatment (analgesics, physiotherapy, training) had failed.The familiar anamnesis was free of any neurological diseases or other genetic diseases.MRI showed a sub-total proximal muscular limb atrophy and a rotator cuff tear in both shoulders. An incision-biopsy of the right delta- and biceps-muscle revealed a chronical myopathy. The level of creatinkinasis was expected to be high but measurements showed values only slightly above normal. Immunohistochemistry, eventually revealed a mild form of LGMD (type 2I). Due to the pattern of symptoms and diagnostic results we described the case as atypical LGMD. Our case presents a phenotype of a late onset of limb girdle muscular dystrophy syndrome associated with shoulder pain and dysfunction and recurrent falls. This kind of disease is not very common. In particular, muscle atrophy in the elderly is generally seen as a secondary injury. This case should remind us of the importance of a differential diagnosis of a late onset of muscular dystrophy-syndrome in the elderly, since an early diagnosis offers more treatment options, therefore preventing a rapid progression."}
{"id": "19064147", "title": "Superior labral lesions anterior to posterior-evaluation and arthroscopic management.", "content": "Superior labral lesions anterior to posterior-evaluation and arthroscopic management. Lesions of the superior labrum are complex and difficult to both diagnose and treat effectively. The clinical diagnosis is challenging due to the nonspecific history and physical examination. MRI has substantially improved our ability to detect SLAP tears, although experience is necessary to distinguish pathologic findings from normal anatomic variants. Treatment is determined by patient age, functional demands, and the type of lesion identified."}
{"id": "19064146", "title": "Imaging of shoulder injuries in sports medicine: current protocols and concepts.", "content": "Imaging of shoulder injuries in sports medicine: current protocols and concepts. The shoulder joint has a wide breadth of derangements that can occur with sports activity. Whether the mechanism of injury is acute or the sequela of repetitive microtrauma, recent advances in musculoskeletal imaging and the understanding of athletic shoulder trauma will hopefully steer the clinician and radiologist alike to the proper diagnosis. Injury is inevitable. When it occurs, the clinician cognizant of the current concepts and protocols in the imaging of shoulder injury will be better prepared to diagnose and subsequently treat these disorders."}
{"id": "19059895", "title": "Internal impingement of the shoulder.", "content": "Internal impingement of the shoulder. Internal impingement of the shoulder is a pathologic condition characterized by excessive or repetitive contact of the greater tuberosity of the humeral head with the posterosuperior aspect of the glenoid when the arm is abducted and externally rotated. This arm positioning leads to rotator cuff and glenoid labrum impingement by the bony structures of the glenohumeral joint. Although some degree of contact between these structures occurs under normal conditions, to date most of the orthopaedic literature has focused on internal impingement as a disease state that affects overhead athletes and is characterized by the development of articular-sided rotator cuff tears and posterosuperior labral lesions. The precise cause of these impingement lesions remains unclear. However, it is believed that varying degrees of glenohumeral instability, posterior capsular contracture, and scapular dyskinesis may play a role in the development of symptomatic internal impingement. The purpose of this article is to review the pathomechanics, clinical complaints, physical examination findings, and imaging findings that are associated with internal impingement. The results of treatment will be reviewed, and a diagnostic and therapeutic algorithm for the management of internal impingement is presented."}
{"id": "19052931", "title": "Symptomatic partial rotator cuff tears: diagnostic performance of ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging with surgical correlation.", "content": "Symptomatic partial rotator cuff tears: diagnostic performance of ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging with surgical correlation. The painful shoulder is a relatively common clinical entity that may be attributed to a variety of pathologies, including partial rotator cuff tears. Conservative treatment or surgical intervention may be offered, depending on the extent of the partial tear and the degree of patient discomfort. To apply ultrasound (US) imaging in order to evaluate the prevalence of partial rotator cuff tears in patients with painful shoulders. Fifty-six patients (17 men, 39 women; mean age 53.7 years) were included in the study, with symptomatic impingement syndrome of the shoulder after having failed to respond to conservative treatment. All patients underwent US and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans prior to surgical intervention. Arthroscopy or mini-open surgery revealed 53 cases with partial tears of the rotator cuff and three with extensive tendinopathy. Both imaging modalities detected successfully 44 cases of partial tears of the supraspinatus tendon. US imaging yielded a sensitivity of 95.6%, a specificity of 70%, an accuracy of 91%, and a positive predictive accuracy of 93.6%. The corresponding values for MRI were 97.7%, 63.6%, 91%, and 91.7%, respectively. US imaging can be considered almost equally effective in detecting partial tears of the rotator cuff compared to MRI, particularly located in the area of the supraspinatus tendon. MRI may be reserved for doubtful or complex cases, in which delineation of adjacent structures is mandatory prior to surgical intervention."}
{"id": "19046640", "title": "Osteolytic lesion of greater tuberosity in calcific tendinitis of the shoulder.", "content": "Osteolytic lesion of greater tuberosity in calcific tendinitis of the shoulder. This study investigated tuberosity osteolysis, an uncommon and frequently misdiagnosed form of calcific tendinitis of the shoulder, and evaluated its effects on clinical and surgical outcomes. A total of 126 patients with calcific tendinitis studied with radiographs, ultrasound, and magnetic resonance images (MRIs) were divided into groups positive and negative for tuberosity osteolysis and treated by arthroscopy. Follow-up evaluation was at 2 years, using the Constant score. Tuberosity osteolysis was associated with significantly lower Constant scores, both before and after surgical treatment. Clinical and imaging findings exhibited a significant correlation. A 100% correlation was found between arthroscopy and MRI findings of tuberosity osteolysis compared with 90% with radiographs. Imaging and functional data indicate that calcific tendinitis of the rotator cuff with tuberosity osteolysis is a distinctive form of calcific tendinitis that should be considered in clinical and surgical practice. Level 2; Prospective non-randomized comparison prognosis study."}
{"id": "19038720", "title": "Comment on magnetic resonance appearance of the shoulder after subacromial steroid injection.", "content": "Comment on magnetic resonance appearance of the shoulder after subacromial steroid injection."}
{"id": "19023644", "title": "Methylprednisolone versus triamcinolone in painful shoulder using ultrasound-guided injection.", "content": "Methylprednisolone versus triamcinolone in painful shoulder using ultrasound-guided injection. There is little evidence about the comparative efficacy of corticosteroids in the treatment of painful shoulder. The main aim was to compare the efficacy of methylprednisolone (MTP) versus triamcinolone (TMC) in the treatment of painful shoulder using an ultrasound-guided injection. Patients with painful shoulder due to subacromial bursitis and partial or full-thickness rotator cuff tears demonstrated by musculoskeletal ultrasound received a guided-injection of MTP acetate 40 mg (12 patients) or TMC acetonide 40 mg (12 patients). Range of motion and pain visual analogue scale were registered at 10 and 30 min, 1 and 2 weeks postinjection. Two weeks postinjection, both groups reported a mean improvement in range of motion (33%) and relief of pain (61%). Relief of pain of 50% or more was observed in 92% of patients in MTP group and 50% of TMC group (p = 0.02). Two months postinjection, 50% of the patients in MTP group and 25% in TMC group reported total relief of pain (p = 0.3). Patients with painful shoulder receiving an ultrasound-guided injection of MTP or TMC have a rapid and sustained overall response. Relief of pain tends to be more rapid with MTP than TMC."}
{"id": "18996735", "title": "The validity and accuracy of clinical tests used to detect labral pathology of the shoulder--a systematic review.", "content": "The validity and accuracy of clinical tests used to detect labral pathology of the shoulder--a systematic review. Labral tears frequently require repair [Kim S, Ha K, Han K. Biceps Load test: a clinical test for superior labrum anterior and posterior lesions in shoulders with recurrent anterior dislocations. The American Journal of Sports Medicine 1999;27(3):300-3]. Physiotherapists need confidence in clinical tests used to detect labral pathology to accurately identify this condition. This review systematically evaluates the evidence for the accuracy of these tests with reference to study quality and key biases. Cochrane, Medline, Cinahl, AMED, DARE and HTA databases were searched to identify 15 studies evaluating 15 clinical tests for labral pathology against Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI or surgery. Two independent reviewers assessed methodological quality using Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies (QUADAS). Meta Disc calculated likelihood ratios (positive LR>10, providing convincing diagnostic evidence of ruling a condition in; negative LR<0.2 providing large to moderate evidence of ruling the condition out) and true positive rates (TPRs) against false positive rates (FPRs) in receiver operator characteristic (ROC) plots and summary receiver operator curves (SROCs). Probable overestimation of accuracy was caused by use of case control design, verification bias and use of a lesser reference standard. Six accurate tests; Biceps Load I (+LR: 29.09; -LR: 0.09) Biceps Load II (+LR: 26.32; -LR: 0.11), Internal Rotation Resistance (IRRT) (+LR: 24.77; -LR: 0.12), Crank (+LR: 13.59 and 6.46; -LR: 0.1 and 0.22), Kim (+LR: 12.62; -LR:0.21) and Jerk (+LR: 34.71; -LR: 0.27) tests were identified from high quality single studies in selected populations. Subgroup analysis identified varying results of accuracy in the Crank test and the Active Compression (AC) test when evaluated in more than one study. Further evaluation is needed before these tests can be used with confidence."}
{"id": "18996236", "title": "Shoulder ultrasound abnormalities, physical examination findings, and pain in manual wheelchair users with spinal cord injury.", "content": "Shoulder ultrasound abnormalities, physical examination findings, and pain in manual wheelchair users with spinal cord injury. To investigate the presence of ultrasound (US) abnormalities in manual wheelchair users with spinal cord injury (SCI) using a quantitative Ultrasound Shoulder Pathology Rating Scale (USPRS). To investigate physical examination (PE) findings using a quantitative Physical Examination of the Shoulder Scale (PESS), and to obtain data about pain and other subject characteristics such as age, years with SCI, and weight. Case series. National Veterans' Wheelchair Games 2005 and 2006. Volunteer sample of manual wheelchair users with SCI participating in the National Veterans' Wheelchair Games. Not applicable. Presence of relationships between US findings, PE findings, pain, and subject characteristics. The USPRS correlated with age, duration of SCI, and weight (all P<.01), and showed a positive trend with the total Wheelchair User's Shoulder Pain Index (WUSPI) score (r=.258, P=.073). Several US findings related to presence of PE findings for specific structures. The PESS score correlated with the WUSPI (r=.679, P<.001) and duration of SCI (P<.05). The presence of untreated shoulder pain that curtailed activity was noted in 24.5% of subjects, and this was related to increased WUSPI scores (P=.002). PE and US abnormalities are common in manual wheelchair users with SCI. The USPRS and PESS demonstrated evidence for external validity and hold promise as research tools. Untreated shoulder pain is common in manual wheelchair users with SCI, and further investigation of this pain is indicated."}
{"id": "18978411", "title": "The clinical and structural long-term results of open repair of massive tears of the rotator cuff.", "content": "The clinical and structural long-term results of open repair of massive tears of the rotator cuff. At a mean follow-up of 3.1 years, twenty-seven consecutive repairs of massive rotator cuff tears yielded good and excellent clinical results despite a retear rate of 37%. Patients with a retear had improvement over the preoperative state, but those with a structurally intact repair had a substantially better result. The purpose of this study was to reassess the same patients to determine the long-term functional and structural results. At a mean follow-up interval of 9.9 years, twenty-three of the twenty-seven patients returned for a review and were examined clinically, radiographically, and with magnetic resonance imaging with use of a methodology identical to that used at 3.1 years. Twenty-two of the twenty-three patients remained very satisfied or satisfied with the result. The mean subjective shoulder value was 82% (compared with 80% at 3.1 years). The mean relative Constant score was 85% (compared with 83% at 3.1 years). The retear rate was 57% at 9.9 years (compared with 37% at 3.1 years; p = 0.168). Patients with an intact repair had a better result than those with a failed reconstruction with respect to the mean absolute Constant score (81 compared with 64 points, respectively; p = 0.015), mean relative Constant score (95% and 77%; p = 0.002), and mean strength of abduction (5.5 and 2.6 kg; p = 0.007). The mean retear size had increased from 882 to 1164 mm(2) (p = 0.016). Supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscle fatty infiltration had increased (p = 0.004 and 0.008, respectively). Muscles with torn tendons preoperatively showed more fatty infiltration than muscles with intact tendons preoperatively, regardless of repair integrity. Shoulders with a retear had a significantly higher mean acromion index than those without retear (0.75 and 0.65, respectively; p = 0.004). Open repair of massive rotator cuff tears yielded clinically durable, excellent results with high patient satisfaction at a mean of almost ten years postoperatively. Conversely, fatty muscle infiltration of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus progressed, and the retear size increased over time. The preoperative integrity of the tendon appeared to be protective against muscle deterioration. A wide lateral extension of the acromion was identified as a previously unknown risk factor for retearing."}
{"id": "18941855", "title": "Expression of atrophy mRNA relates to tendon tear size in supraspinatus muscle.", "content": "Expression of atrophy mRNA relates to tendon tear size in supraspinatus muscle. Skeletal muscle atrophy and fatty infiltration develop after tendon tearing. The extent of atrophy serves as one prognostic factor for the outcome of surgical repair of rotator cuff tendon tears. We asked whether mRNA of genes involved in regulation of degradative processes leading to muscle atrophy, ie, FOXOs, MSTN, calpains, cathepsins, and transcripts of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, are overexpressed in the supraspinatus muscle in patients with and without rotator cuff tears. We evaluated biopsy specimens collected during surgery of 53 consecutive patients with different sizes of rotator cuff tendon tears and six without tears. The levels of corresponding gene transcripts in total RNA extracts were assessed by semiquantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis. Supraspinatus muscle atrophy was assessed by MRI. The area of muscle tissue (or atrophy), decreased (increased) with increasing tendon tear size. The transcripts of CAPN1, UBE2B, and UBE3A were upregulated more than twofold in massive rotator cuff tears as opposed to smaller tears or patients without tears. These atrophy gene products may be involved in cellular processes that impair functional recovery of affected muscles after surgical rotator cuff repair. However, the damaging effects of gene products in their respective proteolytic processes on muscle structures and proteins remains to be investigated."}
{"id": "18937522", "title": "Rheumatic diseases presenting as sports-related injuries.", "content": "Rheumatic diseases presenting as sports-related injuries. Most individuals seeking consultation at sports medicine clinics are young, healthy athletes with injuries related to a specific activity. However, these athletes may have other systemic pathologies, such as rheumatic diseases, that may initially mimic sports-related injuries. As rheumatic diseases often affect the musculoskeletal system, they may masquerade as traumatic or mechanical conditions. A systematic review of the literature found numerous case reports of athletes who presented with apparent mechanical low back pain, sciatica pain, hip pain, meniscal tear, ankle sprain, rotator cuff syndrome and stress fractures and who, on further investigation, were found to have manifestations of rheumatic diseases. Common systemic, inflammatory causes of these musculoskeletal complaints include ankylosing spondylitis (AS), gout, chondrocalcinosis, psoriatic enthesopathy and early rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Low back pain is often mechanical among athletes, but cases have been described where spondyloarthritis, especially AS, has been diagnosed. Neck pain, another common mechanical symptom in athletes, can be an atypical presentation of AS or early RA. Hip or groin pain is frequently related to injuries in the hip joint and its surrounding structures. However, differential diagnosis should be made with AS, RA, gout, psudeogout, and less often with haemochromatosis and synovial chondochromatosis. In athletes presenting with peripheral arthropathy, it is mandatory to investigate autoimmune arthritis (AS, RA, juvenile idiopathic arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus), crystal-induced arthritis, Lyme disease and pigmented villonodular synovitis. Musculoskeletal soft tissue disorders (bursitis, tendinopathies, enthesitis and carpal tunnel syndrome) are a frequent cause of pain and disability in both competitive and recreational athletes, and are related to acute injuries or overuse. However, these disorders may occasionally be a manifestation of RA, spondyloarthritis, gout and pseudogout. Effective management of athletes presenting with musculoskeletal complaints requires a structured history, physical examination, and definitive diagnosis to distinguish soft tissue problems from joint problems and an inflammatory syndrome from a non-inflammatory syndrome. Clues to a systemic inflammatory aetiology may include constitutional symptoms, morning stiffness, elevated acute-phase reactants and progressive symptoms despite modification of physical activity. The mechanism of injury or lack thereof is also a clue to any underlying disease. In these circumstances, more complete workup is reasonable, including radiographs, magnetic resonance imaging and laboratory testing for autoantibodies."}
{"id": "18829940", "title": "The outcome and structural integrity of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with use of the double-row suture anchor technique. Surgical technique.", "content": "The outcome and structural integrity of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with use of the double-row suture anchor technique. Surgical technique. The reported rate of failure after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair has varied widely. The influence of the repair technique on the failure rates and functional outcomes after open or arthroscopic rotator cuff repair remains controversial. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the functional and anatomic results of arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs performed with the double-row suture anchor technique on the basis of computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging arthrography in order to determine the postoperative integrity of the repairs. A prospective series of 105 consecutive shoulders undergoing arthroscopic double-row rotator cuff repair of the supraspinatus or a combination of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus were evaluated at a minimum of two years after surgery. The evaluation included a routine history and physical examination as well as determination of the preoperative and postoperative strength, pain, range of motion, and Constant scores. All shoulders had a preoperative and postoperative computed tomography arthrogram (103 shoulders) or magnetic resonance imaging arthrogram (two shoulders). There were thirty-six small rotator cuff tears, forty-seven large isolated supraspinatus or combined supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendon tears, and twenty-two massive rotator cuff tears. The mean Constant score (and standard deviation) was 43.2 +/- 15.1 points (range, 8 to 83 points) preoperatively and 80.1 +/- 11.1 points (range, 46 to 100 points) postoperatively. Twelve of the 105 repairs failed. Intact rotator cuff repairs were associated with significantly increased strength and active range of motion. Arthroscopic repair of a rotator cuff tear with use of the double-row suture anchor technique results in a much lower rate of failure than has previously been reported in association with either open or arthroscopic repair methods. Patients with an intact rotator cuff repair have better pain relief than those with a failed repair. After repair, large and massive rotator cuff tears result in more postoperative weakness than small tears do."}
{"id": "18829919", "title": "rhBMP-12 accelerates healing of rotator cuff repairs in a sheep model.", "content": "rhBMP-12 accelerates healing of rotator cuff repairs in a sheep model. The success rate of rotator cuff repairs is variable. This study was performed to evaluate the ability of recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-12 (rhBMP-12), administered in several carriers, to accelerate healing in a sheep model of rotator cuff repair. Local retention of tracer amounts of radiolabeled rhBMP-12, added to non-radiolabeled rhBMP-12 delivered in buffer, hyaluronan paste or sponges, or Type-I or Type-I/III collagen sponges was first evaluated with use of gamma scintigraphy in a pilot study of a rat intramuscular implant model. The rhBMP-12/paste and sponge combinations were then evaluated in eight sheep each with unilateral complete detachment and subsequent double-row reattachment of the infraspinatus tendon to the proximal part of the humerus. Contralateral, normal shoulders from sixteen sheep and shoulders in which a repair had been done without administration of rhBMP-12 in fourteen sheep were also evaluated. The rhBMP-12/Type-I and Type-I/III collagen sponge combinations were each evaluated in eight additional sheep on the basis of superior efficacy. The Type-I/III collagen sponge alone was evaluated in ten sheep to examine the effect of a collagen carrier. Ultrasound imaging was performed at four and eight weeks. Radiographic evaluation, mechanical testing, and biochemical evaluation were performed at eight weeks. Histological evaluation was performed on specimens from the sites of selected repairs following mechanical testing. The sponge carriers had longer local retention of rhBMP-12 than did the buffer or paste carriers in the rat models. All of the sheep shoulder-repair groups demonstrated ultrasound evidence of a gap between the tendon and the humeral insertion. The gap length and the cross-sectional area of the repair tissue decreased with time. The mechanical properties of the repairs treated with rhBMP-12 and hyaluronan paste were similar to those of the untreated repairs. The maximum loads for the rhBMP-12/hyaluronan sponge and rhBMP-12/collagen sponge-treated repairs were 2.1 and 2.7 times greater, respectively, than the loads for the untreated repairs and were 33% and 42% of the value for the normal tendon at eight weeks. The maximum loads for the repairs treated with rhBMP-12 and a Type-I or Type-I/III collagen sponge were 2.1 times greater than those for the repairs treated with the Type-I/III collagen sponge alone. Changes in maximum stiffness followed a similar pattern. Histological evaluation demonstrated accelerated healing of the rhBMP-12-treated repairs compared with the untreated repairs. Bone formation was observed in all repairs, and biochemical measurements were not equivalent to those of normal tendon at eight weeks. Delivery of rhBMP-12 in a collagen or hyaluronan sponge resulted in accelerated healing of acute full-thickness rotator cuff repairs in a sheep model. Delivery of rhBMP-12 in several sponge carriers has the potential to accelerate healing of rotator cuff repairs. Accelerated repair may allow shorter rehabilitation and an earlier return to occupational and recreational activities."}
{"id": "18827245", "title": "Mid-term clinical and sonographic outcome of arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Mid-term clinical and sonographic outcome of arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff. We have conducted a prospective study to assess the mid-term clinical results following arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff. Patients were evaluated using the Constant score, subjective satisfaction levels and post-operative ultrasound scans. Of 115 consecutive patients who underwent arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff at our institution, 102 were available for follow-up. The mean period of follow-up was for 35.8 months (24 to 73). The mean age of the patients was 57.3 years (23 to 78). There were 18 small (< or = 1 cm in diameter), 44 medium (1 cm to 3 cm in diameter), 34 large (3 cm to 5 cm in diameter) and six massive (> 5 cm in diameter) tears. There was a statistically significant increase in the size of the tear with increasing age (p = 0.0048). The mean pre-operative Constant score was 41.4 points (95% confidence interval, 37.9 to 44.9), which improved to 84.5 (95% confidence interval, 82.2 to 86.9). A significant inverse association (p = 0.0074), was observed between the size of the tear and the post-operative Constant score, with patients having smaller tears attaining higher Constant scores after repair. Post-operatively, 80 patients (78.4%) were able to resume their occupations and 84 (82.4%) returned to their pre-injury leisure activities. Only eight (7.8%) of 102 patients were not satisfied with the outcome. Recurrent tears were detected by ultrasound in 19 (18.6%) patients, and were generally smaller than the original ones. Patients with recurrent tears experienced a mean improvement of 31.6 points (95% confidence interval, 23.6 to 39.6) in their post-operative Constant scores. Those with intact repairs had significantly improved (p < 0.0001) Constant scores (mean improvement 46.3 points, 95% confidence interval, 41.9 to 50.6). Patient satisfaction was high in 94 cases (92%), irrespective of the outcome of the Constant score. Recurrent tears appear to be linked to age-related degeneration. Arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff leads to high rates of satisfaction (92%) and good functional results, albeit with a recurrence rate of 18.6% (19 of 102)."}
{"id": "18818103", "title": "A new arthroscopic classification of articular-sided supraspinatus footprint lesions: a prospective comparison with Snyder's and Ellman's classification.", "content": "A new arthroscopic classification of articular-sided supraspinatus footprint lesions: a prospective comparison with Snyder's and Ellman's classification. The aim of this study was to find a descriptive rationale to quantify articular-sided supraspinatus tendon tears in the transverse and coronal planes, leading to a 2-dimensional description of the tear pattern. Fifty-six consecutive patients with articular-sided, symptomatic supraspinatus tendon tears diagnosed clinically and by magnetic resonance imaging underwent standardized diagnostic arthroscopy. Intra-articular findings of the rotator cuff were classified according to Ellman and Snyder. In addition, the longitudinal tear was assessed according to the length of the peeled-off bony footprint in the coronal plane. The sagittal tear extension was defined as a tear of the lateral reflection pulley on the medial border of the supraspinatus tendon and/or a tear in the area of the crescent zone. Statistically, we found a high correlation (r = 0.920, P < .0001) between the classifications of Ellman and Snyder, and we found only a slight correlation between the classifications of Snyder and Ellman with this new classification. Neither the classification of Snyder nor that of Ellman reproduced the extension of the partial-thickness rotator cuff tear in the transverse and coronal planes related to its etiologic pathomorphology."}
{"id": "18814056", "title": "[Shoulder injuries in overhead athletes: utility of MR arthrography].", "content": "[Shoulder injuries in overhead athletes: utility of MR arthrography]. The goal of this work was to assess the accuracy of the MR-Arthrografie in the evaluation of over head athletes injuries in comparison with athroscopy. In 29 patients (middle age: 30 years, 21 male, 8 female, age 16 - 53 years) with persistent pain after conservative therapy an Arthro-MRI with intraarticular application of gadolinum was performed prior to arthroscopic surgery. The MRI was retrospectivly analysed of three examiners independently from one another. The result were compared to the results of the Arthroscopy. Interrater Reliability was calculated by using of Cohens Kappa. The MR-Arthrography could demonstrate 8 of 9 (88.9 %) partial tears of he rotator cuff. All SLAP (Superiores Labrum from Anterior to Posterior) Lesions as well as all bankart type Lesions were recognized through the MR-Arthrography. However, dependent upon the experience of the examiner in a span between 33.3 % (fellow radiologist) and 93.3 % (consultant radiologist). We found a high agreement between consultant radiologist and shoulder surgeon with Kappa of 0.79 for rotator cuff tear-, 0.86 for Bankart- and 0.82 for SLAP-L\u00e4sionen."}
{"id": "18806513", "title": "Axillary mononeuropathy after herpes zoster infection mimicking subacromial impingement syndrome.", "content": "Axillary mononeuropathy after herpes zoster infection mimicking subacromial impingement syndrome. Subacromial impingement syndrome is a frequent cause of shoulder pain and it is readily confused with other shoulder problems. We present a patient with herpes zoster infection associated with axillary mononeuropathy that was initially misdiagnosed as subacromial impingement syndrome. A 75-yr-old female patient was admitted to the internal medicine clinic because of pain and weakness in her right shoulder. As she did not respond to medical treatment and local injection therapy, magnetic resonance imaging of the right shoulder was ordered. As the magnetic resonance imaging revealed subacromial impingement of the supraspinatus tendon, the patient was referred to the physical medicine and rehabilitation department for rehabilitation. In our initial physical examination, her shoulder abductor muscle strength was 2/5 and her shoulder external rotator muscle strength was 3/5. A subacromial injection test with 10 ml of 1% lidocain was negative and the magnetic resonance imaging did not show a complete rotator tendon rupture that could explain such a muscle strength loss. So, an electrodiagnostic evaluation was performed and the patient was diagnosed to have a right axillary neuropathy. A more detailed questioning of the patient disclosed a history of herpes zoster approximately 3 mos ago. Herpes zoster-associated axillary neuropathy can mimic subacromial impingement syndrome, and magnetic resonance imaging examination alone may lead to a misdiagnosis. Therefore, we imply that clinical and electrophysiological evaluations would be of great importance in relevant patients with shoulder problems."}
{"id": "18799326", "title": "Prospective analysis of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: prognostic factors affecting clinical and ultrasound outcome.", "content": "Prospective analysis of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: prognostic factors affecting clinical and ultrasound outcome. The purpose of this study was to identify potential predictors of function and tendon healing after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair that will enable the orthopaedic surgeon to determine which patients can expect a successful outcome. Between 2003 and 2005, the Arthroscopic Rotator Cuff Registry was established to collect demographic, intraoperative, functional outcome, and ultrasound data prospectively on all patients who underwent primary arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. At total of 193 patients met the study criteria, and 127 (65.8%) completed the 2-year follow-up. The most significant independent factors affecting ultrasound outcome were age (odds ratio [OR], 1.08; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.02-1.14; P = .006) and tear size (OR, 2.29; 95% CI, 1.55-3.38; P < .001). After adjustment for age and tear size, the intraoperative factors found to be significantly associated with a tendon defect were concomitant biceps procedures (OR, 11.39; 95% CI, 2.90-44.69; P < .001) and acromioclavicular joint procedures (OR, 3.85; 95% CI, 1.46-10.12; P = .006). In contrast to the ultrasound data, the functional outcome variables, such as satisfaction (OR, 3.92; 95% CI, 2.00-7.68; P < .001) and strength (OR, 10.05; 95% CI, 1.61-62.77; P = .01), had a greater role in predicting an American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score greater than 90. The progression from a single-tendon rotator cuff tear to a multiple-tendon tear with associated pathology increased the likelihood of tendon defect by at least 9 times, and therefore, earlier surgical intervention for isolated, single-tendon rotator cuff tears could optimize the likelihood of ultrasound healing and an excellent functional outcome."}
{"id": "18789118", "title": "Beta2-microglobulin amyloidosis in hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis patients.", "content": "Beta2-microglobulin amyloidosis in hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis patients. Beta(2)-microglobulin (beta(2)-M) amyloidosis is an important cause of morbidity in patients on dialysis. In this cross-sectional study, we evaluated supraspinatus tendon thickness (as a measure of shoulder involvement from beta(2)-M amyloidosis) in patients who are on hemodialysis (HD) compared with those on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). In 27 patients on HD who were treated with high-flux dialyzers, 31 patients on CAPD, and 31 healthy volunteers, we performed bilateral shoulder magnetic resonance imaging and measured the supraspinatus tendon thickness using electronic calipers. There were no statistically significant differences in age or dialysis duration between the HD and CAPD patients. Each patient was asked about the presence or absence of shoulder pain. The supraspinatus tendon thickness in HD patients (mean thickness 6.6 +/- 1.3 mm, range 3.20-8.80 mm, N = 53) and CAPD patients (6.8 +/- 0.9 mm, range 4.9-8.8 mm, N = 61) was not significantly different (P = 0.289); however, the mean thickness in either group was higher than in the healthy controls (5.5 +/- 0.6 mm, range 4.3-6.8 mm, N = 61) (HD patients vs. controls: P = 0.000; CAPD patients vs. controls: P = 0.000). Patients with shoulder pain had higher mean supraspinatus tendon thickness measurements than patients without shoulder pain (P = 0.042). The thickness of supraspinatus tendons is not significantly different between patients on CAPD and HD. An association exists between shoulder pain and mean supraspinatus tendon thickness. This hidden complication of ESRD should be further studied in larger populations of dialysis patients."}
{"id": "18774738", "title": "Full-thickness rotator cuff tear prevalence and correlation with function and co-morbidities in patients sixty-five years and older.", "content": "Full-thickness rotator cuff tear prevalence and correlation with function and co-morbidities in patients sixty-five years and older. The purpose of this study was to determine full-thickness rotator cuff tear prevalence in patients 65 and older and to correlate tears with comfort, function, and co-morbidities. Two-hundred shoulders without prior surgery were evaluated with a Simple Shoulder Test, a Constant Score, and ultrasound. Full thickness tear prevalence was 22%. Adjusting for age and gender, those with tears had lower scores than those without (P < .001 for each). Adjusting for many potential confounders, with a 10-year age increase, the odds of a tear increased 2.69-fold (P = .005). For those with tears, scores were no different for those who had seen a physician for their shoulder compared to those who had not. Full-thickness cuff tear prevalence was 22% in those 65 and older. Tear prevalence increased with increasing age. Shoulder scores were poorer for those with tears."}
{"id": "18774737", "title": "Shoulder rotator strength in patients with stage I-II subacromial impingement: relationship to pain, disability, and quality of life.", "content": "Shoulder rotator strength in patients with stage I-II subacromial impingement: relationship to pain, disability, and quality of life. The purpose of this study was two-fold: to determine the shoulder rotator strength in patients with stage I and II subacromial impingement syndrome and to explore its relationship with pain, disability, and quality of life. Thirteen patients with at least 2 positive tests (Neer, Hawkins, painful arc) on the dominant side and 25 unaffected control subjects were included. All individuals had an intact rotator cuff bilaterally, as evaluated by sonography. Isokinetic testing of the shoulder internal and external rotators was performed using Biodex System 3 during concentric/concentric shoulder rotations at a velocity of 60 degrees /s in the scapular plane. The Shoulder Pain and Disability Index, Simple Shoulder Test, and Nottingham Health Profile were self-reported by all subjects. Peak torque values of patients were found to be indifferent from those of controls'. External and internal rotation strength were negatively correlated with pain (r = .63, r = .66, P < .05). In spite of shoulder pain and disability, general health in stage I and II impingement patients did not show any deterioration."}
{"id": "18760207", "title": "Arthroscopic single-row supraspinatus tendon repair with a modified mattress locking stitch: a prospective, randomized controlled comparison with a simple stitch.", "content": "Arthroscopic single-row supraspinatus tendon repair with a modified mattress locking stitch: a prospective, randomized controlled comparison with a simple stitch. Our purpose was to compare the clinical results and failure rates of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair by use of a modified mattress locking stitch (MMLS) repair versus a simple stitch repair. Between December 2004 and January 2006, 78 cases of arthroscopically repaired full-thickness rotator cuff tears were evaluated prospectively. All tears were between 1.5 and 3 cm in size. The mean age of the patients was 53.4 years (range, 39 to 68 years), and the mean follow-up duration was 31.1 months (range, 24 to 37 months). Thirty-nine individuals underwent arthroscopic repair by use of an MMLS (group I). Thirty-nine individuals underwent arthroscopic repair by use of a simple stitch (group II). Postoperative visual analog scale scores for pain, scores for activities of daily living, and University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) scores were obtained at a mean of 12 months (range, 6 to 36 months). We compared the results statistically by Mann-Whitney U test. In both groups magnetic resonance imaging scans were obtained at 6 to 36 months after repair. Between groups, the visual analog scale scores for pain, scores for activities of daily living, and University of California, Los Angeles scores were not significantly different (P > .05 for all). Of the patients, 92.3% in group I and 89.7% in group II showed excellent or good results at the final follow-up (P > .05). The satisfaction rate was 94.9% (37 cases) in group I and 89.7% (34 cases) in group II (P < .05). Radiographic failure was seen in 6 of 36 cases in group I (16.7%) and 9 of 30 cases in group II (27.4%) (P < .05). Arthroscopic repair of medium-sized (1.5- to 3-cm) full-thickness rotator cuff tears by use of an MMLS improves patient satisfaction rates and radiographic repair integrity in comparison to simple stitch repair. Level II, lesser-quality randomized controlled trial."}
{"id": "18719334", "title": "Elasticity of the supraspinatus tendon-muscle unit is preserved after acute tendon tearing in the rabbit.", "content": "Elasticity of the supraspinatus tendon-muscle unit is preserved after acute tendon tearing in the rabbit. Supraspinatus tendon tearing is one of the most common causes of the shoulder pain and dysfunction, which often requires a surgical repair. In this situation, proximal tendon stump is usually retracted medially from its original insertion. For successful reduction of the retracted tendon stump to its original insertion, the elasticity of the tendon-muscle unit should be preserved by the time of surgery. The purpose of the present study was to clarify the chronological changes in the elasticity of the supraspinatus tendon-muscle unit after acute tendon tearing to determine the optimal timing for the surgery. Right supraspinatus tendon was detached (detached side) in 40 male Japanese white rabbits, with left shoulders served as controls (control side). Eight animals were euthanized at 3 days and 1, 2, 4, or 8 weeks after surgery. Tissue sound speed that closely correlates to its elasticity was measured with a scanning acoustic microscope. In the supraspinatus tendon, tissue sound speed at 3 days after surgery was 1691.1 m/s, compared to 1714.3 m/s at the control side, but the difference was not statistically significant at any postoperative time period up to 8 weeks. In the supraspinatus muscle, tissue sound speed was not affected at all by the detachment of the tendon. The present study indicated that the elasticity of the supraspinatus tendon-muscle unit was well preserved for 8 weeks after the detachment. In the clinical practice, the retracted supraspinatus tendon stump could be repaired without excessive tension by 8 weeks from the acute tendon tearing."}
{"id": "18718766", "title": "Repair integrity and clinical outcome after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using single-row anchor fixation: a prospective study of single-tendon and two-tendon tears.", "content": "Repair integrity and clinical outcome after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using single-row anchor fixation: a prospective study of single-tendon and two-tendon tears. This prospective study determined whether single-row anchor fixation would reliably improve clinical outcome and maintain structural integrity after arthroscopic repair of single-tendon and 2-tendon rotator cuff tears. In 39 patients, 21 shoulders had single-tendon tears and 18 had 2-tendon tears. Mean follow-up was 38 months (minimum, 24 months). A standardized assessment was done preoperatively and postoperatively at yearly intervals. Postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed at a minimum 1-year follow-up. Mean forward elevation, pain, satisfaction, and American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores significantly improved for both groups (P < .01). Postoperative MRI examinations showed 19 cuffs (90%) were intact for single-tendon tears and 15 (83%) were intact for 2-tendon tears. A recurrent tear on postoperative MRI was significantly correlated with the intraoperative finding of asymmetric retraction. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using single-row anchor fixation resulted in significant improvements in clinical outcome and reliable repair integrity for both single-tendon and 2-tendon tears."}
{"id": "18718765", "title": "The role of anterior deltoid reeducation in patients with massive irreparable degenerative rotator cuff tears.", "content": "The role of anterior deltoid reeducation in patients with massive irreparable degenerative rotator cuff tears. The management of massive rotator cuff tears in medically unfit, elderly patients is difficult. We prospectively assessed 17 patients with radiologically confirmed, nontraumatic, massive rotator cuff tears who were treated with an anterior deltoid rehabilitation program. All patients were medically unfit, with an average age of 80 years (range, 70-96 years). Patients were given standard detailed instruction and an illustrated guide. A video recording of shoulder motion was made before and after treatment. The Constant score increased from a mean of 26 (range, 8-41) before treatment to a mean of 60 (range, 43-77) at a minimum of 9 months after treatment. Range of motion in forward elevation improved from a mean of 40 degrees (range, 30 degrees -60 degrees ) at presentation to a mean of 160 degrees (range 150 degrees -180 degrees ) after the deltoid rehabilitation course. We recommend that a structured deltoid rehabilitation program is suitable for elderly patients with massive rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "18712359", "title": "Clinical and structural results of partial supraspinatus tears treated by subacromial decompression without repair.", "content": "Clinical and structural results of partial supraspinatus tears treated by subacromial decompression without repair. Patients with primary impingement and articular sided partial tears of the supraspinatus are often treated by subacromial decompression without repair, if the extent of the tear is estimated to be below 50% of tendon thickness. It has been questioned whether repair of these cuff lesions is necessary, because these tears could progress to full thickness tears with deteriorating clinical results. Our hypothesis was that subacromial decompression without repair of the supraspinatus tendon leads to significant clinical improvement for patients with grade I and II articular sided tears without progression to a full thickness tear on a regular basis. 46 consecutive patients (av. Age 59.2 years, range 33-76.6 years) were retrospectively reviewed after an average follow up of 50.3 months (36-86 months). 26 patients (43.5%) had a grade I tear according to Ellman, which was left alone, 20 patients suffered from a grade II tear, which was debrided. Clinical outcome was assessed with the ASES Score and ultrasound evaluation was performed on all patients to detect possible progression to a full thickness tear. The average ASES Score significantly improved from 37.4 to 86.6 points (p < 0.0001). The mean postoperative Constant Score was 87.6 points. Only three patients (6.5%) progressed to a full thickness tear detectable on ultrasound examination. Only one of these patients had a poor result with an ASES Score of 35 points, the other two were very satisfied and had an ASES score above 90 points. 8 patients showed no more signs of partial tearing on ultrasound and these patients had an average ASES Score of 93.1 points. Overall clinical outcome was rated excellent in 35 cases (76.1%), good in 5 (10.9%), average in 2 (4.3%) and poor in 4 (8.7%). Our results indicate that good and excellent results can be achieved mid- to long term by acromioplasty without repair of the rotator cuff in articular sided partial tears grade I and II. These results reach almost 95% of the value of a healthy shoulder. A better result on ultrasound examination was associated with a superior clinical outcome, while progression to a full thickness tear was rare."}
{"id": "18703980", "title": "The proximal biceps tendon: tricks and pearls.", "content": "The proximal biceps tendon: tricks and pearls. The diagnosis and treatment of proximal biceps tendon injuries continue to be a challenge. The difficulty lies on determining if there is isolated biceps pathology versus concomitant rotator cuff tears or instability. Imaging modalities, such as magnetic resonance imaging, continue to provide us with the extra tool to help us confirm our suspicion of additional pathology. Symptomatic biceps tendon tears can undergo debridement, tenotomy, or tenodesis if nonoperative measures fail to provide relief. Reports from performing a biceps tenotomy often give similar functional outcomes compared with tenodesis. Cosmetic deformity on the lateral arm may be noted with tenodesis and initial fatigue. Tenodesis may subject the patient to a longer rehabilitation process and increased pain. The decision of which one should be performed lies between the physician and the patient's expectations."}
{"id": "18700681", "title": "[Disability and occupational therapy in patient with tear of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[Disability and occupational therapy in patient with tear of the rotator cuff]. The aim of the study was to evaluate the disability of patients with tear of the rotator cuff (TRC) in order to propose an occupational therapy program. We studied 54 patients with TRC. All patients were women (average age 75.4 +/- 5.6 years). X-ray and Ultrasonography were performed on all patients, while Magnetic Resonance Imaging only on 8. The assessment was made using the Constant Scale, the Groningen Activity Restriction Scale, the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), and shoulder range of motion. According to HAQ, disability was severe in 33.4% of patients, moderate in 51.9%, slight in 12.9% and absent in 1.8%. Active motion of shoulder played a relevant role in determining disability (beta = -0.57, p = 0.000, R2 = 0.54), and the active flexion was the most powerful prognostic factor positively associated with disability (beta = 0.50, p = 0.000, R2 = 0.37). Disability was higher in patients with severe deficit of active flexion (z = -3.401, p = 0.000). In patients with bilateral TRC disability was higher than that of patients with right TRC (p = 0.008). Disability did not differ between left and bilateral TRC and between right and left TRC. In patient with bilateral TRC disability was severe in 46.7% of cases and moderate in 53.3%. Our data show that the TRC causes moderate-severe disability and that disability is related to active flexion. In the light of these data we proposed an occupational therapy program. The main points of this program are the gestural compensation, the use of substitutive mechanical aids and the adjustment of the patient's dwelling."}
{"id": "18696194", "title": "Mechanical environment of the supraspinatus tendon: three-dimensional finite element model analysis.", "content": "Mechanical environment of the supraspinatus tendon: three-dimensional finite element model analysis. We analyzed the mechanical environment of the supraspinatus tendon using a three-dimensional finite element model with the software programs MENTAT and MARC. The supraspinatus tendon that attaches to the superior facet was extracted and modeled. The geometric shape of the humeral head was determined from computed tomography images, and the shape of the supraspinatus tendon was determined from magnetic resonance images of the shoulder at 0 degrees of abduction in a healthy 27-year-old man. The distal portion of the humeral head was fixed, and 10 N of tensile force was applied to the proximal end of the tendon. The tensile stress was calculated. The tensile stress was 1.8 MPa for the bursal side and 15.0 MPa for the articular side of the anterior portion of the supraspinatus tendon. The intensity was 0 MPa for the bursal side and 4.5 MPa for the articular side of the middle portion of the tendon. The intensity was 0.1 MPa for the bursal side and 5.2 MPa for the posterior edge of the tendon. Based on the three-dimensional finite element method, the maximal tensile stress was observed on the articular side of the anterior edge of the supraspinatus tendon. Our result may explain the frequent occurrence of rotator cuff tears at this site."}
{"id": "18661565", "title": "Ultrasonographic findings of shoulder disorders in patients with Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Ultrasonographic findings of shoulder disorders in patients with Parkinson's disease. The prevalence of a history of shoulder complaints is higher in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) than in healthy individuals. The aims of this study were to evaluate shoulder disease in PD patients with ultrasonography (US) and to identify the relationship between the US findings of shoulder disease and the motor signs in patients with PD. Thirty-three PD patients completed a shoulder disability questionnaire, a musculoskeletal examination, and US of the shoulder. Twenty-two patients had abnormal US findings. Tendon tearing was the most common abnormal US finding (22/22), and the supraspinatus tendon was the most common site involved (15/22). Patients with tendon tearing had a significantly longer duration of disease than patients without tendon tearing (P = 0.027). Patients with adhesive capsulitis had a significantly higher rigidity score than patients without adhesive capsulitis (P = 0.035). Disease duration and rigidity were the contributing factors for the development of tendon tearing and adhesive capsulitis, respectively."}
{"id": "18658021", "title": "Repair site integrity after arthroscopic transosseous-equivalent suture-bridge rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Repair site integrity after arthroscopic transosseous-equivalent suture-bridge rotator cuff repair. Successful healing after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair remains a challenge. Earlier studies have shown a relatively high rate of failure. New surgical techniques may improve healing potential. The purpose of this study was to provide an objective evaluation of repair site integrity after arthroscopic transosseous-equivalent suture-bridge rotator cuff repair. Rotator cuff tears repaired using the transosseous-equivalent suture-bridge technique will show a higher intact rate on postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) evaluation. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. The first 25 patients who underwent arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using the transosseous-equivalent suture-bridge technique underwent MRI evaluation of the postoperative shoulder. Minimum follow-up was 1 year. Demographic, clinical, and surgical factors, including tear size, were evaluated. Postoperative MRI demonstrated intact surgical repair sites in 22 of 25 patients (88%). Tears limited to the supraspinatus tendon were intact in 16 of 18 patients (89%). Tears of the supraspinatus involving part or all of the infraspinatus showed an 86% intact rate (6 of 7 patients). Of these tears, 3 were considered massive (complete 2-tendon or greater). These demonstrated an intact cuff on MRI. The transosseous-equivalent suture-bridge technique demonstrates a high healing rate on imaging studies at 1 year. Of the first 25 patients repaired with the technique, 88% had an intact rotator cuff repair on MRI evaluation. This indicates excellent cuff healing, as judged by the intact repair sites, compared with most standard arthroscopic rotator cuff repair series. In this early report of the technique, a persistent tear could not be correlated with age or initial tear size; however, this may be due to the relatively small sample size."}
{"id": "18657747", "title": "Arthroscopic intratendinous repair of the delaminated partial-thickness rotator cuff tear in overhead athletes.", "content": "Arthroscopic intratendinous repair of the delaminated partial-thickness rotator cuff tear in overhead athletes. A distinct type of partial-thickness rotator cuff tear has been observed in overhead athletes, characterized by partial failure of the undersurface of the posterior supraspinatus and anterior infraspinatus tendons with intratendinous delamination. We present a technique of percutaneous intratendinous repair using nonabsorbable mattress sutures designed for the management of articular-side delaminated partial-thickness tears. After tear evaluation and preparation, the torn rotator cuff undersurface is held in a reduced position with a grasper through an anterolateral rotator interval portal while viewing intra-articularly. Two spinal needles are then placed percutaneously through the full thickness of the torn and intact rotator cuff. A polydioxanone suture is passed through each needle, retrieved out the anterior portal, and used to shuttle a single nonabsorbable No. 2 suture through the tissue, creating a mattress suture. Multiple mattress sutures can be placed as dictated by tear size and morphology, with suture retrieval and knot securing then proceeding in the subacromial space. We have adopted this approach with the goals of anatomically re-establishing the rotator cuff insertion and sealing the area of intratendinous delamination while preventing significant alteration to the anatomy of the rotator cuff insertion, which could lead to motion deficits, internal impingement, and potential tear recurrence."}
{"id": "18651142", "title": "Sonography of the painful shoulder: role of the operator's experience.", "content": "Sonography of the painful shoulder: role of the operator's experience. The aim of our study was to determine the role of the operator's experience in the sonographic evaluation of the painful shoulder and to validate assumptions about its technical performance in routine practice. Two radiologists, respectively standard and expert sonographic operators, independently and prospectively scanned 65 patients with clinical suspicion of rotator cuff lesion. Magnetic resonance arthrography was the reference standard. The sensitivity of the expert ultrasound operator was 95.3% for full-thickness rotator cuff tears (41/43), 70.6% for partial-thickness tears (12/17), 64.3% for intratendinous tears (9/14), 100% for abnormality of the long head of biceps tendon (seven of seven), 88.9% for supraspinatus tendinosis (16/18), 96.4% for subacromial bursa abnormalities (53/55), and 91.7% for acromioclavicular joint osteoarthritis (33/36). The two sonographic operators were in very good agreement about full-thickness rotator cuff tears (kappa = 0.90), supraspinatus tendinosis (kappa = 0.80), abnormalities of the long head of biceps tendon (kappa = 0.84), subacromial bursa abnormalities (kappa = 0.89), and acromioclavicular osteoarthritis (kappa = 0.81). The agreement was only moderate for partial-thickness tears (kappa = 0.63) and intratendinous tears (kappa = 0.57). Our results show that in moderately experienced hands as in experts' hands, sonography has a low level of interobserver variability for full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Considering partial-thickness and intratendinous rotator cuff tears, our data suggest that interobserver variability is higher."}
{"id": "18618117", "title": "Shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Shoulder arthroplasty. Shoulder prostheses are now commonly used. Clinical results and patient satisfaction are usually good. The most commonly used types are humeral hemiarthroplasty, unconstrained total shoulder arthroplasty, and semiconstrained inversed shoulder prosthesis. Complications of shoulder arthroplasty depend on the prosthesis type used. The most common complications are prosthetic loosening, glenohumeral instability, periprosthetic fracture, rotator cuff tears, nerve injury, infection, and deltoid muscle dysfunction. Standard radiographs are the basis of both pre- and postoperative imaging. Skeletal scintigraphy has a rather limited role because there is overlap between postoperative changes which may persist for up to 1 year and early loosening and infection. Sonography is most commonly used postoperatively in order to demonstrate complications (hematoma and abscess formation) but may also be useful for the demonstration of rotator cuff tears occurring during follow-up. CT is useful for the demonstration of bone details both pre- and postoperatively. MR imaging is mainly used preoperatively, for instance for demonstration of rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "18608021", "title": "Shoulder magnetic resonance arthrography: a prospective randomized study of anterior and posterior ultrasonography-guided contrast injections.", "content": "Shoulder magnetic resonance arthrography: a prospective randomized study of anterior and posterior ultrasonography-guided contrast injections. Magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography is an accurate imaging method for internal shoulder derangements and rotator cuff pathologies. Both anterior and posterior contrast injection techniques, under palpatory, fluoroscopic, or ultrasonographic guidance have been described in the literature. However, clinical comparisons of the injection techniques remain few. To compare the performance of anterior and posterior ultrasonography (US)-guided arthrography injections of the shoulder regarding patient discomfort and influence on diagnostic MR reading, and to illustrate the typical artifacts resulting from contrast leakage in the respective techniques. 43 MR arthrographies were prospectively randomized into anterior and posterior US-guided contrast injections and performed by two radiologists, with the study of artifacts from contrast leakage. Pain from the injections was assessed by a survey utilizing a 100-mm visual analogue scale (VAS). Of the 23 anterior injections, nine caused contrast artifacts in the subscapular tendon, and in three the leakage extended further anteriorly. Of the 20 posterior injections, 12 showed injection artifacts of the rotator cuff, extending outside the cuff in seven. Two of the anterior and none of the posterior artifacts compromised diagnostic quality. In posterior injections, the leakage regularly occurred at the caudal edge of the infraspinatus muscle and was easily distinguishable from rotator cuff tears. All patients completed the pain survey. Mean VAS scores were 25.0 (median 18, SD 22) for anterior, and 25.4 (median 16, SD 25) for posterior injections. The two radiologists achieved different mean VAS scores but closely agreed as to anterior and posterior VAS scores. Arthrography injections were fairly simple to perform under US guidance. Patient discomfort for anterior and posterior injections was equally minor. A tailored approach utilizing anterior or posterior injections, depending on anticipated shoulder pathology, is recommended. Because in posterior injections all artifacts were posterior and readily recognizable, it seems especially suitable for suspected anterior rotator cuff, joint capsule, and labral pathologies."}
{"id": "18601817", "title": "[Shoulder joint disorder: correlation of findings by arthroscopy and magnetic resonance imaging].", "content": "[Shoulder joint disorder: correlation of findings by arthroscopy and magnetic resonance imaging]. To evaluate the efficacy of magnetic resonance (MR) examination in intra- and extra- articular shoulder disorders, in comparison with arthroscopic findings, in patients with both acute injuries and chronic problems of the shoulder. Conventional MR images and MR arthrograms of the shoulder were obtained in 35 patients treated between January 2004 and January 2006. Each MR image was evaluated by five radiologists experienced in assessing findings on the musculoskeletal system. Subsequently, the patients underwent shoulder arthroscopy performed by shoulder arthroscopy surgeons. Each detailed arthroscopic report was compared with the pre-operative MR findings, and the sensitivity and specificity of MR examination were calculated. The arthroscopic findings served as standards of reference for comparison. SLAP lesions were found intra-operatively in seven out of the 35 patients (20 %). MR sensitivity was 43 % (3 to 7 patients) and specificity was 96 % (27 to 28). The accuracy of MR for SLAP lesion diagnosis was 86 % (30 of 35 patients). Tears in the anterior labrum were diagnosed by arthroscopy in 16 of 35 patients (46 %); MR sensitivity was 44 % (7 of 16 patients) and specificity was 89 % (17 of 19). The accuracy of MR for diagnosing labral tears was 68 % (24 of 35 patients). When designing our study, we tried to avoid limitations of similar investigations. We employed a nuclear magnetic resonance system with high resolution and standardized both the arthroscopic technique and the evaluation of MR images. Our results of diagnosing rotator cuff disorders and SLAP lesions are in agreement with those of other relevant studies. The limitation of our study was a small size of the group. Although MR imaging is a sensitive method suitable for diagnosing some shoulder disorders, the MR imaging of SLAP lesions and labral tears does not give results accurate enough to be used for pre-operative planning."}
{"id": "18601813", "title": "[Role of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of shoulder joint injury].", "content": "[Role of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of shoulder joint injury]. To define the role of ultrasonography in the diagnostic algorithm for patients with shoulder joint injury and to show its potential for the detection of rotator cuff tears and Hill-Sachs lesions. A group of 52 patients with clinical signs of shoulder disorders following trauma who were treated in the 2005-2006 period. After ultrasonographic examination, all patients were surgically treated by arthroscopy. In 12 of them an additional magnetic resonance imaging was carried out before surgery. The results of ultrasonography were compared with arthroscopic findings in terms of detection of full-thickness rotator cuff tears and Hill-Sachs lesions. These were the two most frequent traumatic lesions detected by ultrasonography. A full-thickness tear of the rotator cuff was correctly diagnosed in 13 patients. In further four the ultrasound finding was incorrectly interpreted as a moderate rotator cuff injury. For the detection of full-thickness tears, the sensitivity of the method was 76 %, its specificity was 94 % and accuracy 88 %. The detection of Hill-Sachs lesions by ultrasonography correlated with arthroscopic findings, with a sensitivity of 86 %, specificity of 93 % and accuracy of 92 %. A number of studies report on options for the ultrasonographic detection of various types of traumatic injury to shoulder structures. Examination by ultrasound shows skeletal surfaces, thus permitting detection of a minor bone injury or a Hill- Sachs defect, and reveals soft tissue shoulder structures including tendons, ligaments and bursae. In some studies the possibility of detecting rotator cuff tears by ultrasonography has been described. Although sufficient accuracy of ultrasonographic examination in this region is reported, the results are not consistent. Our results show high reliability of ultrasonography for the diagnosis of shoulder trauma. The detection of full-thickness rotator cuff tears and Hill-Sachs lesions was possible with sufficient accuracy, which makes this quick, simple and available examination a valuable diagnostic tool. The finding of a rotator cuff tear is important information for the orthopaedist and, in the majority of patients, is also an indication for surgery. An ultrasonographic examination can therefore be regarded as a standard part of the diagnostic algorithm for shoulder trauma."}
{"id": "18598814", "title": "[Acromioclavicular cyst].", "content": "[Acromioclavicular cyst]."}
{"id": "18592217", "title": "The use of split deltoid-flap in the treatment of massive rotator cuff defects: a retrospective study of 61 patients.", "content": "The use of split deltoid-flap in the treatment of massive rotator cuff defects: a retrospective study of 61 patients. Massive and irreparable rotator cuff tears are a challenge for the orthopaedic surgeon. The purpose of this study was to report our experience with the treatment of massive and irreparable defects of the rotator cuff with a modified deltoid split transfer. Between 1996 and 2004, for all patients suffering from full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff (> 5 cm tears in diameter, involving two or more tendons) were operated with a modified deltoid split transfer. A total of 61 patients (39 females and 22 males; age 61.9: range 49-75 years) were operated. Duration of symptoms before surgery averaged 9.6 months (range 3.5-14 months). The patients were followed for an average of 46 months (range 24-64 months). The operation included an arthroscopic evaluation, acromioplasty with resection of the lateral clavicular end, resection of the acromioclavicular joint and where necessary biceps tenodesis. The cuff defect was repaired by transfer of half thickness anterior deltoid-flap (3 cm x 5 cm) into the defect. All patients were evaluated both preoperatively and postoperatively with regard to pain, ability to perform activities of daily life, range of motion, strength and satisfaction. The patients subjectively rated their results--49 (80%) excellent or good outcome, seven moderate and five poor. Preoperatively, the Constant amounted 33.5 +/- 7.74 points. At follow-up, the score significantly increased to 77.57 +/- 19.74 points. The acromiohumeral distance increased from 5.1 +/- 1.4 mm to 9.1 +/- 1.5 mm. Pain free flexion improved from an average 90 degrees to an average 165 degrees (P < 0.01), and abduction improved from an average 110 degrees to an average 160 degrees (P < 0.01). The mean external rotation increased from 40 degrees to 65 degrees (P < 0.01), and internal rotation increased from 50 degrees to 70 degrees (P = 0.06). In the MRI and ultrasound examination, all patients had intact flap, except the three patients with flap necrosis. There were eight complications--three haematomas, two superficial wound infections which did not influence the outcome, and three fibrotic transformation after an early aseptic necrosis of the deltoid flap, which were re-operated. This technique is easy to perform, and it is possible to obtain a satisfactory outcome after repair of massive tears of the rotator cuff. A substantial decrease of pain, increased stability, an increase range of motion and strength can be achieved, with proper rehabilitation."}
{"id": "18591763", "title": "Isolated rupture of the teres major muscle.", "content": "Isolated rupture of the teres major muscle."}
{"id": "18591598", "title": "The detection of full thickness rotator cuff tears using ultrasound.", "content": "The detection of full thickness rotator cuff tears using ultrasound. We have examined the accuracy of 143 consecutive ultrasound scans of patients who subsequently underwent shoulder arthroscopy for rotator-cuff disease. All the scans and subsequent surgery were performed by an orthopaedic surgeon using a portable ultrasound scanner in a one-stop clinic. There were 78 full thickness tears which we confirmed by surgery or MRI. Three moderate-size tears were assessed as partial-thickness at ultrasound scan (false negative) giving a sensitivity of 96.2%. One partially torn and two intact cuffs were over-diagnosed as small full-thickness tears by ultrasound scan (false positive) giving a specificity of 95.4%. This gave a positive predictive value of 96.2% and a negative predictive value of 95.4%. Estimation of tear size was more accurate for large and massive tears at 96.5% than for moderate (88.8%) and small tears (91.6%). These results are equivalent to those obtained by several studies undertaken by experienced radiologists. We conclude that ultrasound imaging of the shoulder performed by a sufficiently-trained orthopaedic surgeon is a reliable time-saving practice to identify rotator-cuff integrity."}
{"id": "18591587", "title": "The pathogenesis and surgical treatment of tears of the rotator cuff.", "content": "The pathogenesis and surgical treatment of tears of the rotator cuff. This review discusses the pathogenesis and surgical treatment of tears of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "18589276", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging appearance of the shoulder after subacromial injection with corticosteroids can mimic a rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging appearance of the shoulder after subacromial injection with corticosteroids can mimic a rotator cuff tear. Subacromial injections have been used to treat rotator cuff problems. Previous studies have noted the difficulty in performing accurate injections into this area. In addition, one must also question the effects that misplaced corticosteroids could have on the surrounding tissues. In this case, a 51-year-old woman presented with several weeks of left shoulder pain and was diagnosed with rotator cuff tendonitis. After a subacromial injection with betamethasone and lidocaine, the patient noted 3 weeks of near complete pain relief, followed by a return of her symptoms. A magnetic resonance imaging scan obtained 7 weeks after the injection showed a full-thickness tear of the supraspinatus tendon. Five weeks later, the patient underwent arthroscopic evaluation of the shoulder and subacromial decompression. The rotator cuff tendons were noted to be intact and normal in appearance. The patient eventually had full resolution of her symptoms. Six months postoperatively, she underwent a new scan that showed a normal supraspinatus tendon. Apparently, the subacromial injection penetrated the anterior half of the supraspinatus tendon, causing a transient effect and signal change. One should use caution in the interpretation of magnetic resonance imaging scans of the shoulder soon after the injection of corticosteroids."}
{"id": "18564471", "title": "Rotator cuff strength following open subscapularis tendon repair.", "content": "Rotator cuff strength following open subscapularis tendon repair. The purpose of this study was to evaluate supraspinatus and subscapularis strength following repair of either isolated or anterosuperior subscapularis tears associated with a supraspinatus tear. Open subscapularis repairs were done in 24 patients, 12 isolated and 12 anterosuperior. At an average follow-up of 40 months, UCLA, ASES, and Constant scores were recorded. Subscapularis and supraspinatus strengths were tested using a spring gauge. Ultrasound scanning was performed in 20 patients. Average scores were 27 UCLA, 77 ASES and 90 relative Constant. Subscapularis strength was 92% of the non-operated shoulder. Supraspinatus strength was 90%. Statistical analysis showed a significant decrease in supraspinatus strength in the anterosuperior group. No other significant differences were noted. Ultrasound scanning showed an intact subscapularis tendon in all. Full thickness supraspinatus tears were found in 5 and partial thickness in 1. Not the subscapularis, but the supraspinatus determines the outcome of anterosuperior repairs, with more re-tears and decreased strength."}
{"id": "18562731", "title": "Abnormalities of the lesser tuberosity on radiography and MRI: association with subscapularis tendon lesions.", "content": "Abnormalities of the lesser tuberosity on radiography and MRI: association with subscapularis tendon lesions. The objective of our study was to retrospectively evaluate the association between abnormalities of the lesser tuberosity and subscapularis tendon lesions. Cortical irregularities and cysts of the lesser tuberosity were evaluated on radiographs and MR images in 70 patients: 31 with normal subscapularis tendons and 39 with subscapularis tendon tears. These imaging findings were correlated with subscapularis tendon tears diagnosed during arthroscopy and with fatty atrophy of the subscapularis muscle seen on MR images. Correlations between imaging findings, patient age, history of trauma, and the reference standards were assessed using gamma coefficients. Interreader agreement was calculated using kappa values. For the diagnosis of subscapularis tendon tears, the sensitivity of cortical irregularities and cysts on radiographs was 44%/51% (reader 1/reader 2) and 21%/21%, respectively; specificity was 65%/68% and 87%/87%. The sensitivity of cortical irregularities and cysts on MRI was 64%/72% and 36%/39%. Specificity was 48%/45% and 81%/77%. For fatty atrophy of the subscapularis muscle, the sensitivity of cortical irregularities and cysts on radiographs was 67%/73% and 17%/27%, respectively; the specificity was 63%/63% and 83%/85%. Significant (p < 0.05) positive correlations were found between cortical irregularities and surgical grade of subscapularis tendon tear for reader 2 (radiography, gamma = 0.39; MRI, gamma = 0.45) and between lesser tuberosity abnormalities and patient age (gamma = 0.11 and 0.43) for both readers. Interobserver agreement of imaging findings varied from moderate to substantial (kappa = 0.50-0.76). Abnormalities of the lesser tuberosity are moderately associated with subscapularis tendon tears and patient age. Cysts seen in the lesser tuberosity on shoulder radiographs or MR images are relatively specific for subscapularis tendon tears and muscle atrophy."}
{"id": "18561829", "title": "[Rotator cuff tear of the hip].", "content": "[Rotator cuff tear of the hip]. We report the observations of two women with a recurrent periarthritis of the hip complicated by a spontaneous rupture of the tendons of the gluteus medius and minimus. These patients usually complain from an acute lateral hip pain and show a Trendelenburg gait. When the rupture is complete, clinical evaluation reveals a drop of the pelvis on the non-stance side and resisted rotation starting from the extreme external rotation position is weak. MRI plays a key role in the diagnosis and the evaluation of a possible surgical repair. Hip rotator-cuff rupture is probably insufficiently diagnosed by ignorance. Nonetheless, optimized handling could relieve the pain of most these patients and improve the disability of some of them."}
{"id": "18542952", "title": "Ironman triathletes: MRI assessment of the shoulder.", "content": "Ironman triathletes: MRI assessment of the shoulder. The objective of this paper was to demonstrate the prevalence of shoulder magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) abnormalities, including abnormal bone marrow signal at the acromioclavicular (AC) joint in symptomatic and asymptomatic Ironman Triathletes. The shoulders of 23 Ironman Triathletes, seven asymptomatic (group I) and 16 symptomatic (group II), were studied by MRI. A separate, non-triathlete group was evaluated specifically for AC joint marrow signal abnormalities to compare with the Ironman Triathletes. Partial thickness tears of the rotator cuff, rotator cuff tendinopathy, and AC joint arthrosis were common findings in both groups of triathletes. Tendinopathy was the only finding that was more prevalent in the symptomatic group, but this was not a statistically significant difference (p = 0.35). There were no tears of the glenoid labrum seen in group I or II subjects. Of note is that 71% (5/7) of group I subjects and 62% (10/16) of group II subjects had increased signal changes in the marrow of the AC joint (p = 0.68). The comparison group showed a lower prevalence (35%, p = 0.06) of this finding. No statistically significant difference was found among the findings for group 1, group 2, or the comparison group, although the difference between the comparison group and Ironman Triathletes approached statistical significance when evaluating for AC joint abnormal signal. Shoulder MRI of Ironman Triathletes should be interpreted with an appreciation of the commonly seen findings in asymptomatic subjects."}
{"id": "18509792", "title": "Internal impingement syndromes of the shoulder.", "content": "Internal impingement syndromes of the shoulder. The internal impingement syndromes are a group of conditions that result from the impingement of the soft tissues of the rotator cuff and joint capsule on the glenoid or between the glenoid and the humerus. They should not be confused with conditions where impingement of cuff and bursa occur on the structures of the coracoacromial arch, so-called external impingement. Some controversy surrounds the true etiology of the soft tissue injuries seen in internal impingement syndromes and whether they are truly the result of impingement. Internal impingement seems to be a normal physiological occurrence with the shoulder in certain positions. Imaging findings in these conditions include undersurface partial-thickness cuff tears, superior labral pathology, and bone changes."}
{"id": "18509791", "title": "External impingement of the shoulder.", "content": "External impingement of the shoulder. The relationship between external shoulder impingement and rotator cuff disease has been the subject of much research, but the theories of cause and effect remain controversial. Patients with symptoms of external impingement are referred for imaging to identify bony abnormalities of the coracoacromial arch and associated bursal and rotator cuff disease. Attempts have been made to identify objective imaging criteria that confirm the diagnosis of impingement, but at present external impingement remains primarily a clinical diagnosis. Therapeutic management varies from rehabilitation with physiotherapy to surgical procedures aimed at decompressing the subacromial space and repairing rotator cuff tears. This article reviews the relevant anatomy, biomechanics, and theories of external impingement, the role of imaging in the diagnosis of external impingement and rotator cuff disease, and implications upon management."}
{"id": "18503815", "title": "The validity of the lag signs in diagnosing full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff: a preliminary investigation.", "content": "The validity of the lag signs in diagnosing full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff: a preliminary investigation. To investigate whether the lag signs were valid tools in diagnosing full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff. A same-subject, correlation, double-blinded design was used. The results of the external rotation lag sign, drop sign, and internal rotation lag sign were compared with the criterion standard of diagnostic ultrasound to establish their accuracy. A regional orthopedic hospital. Consecutive subjects (N=37), 21 women and 16 men, with shoulder pain referred to a consultant orthopedic surgeon specializing in shoulder conditions were recruited for this investigation. Not applicable. Sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative likelihood ratios of the lag signs when using ultrasound as the reference test. The specificities of the drop sign and internal rotation lag sign were 77% and 84%, respectively, which, together with low positive likelihood ratios 3.2 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.5-6.7) and 6.2 (95% CI, 1.9-12.0), indicate that a positive result was poor at recognizing the presence of full-thickness tears. The drop sign had a sensitivity of 73% with a negative likelihood ratio of .34 (95% CI, 0.2-0.8), suggesting that a negative test was fair at ruling out the presence of full-thickness tears. The sensitivity of the internal rotation lag sign (100%) supported by the negative likelihood ratio of 0 (95% CI, 0.0-2.5) suggests that a negative test will effectively rule out the presence of full-thickness tears of the subscapularis. A positive external rotation lag sign is the clinical test most likely to indicate that full-thickness tears of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus are present (specificity, 94%). However, the external rotation lag sign did demonstrate a low sensitivity score of 46% and negative likelihood ratio of .57 (95% CI, 0.4-0.9), which means that a negative test will not rule out the presence of full-thickness tears. The findings of this investigation suggest that a clinical diagnosis of a full-thickness tear of the rotator cuff cannot be conclusively reached using one or more of the lag signs."}
{"id": "18499376", "title": "SLAP lesions: anatomy, clinical presentation, MR imaging diagnosis and characterization.", "content": "SLAP lesions: anatomy, clinical presentation, MR imaging diagnosis and characterization. Superior labral anterior posterior (SLAP) tears are an abnormality of the superior labrum usually centered on the attachment of the long head of the biceps tendon. Tears are commonly caused by repetitive overhead motion or fall on an outstretched arm. SLAP lesions can lead to shoulder pain and instability. Clinical diagnosis is difficult thus imaging plays a key diagnostic role. The normal anatomic variability of the capsulolabral complex can make SLAP lesions a diagnostic challenge. Concurrent shoulder injuries are often present including rotator cuff tears, cystic changes or marrow edema in the humeral head, capsular laxity, Hill-Sachs or Bankart lesion. The relevant anatomy, capsulolabral anatomic variants, primary and secondary findings of SLAP tears including MR arthrography findings, types of SLAP lesions and a practical approach to labral lesions are reviewed."}
{"id": "18492882", "title": "Undersurface acromial osteophyte or deltoid tendon attachment to the acromion?", "content": "Undersurface acromial osteophyte or deltoid tendon attachment to the acromion?"}
{"id": "18463295", "title": "Shoulder pain in elite swimmers: primarily due to swim-volume-induced supraspinatus tendinopathy.", "content": "Shoulder pain in elite swimmers: primarily due to swim-volume-induced supraspinatus tendinopathy. Shoulder pain in elite swimmers is common, and its pathogenesis is uncertain. HYPOTHESIS/STUDY DESIGN: The authors used a cross-sectional study design to test Jobe's hypothesis that repetitive forceful swimming leads to shoulder laxity, which in turn leads to impingement pain. Eighty young elite swimmers (13-25 years of age) completed questionnaires on their swimming training, pain and shoulder function. They were given a standardised clinical shoulder examination, and tested for glenohumeral joint laxity using a non-invasive electronic laxometer. 52/80 swimmers also attended for shoulder MRI. 73/80 (91%) swimmers reported shoulder pain. Most (84%) had a positive impingement sign, and 69% of those examined with MRI had supraspinatus tendinopathy. The impingement sign and MRI-determined supraspinatus tendinopathy correlated strongly (r(s)=0.49, p<0.00001). Increased tendon thickness correlated with supraspinatus tendinopathy (r(s)=0.37, p<0.01). Laxity correlated weakly with impingement pain (r(s)=0.23, p<0.05) and was not associated with supraspinatus tendinopathy (r(s)=0.14, p=0.32). The number of hours swum/week (r(s)=0.39, p<0.005) and weekly mileage (r(s)=0.34, p=0.01) both correlated significantly with supraspinatus tendinopathy. Swimming stroke preference did not. These data indicate: (1) supraspinatus tendinopathy is the major cause of shoulder pain in elite swimmers; (2) this tendinopathy is induced by large amounts of swimming training; and (3) shoulder laxity per se has only a minimal association with shoulder impingement in elite swimmers. These findings are consistent with animal and tissue culture findings which support an alternate hypothesis: the intensity and duration of load to tendon fibres and cells cause tendinopathy, impingement and shoulder pain."}
{"id": "18458243", "title": "Acute traumatic posterior shoulder dislocation: MR findings.", "content": "Acute traumatic posterior shoulder dislocation: MR findings. To retrospectively evaluate the appearance of lesions of osseous and soft-tissue structures of the glenohumeral joint on magnetic resonance (MR) images after first-time traumatic posterior shoulder dislocation. The study was institutional review board approved and HIPAA compliant, as appropriate, for the four institutions at which the involved patients were treated. Informed patient consent was obtained, were applicable. Thirty-six male patients (age range, 15-80 years; mean age, 40.2 years) with clinically documented first-time traumatic posterior shoulder dislocation were examined with MR arthrography (18 patients) or conventional shoulder MR imaging (18 patients). Causes of posterior shoulder dislocation were electric shock in one patient, seizure in one patient, and trauma in 34 patients. Hill-Sachs lesions, rotator cuff tears, biceps tendon abnormalities, posterior labrocapsular complex lesions, humeral head translation, and osseous glenoid version angle were evaluated. Spearman rank correlation and Student t test analyses were performed. In 31 (86%) of the 36 patients, a reverse Hill-Sachs lesion was found. Eleven (31%) patients had a reverse osseous Bankart lesion. Twelve full-thickness rotator cuff tears were seen in seven (19%) patients: four supraspinatus tendon, three infraspinatus tendon, and five subscapularis tendon tears. Six (17%) patients had biceps tendon abnormalities. Posterior labrocapsular complex tears were identified in 21 (58%) patients: 10 (48%) with posterior labral sleeve avulsions and 11 (52%) with reverse Bankart lesions. Twenty-seven (75%) patients had a retroverted scaphoglenoid angle (mean, 4.5 degrees ). The mean humeral translation distance relative to the osseous glenoid fossa was -4.8 mm; in 33 (92%) patients, this distance was translated posteriorly. The MR appearance of traumatic posterior shoulder dislocation was characterized by reverse Hill-Sachs lesions in 86% of patients and posterocaudal labrocapsular lesions in nearly 60% of patients. Full-thickness rotator cuff tears were seen in approximately 20% of patients."}
{"id": "18457932", "title": "Imaging of the shoulder after surgery.", "content": "Imaging of the shoulder after surgery. Postoperative imaging of the shoulder is challenging. This article reviews the radiologic evaluation following surgery for subacromial impingment, rotator cuff lesions and glenohumeral instability, including the common surgical procedures, the expected postoperative findings and potential complications. A specific emphasis is made on magnetic resonance imaging."}
{"id": "18453678", "title": "Traumatic deltoid rupture caused by seatbelt during a traffic accident: a case report.", "content": "Traumatic deltoid rupture caused by seatbelt during a traffic accident: a case report. A right-handed 53-year-old man presented with a subcutaneous bruise on his right shoulder caused by a seatbelt during a traffic accident. He had no history of shoulder pain or hydrocortisone injections. The contour of the anterior deltoid was deformed and its belly was retracted distally. The active range of movement of the shoulder was limited to 120 degrees and the strength weakened to 3/5. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated detachment of the anterior fibres of the deltoid. Surgical repair of the deltoid and supraspinatus tendon was performed 2 months later using a pull-out suture technique. After 12 months of follow-up, the patient had returned to work without any problems. Both the range of movement and muscle strength had recovered completely."}
{"id": "18449121", "title": "Arthroscopic evaluation of ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging for diagnosis of rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Arthroscopic evaluation of ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging for diagnosis of rotator cuff tear. Rotator cuff tear--diagnosis; comparison of MRI, ultrasonographic and arthroscopic findings. Retrospective study--20 patients treated for shoulder pain due to rotator cuff tear, initially conservatively and after more than 6 months by arthroscopic shoulder surgery. Comparison of intraoperative findings with preoperative US and MRI images. Sensitivity of USG--1.0, specificity 0.9. Sensitivity of MRI--0.92, specificity 1.0. Clinical examination and physical tests are not fully reliable diagnostic tools in patients with shoulder pain, because symptoms of different conditions overlap. Using ultrasound to visualize the shoulder area has some advantages to other imaging techniques such as CT scan or MRI, and has a very good sensitivity and good specificity. Many authors agree that MRI is one of the most effective methods for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tear. Ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging are both very sensitive techniques for diagnosis of rotator cuff abnormalities. Ultrasonography can be used as a primary method owing to its fast procedure and affordable cost.<br />"}
{"id": "18443279", "title": "Bridging the gap in immobile massive rotator cuff tears: augmentation using the tenotomized biceps.", "content": "Bridging the gap in immobile massive rotator cuff tears: augmentation using the tenotomized biceps. Numerous operative techniques have been described for the treatment of massive rotator cuff tears with severe retraction where anatomical repair is impossible. To evaluate the outcome of massive rotator cuff tears repaired using the biceps interposition technique. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Between April 2000 and April 2004, 31 shoulders with irreparable massive rotator cuff tears and associated degenerative lesions of the biceps tendon were included for analysis. Open procedures were performed in 15 cases (open group), while 16 patients underwent arthroscopic procedures (arthroscopic group). The mean follow-up period was 32 months (range, 24-67 months). The overall University of California at Los Angeles score at the last follow-up was 31.1 points (range, 21-35). The clinical outcome was excellent in 15 (48.4%) and good in 13 (41.9%) cases. Three patients (9.7%) had poor outcome. There was 1 case of reoperation in the open group for a retear. The mean preoperative Constant score, which was 44.6 points (range, 8-70) in the open group and 51.8 points (range, 24-70) in the arthroscopic group, improved to 80.7 points (range, 37-88) in the former and 83.5 points (range, 57-96) in the latter. The University of California at Los Angeles score improved from preoperative means of 11.3 points (range, 6-16) and 13.6 points (range, 6-19) to 29.5 points (range, 9-33) and 32.6 points (range, 21-35), respectively. However, the differences between the scores in both the categories were not statistically significant (P = .412 and .198, respectively). According to the postoperative repair integrity analyzed with use of magnetic resonance imaging in 14 of 16 cases with arthroscopic augmentation, 9 (64.3%) presented complete healing. The biceps tendon interposition technique for massive rotator cuff tears offers a possible improvement in the clinical outcomes and is comparable to that of conventional repair. As well, the augmentation technique using the tenotomized biceps as potential graft for rotator cuff tears is particularly useful in bridging the gap in immobile massive rotator cuff tears with posterior defects and retraction."}
{"id": "18443274", "title": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair in overhead-throwing athletes.", "content": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair in overhead-throwing athletes. When overhead-throwing athletes suffer from a rotator cuff tear, their ability to perform sporting activities is significantly impaired. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair allows amateur overhead-throwing athletes to return to their preoperative level of overhead-throwing sports. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 3. Twenty-one overhead-throwing athletes (14 male and 7 female; average age, 58.9 years, range, 46-69 years) were reviewed for clinical outcome with the Constant Score and structural integrity of the repair on magnetic resonance imaging. The average follow-up was 25.7 months (24-29 months). Athletes were asked to retrospectively assess their sporting activity for pain, strength, endurance, and range of motion before onset of symptoms, preoperatively and at follow-up. They also were asked to evaluate their overall performance as a percentage of their original performance (0% to 100%). Retear rates and Constant Scores were compared with those of 32 patients who were not overhead-throwing athletes and who were operated on during the same time span. Patients significantly improved their Constant Score from 54.9 to 84.2 (P < .001). Sporting activity was not significantly influenced by repair integrity; the retear rate was 23.8% (5/21). There was no significant difference for retear rate (25%; 8/32) or clinical outcome (Constant Score 84.5, P = .993) compared with patients who were not involved in overhead-throwing sports or any sports. All patients returned to their overhead-throwing sport an average of 6.3 months (3-12 months) after the surgery. Participation (2.1 per week) and duration (2.3 hours) of overhead-throwing activity postoperatively were not significantly lower than before the patient was injured (2.2 per week, P = .290; and 2.4 hours, P = .285). Patients estimated their overall activity level to be 91.9% of their original, noninjured condition, which was significantly improved from the preoperative condition of 34.8% (P < .001). Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair led to good clinical results in this group of overhead-throwing athletes. Patients were able to return to overhead-throwing sports, most of them at the same preoperative level."}
{"id": "18430537", "title": "Shoulder ultrasound imaging-integrating anatomy, biomechanics and disease processes.", "content": "Shoulder ultrasound imaging-integrating anatomy, biomechanics and disease processes. This article brings together the anatomy, biomechanics and the imaging of shoulder disease using ultrasound to enable a better understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of ultrasound when imaging the shoulder."}
{"id": "18427754", "title": "[Radiotherapy for shoulder impingement].", "content": "[Radiotherapy for shoulder impingement]. Up to now, degenerative shoulder diseases were summarized by the term \"periarthritis humeroscapularis\". Actual shoulder diseases can be differentiated etiopathologically according to a primary and secondary impingement syndrome. Narrowing of the subacromial space, which is caused by an osseous shape variant, leads to primary impingement. Secondary impingement develops, when the subacromial space is reduced by swelling tissue below the osseous shoulder roof. This study aimed for the exact diagnosis to indicate therapy and to classify the results according to the Constant score. From August 1999 to September 2002, 102 patients with 115 shoulder joint conditions underwent radiation therapy (RT). All joints received two RT series (6 x 0.5 Gy/series) applied in two to three weekly fractions, totaling a dosage of 6.0 Gy (250 kV, 15 mAs, 1-mm Cu filter). The second RT course started 6 weeks after the end of the first. 115 shoulders were examined before RT, 6 weeks after the second RT course and, finally, during the follow-up from January to May 2003. Pain relief was achieved in 94/115 shoulder joints (82%) after 18-month follow-up (median). A significant difference existed between secondary impingement and primary/non-impingement according to response. Tendinosis calcarea, bursitis subdeltoidea, tendovaginitis of the long biceps tendon, and capsulitis adhaesiva responded well to therapy. Shoulder diseases of secondary impingement demonstrate a good response to RT. Less or no benefit was found in primary impingement syndrome or complete rotator cuff disruption and acute shoulder injuries, respectively."}
{"id": "18412933", "title": "A 'one-stop clinic' for the diagnosis and management of rotator cuff pathology: Getting the right diagnosis first time.", "content": "A 'one-stop clinic' for the diagnosis and management of rotator cuff pathology: Getting the right diagnosis first time. We have introduced a one-stop clinic for the diagnosis and management of rotator cuff tears (RCTs). The aim of the study was to determine the effect of the one-stop clinic on the interval and delay in management for patients with suspected rotator cuff pathology. Seventy-four patients were reviewed retrospectively; 39 had an ultrasound of the shoulder before (group 1), and 35 patients after (group 2) the new protocol was introduced. Patients in group 2 had a shoulder ultrasound scan (USS) on the day of their clinic appointment or beforehand based upon the General Practitioners (GP) letter. Indications included patients over the age of 30, or patients with a history of trauma or a painful shoulder. Twenty-four patients were diagnosed with RCTs on USS with an overall sensitivity of 93.75%, specificity 100% and accuracy of 91% for full thickness tears. Clinical detection alone had an overall sensitivity of 80%, a specificity of 91% and accuracy of 87%. Mean time from GP referral to definitive management plan was 6.49 months (SD 2.74) in group 1, compared with 4.63 months (SD 1.43) in group 2 with an overall reduction in half the number of clinic appointments. This was statistically significant (p < 0.001). Ultrasound scan of the shoulder is an accurate and reliable method of detecting full thickness RCTs. The one-stop clinic significantly shortened the interval between GP referral and definitive management."}
{"id": "18410039", "title": "Shoulder joint pathology--improved diagnosis by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): a pictorial essay and review.", "content": "Shoulder joint pathology--improved diagnosis by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): a pictorial essay and review. This paper describes the personal experience of the author with Shoulder Arthro MR. This imaging method is put into perspective with other, more widely used diagnostic methods, which also have their advantages. Indications for Shoulder Arthro MR are discussed and details on the technique and interpretaton are given. Also major shoulder pathology as impingement, rotator cuff tears and instability is discussed. Furthermore a review of the spectrum of pathology in 100 consecutively examined patients is made and treatment and outcome are listed. Lastly a pictorial review of typical pathologies in MR pictures is supplemented. After x-ray, Shoulder MR is now considered the standard among the imaging methods to diagnose shoulder disorders, as it allows for optimal depiction of pathology and diagnosis in all major imaging planes. At the same time the method gives the arthroscopist an excellent roadmap for his intervention. All in all, the treatment outcome of shoulder trauma has been improved by shoulder MR in conjunction with modern surgical and arthroscopic therapies."}
{"id": "18408632", "title": "[Harmonic sonography of rotator cuff tendons: are cleavage tears visible at last?].", "content": "[Harmonic sonography of rotator cuff tendons: are cleavage tears visible at last?]. For some, cleavage tears remain a pitfall of sonography (US). The purpose of this study is to demonstrate the visibility of intratendinous tears of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons and describe their imaging features on tissue harmonic US. Prospective study of 52 patients with suspected cuff pathology who underwent US prior to CT-arthrography, CT-bursography or MR arthrography. The US examinations were performed using 7-15 MHz transducers with tissue harmonic mode (pulse subtraction). An intratendinous tear was suggested by the presence of a hypoechoic intratendinous line, extending from a partial or full thickness tear. Results from US were correlated to contrast material enhanced CT or MR findings. Ten cases of cleavage tears were detected on US compared to 18 on arthrographic examinations. False negative results occurred in poor US candidates (n=4), excessively retracted tendons (n=2) or postsurgical cuffs (n=2). Sensitivity was 55% and specificity was 94%, with PPV of 83% and NPV of 80% for the detection of intratendinous tear. The accuracy of US was lower for intratendinous tear associated with full thickness tears (5/11) compared to intratendinous tears associated with partial thickness tears (5/6). We demonstrate that cleavage tears are now visible on US using high-frequency transducers and tissue harmonic mode. However, the sensitivity remains too low, especially in patients with full thickness tear, postsurgical patients and patients that are poor candidates to US."}
{"id": "18400443", "title": "Multidetector spiral CT arthrography of the shoulder. Clinical applications and limits, with MR arthrography and arthroscopic correlations.", "content": "Multidetector spiral CT arthrography of the shoulder. Clinical applications and limits, with MR arthrography and arthroscopic correlations. Although MR imaging and MR arthrography are the first choice modalities for shoulder imaging, CT arthrography (CTA) may be used successfully to address many clinical questions. The advent of submillimeter multiple detector CT technology and subsequent excellent three-plane resolution has considerably increased the quality of CTA examinations and has propelled this technique to the forefront in a growing number of indications. The combined use of iodinated contrast material for fluoroscopic confirmation of the articular position of the needle before injection of gadolinium chelates for MR arthrography offers the unique opportunity to compare CTA and MRA findings in carefully selected cases. This paper illustrates capabilities and limits of CTA for the study of rotator cuff tears, shoulder instability, cartilage lesions, anatomical variants and abnormalities of the glenoid labrum, with correlations to MR arthrography and surgical findings."}
{"id": "18392621", "title": "Latissimus dorsi transfer for the treatment of massive tears of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Latissimus dorsi transfer for the treatment of massive tears of the rotator cuff. The objective of this paper was to determine the outcome of the transfer of the latissimus dorsi tendon in patients with massive irreparable rotator cuff tears. Eighteen patients of mean age 54 years (range 37-72 years) with massive irreparable rotator cuff tears were studied. The mean follow-up was 28 months (range 12-58 months). The postoperative Constant score was higher by an average of 21.15 points compared to the preoperative score (P=0.002); 88.8% of patients reported significant pain relief and improved mobility, particularly on external rotation. Postoperative resting antero-posterior radiography in neutral rotation revealed a mean 3.2-mm depression of the humeral head, due to the tenodesis effect of tendon transfer, thus, increasing the deltoid lever arm. These clinical results suggest that latissimus dorsi transfer is a useful surgical technique for treating massive irreparable postero-superior tears of the rotator cuff in young and/or active patients, providing significant pain relief and improved shoulder strength."}
{"id": "18389040", "title": "[Ultrasound--a good alternative to MR in shoulder problems].", "content": "[Ultrasound--a good alternative to MR in shoulder problems]."}
{"id": "18388345", "title": "MRI findings in the painful poststroke shoulder.", "content": "MRI findings in the painful poststroke shoulder. We describe the structural abnormalities in the painful shoulder of stroke survivors and their relationships to clinical characteristics. Method- Eighty-nine chronic stroke survivors with poststroke shoulder pain underwent T1- and T2-weighted multiplanar, multisequence MRI of the painful paretic shoulder. All scans were reviewed by one radiologist for the following abnormalities: rotator cuff, biceps and deltoid tears, tendinopathies and atrophy, subacromial bursa fluid, labral ligamentous complex abnormalities, and acromioclavicular capsular hypertrophy. Clinical variables included subject demographics, stroke characteristics, and the Brief Pain Inventory Questions 12. The relationship between MRI findings and clinical characteristics was assessed through logistic regression. Thirty-five percent of subjects exhibited a tear of at least one rotator cuff, biceps or deltoid muscle. Fifty-three percent of subjects exhibited tendinopathy of at least one rotator cuff, bicep or deltoid muscle. The prevalence of rotator cuff tears increased with age. However, rotator cuff tears and rotator cuff and deltoid tendinopathies were not related to severity of poststroke shoulder pain. In approximately 20% of cases, rotator cuff and deltoid muscles exhibited evidence of atrophy. Atrophy was associated with reduced motor strength and reduced severity of shoulder pain. Rotator cuff tears and rotator cuff and deltoid tendinopathies are highly prevalent in poststroke shoulder pain. However, their relationship to shoulder pain is uncertain. Atrophy is less common but is associated with less severe shoulder pain."}
{"id": "18387766", "title": "MRI of the rotator cuff and internal derangement.", "content": "MRI of the rotator cuff and internal derangement. Disease to the rotator cuff is the most common cause of shoulder pain and dysfunction in adults. This group of muscles performs multiple functions and is often stressed during various activities. The anatomy and physiology of the rotator cuff is complex and interconnected to other muscle groups in the shoulder. One must take the anatomic status of the rotator cuff tendons into account when planning the treatment of the rotator cuff injury. Diagnostic imaging of the rotator cuff, performed by MRI, provides valuable information about the nature of the injury. In this article, we will review the various types and causes of rotator cuff injuries, normal MR anatomy, function, patho-anatomy, and the biomechanics of the rotator cuff. We will also review shoulder impingement syndromes."}
{"id": "18185444", "title": "[Long head of the biceps pathology].", "content": "[Long head of the biceps pathology]."}
{"id": "18375271", "title": "Arthroscopic replacement of massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears using a GraftJacket allograft: technique and preliminary results.", "content": "Arthroscopic replacement of massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears using a GraftJacket allograft: technique and preliminary results. Our purpose was to assess the short-term results and describe the technique of arthroscopic repair of irreparable rotator cuff tears by use of a GraftJacket allograft (Wright Medical Technology, Arlington, TN). Between March 2003 and February 2004, 16 patients with massive, contracted, immobile rotator cuff tears were treated with arthroscopic placement of a GraftJacket allograft by a single surgeon. Patients were followed up for 1 to 2 years. All were evaluated preoperatively and postoperatively by use of the modified University of California, Los Angeles scoring system, Constant score, and Simple Shoulder Test. Magnetic resonance imaging was performed postoperatively at 3 months and 1 year. At a mean follow-up of 26.8 months (range, 12 to 38 months), 15 of 16 patients were satisfied with the procedure. The mean University of California, Los Angeles score increased from 18.4 preoperatively to 30.4 postoperatively (P = .0001). The Constant score increased from 53.8 to 84.0 (P = .0001). Statistically significant improvements were seen in pain, forward flexion, and external rotation strength. Thirteen patients had full incorporation of the graft into the native tissue as documented on magnetic resonance imaging. There were no complications in this cohort of patients. Our study supports GraftJacket allograft as a viable solution for surgical salvage in select cases of massive, irreparable rotator cuff pathology. This treatment option may provide patients with decreased pain and increased function despite a previously irreparable rotator cuff tear. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "18372195", "title": "A novel lesion of the infraspinatus characterized by musculotendinous disruption, edema, and late fatty infiltration.", "content": "A novel lesion of the infraspinatus characterized by musculotendinous disruption, edema, and late fatty infiltration. Isolated, atraumatic rupture of the infraspinatus (IS) with associated edema of its muscle is a previously undescribed lesion. We retrospectively identified 19 patients with MRI detected, isolated lesions of the IS tendon or musculotendinous junction with associated muscle edema. The average age at the time of presentation was 47.7 years (range, 30-66). There were 15 females and 4 males. Fourteen patients were treated nonoperatively; 5 underwent an open repair. All patients underwent clinical and MRI follow-up at an average of 50.3 months (range, 24-79) after the initial MRI. Constant scores were recorded as was a detailed physical examination. Two patients had a clear history of trauma with no preceeding shoulder problems; 17 had a history of chronic shoulder pain. We identified disruption occurring within the IS tendon in 9 patients and at the level of the musculotendinous junction in 8, while the level of disruption was inconclusive in 2. No patient had other full thickness tears. Electromyographic studies were normal, as were nerve conduction velocities in the suprascapular nerve in the 15 patients tested. There was a significant improvement in the Constant score comparing the score at presentation (53 points; range, 24-69) with the score at final follow-up (67.2 points; range, 28-95; P = .009). There was no significant benefit seen comparing the gain in the Constant score between those treated operatively and nonoperatively (P = .61). All 19 patients had progressed to stage 4 fatty infiltration of the IS muscle at latest follow-up."}
{"id": "18356462", "title": "Atrophy and fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus muscle: sonography versus MRI.", "content": "Atrophy and fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus muscle: sonography versus MRI. The objective of our study was to compare sonography with MRI for the evaluation of supraspinatus muscle atrophy and fatty infiltration. Forty-five shoulders in 39 patients who had undergone shoulder MRI for the assessment of rotator cuff disease were evaluated blindly with sonography. Supraspinatus muscle atrophy was quantitatively assessed by calculating the occupation ratio (cross-sectional surface area of the supraspinatus muscle belly divided by that of its fossa). This was done by reproducing on sonography the equivalent of the \"Y\" view on MRI. Fatty infiltration was assessed by evaluating supraspinatus muscle echogenicity compared with that of the trapezius muscle and pennate pattern. The occupation ratio and fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus muscle on sonography were compared with these findings on MRI. Occupation ratios calculated on sonography images ranged from 0.07 (severe atrophy) to 0.81 (normal) and correlated with the ratios calculated on MRI (R = 0.90; 95% CI, 0.83-0.95). All 20 shoulders with no fatty infiltration on MRI had normal echogenicity and a pennate pattern on sonography. Eight of the 10 shoulders with mild fatty infiltration on MRI had an effaced pennate pattern and mild hyperechogenicity on sonography. In 13 of the 15 shoulders with moderate to severe fatty infiltration on MRI, the pennate pattern was absent and marked hyperechogenicity was present on sonography. Our study suggests that there is a good correlation between sonography and MRI for the assessment of supraspinatus muscle atrophy and fatty infiltration."}
{"id": "18327800", "title": "Upregulation of alpha-skeletal muscle actin and myosin heavy polypeptide gene products in degenerating rotator cuff muscles.", "content": "Upregulation of alpha-skeletal muscle actin and myosin heavy polypeptide gene products in degenerating rotator cuff muscles. Impaired function of shoulder muscles, resulting from rotator cuff tears, is associated with abnormal deposition of fat in muscle tissue, but corresponding cellular and molecular mechanisms, likely reflected by altered gene expression profiles, are largely unknown. Here, an analysis of muscle gene expression was carried out by semiquantitative RT-PCR in total RNA extracts of supraspinatus biopsies collected from 60 patients prior to shoulder surgery. A significant increase of alpha-skeletal muscle actin (p = 0.0115) and of myosin heavy polypeptide 1 (p = 0.0147) gene transcripts was observed in parallel with progressive fat deposition in the muscle, assessed on parasagittal T1-weighted turbo-spin-echo magnetic resonance images according to Goutallier. Upregulation of alpha-skeletal muscle actin and of myosin heavy polypeptide-1 has been reported to be associated with increased muscle tissue metabolism and oxidative stress. The findings of the present study, therefore, challenge the hypothesis that increased fat deposition in rotator cuff muscle after injury reflects muscle degeneration."}
{"id": "18326164", "title": "Chronic shoulder pain: part I. Evaluation and diagnosis.", "content": "Chronic shoulder pain: part I. Evaluation and diagnosis. Shoulder pain is defined as chronic when it has been present for longer than six months. Common conditions that can result in chronic shoulder pain include rotator cuff disorders, adhesive capsulitis, shoulder instability, and shoulder arthritis. Rotator cuff disorders include tendinopathy, partial tears, and complete tears. A clinical decision rule that is helpful in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears includes pain with overhead activity, weakness on empty can and external rotation tests, and a positive impingement sign. Adhesive capsulitis can be associated with diabetes and thyroid disorders. Clinical presentation includes diffuse shoulder pain with restricted passive range of motion on examination. Acromioclavicular osteoarthritis presents with superior shoulder pain, acromioclavicular joint tenderness, and a painful cross-body adduction test. In patients who are older than 50 years, glenohumeral osteoarthritis usually presents as gradual pain and loss of motion. In patients younger than 40 years, glenohumeral instability generally presents with a history of dislocation or subluxation events. Positive apprehension and relocation are consistent with the diagnosis. Imaging studies, indicated when diagnosis remains unclear or management would be altered, include plain radiographs, magnetic resonance imaging, ultrasonography, and computed tomography scans. Plain radiographs may help diagnose massive rotator cuff tears, shoulder instability, and shoulder arthritis. Magnetic resonance imaging and ultrasonography are preferred for rotator cuff disorders. For shoulder instability, magnetic resonance imaging arthrogram is preferred over magnetic resonance imaging."}
{"id": "18323345", "title": "[Rupture of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[Rupture of the rotator cuff]."}
{"id": "18323257", "title": "Air bubble saline arthrosonography in imaging rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Air bubble saline arthrosonography in imaging rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "18320377", "title": "Management of the subscapularis contracture during shoulder arthroplasty for primary glenohumeral arthritis.", "content": "Management of the subscapularis contracture during shoulder arthroplasty for primary glenohumeral arthritis. To evaluate the safety and effectiveness of a particular subscapularis release in shoulder arthroplasty for primary glenohumeral arthritis. Twenty-eight patients (19F, 9M) underwent shoulder arthroplasty for primary glenohumeral arthritis. Preoperative average Constant Score (CS) was 31.2 points (range 14-52), active anterior elevation (AAE) 92 degrees (30-100 degrees ) and active external rotation (AER) 11 degrees (-40 to 20 degrees ). During arthroplasty for subscapularis contracture, patients underwent subscapularis release freeing the superior tubular tendon (STT) with a section of the coracohumeral ligament (CHL) and the superior glenohumeral ligament (SGHL) and a deep release consisting of a section of the middle glenohumeral ligament (MGHL), very close to the glenoid labrum, and the inferior glenohumeral ligament (IGHL). An anatomic study was performed on 13 cadavers, verifying the structure of subscapularis tendon and its relationship with the capsule, the surrounding ligaments and the axillary nerve. Moreover, after having placed traction sutures on the subscapularis tendon, its lengthening was measured after STT release alone and after STT and deep release. The complete absence of neurological and vascular lesions was also verified. Average follow-up: 2.9 years. Postoperative mean CS was 70.5 (p[Symbol: see text]0.005), with an absolute gain of 39.1. AAE increased from 92 degrees to 142 degrees (p=0.001) while AER increased from 8 degrees to 48 degrees (p=0.002). At the last follow-up, 19 patients (67.8%) were very satisfied, 5 patients (17.8%) were satisfied, 3 patients (10.7%) partially satisfied and 1 patient (3.5%) unsatisfied. In the anatomic control, the average lengthening of subscapularis tendon was 0.9 cm after STT release alone and 2.5 cm after STT and deep release. No vascular and neurological lesions were observed. The subscapularis release during shoulder arthroplasty is extremely important to obtain the proper balance between anterior and posterior soft tissues and to achieve an optimal range of motion and joint stability. An adequate anatomical dissection could give good tendon mobilisation and lengthening, necessary for a good repair, and lead to a recovery of the range of motion, particularly for external rotation."}
{"id": "18312783", "title": "The effectiveness of diagnostic imaging methods for the assessment of soft tissue and articular disorders of the shoulder and elbow.", "content": "The effectiveness of diagnostic imaging methods for the assessment of soft tissue and articular disorders of the shoulder and elbow. There are no clear guidelines for diagnostic imaging of articular and soft tissue pathologies of the shoulder and elbow. Several methods are used, including magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), magnetic resonance arthrography (MRA) and ultrasound (US). Their cost-effectiveness is still unclear. We performed a meta-analysis of the relevant literature and discussed the role of MR imaging of the shoulder and elbow compared with other diagnostic imaging modalities. For the shoulder impingement syndrome and rotator cuff tears, MRI and US have a comparable accuracy for detection of full-thickness rotator cuff tears. MRA and US might be more accurate for the detection of partial-thickness tears than MRI. Given the large difference in cost of MR and US, ultrasound may be the most cost-effective diagnostic method for identification of full-thickness tears in a specialist hospital setting (Evidence level 3). Both MRA and CT arthrography (CTA) are effective methods for the detection of labrum tears. More recently, multidetector CTA has offered the advantages of thinner slices than with MRA in a shorter examination time. Still, MRA has the advantage towards CTA to directly visualize the affected structures with a better evaluation of extent and location and to detect associated capsuloligamentous injuries. For the elbow pathologies, plain MRI or MRA have the advantage towards CTA to detect occult bone injuries. CTA is better for the assessment of the thin cartilage of the elbow. Both US and MRI are reliable methods to detect chronic epicondylitis; US is more available and far more cost-effective (Evidence level 2). MRA can differentiate complete from partial tears of the medial collateral ligament. US or MRI can detect partial and complete biceps tendon tears and/or bursitis. MRI can provide important diagnostic information in lesions of the ulnar, radial, or median nerve."}
{"id": "18310702", "title": "Treatment of labral tears with associated spinoglenoid cysts without cyst decompression.", "content": "Treatment of labral tears with associated spinoglenoid cysts without cyst decompression. The treatment of symptomatic spinoglenoid cysts has varied from observation, needle aspiration, and open excision to arthroscopic decompression. The purpose of the present study was to prospectively assess whether labral repair alone would lead to cyst resolution and pain relief. Forty-two patients with a posterosuperior labral tear and a ganglion cyst at the spinoglenoid notch were treated with arthroscopic d\u00e9bridement of the glenoid rim and labral repair, either with a resorbable tack or a suture anchor. Patients ranged in age from twenty-three to sixty-eight years. Seven patients had clinical and/or radiographic evidence of atrophy of the infraspinatus muscle; one had atrophy of both the infraspinatus and the teres minor muscles, while two had atrophy of the teres minor muscle. All patients had postoperative magnetic resonance imaging performed twice, at an average of fifteen months and again at an average of forty-three months postoperatively. The clinical outcome, including the Rowe score, was assessed for all patients at a median of forty-three months postoperatively. In thirty-seven (88%) of the forty-two patients, the cysts had resolved completely. In five patients, a cyst was still present but with a clear reduction in size. These five patients had remission of pain and were satisfied with the shoulder function. Three patients with preoperative muscular atrophy without fatty infiltration regained normal appearing muscle, while the seven with preoperative fatty changes continued to demonstrate those changes postoperatively. The median Rowe score improved from 61.5 points preoperatively to 98.0 points at the time of follow-up. Thirty-one patients assessed the result of treatment as excellent; nine, as good; and two, as fair. Most spinoglenoid cysts resolve, and patient satisfaction can be expected to be high after labral fixation without cyst decompression."}
{"id": "18300628", "title": "[Shoulder pain: assessment, diagnosis and treatment of common problems].", "content": "[Shoulder pain: assessment, diagnosis and treatment of common problems]. Shoulder pain is a common complaint seen at the primary physician's clinic, and it is the third most common musculoskeletal complaint after back and neck pain. Shoulder pain can have a wide range of etiologies: trauma caused from a sprain or a simple muscle strain to a large tear of one of the shoulder stabilizer muscles. Some shoulder pathologies can cause chronic pain and limitation in shoulder range of motion such as impingement syndrome, adhesive capsulitis, calcified tendonitis, cervical radiculopathy, glenohumeral osteoarthritis, and biceps tendonitis. The physician who attempts to diagnose the cause for his patient's shoulder pain faces a great challenge due to the large number of etiologies that can lead to such a complaint. The physician has a large number of tools at his disposal starting from a thorough history emphasizing the time and character of the shoulder pain, range of motion and the ability to do everyday activities, to a wide range of imaging modalities such as X-ray, ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging. Most of the causes of shoulder pain are adequately treated non-surgically with treatments such as physiotherapy, antiinflammatory medication and local corticosteroid injections. However, some situations necessitate surgical intervention in order to correct and restore the patient's prior level of shoulder function. The physician's ability to correctly diagnose and recommend appropriate lines of treatment, taking into consideration the patient's problem, age, medical condition and prior level of function is the secret to successful treatment, recovery of the patient's shoulder function and most important, patient satisfaction."}
{"id": "18287426", "title": "Sonography of the teres minor: a study of cadavers.", "content": "Sonography of the teres minor: a study of cadavers. The purpose of our study was to evaluate in cadavers the ability of high-resolution sonography to identify both the normal tendinous insertion and tears of the teres minor. The teres minor insertion in five cadaveric shoulders was imaged, and methylene blue dye was injected into both the superior and inferior margins of the teres minor insertion by experienced musculoskeletal radiologists using a 10-5-MHz linear array transducer. Afterward, posterior shoulder dissection was performed. In another group of 11 cadaveric shoulders, an artificial tear was created at the teres minor insertion in six shoulders, and a sham procedure was performed in the remaining five shoulders arthroscopically. After arthroscopy, the teres minor insertion of each shoulder was imaged, and the accuracy of sonography for detecting a tear was evaluated. The dye was injected correctly into both the superior and inferior margins of the teres minor insertion in all five cadaveric shoulders. All six artificial tears were successfully detected on sonography. Four of the five specimens with the sham procedure were identified as having a normal teres minor insertion. One was misinterpreted as a tear. Sonography can reliably be used to identify the teres minor insertion and to detect tears of the teres minor muscle-tendon unit."}
{"id": "18275784", "title": "[The postsurgical rotator cuff: surgical techniques, clinical outcome, and MRI evaluation].", "content": "[The postsurgical rotator cuff: surgical techniques, clinical outcome, and MRI evaluation]. Surgical treatment of rotator cuff tears significantly reduces painful symptoms and improves functional capacity in many patients. However, despite recent advances, up to 25% of patients remain symptomatic after surgery. This has led to research into the reasons for these poor outcomes, including how to identify them with imaging methods and how to avoid them through new therapeutic approaches. Based on our clinical experience, we review the available treatment alternatives for rotator cuff tears, analyzing the main areas of controversy and the possible causes of unsatisfactory outcome after surgery. Furthermore, we review the expectations, difficulties, and requirements of diagnostic imaging in the follow-up of surgically treated rotator cuffs, with special emphasis on the MRI findings and their clinical impact."}
{"id": "18273602", "title": "Arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tear with a modified Mason-Allen stitch: mid-term clinical and ultrasound outcomes.", "content": "Arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tear with a modified Mason-Allen stitch: mid-term clinical and ultrasound outcomes. One of the most discussed point about arthroscopic full-thickness rotator cuff (RTC) repair is the strength of tendon-stitch interface. In the period between November 2003 and September 2004, in a series of 29 patients with primary isolated supraspinatus tear measuring > 2 cm a reconstruction using one titanium anchor and a modified Mason-Allen (MMA) stitch was done. These patients were prospectively collected in this study and then retrospectively evaluated. There were 21 men and 8 women with a mean age of 59.3 years. Patients were examined pre-operatively by a single sport medicine doctor, very experienced on shoulder pathology problem. Constant score, University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) scale and Simple Shoulder Test (SST) were administered. After a minimum follow-up of 24 months patients were revaluated clinically by the same independent examiner. At the same time patients underwent an ultrasound shoulder examination to evaluate rotator cuff integrity. Clinically there was a significant improvement of Constant score, SST score and UCLA scale at followup. Twenty-five patients (86.2%) were satisfied, whether the other four patients (13.8%) stated that they would decline procedure. Recurrent rotator cuff tear was found in 11 patients (38%), who were all older than 60. All the patients but one with a pre-operative MRI grade III tendon tissue fatty infiltration, had a cuff re-tear. Arthroscopic supraspinatus tendon repair with one single anchor and MMA stitch is a reliable technique leading to a re-tear of 38% that is comparable with results reported in literature."}
{"id": "18264850", "title": "Biological augmentation of rotator cuff tendon repair.", "content": "Biological augmentation of rotator cuff tendon repair. A histologically normal insertion site does not regenerate following rotator cuff tendon-to-bone repair, which is likely due to abnormal or insufficient gene expression and/or cell differentiation at the repair site. Techniques to manipulate the biologic events following tendon repair may improve healing. We used a sheep infraspinatus repair model to evaluate the effect of osteoinductive growth factors and BMP-12 on tendon-to-bone healing. Magnetic resonance imaging and histology showed increased formation of new bone and fibrocartilage at the healing tendon attachment site in the treated animals, and biomechanical testing showed improved load-to-failure. Other techniques with potential to augment repair site biology include use of platelets isolated from autologous blood to deliver growth factors to a tendon repair site. Modalities that improve local vascularity, such as pulsed ultrasound, have the potential to augment rotator cuff healing. Important information about the biology of tendon healing can also be gained from studies of substances that inhibit healing, such as nicotine and antiinflammatory medications. Future approaches may include the use of stem cells and transcription factors to induce formation of the native tendon-bone insertion site after rotator cuff repair surgery."}
{"id": "18256834", "title": "Occult fractures of the greater tuberosity of the humerus.", "content": "Occult fractures of the greater tuberosity of the humerus. We studied the highest reported number of patients with occult fracture of the greater tuberosity of the humerus and we analysed why fracture was not diagnosed, shoulder function and prevalence of eventually associated rotator cuff tear (RCT). Twenty-four patients with a missed fracture of the greater tuberosity underwent MR study for a suspect RCT. We evaluated shoulder function and self-assessed comfort with the Constant score (CS) and Simple Shoulder Test (SST). Nine patients showed evidence of cuff tendinosis, 11 of partial (p) RCT (2: subscapularis; 6: supraspinatus and 3: supraspinatus and infraspinatus). All patients with pRCT were older than 40. Initially, the mean CS and SST were 54% and 5/12; at follow-up, values increased to 36% and 5 points. MR should be performed in patients apparently negative for fracture but with painful shoulders and decreased ROM. Of our patients, 45.8% had pRCT; nevertheless function recovery was verified in 16 weeks."}
{"id": "18201655", "title": "An assessment of porcine dermal xenograft as an augmentation graft in the treatment of extensive rotator cuff tears.", "content": "An assessment of porcine dermal xenograft as an augmentation graft in the treatment of extensive rotator cuff tears. Porcine dermal collagen (Zimmer Patch, formerly known as Permacol; Tissue Science Laboratories plc, Aldershot, Hampshire, UK) has been used for reinforcement of several human body tissues with success and has been shown to act as a durable, permanent tissue scaffold that assists healing. The purpose of this study was to determine the effectiveness of porcine dermal collagen as a tendon augmentation graft in the repair of extensive rotator cuff tears. This prospective study evaluated the clinical, ultrasound, and magnetic resonance imaging outcome 4.5 years (range, 3-5 years) after the treatment of extensive rotator cuff tears with porcine dermal collagen tendon augmentation grafting. The study group consisted of 10 patients (5 men, 5 women) with a mean age of 66 years (range, 46-80 years). Patients were evaluated clinically using the Constant score preoperatively, at 1 year, and at final follow-up when ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging scans were performed to assess for graft and rotator cuff integrity. Average Constant scores improved from 41 preoperatively to 62 at final follow-up (P = .0003). Pain, abduction power, and range of motion significantly improved after surgery (P < .05), and patient satisfaction levels were high. Imaging studies identified intact grafts in 8 patients and graft detachment in 2. No adverse side effects were reported during the study period. The use of porcine dermal collagen as an augmentation graft in the treatment of massive rotator cuff tears is safe and, in most patients, is associated with improved clinical outcome. Randomized trials are required to assess any benefit over standard current surgical treatment regimens."}
{"id": "18219547", "title": "Reverse shoulder arthroplasty combined with a modified latissimus dorsi and teres major tendon transfer for shoulder pseudoparalysis associated with dropping arm.", "content": "Reverse shoulder arthroplasty combined with a modified latissimus dorsi and teres major tendon transfer for shoulder pseudoparalysis associated with dropping arm. Although a reverse shoulder arthroplasty (RSA) can restore active elevation in the cuff deficient shoulder, it cannot restore active external rotation when both the infraspinatus and teres minor muscles are absent or atrophied. We hypothesized that a latissimus dorsi and teres major (LD/TM) transfer with a concomitant RSA would restore shoulder function and activities of daily living (ADLs). We prospectively followed 11 consecutive patients (mean age, 70 years) with a combined loss of active elevation and external rotation (shoulder pseudoparalysis and dropping arm) who underwent this procedure. All had severe cuff tear arthropathy (Hamada Stage 3, 4, or 5) and severe atrophy or fatty infiltration of infraspinatus and teres minor on preoperative MRI or CT-scan. The combined procedure was performed through a single deltopectoral approach in the same session. Postoperatively, mean active elevation increased from 70 degrees to 148 degrees (+78 degrees ) and external rotation from -18 degrees to 18 degrees (+36 degrees ). The Constant score, subjective assessment and ADLs improved. The combination of a RSA and LD/TM transfer restored both active elevation and external rotation in this selected subgroup of patients with a cuff deficient shoulder and absent or atrophied infraspinatus and teres minor."}
{"id": "18207434", "title": "Myositis ossificans of the subscapularis: an unusual case of restricted internal rotation.", "content": "Myositis ossificans of the subscapularis: an unusual case of restricted internal rotation."}
{"id": "18205566", "title": "The clinical utility of ultrasonography for rotator cuff disease, shoulder impingement syndrome and subacromial bursitis.", "content": "The clinical utility of ultrasonography for rotator cuff disease, shoulder impingement syndrome and subacromial bursitis. Periarticular shoulder disorders are common in clinical practice, and diagnosis is often difficult. Medicare statistics indicate that between 2001 and 2006 the use of diagnostic shoulder ultrasonography increased significantly. Rotator cuff disease, shoulder impingement syndrome and subacromial bursitis are among the most common diagnoses reported on shoulder ultrasonography. Shoulder ultrasonography is useful in the diagnosis of full thickness tears, but its utility for other rotator cuff disorders, shoulder impingement syndrome and subacromial bursitis is less well established."}
{"id": "18196255", "title": "Autogenous bone grafting for chronic anteroinferior glenoid defects via a complete subscapularis tenotomy approach.", "content": "Autogenous bone grafting for chronic anteroinferior glenoid defects via a complete subscapularis tenotomy approach. Open reconstruction of severe anteroinferior chronic glenoid defects via a complete subscapularis (SSC) tenotomy using a tricortical iliac crest bone grafting technique has been reported. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical and radiological results in patients who underwent this procedure and to investigate the influence of the anterior approach on the structure and function of the SSC musculotendinous unit. Ten patients (two women/eight men, mean age 28.7 years) underwent reconstruction of significant chronic glenoid defects in cases of recurrent shoulder instability with significant glenoid bone loss, using a tricortical autogenous iliac crest in combination with a capsulolabral repair. The patients were followed up clinically (clinical SSC tests and signs, Constant score, Rowe score, Walch-Duplay score, WOSI, MISS), by standard radiographs (true a/p, axillary and glenoid profile view), computed tomography (graft integration, inferior glenoid area) and bilateral magnetic resonance imaging [SSC tendon integrity, cross sectional area, defined muscle diameters and signal intensity analysis (ratio ISP/upper SSC and ISP/lower SSC)]. After a mean follow-up of 37.9 months, the mean Constant score averaged 88.3 points, the Rowe score 89.5 points, the Walch-Duplay score 83.5 points, the MISS 80.6 points and the WOSI 82.6%. No recurrent subluxations or dislocations were observed. Clinical signs for SSC insufficiency were present in 80% of cases. Two patients had grade I and one patient grade II osteoarthritis according to Samilson and Prieto classification. CT imaging revealed a consolidated autograft in all cases with an 18.4% increase of the inferior glenoid area postoperatively (P < 0.05). No tendon ruptures were found. MR imaging revealed muscular atrophy (P < 0.05) and fatty infiltration of the SSC (P > 0.05) muscle compared to the contralateral side. Open reconstruction of anteroinferior chronic glenoid defects via a complete SSC tenotomy using an iliac crest bone grafting technique allows an anatomic reconstruction of the anteroinferior glenoid with good and excellent clinical results. The anterior approach may lead to atrophy and fatty infiltration of the SSC muscle despite an intact tendon. However, this did not affect the results in terms of stability."}
{"id": "18183574", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the hip.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the hip. Standard magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as well as MR arthrography (MRA) have been important diagnostic tools to assess for a spectrum of clinical presentations related to the hip. MRA has allowed the radiologist to closely examine intracapsular structures such as the acetabular labrum. In this article, we provide a general review of soft tissue and osseous anatomy of hips, especially focusing on the MR appearances of the acetabular labrum and the osseous morphology of the greater trochanter and ischial tuberosity with their muscle and tendon attachments. In addition, current topics in recent literature will be discussed such as femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) and rotator cuff tears of the hip."}
{"id": "21264148", "title": "Are shoulder surgeons any good at diagnosing rotator cuff tears using ultrasound?: A comparative analysis of surgeon vs radiologist.", "content": "Are shoulder surgeons any good at diagnosing rotator cuff tears using ultrasound?: A comparative analysis of surgeon vs radiologist. High-resolution ultrasound has gained increasing popularity as an aid in the diagonsis of rotator cuff pathology. With the advent of portable machines, ultrasound has become accessible to clincians. This study was conducted to evaluate the accuracy and reliability of ultrasound in diagnosing rotator cuff tears by a shoulder surgeon and comparing their ability to that of a musculoskeletal radiologist. Seventy patients undergoing shoulder arthroscopy for rotator cuff pathology underwent preoperative ultrasonography (US). All patients were of similar demographics and pathology. The surgeon used a Sonosite Micromax portable ultrasound machine with a 10-MHz high frequency linear array transducer and the radiologist used a 9-12 MHz linear array probe on a Siemens Antares machine. Arthroscopic diagnosis was the reference standard to which ultrasound findings were compared. The sensitivity in detecting full thickness tears was similar for both the surgeon (92%) and the radiologist (94%). The radiologist had 100% sensitivity in diagnosing partial thickness tears, compared to 85.7% for the surgeon. The specificity for the surgeon was 94% and 85% for the radiologist. Our study shows that the surgeons are capable of diagnosing rotator cuff tears with the use of high-resolution portable ultrasound in the outpatient setting. Office ultrasound, by a trained clinician, is a powerful diagnostic tool in diagnosing rotator cuff tears and can be used effectively in running one-stop shoulder clinics."}
{"id": "19666387", "title": "[Contribution of sonography in the diagnosis of degenerative pathology of the shoulder].", "content": "[Contribution of sonography in the diagnosis of degenerative pathology of the shoulder]. The patients besides 50 years represented 58% with a sex ratio of 1.22 in favor of the women. A limited painful of the movements of shoulder has been noted in 75% of cases of the right shoulder (90%). The sonography was abnormal in 95% of patients, the recovered lesions were : calcifications 58%, ruptures 23.6%, extrusion 15.7%. The supraspinatus muscle and the m.biceps brachii (caput longum) were the more involved in respectively 55.3% and 26.3% . A comparison made between the results of the clinical tests and those of the sonography study show that there is not a homology. Summarise The sonography is a good means diagnosis of the degenerative pathology of the shoulder especially in the beginning where classic x ray examination is less contributive."}
{"id": "18162412", "title": "Intermethod agreement and interobserver correlation of radiologic acromiohumeral distance measurements.", "content": "Intermethod agreement and interobserver correlation of radiologic acromiohumeral distance measurements. The acromiohumeral distance (AHD) measured on conventional, true anteroposterior radiographs taken with the patient standing and the arm held in neutral rotation can predict the presence or absence of a large, chronic rotator cuff tears, and narrowing of the acromiohumeral distance can predict irreparability of rotator cuff tears. The relation between AHD measured on conventional radiographs and the integrity of the rotator cuff tendons is well known. Conversely, the correlation between the AHD on conventional radiographs and that measured on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed tomography (CT) scans is unknown. It has also not been determined which method correlates better with fatty infiltration of the rotator cuff muscles and might thereby be a better prognostic value for the outcome of rotator cuff repair. Conventional radiographs, plus MRI and or CT studies taken at the same time of patients with rotator cuff tears, shoulder instability, primary glenohumeral osteoarthritis, or idiopathic frozen shoulder, were randomly selected, and the AHD was measured both on conventional radiographs and on MRI or CT. The values were correlated with the stage of fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff muscles in the cases of rotator cuff tears. The AHD on conventional radiographs was larger than on MRI and CT, and correlation of the values measured (conventional radiography vs MRI and CT) could be demonstrated. For rotator cuff diseases, a significant but moderate correlation (r = 0.6; P < .05) between conventional and MRI was identified, and the conventional values were approximately 0.6 mm greater than the corresponding MRI values. It is, therefore, possible to use the AHD read on MRI or CT studies for prognostic reasons, provided the values obtained are converted accordingly and remembering that the correlation of the values is only moderate."}
{"id": "18160501", "title": "Concomitant injuries to the ipsilateral shoulder in patients with a fracture of the diaphysis of the humerus.", "content": "Concomitant injuries to the ipsilateral shoulder in patients with a fracture of the diaphysis of the humerus. Antegrade intramedullary nailing of fractures of the shaft of the humerus is reported to cause impairment of the shoulder joint. We have reviewed 33 patients with such fractures to assess how many had injuries to the ipsilateral shoulder. All had an MR scan of the shoulder within 11 days of injury. The unaffected shoulder was also scanned as a control. There was evidence of abnormality in 21 of the shoulders (63.6%) on the injured side; ten had bursitis of the subacromial space, five evidence of a partial tear of the rotator cuff, one a complete rupture of the supraspinatus tendon, four inflammatory changes in the acromioclavicular joint and one a fracture of the coracoid process. These injuries may contribute to pain and dysfunction of the shoulder following treatment, and their presence indicates that antegrade nailing is only partly, if at all, responsible for these symptoms."}
{"id": "18160242", "title": "Ultrasonography of symptomatic rotator cuff tears compared with MR imaging and surgery.", "content": "Ultrasonography of symptomatic rotator cuff tears compared with MR imaging and surgery. To compare the accuracy of ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging in the detection of rotator cuff tears. Ninety-six patients with clinically suspected rotator cuff pathology underwent ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder. The findings in 88 patients were compared with arthroscopy or open surgery. Full-thickness tear was confirmed in 57 cases, partial-thickness tear in 30 cases and degenerative changes without tear in 1. In all 57 cases of full-thickness tear and in 28 out of 30 cases of partial-thickness tear the supraspinatus tendon was involved. The accuracy in the detection of full-thickness tears was 98 and 100% for ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging, respectively. The accuracy in the detection of bursal or articular partial-thickness tears was 87 and 90% for ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging, respectively. In experienced hands ultrasonography should be considered as an accurate modality for the initial investigation of rotator cuff, especially supraspinatus, tears."}
{"id": "18157491", "title": "Ultrasound measurement of rotator cuff thickness and acromio-humeral distance in the diagnosis of subacromial impingement syndrome of the shoulder.", "content": "Ultrasound measurement of rotator cuff thickness and acromio-humeral distance in the diagnosis of subacromial impingement syndrome of the shoulder. The usefulness of ultrasound measurements in the diagnosis of the subacromial impingement syndrome of the shoulder was evaluated. Fifty-seven patients with unilateral symptoms of the impingement syndrome underwent ultrasound examination of both shoulder joints, which included assessment of rotator cuff integrity, measurement of rotator cuff thickness and the distance between the infero-lateral edge of acromion and the apex of the greater tuberosity of humerus (AGT distance) in the standard ultrasonographic positions. As a control group, 36 volunteers (72 shoulders) with no history of shoulder pain were examined sonographically. Ultrasonographic assessment of humeral head elevation, measured as the AGT distance, proved to be useful in establishing the diagnosis of the subacromial impingement syndrome of the shoulder. A difference in rotator cuff thickness of more than 1.1 mm and a difference in the AGT distance of more than 2.1 mm between both shoulder joints may reflect dysfunction of rotator cuff muscles."}
{"id": "18095244", "title": "Ultrasound evaluation of the shoulder.", "content": "Ultrasound evaluation of the shoulder. This article discusses ultrasound examination of the shoulder and highlights some of its utility. The focus is on normal shoulder anatomy and pathology involving the rotator cuff, biceps tendon, and other related miscellaneous conditions."}
{"id": "18094290", "title": "Does extended-field-of-view sonography improve interrater reliability for the detection of rotator cuff muscle atrophy?", "content": "Does extended-field-of-view sonography improve interrater reliability for the detection of rotator cuff muscle atrophy? Assessment of rotator cuff muscle atrophy is an important component of the shoulder sonogram. We hypothesized that extended-field-of-view (EFOV) sonography would allow greater interrater reliability than conventional sonography for the evaluation of rotator cuff muscle atrophy. This retrospective study involved 50 consecutive patients who presented for shoulder sonography. All patients underwent EFOV imaging of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles in addition to conventional imaging of each muscle. Five musculoskeletal radiologists first assessed 50 EFOV images of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles and scored both muscles using a scale of 1-5. The reliability of each method was determined by calculating intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) according to a method developed by Shrout and Fleiss. The significance of the difference between reliabilities for conventional images and EFOV images was tested with a z-test. For the EFOV images, the ICC for the supraspinatus muscle was 0.77 and for the infraspinatus, 0.75. For the conventional images, the ICC for the supraspinatus muscle was 0.52 and for the infraspinatus, 0.57. The degree of interrater reliability for the five readers in our study was significantly higher for the EFOV images than for the conventional images (p < 0.0001). EFOV sonography results in greater interrater reliability than conventional sonography for the detection of rotator cuff muscle atrophy. EFOV images of the rotator cuff muscles should be obtained as part of routine shoulder sonography."}
{"id": "18085187", "title": "MR arthrography of the rotator cuff.", "content": "MR arthrography of the rotator cuff. This article addresses the role of MR arthrography in the evaluation of the rotator cuff, including impingement, tendon degeneration and rotator cuff tears. Additionally, pathologic conditions of the long head of the biceps tendon, and mimickers of rotator cuff pathology are discussed as well. The drawbacks of conventional MR imaging and indirect MR arthrography, compared to the merit of direct MR arthrography are emphasized. The manuscript focusses on the potential clinical consequences of each finding and summarizes which relevant imaging findings should be reported by the radiologist."}
{"id": "18084169", "title": "Frozen shoulder development secondary to proximal humerus fracture and supraspinatus tendon tear following electrical injury.", "content": "Frozen shoulder development secondary to proximal humerus fracture and supraspinatus tendon tear following electrical injury. Musculoskeletal injury incidence occurring as a result of low voltage electrical accidents is extremely rare. In the present paper, we report 2 cases of low voltage electrical injuries with frozen shoulder development secondary to proximal humerus fracture and supraspinatus tendon tear. Magnetic resonance imaging, taken due to persistence of shoulder pain and reduction of shoulder joint mobility in cases monitored because of proximal humerus fracture associated with electrical injury, revealed a tear of supraspinatus tendon. Moreover, frozen shoulder status was clinically established in both of the cases. The cases were treated with an appropriate physical therapy and rehabilitation program. Supraspinatus tendon tears accompanying proximal humerus fractures should not be overlooked in low voltage electrical injuries and development of frozen shoulder should be avoided by applying the proper physical therapy and rehabilitation program."}
{"id": "18069013", "title": "Contrast-enhanced ultrasound characterization of the vascularity of the rotator cuff tendon: age- and activity-related changes in the intact asymptomatic rotator cuff.", "content": "Contrast-enhanced ultrasound characterization of the vascularity of the rotator cuff tendon: age- and activity-related changes in the intact asymptomatic rotator cuff. The natural history of the blood supply to the rotator cuff and its role in the etiology of rotator cuff disease has not been definitively established. To date, there has not been an in-vivo dynamic assessment of the baseline vascularity of the asymptomatic rotator cuff. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that regional variations in supraspinatus tendon vascularity exist with an age-dependent decrease in asymptomatic individuals with intact rotator cuffs. Lipid microsphere, contrast-enhanced ultrasound shoulder examinations were done in 31 patients with a mean age of 41.5 years (range, 22-65 years). Images were obtained at baseline, after contrast administration at rest, and after contrast administration following exercise to visualize the intratendinous blood flow to the supraspinatus tendon. Qualitative and quantitative analysis was performed by determining 4 regions of interest (bursal medial, articular medial, bursal lateral, and articular lateral) with quantification and analysis software (QLAB Philips, Andover, MA) to examine each region of interest and normalize data for interpretation of the mean intensity per pixel. A statistically significant decrease in blood flow to the supraspinatus tendon with age was observed in a comparative analysis of patients aged younger than 40 and older than 40, (P < .05 for all 4 zones after exercise and for the bursal medial, articular medial, and bursal lateral zones after exercise; P = .07 for the articular lateral zone after exercise). A statistically significant increase in blood flow with exercise was observed in an analysis of all patients (P < .001). The age-related decrease in the vascular supply of the tendon observed in this study is consistent with published reports demonstrating an increasing prevalence of rotator cuff pathology with age and may predispose to the development of rotator cuff tendinopathy and, ultimately, attritional tears."}
{"id": "18065926", "title": "[The rotator interval: hidden lesions?].", "content": "[The rotator interval: hidden lesions?]. The rotator interval corresponds to a defined triangular shaped anatomical region at the anterosuperior portion of the shoulder where specific pathological processes may occur. First, the morphological and functional anatomy of the region will be reviewed. Then, the role of different imaging modalities will be described along with pathological imaging features. Normal structures of the rotator interval may be imaged with modern techniques, including MR and CT arthrography. On the other hand, clinical evaluation of rotator interval pathology remains difficult; and no consensus exists concerning their management. Imaging characterization of rotator interval pathology could be a key factor for pre-therapeutic work-up."}
{"id": "18063457", "title": "Biomechanical evaluation of rotator cuff repairs in a sheep model: suture anchors using arthroscopic Mason-Allen stitches compared with transosseous sutures using traditional modified Mason-Allen stitches.", "content": "Biomechanical evaluation of rotator cuff repairs in a sheep model: suture anchors using arthroscopic Mason-Allen stitches compared with transosseous sutures using traditional modified Mason-Allen stitches. The optimal method for rotator cuff repair of the shoulder is not yet known. The aim of this study was to compare the time-dependent biomechanical properties of the traditional open transosseous suture technique and modified Mason-Allen stitches (group 1) versus the double-loaded suture anchors technique and so-called arthroscopic Mason-Allen stitches (group 2) in rotator cuff repair. Eighteen adult female sheep were randomized into two groups: in an open approach in which the released infraspinatus tendon was repaired with group 1, and with group 2. Animals were sacrificed at 6, 12, or 26 weeks; shoulders were harvested and magnetic resonance imaging was performed. Eight untreated contralateral shoulders served as controls. Tendons of 16 additional unpaired cadaver shoulder joints of adult female sheep were identically treated for analysis at time zero. In a biomechanical evaluation all specimens were loaded to failure at a constant displacement rate using a standard universal testing machine. The load-to-failure and stiffness of the healed bone-tendon interface were calculated. Magnetic resonance imaging analysis showed cuff integrity in all cases, and no evidence of foreign body reaction to the anchors. Load-to-failure and stiffness data did not indicate any significant difference between the two treatment groups, neither at 6 weeks nor at 12 or 26 weeks. However, at time zero the group 2 had a higher load-to-failure in comparison to the group 1 (P<0.010), but there was no difference for the stiffness (P<0.121). This in vivo study showed that, postoperatively, the group 2 technique provides superior stability and after healing would gain strength comparable to the group 1 technique."}
{"id": "18063188", "title": "SLAP tear associated with a minimally displaced proximal humerus fracture.", "content": "SLAP tear associated with a minimally displaced proximal humerus fracture. Nondisplaced proximal humerus fracture may be associated with soft tissue injury. This case report examines 2 cases of superior labral anterior-posterior (SLAP) tears in association with nondisplaced fractures of the proximal humerus. In the first case, the patient fell from a jet ski, causing a traction injury to his arm. A greater tuberosity fracture was identified. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) did not reveal a definitive labral tear. After conservative management had failed, a type IV SLAP tear and a small rotator cuff tear were arthroscopically identified and repaired. In the second case, a power company lineman fell from a lift and attempted to hold on with his dominant arm. A nondisplaced greater tuberosity and a surgical neck fracture were discovered. MR arthrography revealed no evidence of SLAP tear. Four months after injury, a type II SLAP tear was arthroscopically identified and repaired. In these 2 cases, the presence of the fracture likely slowed operative intervention because pain was attributed to the fracture itself, and not to the SLAP tear. If patients do not follow the usual course of improvement after a proximal humerus fracture from a superior traction mechanism, consideration should be given to associated superior labral tears that may require surgical intervention."}
{"id": "18063185", "title": "Heterotopic ossification after minimally invasive rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Heterotopic ossification after minimally invasive rotator cuff repair. Heterotopic ossification is a common phenomenon after spinal cord injury, head injury, neurologic disorders, burns and other trauma, and joint arthroplasty. Periarticular ossifications after shoulder surgery have been known to occur since the 19th century, at an incidence of up to 27%. After arthroscopic and minimally invasive shoulder surgical procedures were introduced and came into broad use, reports about heterotopic ossification became very rare. We describe here a case of heterotopic bone formation in the subdeltoid fascia after arthroscopic subacromial decompression, acromioclavicular joint resection, and mini-open rotator cuff reconstruction were performed with 2 absorbable suture anchors 3 months postoperatively. Computed tomography (CT) confirmed a massive heterotopic ossification of the deltoid muscle. During revision surgery, a 4 x 6.5-cm bone shell that consisted primarily of immature trabecular bone and lamellar bone in smaller proportions was removed. The case presented here is unique in the scientific literature. Although risk factors have been identified, the underlying pathomorphogenetic mechanism of such heterotopic bone formation remains unclear. Prophylactic administration of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or radiation for arthroscopic or minimally invasive shoulder surgery is not justified, given the low incidence of heterotopic ossification and the known adverse effects. Apparently, information on basic science and on evidence-based therapy is lacking."}
{"id": "18046179", "title": "Delayed union of a scapular fracture-an unusual cause of persistent shoulder pain.", "content": "Delayed union of a scapular fracture-an unusual cause of persistent shoulder pain. Scapular fractures in athletes are rare, although they have been reported in football and baseball players. Most scapular fractures heal with nonoperative management; delayed union is rarely a problem. A 15-yr-old male fell onto his posterior shoulder after he had been pushed into the boards and then fell to the ice during a hockey check. He was diagnosed with a rotator cuff injury at an outside facility. Initial radiographs were negative. The patient was not immobilized, and he continued to play hockey despite intermittent pain. Seven months later, he presented to our sports medicine clinic, complaining of an aching pain at the base of his left shoulder. Examination revealed point tenderness along the base of the scapula, restriction of shoulder abduction, rhomboid weakness, scapular winging, and anterior impingement-type shoulder pain. A new radiograph, obtained at our sports medicine clinic, was nondiagnostic. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed increased signal on T2, with bone edema at the lateral margin of the scapular neck. A computed tomography scan revealed an unhealed, left-transverse, subglenoid scapular fracture. The fracture was nondisplaced. The patient was treated with transcutaneous electrical stimulation for 6 months and a physical therapy regimen focusing on periscapular strengthening. A final computed tomography scan, 6 months after initial presentation to our clinic, revealed healing of the fracture. Examination was normal. The patient was asymptomatic and was able to fully return to sports without any complications. Although scapular fractures in athletes are rare, they may occur, particularly in \"contact sports\" that share the energies of injury seen in high-speed motor vehicle collisions. Early identification and proper management are integral to decrease symptoms and to avoid protracted disability, particularly in athletes."}
{"id": "18004606", "title": "Multimodality imaging of the postoperative shoulder.", "content": "Multimodality imaging of the postoperative shoulder. Multimodality imaging of the postoperative shoulder includes radiography, magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, MR arthrography, computed tomography (CT), CT arthrography, and ultrasound. Target-oriented evaluation of the postoperative shoulder necessitates familiarity with surgical techniques, their typical complications and sources of failure, knowledge of normal and abnormal postoperative findings, awareness of the advantages and weaknesses with the different radiologic techniques, and clinical information on current symptoms and function. This article reviews the most commonly used surgical procedures for treatment of anterior glenohumeral instability, lesions of the labral-bicipital complex, subacromial impingement, and rotator cuff lesions and highlights the significance of imaging findings with a view to detection of recurrent lesions and postoperative complications in a multimodality approach."}
{"id": "17986401", "title": "Reversal of suprascapular neuropathy following arthroscopic repair of massive supraspinatus and infraspinatus rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Reversal of suprascapular neuropathy following arthroscopic repair of massive supraspinatus and infraspinatus rotator cuff tears. The purpose of this study was to study the prevalence of suprascapular neuropathy (SSN) in the setting of massive rotator cuff tears and to determine if arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, even if partial, was associated with reversal of SSN and clinical improvement in pain and function. Over a 13-month period, 26 of 216 patients with rotator cuff tears treated operatively were identified to have massive tears associated with retraction and moderate to severe fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles. All patients had pain and marked weakness in abduction and external rotation which did not improve with conservative treatment. Electrodiagnostic electromyographic/nerve conduction velocity (EMG/NCV) evaluation, as well as pre- and postoperative questionnaire and physical examination, were performed. An arthroscopic repair, either partial or complete, was performed on patients identified to have a massive rotator cuff tear in association with SSN. Fourteen of 26 patients with massive rotator cuff tears (54%) were identified to have a peripheral nerve injury. Seven of these 26 (38%) had isolated suprascapular nerve injury, 4 had axillary nerve injury, 2 had an associated upper trunk brachial plexus injury, and 1 had a cervical radiculopathy. All 7 patients with isolated suprascapular injury underwent arthroscopic treatment, 1 of which was not technically reparable at the time of surgery. In the 6 patients who underwent either partial or complete arthroscopic repair, follow-up EMG/NCV after 6 months demonstrated partial or full recovery of the suprascapular nerve palsy that correlated with complete pain relief and marked improvement in function. SSN is found in a significant proportion of patients with massive rotator cuff tears, and is associated with pain and dysfunction. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair can result in reversal of SSN, which may correlate with substantial improvement in pain and function. Level IV, case series."}
{"id": "17980629", "title": "Teres minor integrity predicts outcome of latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Teres minor integrity predicts outcome of latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tears. In patients with irreparable rotator cuff tears, latissimus dorsi tendon transfer (LDTT) can be effective in improving pain and function. However, the results are variable, and the factors that predict good outcomes are poorly understood. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether the integrity of the teres minor musculotendinous unit is predictive of outcome following LDTT. Twenty-two consecutive patients who underwent LDTT for massive, irreparable posterosuperior rotator cuff tears were retrospectively reviewed. Sixteen men and 6 women with a mean age of 58 years (range, 40-68) were analyzed at an average follow-up of 34 months (range, 24-57). Standardized MRI images of all patients were reviewed by 3 independent reviewers. Fatty infiltration of the teres minor was Goutallier stage 0 in 5 patients; stage 1 in 6; stage 2 in 4; stage 3 in 6; and stage 4 in 1. Eleven patients (50%) had partial tears and 2 (9%) had complete tears of the teres minor tendon. Following LDTT, the mean absolute constant score improved from 48 to 62 points (P = .003), age-adjusted constant score improved from 56% to 72% (P = .002), and the subjective shoulder value improved from 24% to 68% (P < .001). Fatty infiltration of the teres minor less than or equal to stage 2 was associated with a better postoperative constant score (67 vs 53, P = .015); age-adjusted constant score (78% vs 59%, P = .012); active external rotation (36 degrees vs 16 degrees , P = .016); and active elevation (143 degrees vs 115 degrees , P = .012) relative to patients with fatty infiltration greater than stage 2. The presence or absence of a tear of the tendon had no significant effect on outcome. In conclusion, when performing LDTT for massive irreparable posterosuperior rotator cuff tears, fatty infiltration of the teres minor should be considered prior to surgery, as it is predictive of outcome."}
{"id": "17974893", "title": "Biologic augmentation of rotator cuff tendon-healing with use of a mixture of osteoinductive growth factors.", "content": "Biologic augmentation of rotator cuff tendon-healing with use of a mixture of osteoinductive growth factors. Clinical studies have demonstrated a high rate of incomplete healing of rotator cuff tendon repair. Since healing of such a repair is dependent on bone ingrowth into the repaired tendon, we hypothesized that osteoinductive growth factors would improve rotator cuff tendon-healing. Seventy-two skeletally mature sheep underwent detachment of the infraspinatus tendon followed by immediate repair. The animals received one of three treatments at the tendon-bone interface: (1) an osteoinductive bone protein extract on a Type-I collagen sponge carrier, (2) the collagen sponge carrier alone, and (3) no implant. The animals were killed at six and twelve weeks, and the repaired rotator cuff was evaluated with use of magnetic resonance imaging, plain radiographs, histologic analysis, and biomechanical testing. A gap consistently formed between the end of the repaired tendon and bone in this model, with reparative scar tissue and new bone spanning the gap. Magnetic resonance imaging showed that the volume of newly formed bone (p < 0.05) and soft tissue (p < 0.05) in the tendon-bone gap were greater in the growth factor-treated animals compared with the collagen sponge control group at both time-points. Histologic analysis showed a fibrovascular tissue in the interface between tendon and bone, with a more robust fibrocartilage zone between the bone and the tendon in the growth factor-treated animals. The repairs that were treated with the osteoinductive growth factors had significantly greater failure loads at six weeks and twelve weeks (p < 0.05); however, when the data were normalized by tissue volume, there were no differences between the groups, suggesting that the treatment with growth factor results in the formation of poor-quality scar tissue rather than true tissue regeneration. The repairs that were treated with the collagen sponge carrier alone had significantly greater stiffness than the growth factor-treated group at twelve weeks (p = 0.005). This model tests the effects of growth factors on scar tissue formation in a gap between tendon and bone. The administration of osteoinductive growth factors resulted in greater formation of new bone, fibrocartilage, and soft tissue, with a concomitant increase in tendon attachment strength but less stiffness than repairs treated with the collagen sponge carrier alone."}
{"id": "17974879", "title": "Arthroscopic repair of traumatic combined rotator cuff tears involving the subscapularis tendon.", "content": "Arthroscopic repair of traumatic combined rotator cuff tears involving the subscapularis tendon. Although the use of arthroscopic repair to treat rotator cuff tears involving the subscapularis has increased, there are few studies on treatment outcomes and repair integrity. We hypothesized that arthroscopic repair of combined rotator cuff tears that include the subscapularis yields successful functional and structural outcomes. Our study population consisted of seventeen men and three women (twenty shoulders) whose mean age was 61.7 years. The mean duration of follow-up was 36.1 months, and all patients were followed for at least two years. All had traumatic full-thickness tears of the subscapularis and supraspinatus, and seven had a concomitant infraspinatus tear. The mean time from the injury to the surgery was 2.7 months. An arthroscopic suture-anchor technique was used for the repair. The shoulders were evaluated before and after the procedure with use of the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) score, the Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) score, plain radiographs, and magnetic resonance imaging scans. After arthroscopic repair, the mean UCLA and JOA scores significantly improved from 14.9 and 55.7 points to 31.1 and 91.0 points, respectively (p < 0.0001). According to the JOA rating scale, the outcome was excellent for thirteen patients (65%), good for five (25%), fair for one (5%), and poor for one (5%). Of the twenty patients, seven (35%) had recurrent tears after the surgery; four of them had originally had a three-tendon tear and the other three had had a two-tendon tear. Of these seven patients, one had an excellent outcome; five, a good outcome; and one, a fair outcome. The postoperative mean JOA score was significantly lower for the patients with a failed repair than it was for those with an intact repair (p = 0.0034). The patients with a failed repair also had a significantly higher mean age (68.4 years compared with 58.1 years for those with an intact repair; p = 0.014), and the prevalence of recurrent tears was significantly higher in the patients with severe tendon retraction compared with those with minimal or moderate tendon retraction (p = 0.0191). Arthroscopic repair with use of the suture anchor technique is a safe and effective procedure for the treatment of combined rotator cuff tears involving the subscapularis tendon; it can alleviate shoulder pain and improve function and the range of motion. The postoperative integrity of the repair correlates with the clinical results. Patient age and the degree of tendon retraction can affect the integrity of the repair."}
{"id": "17954658", "title": "Rotator cuff impingement: correlation between findings on MRI and outcome after fluoroscopically guided subacromial bursography and steroid injection.", "content": "Rotator cuff impingement: correlation between findings on MRI and outcome after fluoroscopically guided subacromial bursography and steroid injection. The purpose of this study was to describe the use of fluoroscopically guided subacromial bursography in the management of rotator cuff impingement and to correlate clinical outcome with preprocedural MRI findings. Sixty-nine patients with clinically and MRI proven subacromial impingement referred for fluoroscopic subacromial bursography and steroid injection between January 2004 and January 2006 were included in the study. After contrast-enhanced bursography, each patient received an injection of 80 mg of methylprednisolone and 1-2 mL of 0.25% bupivacaine into the bursa. Outcome was determined retrospectively and classified as complete resolution of symptoms, partial resolution of symptoms, or no change. MRI findings of impingement were graded according to severity. Outcome was evaluated as complete resolution and as complete or partial resolution in relation to MRI findings, duration of symptoms, age, and sex. Complete resolution of symptoms was recorded in 40 (58%) of the patients. Fifty-seven (83%) of the patients reported some relief of symptoms after a mean follow-up period of 6 months. Shorter duration of symptoms and minor-grade MRI findings were associated with complete resolution. Younger age and minor-grade MRI findings were associated with complete or partial resolution. Imaging-guided subacromial steroid injection may be of benefit in the short-term management of clinically and MRI-proven subacromial impingement, with 83% of 69 patients reporting symptom relief at 6-month follow-up evaluation. Patients with shorter duration of symptoms and minor-grade MRI findings have improved outcome."}
{"id": "17951350", "title": "Recurrent symptoms after shoulder instability repair: direct MR arthrographic assessment--correlation with second-look surgical evaluation.", "content": "Recurrent symptoms after shoulder instability repair: direct MR arthrographic assessment--correlation with second-look surgical evaluation. To retrospectively determine the accuracy of direct magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography of the shoulder in patients with recurrent or residual signs and/or symptoms of instability after prior instability repair, with surgical findings as the reference standard. After institutional ethics review board approval was obtained and informed consent was waived, 40 patients (31 men, eight women; mean age, 28 years) with recurrent instability after previous instability repair who underwent direct shoulder MR arthrography before repeat surgery were studied. Two musculoskeletal radiologists reviewed direct MR arthrographic studies by using consensus agreement in a blinded fashion. MR assessment included evaluation of the labrum (overall, superior, anterior and anteroinferior, posterior and posteroinferior), rotator cuff, biceps tendon, articular cartilage, and presence or absence of a Hill-Sachs lesion. Mean interval between MR arthrography and repeat surgery was 6.2 months (range, 6 days to 36 months). Surgical reports were compared with MR arthrographic results, and accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of direct MR arthrography were determined. Accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity, respectively, of direct MR arthrography in diagnosis of overall labral tears (n = 26) were 91.9%, 96.2%, and 81.8%; those of superior labral tears (n = 16) were 89.2%, 93.8%, and 85.7%; and those of anteroinferior tears (n = 17) were 91.9%, 100%, and 85%. Overall accuracy for detecting rotator cuff injury (n = 17) was 87.2% (sensitivity, 94.1%; specificity, 81.8%); accuracy for biceps injury (n = 7) was 95.7% (sensitivity, 85.7%; specificity, 100%); accuracy for glenoid and/or humeral articular cartilage abnormality (n = 15) was 76.2% (sensitivity, 73.3%; specificity, 83.3%); and accuracy for Hill-Sachs lesion (n = 14) was 93.3%. Direct MR arthrography is accurate (91.9%) for assessing labral pathologic conditions and other internal derangements of the shoulder in patients with recurrent or residual signs and/or symptoms after prior shoulder instability repair."}
{"id": "17932406", "title": "Interobserver agreement in the classification of rotator cuff tears using magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Interobserver agreement in the classification of rotator cuff tears using magnetic resonance imaging. Although magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a standard method of assessing the extent and features of rotator cuff disease, the authors are not aware of any studies that have assessed the interobserver agreement among orthopaedic surgeons reviewing MRI scans for rotator cuff disease. Fellowship-trained orthopaedic shoulder surgeons will have good interobserver agreement in predicting the more salient features of rotator cuff disease such as tear type (full thickness versus partial thickness), tear size, and number of tendons involved but only fair agreement with more complex features such as muscle volume, fat content, and the grade of partial-thickness cuff tears. Cohort study (diagnosis); Level of evidence, 3. Ten fellowship-trained orthopaedic surgery shoulder specialists reviewed 27 MRI scans of 27 shoulders from patients with surgically confirmed rotator cuff disease. The ability to interpret full-thickness versus partial-thickness tears, acromion type, acromioclavicular joint spurs or signal changes, biceps lesions, size and grade of partial-thickness tears, acromiohumeral distance, number of tendons involved and amount of retraction for full-thickness tears, size of full-thickness tears, and individual muscle fatty infiltration and atrophy were assessed. Surgeons completed a standard evaluation form for each MRI scan. Interobserver agreement was determined and a kappa level was derived. Interobserver agreement was highest (>80%) for predicting full- versus partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff, and for quantity of the teres minor tendon. Agreement was slightly less (>70%) for detecting signal in the acromioclavicular joint, the side of the partial-thickness tear, the number of tendons involved in a full-thickness tear, and the quantity of the subscapularis and infraspinatus muscle bellies. Agreement was less yet (60%) for detecting the presence of spurs at the acromioclavicular joint, a tear of the long head of the biceps tendon, amount of retraction of a full-thickness tear, and the quantity of the supraspinatus. The best kappa statistics were found for detecting the difference between a full- and partial-thickness rotator cuff tear (0.77), and for the number of tendons involved for full-thickness tears (0.55). Kappa for predicting the involved side of a partial-thickness tear was 0.44; for predicting the grade of a partial-thickness tear, it was -0.11. Fellowship-trained, experienced orthopaedic surgeons had good agreement for predicting full-thickness rotator cuff tears and the number of tendons involved and moderate agreement in predicting the involved side of a partial-thickness rotator cuff tear, but poor agreement in predicting the grade of a partial-thickness tear."}
{"id": "17931909", "title": "Arthroscopic prevalence of pulley lesions in 1007 consecutive patients.", "content": "Arthroscopic prevalence of pulley lesions in 1007 consecutive patients. This study retrospectively analyzed 1007 diagnostic shoulder arthroscopies. The study included 72 patients with an arthroscopically verified pulley lesion as the main pathologic finding. Epidemiologic data and arthroscopic findings were evaluated in all patients, and 53 were clinically examined with the Constant score after a minimum follow-up of 2 years. We observed an incidence of 7.1% for pulley lesions. An isolated rupture of the superior glenohumeral ligament (SGHL) was seen in 53 patients (73.6%) and a combined partial articular-side tear of the rotator cuff adjacent to rotator interval in 19 (26.4%). Thirty-one patients (43%) had a history of trauma, whereas 41 (57%) had none. Overall, the mean postoperative Constant score adjusted for age and gender was 80.1% (range, 47%-135%). Patients with a SGHL lesion only (85.7%) exhibited a significant (P = .047) higher age- and gender-adjusted Constant score compared with patients with a combined partial surface tendon tear (73.1%). Our epidemiologic data accentuate the need for careful evaluation of the superolateral aspect of rotator interval to avoid underdiagnosis of pulley lesions at shoulder arthroscopy. Our findings provide evidence that the clinical outcome of isolated SGHL lesions is better compared with combined partial articular-side rotator cuff tear. With respect to the progressive pathologic process of pulley lesions, we recommend an early surgical treatment."}
{"id": "17931908", "title": "Long-term functional outcomes after repair of rotator cuff tears correlated with atrophy of the supraspinatus muscles on magnetic resonance images.", "content": "Long-term functional outcomes after repair of rotator cuff tears correlated with atrophy of the supraspinatus muscles on magnetic resonance images. We determined the relationship between atrophy of the supraspinatus muscle and functional outcomes in 27 patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears who underwent arthroscopic acromioplasty and mini-open cuff repair. Before surgery, all underwent a physical examination and magnetic resonance imaging of the involved shoulder. Using image-processing software, we measured the cross-sectional area of the total supraspinatus muscle (including regions of fatty degeneration and atrophy) and of the atrophic supraspinatus muscle on sagittal oblique images obtained about 20 mm proximal to the glenoid surface. The atrophic-to-total ratio (A/T ratio) of these areas was then calculated. We assessed functional outcomes by the Constant and Murley functional score at long-term follow-up. The correlation between the A/T ratios and the functional ratings was statistically analyzed. The results demonstrated a significant positive correlation between A/T ratios of the supraspinatus muscle and functional outcomes."}
{"id": "17931904", "title": "Correlation of atrophy and fatty infiltration on strength and integrity of rotator cuff repairs: a study in thirteen patients.", "content": "Correlation of atrophy and fatty infiltration on strength and integrity of rotator cuff repairs: a study in thirteen patients. In 13 patients, the development of supraspinatus muscle atrophy and fatty infiltration after rotator cuff tendon repair was quantified prospectively via magnetic resonance imaging. Intraoperative electrical nerve stimulation at repair showed that the maximal supraspinatus tension (up to 200 N) strongly correlated with the anatomic cross-sectional muscle area and with muscle fatty infiltration (ranging from 12 N/cm(2) in Goutallier stage 3 to 42 N/cm(2) in Goutallier stage 0). Within 1 year after successful tendon repair (n = 8), fatty infiltration did not recover, and atrophy improved partially at best; however, if the repair failed (n = 5), atrophy and fatty infiltration progressed significantly. The ability of the rotator cuff muscles to develop tension not only correlates with their atrophy but also closely correlates with their degree of fatty infiltration. With current repair techniques, atrophy and fatty infiltration appear to be irreversible, despite successful tendon repair. Unexpectedly, not only weak but also very strong muscles are at risk for repair failure."}
{"id": "17916487", "title": "Arthroscopic release of the superior transverse ligament and SLAP refixation in a case of suprascapular nerve entrapment.", "content": "Arthroscopic release of the superior transverse ligament and SLAP refixation in a case of suprascapular nerve entrapment. We report a case of suprascapular nerve entrapment at the suprascapular notch combined with a type II SLAP lesion resulting in supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscle weakness and shoulder pain in a 27-year-old female professional handball player. The magnetic resonance imaging scan showed significant atrophy of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles. Electromyography revealed an isolated proximal lesion of the suprascapular nerve. The patient was treated by an arthroscopic release of the superior transverse ligament and repair of the type II SLAP lesion. Follow-up evaluations were performed 6 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months postoperatively. The Constant score improved from 51 to 84 points. Electromyography studies 3 and 6 months after surgery showed significant improvement with normal reinnervation of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles. To our knowledge, this is the first report of proximal suprascapular nerve entrapment with coincidence of a SLAP lesion that was treated arthroscopically. On the basis of this case, we found that arthroscopic release of the superior transverse ligament is an effective procedure for decompression of the suprascapular nerve. Although it is a technically demanding procedure, the arthroscopic approach has the advantage of detecting concomitant lesions such as SLAP lesions."}
{"id": "17912520", "title": "Irreducible anterior dislocation of the shoulder due to soft tissue interposition of subscapularis tendon.", "content": "Irreducible anterior dislocation of the shoulder due to soft tissue interposition of subscapularis tendon. The shoulder joint is the most unstable joint in the body and is easily dislocated. Anterior shoulder dislocation is the commonest and can be associated with glenoid and humeral fractures. Anterior shoulder dislocations are not infrequently associated with cuff tendon tears; however, anterior shoulder dislocation is easily reducible. Irreducible anterior dislocation of the glenohumeral joint is uncommon, and this could be due to bony as well as soft tissue causes. Persistent anterior dislocation due to torn subscapularis interposition in the glenohumeral joint is very rare, and only a few operative cases have been reported in the literature. We present MR features of one such case and a literature review."}
{"id": "17912513", "title": "Spectrum of shoulder injuries in the baseball pitcher.", "content": "Spectrum of shoulder injuries in the baseball pitcher. This review describes a range of shoulder injuries experienced by baseball pitchers. It is estimated that more than 57% of pitchers suffer some form of shoulder injury during a playing season. Knowledge of the overhead throwing cycle is crucial for our understanding of these shoulder injuries. Baseball pitchers are prone to rotator cuff tears from tensile overload and impingement. Glenoid labrum degeneration or tears are also common, due to overuse syndrome (micro-instability), internal impingement and microtrauma. An understanding of the lesions involved in overhead throwing is crucial in baseball pitchers, as long-term disability can result from these injuries, sometimes with severe financial consequences to the player."}
{"id": "17906420", "title": "Muscle strain of the subscapularis muscle: a case report.", "content": "Muscle strain of the subscapularis muscle: a case report. We report on a case of muscle strain of the subscapularis muscle in a baseball player. An out-fielder (throws right-handed and bats left-handed) hurt his right shoulder while playing baseball. He complained of right-shoulder pain just after he forcefully hit his right hand against the fence in an attempt to jump and catch a flying ball with a glove on the left hand during a baseball game. Fat-suppressed T2-weighted magnetic resonance images (MRIs) of the right shoulder joint revealed muscle strain in the middle part of the subscapularis muscle, and the injury was surmised to have occurred on account of eccentric contraction of the subscapularis muscle. The case was considered to have moderate muscle strain, because he had modest muscle weakness with a negative lift-off test. Active stretching exercises were begun just after his first visit to our clinic, and throwing exercises were started 3 weeks later, by when the right-shoulder pain had completely disappeared. Repeat MRIs of the right shoulder joint obtained 4 weeks after his first visit to our clinic revealed a significant reduction of the high-intensity lesions in the subscapularis muscle. Conservative treatment was effective for managing moderate muscle strain of the subscapularis muscle. Muscle strain of the subscapularis muscle should be taken into consideration in the differential diagnosis of shoulder injuries in athletes."}
{"id": "17901945", "title": "[The dislocated shoulder prosthesis--an avoidable disaster?].", "content": "[The dislocated shoulder prosthesis--an avoidable disaster?]. Instability after shoulder arthroplasty is a common problem, even though complete dislocations are rare. A distinction can be made between vertical and horizontal instabilities. The most common type of vertical instability is superior migration of the humeral head caused by rotator cuff insufficiency; the shoulder prosthesis should be changed for an inverse prosthesis if the patient is symptomatic. Horizontal instabilities can certainly lead to acute dislocation, but it is far more common for them to result in eccentric loading of the glenoid and in turn to increased wear and loosening. When a prosthesis is first implanted it is essential to reproduce the original bony situation before the deformity caused by arthrosis, arthritis or fracture, as this is the only way to prevent instability. This requires careful preoperative planning including evaluation of CT or MRI scans so that during the operation it will be possible, for example, to reorientate an eccentrically torn glenoid using a bone graft or by eccentric reaming and restore the original torsion. At least as much importance attaches to the treatment of the soft tissue, meaning careful release and later closure of the rotator cuff and capsule complex, as to the bony situation. In the authors' own institution 190 prostheses were implanted between 2000 and 2006 and there were three dislocations (1.6%)."}
{"id": "17896393", "title": "First-time shoulder dislocation: High prevalence of labral injury and age-related differences revealed by MR arthrography.", "content": "First-time shoulder dislocation: High prevalence of labral injury and age-related differences revealed by MR arthrography. To evaluate abnormalities and age-related differences after first-time shoulder dislocation. MRA images of first-time dislocators were assessed for labral-ligamentous-capsular / rotator cuff abnormalities and analyzed the age-related differences (< and >/=30 years old). Sixty-six patients (34 <30 years old vs. 32 >/=30 years; 51 males; all anterior dislocations) were imaged. Forty-eight patients (73%) showed anteroinferior labral avulsion, consisting of: 6% (4/34 vs. 0/32) Perthes; 23% (8/34 vs. 7/32) free ALPSA (anterior labrum periosteal sleeve avulsion) lesion); 6% (1/34 vs. 3/32) adherent ALPSA; 23% (9/34 vs. 6/32) Bankart; 14% (5/34 vs. 4/32) inferiorly displaced avulsed labrum; 2% (1/34 vs. 0/32) GLAD. Extensive labral detachment (extended above 3 o'clock position) was present in 31% (11/28 vs. 4/20). There were 14% (6/34 vs. 3/32) superior labrum anterior-posterior (SLAP) lesion; 27% (1/34 vs. 17/34) rotator cuff tendon tear; 71% (25/34 vs. 22/32) Hill-Sachs defect. Young patients were more likely to have extensive labral avulsions (P = 0.054), but less likely to have rotator cuff tears (P < 0.001). A high prevalence and wide variety of labral avulsions after first-time shoulder dislocation, especially adherent ALPSA, inferiorly displaced avulsed labrum, or GLAD lesion, may influence treatment choice and outcome, suggesting a role for early MRA to assist in treatment triage."}
{"id": "17891375", "title": "[Rotator cuff tears and internal impingement in athletes].", "content": "[Rotator cuff tears and internal impingement in athletes]. Knowledge of rotator cuff tears, especially in young people, and their cause has been vastly expanded in recent years. This is reflected in the understanding of the pathogenesis of these lesions and the specific therapy. In contrast to the mostly degenerative tears in older people, the causes in young, active people differ: traumatic disruption, internal impingement due to instability (PSI, ASI), SLAP lesion, and microtraumatic causes may be found. Recently, connections between the different pathologies like internal impingement and the SLAP lesion were shown. For an accurate diagnosis and differentiation between the different pathologies an exact clinical examination and a high-quality MRI scan with intra-articular contrast enhancer is necessary. The final therapy should be planned based on the causative pathology; then good long-term results will be achieved and return to sports is likely. If there is no structural damage, conservative therapy should be initiated. If there is any structural damage, e.g., SLAP lesion or rotator cuff tear, surgical treatment is indicated. Besides a SLAP repair and rotator cuff suturing, care must be given not to miss an accompanying instability. These instabilities should also be corrected, e.g., with arthroscopic ventral capsular plication, otherwise results are worse."}
{"id": "17889340", "title": "3D shape analysis of the supraspinatus muscle: a clinical study of the relationship between shape and pathology.", "content": "3D shape analysis of the supraspinatus muscle: a clinical study of the relationship between shape and pathology. Rotator cuff disorders are prevalent and can cause pain and reduced range of motion and strength. Accurate, noninvasive diagnosis of rotator cuff disorders is therefore important. In this work, we study the relationship between several three-dimensional (3D) shape measurements of the supraspinatus and its pathologic conditions. The objective is to explore the utility of 3D shape descriptors in distinguishing supraspinatus pathologies, leading to computer-aided diagnosis of rotator cuff disorders. We acquired magnetic resonance images of the shoulder from 73 patients, separated into five pathology groups: normal (14), tear (20), tear and atrophy (13), tear and retraction (15), and tear and atrophy and retraction (11). We segmented the 3D surface of the supraspinatus from each magnetic resonance image, and computed 11 3D shape characteristics for each. We performed an analysis of variance (ANOVA) test for each measurement to test the null hypothesis that the means of the pathology groups were equal. The most promising of the measurements, as determined by the ANOVA test, were used to train a support vector machine classifier to automatically assign new supraspinata to the correct pathology groups. The ANOVA test results rejected the null hypothesis (p < .0045) for 7 of our 11 measurements. Highlights of the results from the support vector machine classifier were 79% accuracy in distinguishing normals from abnormals, and 82% accuracy in distinguishing atrophy from retraction, our main clinical motivation. These scores were tabulated based on leave-one-out cross-validation. From the results, we draw the conclusion that 3D shape analysis may be helpful in the diagnosis of rotator cuff disorders, but further investigation is required to develop a 3D shape descriptor that yields ideal pathology group separation. The results of this study suggest several promising avenues of future research to meet this goal."}
{"id": "17885069", "title": "Rim-rent tear of the rotator cuff: a common and easily overlooked partial tear.", "content": "Rim-rent tear of the rotator cuff: a common and easily overlooked partial tear. The purpose of this study was to determine the incidence of rim-rent rotator cuff tears in a population of patients referred for shoulder MRI and to determine the sensitivity of MRI for the detection of these tears. Rim-rent tears are a common type of partial-thickness rotator cuff tear, much more commonly present than has been previously reported. In particular, infraspinatus rim-rent tears are more common than previously believed. Rim-rent tears of the infraspinatus tendon and those involving the anterior-most fibers of the supraspinatus tendon are commonly overlooked on MRI, possibly because of failure to appreciate the high incidence of these types of tears and failure to inspect the anterior-most fibers of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "17882047", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the long head of the biceps tendon: benefit of coplanar image.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the long head of the biceps tendon: benefit of coplanar image. To evaluate coplanar imaging of the long head of the biceps tendon. We retrospectively compared coronal oblique magnetic resonance images aligned with the principal supraspinatus tendon and with the intra-articular biceps tendon in 21 patients. Magnetic resonance images were analyzed for lesions depicted, including superior labral anteroposterior (SLAP) tears. Arthroscopic findings were reviewed. Coronal oblique images aligned with intra-articular biceps tendon depicted 18 (86%) of 21 coplanar intra-articular biceps tendons. Coplanar images identified 6 cases of tendinosis, 1 tear, 3 intra-articular ruptures, and 20 (95.2%) of 21 exact origins of the tendon. Arthroscopy revealed 18 SLAP tears. The detection of SLAP lesions between both coronal oblique magnetic resonance images was significantly different (P = 0.007). Advantages included imaging of the intra-articular biceps tendon with least partial-volume effects, definition of SLAP lesions and the tendinous origin at the supraglenoid tubercle, depiction of intra-articular bicipital ruptures, and increased sensitivity and specificity for intra-articular lesions."}
{"id": "17825744", "title": "Posterior capsular fibrosis in professional baseball pitchers: case series of MR arthrographic findings in six patients with glenohumeral internal rotational deficit.", "content": "Posterior capsular fibrosis in professional baseball pitchers: case series of MR arthrographic findings in six patients with glenohumeral internal rotational deficit. In the high-performance athlete, acquired thickening of the posterior joint capsule is a proposed etiology for glenohumeral internal rotational deficit (GIRD). The purpose of this study was to present our MR arthrographic imaging observations of posterior capsular thickening in professional baseball players who present with reduced throwing velocity related to pain and clinical findings of internal rotational deficit of the glenohumeral joint. Our observations of MR imaging features in patients with clinical and arthroscopic manifestations of GIRD lesions include articular surface partial thickness tears of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons, superoposterior subluxation of the humeral head and SLAP tears of the labrum. Although no empiric standard currently exists for the axial dimension thickness of the shoulder capsule, we have observed a thickened appearance of the posterior band of the inferior glenohumeral ligament in these patients."}
{"id": "17768188", "title": "Clinical and structural outcomes of nonoperative management of massive rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Clinical and structural outcomes of nonoperative management of massive rotator cuff tears. The natural history of massive rotator cuff tears is not well known. The purpose of this study was to determine the clinical and structural mid-term outcomes in a series of nonoperatively managed massive rotator cuff tears. Nineteen consecutive patients (twelve men and seven women; average age, sixty-four years) with a massive rotator cuff tear, documented by magnetic resonance imaging, were identified retrospectively. There were six complete tears of two rotator cuff tendons and thirteen complete tears of three rotator cuff tendons. All patients were managed exclusively with nonoperative means. Nonoperative management was chosen when a patient had low functional demands and relatively few symptoms and/or if he or she refused to have surgery. For the purpose of this study, patients were examined clinically and with standard radiographs and magnetic resonance imaging. After a mean duration of follow-up of forty-eight months, the mean relative Constant score was 83% and the mean subjective shoulder value was 68%. The score for pain averaged 11.5 points on a 0 to 15-point visual analogue scale in which 15 points represented no pain. The active range of motion did not change over time. Forward flexion and abduction averaged 136 degrees; external rotation, 39 degrees; and internal rotation, 66 degrees. Glenohumeral osteoarthritis progressed (p = 0.014), the acromiohumeral distance decreased (p = 0.005), the size of the tendon tear increased (p = 0.003), and fatty infiltration increased by approximately one stage in all three muscles (p = 0.001). Patients with a three-tendon tear showed more progression of osteoarthritis (p = 0.01) than did patients with a two-tendon tear. Four of the eight rotator cuff tears that were graded as reparable at the time of the diagnosis became irreparable at the time of final follow-up. Patients with a nonoperatively managed, moderately symptomatic massive rotator cuff tear can maintain satisfactory shoulder function for at least four years despite significant progression of degenerative structural joint changes. There is a risk of a reparable tear progressing to an irreparable tear within four years."}
{"id": "17728506", "title": "Ultrasonographic findings of the shoulder in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and comparison with physical examination.", "content": "Ultrasonographic findings of the shoulder in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and comparison with physical examination. The objectives of this study were: 1) to identify the ultrasonographic (US) abnormalities and 2) to compare the findings of physical examination with US findings in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients with shoulder pain. We studied 30 RA patients. Physical examination was performed systemically as follows: 1) area of tenderness; 2) range of passive and active shoulder motion; 3) impingement tests; 4) maneuvers for determining the location of the tendon lesions. US investigations included the biceps, the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis tendons; the subacromial-subdeltoid bursa; and the glenohumeral and acromioclavicular joints. Thirty RA patients with 35 painful and 25 non-painful shoulders were examined. The range of motion affected the most by shoulder pain was abduction. The most frequent US finding of shoulder joint was effusion in the long head of the biceps tendon. Among the rotator cuff tendons, subscapularis was the most frequently involved. Tendon tear was also common among non-painful shoulders. Physical examination used for the diagnosis of shoulder pain had low sensitivity and specificity for detecting abnormalities in the rheumatoid shoulder joint. In conclusion, US abnormalities showed frequent tendon tears in our RA patients. Physical examination had low sensitivity and specificity for detecting rotator cuff tear in the rheumatoid shoulder joint."}
{"id": "17713757", "title": "[Imaging in evaluating rotator cuff tears].", "content": "[Imaging in evaluating rotator cuff tears]. Diagnostic imaging in a patient with shoulder pain should be used only after a comprehensive clinical evaluation of the shoulder. X-ray and ultrasonography are the basic diagnostic tools; computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) should be used only with certain indications. Ultrasonography and MRI have comparable accuracy for identifying and measuring full-thickness rotator cuff tears, but the accuracy for identifying partial-thickness still needs to be improved. MR arthrography has significantly improved sensitivity and specificity for partial-thickness tears of the cuff. Only ultrasound provides a real-time examination tool during shoulder movements. Moreover, dynamic ultrasonography can assess the contraction patterns of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles, which may improve decision making in the treatment of shoulder diseases. In depicting fatty atrophy of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles, MRI remains the reference standard. MRI should not be used as a diagnostic screening tool in patients with chronic shoulder pain because it does not appear to significantly affect treatment or outcome."}
{"id": "17704907", "title": "[Management of isolated subscapularis tendon tears].", "content": "[Management of isolated subscapularis tendon tears]. Isolated subscapularis tendon tears are rare and often of traumatic origin. Despite specific clinical tests and exact radiological tools (ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging), these tendon ruptures are often overlooked. For restoration of normal biomechanical joint function, immediate operative reconstruction is recommended. Tears of the upper subscapularis and partial articular-side tendon can be safely managed arthroscopically. The biceps tendon is often involved, and adequate treatment with tenotomy or tenodesis must be given to prevent postoperative pain. Complete subscapularis tendon avulsions should be reconstructed with an open repair technique. Immediate surgical management provides better results than delayed repair."}
{"id": "17703378", "title": "[Bilateral fixed dislocation of the long head of the biceps tendon].", "content": "[Bilateral fixed dislocation of the long head of the biceps tendon]. In general, dislocations of the long head of the biceps tendon are associated with partial or complete rotator cuff rupture on the side of the affected shoulder. We report about a patient with bilateral fixed and painless dislocation of the tendon of the long biceps head. By using functional ultrasound, correct diagnosis was facilitated and accelerated."}
{"id": "17681214", "title": "Arthroscopic grafting of greater tuberosity cyst and rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Arthroscopic grafting of greater tuberosity cyst and rotator cuff repair. Cysts of the greater tuberosity can be a normal finding independent of age and concurrent rotator cuff tear. The presence of a large greater tuberosity cyst can present a challenge at the time of rotator cuff repair. We present a 1-step arthroscopic technique to address these defects at the time of rotator cuff repair using a synthetic graft (OsteoBiologics, San Antonio, TX) originally designed to address osteoarticular defects. With the viewing portal established laterally, a portal allowing perpendicular access to the cyst is established. The cyst is thoroughly debrided, and a drill sleeve is then introduced perpendicular to the surrounding bone, serving as a guide for the matching drill to create a circular socket. A correspondingly sized TruFit BGS cylindrical implant (OsteoBiologics) is then implanted by use of the included instrumentation. The scaffold is placed flush with the surrounding bone. Because our arthroscopic rotator cuff protocol uses a tension-band technique with placement of suture anchors distal and lateral to the rotator cuff footprint, we are subsequently able to proceed with routine rotator cuff repair."}
{"id": "17671017", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of arthroscopic supraspinatus tendon repair.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of arthroscopic supraspinatus tendon repair. While a number of studies have documented the very good clinical results of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, very few authors have specifically assessed cuff integrity, supraspinatus atrophy, and fatty infiltration and their influence on the clinical outcome. We evaluated fifty-three consecutive patients (average age, 60.9 years) who had undergone arthroscopic repair of an isolated supraspinatus tendon tear. After an average duration of follow-up of 26.4 months, all patients were evaluated clinically with use of the Constant score and underwent standardized magnetic resonance imaging at our institution. The preoperative and postoperative magnetic resonance images were evaluated by two independent observers who were blinded to the clinical outcome of the patient. Evaluation criteria were cuff integrity; atrophy of the supraspinatus; and fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis. These findings were correlated to the clinical outcome. Regardless of the tendon integrity, every parameter of the Constant score was significantly improved after the repair. The overall average Constant score was improved from 53.5 to 83.4 points (p < 0.001). The retear rate in our series was 25% (thirteen of fifty-three). Patients who had a retear had significantly less abduction strength (p = 0.043) and a significantly lower total Constant score (p = 0.012) than those who had an intact repair. A higher degree of preoperative supraspinatus atrophy and Stage-2 fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus were positive predictors of a retear. Also, an older age was an important predictor of a retear (p = 0.011). Progression of structural changes in the rotator cuff was halted when the repair remained intact, but there was no significant reversal of fatty infiltration or muscle atrophy. When the repairs failed, there was significant progression of fatty infiltration and atrophy of the supraspinatus. The clinical and structural results of arthroscopic repairs of isolated supraspinatus tears are equal to those reported following open repair. Fatty infiltration and muscle atrophy cannot be reversed by successful arthroscopic repair. Higher degrees of muscular atrophy and fatty infiltration preoperatively are associated with recurrence of the tear as well as progression of fatty infiltration and muscular atrophy and an inferior clinical result."}
{"id": "17671016", "title": "Stabilization of the long head of the biceps tendon in the context of early repair of traumatic subscapularis tendon tears.", "content": "Stabilization of the long head of the biceps tendon in the context of early repair of traumatic subscapularis tendon tears. Tears of the subscapularis tendon commonly are associated with instability of the long head of the biceps tendon. Standard surgical treatment includes tenodesis or tenotomy of the biceps tendon. However, chronic discomfort from spasms and cosmetic disadvantages have been reported following both procedures, while the potential for functional impairments remains controversial. We investigated the outcome of stabilization of the long head of the biceps tendon in the context of early repair of traumatic tears of the subscapularis tendon. We performed stabilization of an unstable, structurally intact long head of the biceps tendon in twenty-one patients in the acute phase after a traumatic tear of the subscapularis tendon. The average period from the injury to the surgery was 6.2 weeks. Open tendon stabilization and subscapularis reconstruction were performed with transosseous sutures. The follow-up consisted of clinical examination (with determination of the absolute, age and gender-related, and individual relative Constant scores; clinical evaluation of the long head of the biceps; and subjective determination of shoulder function) and dynamic ultrasound examination. The average follow-up period was 28.4 months. The mean absolute Constant score increased from 26.3 points preoperatively to 79.3 points postoperatively (p < 0.01). The mean age and gender-related Constant score improved from 28.0% to 87.0% (p < 0.01). Seven patients showed clinical symptoms consistent with mild biceps tendinopathy. Using dynamic ultrasound examination, we found two cases of recurrent instability (medial subluxation) of the long head of the biceps tendon. Secondary rupture of the long head of the biceps tendon occurred in one patient, twenty-six months after the surgery. The functional outcomes of stabilization of the long head of the biceps tendon in the context of early repair of a traumatic tear of the subscapularis tendon were comparable with the results of tenodesis or tenotomy reported in previous studies. The cosmetic results were superior, and chronic discomfort from spasms was not observed. Stabilization of the tendon of the long head of the biceps can be recommended as a treatment option for selected patients and should be discussed as an alternative to tenodesis or tenotomy, particularly in a young patient."}
{"id": "17665351", "title": "Shoulder: what the orthopaedic doctor needs to know.", "content": "Shoulder: what the orthopaedic doctor needs to know. Diagnosing shoulder pathology accurately requires both clinical expertise and the ability to interpret and correlate radiographic studies. Variational anatomy of the shoulder combined with the complexity of physical examination makes this difficult. Physical examination of the shoulder often leaves the surgeon with more than one working diagnosis. Imaging studies of the shoulder are more valuable if used to confirm a working diagnosis as opposed to reading the study in a vacuum. Clinical correlation should also be considered for any and all findings on an imaging study. Collaboration of the surgeon and the radiologist is essential in reducing the number of over-reported findings that are clinically insignificant. The surgeon should directly communicate with the radiologist as to his or her working diagnosis and the goal of the study. In this way the surgeon and radiologist become superior diagnosticians."}
{"id": "17659559", "title": "Can isotropic fast gradient echo imaging be substituted for conventional T1 weighted sequences in shoulder MR arthrography at 3 Tesla?", "content": "Can isotropic fast gradient echo imaging be substituted for conventional T1 weighted sequences in shoulder MR arthrography at 3 Tesla? To assess the practical utility of isotropic shoulder imaging in patients undergoing MR arthrography. Isotropic shoulder imaging can be performed in less than three minutes with use of fast gradients. Two experienced musculoskeletal radiologists retrospectively interpreted MR images of the shoulder in 100 consecutive patients undergoing MR arthrography of the shoulder. All patients underwent MRI of the shoulder in oblique coronal, oblique sagittal, and axial planes on a 3.0-Tesla MRI system. All patients had conventional fast spin-echo T1-weighted imaging. All patients also had thin section (0.4 mm) isotropic spoiled gradient echo images performed. A total of 67 of the 100 patients underwent subsequent arthroscopy and results were compared with MR interpretations. There were 41 full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears, nine partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears (seven articular surface and two bursal surface), 21 superior labral, 18 anterior labral, and seven posterior labral tears demonstrated by consensus retrospective reading of the 100 shoulder MR exams. There was no difference in interpretation of the isotropic images as compared to the conventionally acquired images in the oblique coronal, oblique sagittal, and axial planes. Some patients had more than one finding on each exam. A total of 67 patients went on to arthroscopy. There were 41 full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears, nine partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears, 21 superior labral, 18 anterior labral, and seven posterior labral tears demonstrated on arthroscopy. All full- and partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears seen at arthroscopy were seen on consensus MR reading. A total of 19 out of the 21 patients with superior labral anterior posterior (SLAP) tears at arthroscopy were seen on consensus MR reading. A total of 16 of the 18 anterior labral tears and six of the seven posterior labral tears seen at arthroscopy were seen on consensus MR reading. Some of the 67 patients had more than one finding on arthroscopy. Isotropic imaging of the shoulder is practical in clinical imaging when performed with use of fast gradients on a 3-Tesla system. Isotropic imaging provides the same clinical information as conventional imaging and can be acquired in less than three minutes."}
{"id": "17629505", "title": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: prospective functional outcome and repair integrity at minimum 2-year follow-up.", "content": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: prospective functional outcome and repair integrity at minimum 2-year follow-up. The purpose of this study was to assess arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears at a minimum of 2 years postoperatively with both patient-derived and objective outcome measures, including the use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), to evaluate repair status. Evaluated were 49 shoulders in 47 consecutive patients. The American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score, Constant and Murley score, Simple Shoulder Test, Rowe score, Visual Analog Pain Scale, and the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form-12 Mental Component Scale all improved significantly (P < .001) between the preoperative and final follow-up evaluations. MRI found 22% of repairs had recurrent tears. The presence of a recurrent tear correlated significantly with patient age (P < .009) and extension of the tear to the infraspinatus (P < .009). Active forward flexion, abduction, external rotation, and strength in forward flexion correlated inversely with the presence of a recurrent tear (P < .05). At minimum 2-year follow-up, arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears produced significant improvements in both patient-derived and objectively measured variables."}
{"id": "17624527", "title": "Imaging in shoulder disorders.", "content": "Imaging in shoulder disorders. Clinical assessment of the patient with shoulder symptoms can usually localize the cause to one of a few syndromes, each associated with specific imaging questions. MRI is used as the primary form of investigation for recurrent dislocation, SLAP lesions and PSI, as well as articular cartilage, synovial disease, tumours and infection. Ultrasound plays the leading role in impingement, acromioclavicular disease, dynamic assessment and guided therapy. Both techniques are reported to play a role in adhesive capsulitis. In our hospital, approximately four times as many shoulder ultrasound examinations as shoulder MRI are carried out, but elsewhere these proportions will vary according to the prevalence of clinical syndromes in the population being treated."}
{"id": "17622545", "title": "Biceps long head tendon revisited: a case report of split tendon arising from single origin.", "content": "Biceps long head tendon revisited: a case report of split tendon arising from single origin. A 27-year-old, right-hand-dominant woman with a posttraumatic anterior shoulder dislocation 3 months earlier after traffic accident presented because of pain and limited range of motion in the right shoulder. On physical examination, the patient had negative instability tests and a sulcus sign. On arthroscopic examination, a bifurcate long biceps tendon with two limbs was observed about 1 cm distal to the origin in the supraglenoid tubercle. We found no evidence of a tear in the long biceps tendon on probing, and the margin of each limb was smooth and round. Although this anatomic variant may be benign, its presence might be associated with other shoulder pathology. It is interesting to speculate whether the aberrant biceps anatomy in our patient contributed to transfer of injury at dislocation to the rotator cuff rather than to the classic anterior-inferior capsulolabral complex. In addition, recognition of the described anatomic variant on arthroscopy can aid the shoulder surgeon in focusing treatment on the actual pathology."}
{"id": "17606793", "title": "The outcome and structural integrity of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with use of the double-row suture anchor technique.", "content": "The outcome and structural integrity of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with use of the double-row suture anchor technique. The reported rate of failure after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair has varied widely. The influence of the repair technique on the failure rates and functional outcomes after open or arthroscopic rotator cuff repair remains controversial. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the functional and anatomic results of arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs performed with the double-row suture anchor technique on the basis of computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging arthrography in order to determine the postoperative integrity of the repairs. A prospective series of 105 consecutive shoulders undergoing arthroscopic double-row rotator cuff repair of the supraspinatus or a combination of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus were evaluated at a minimum of two years after surgery. The evaluation included a routine history and physical examination as well as determination of the preoperative and postoperative strength, pain, range of motion, and Constant scores. All shoulders had a preoperative and postoperative computed tomography arthrogram (103 shoulders) or magnetic resonance imaging arthrogram (two shoulders). There were thirty-six small rotator cuff tears, forty-seven large isolated supraspinatus or combined supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendon tears, and twenty-two massive rotator cuff tears. The mean Constant score (and standard deviation) was 43.2+/-15.1 points (range, 8 to 83 points) preoperatively and 80.1+/-11.1 points (range, 46 to 100 points) postoperatively. Twelve of the 105 repairs failed. Intact rotator cuff repairs were associated with significantly increased strength and active range of motion. Arthroscopic repair of a rotator cuff tear with use of the double-row suture anchor technique results in a much lower rate of failure than has previously been reported in association with either open or arthroscopic repair methods. Patients with an intact rotator cuff repair have better pain relief than those with a failed repair. After repair, large and massive rotator cuff tears result in more postoperative weakness than small tears do."}
{"id": "17598944", "title": "Pain & resistance in patients with adhesive capsulitis during contrast material injection phase of MR arthrography.", "content": "Pain & resistance in patients with adhesive capsulitis during contrast material injection phase of MR arthrography. Adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder is a condition of unknown aetiology that results in the development of restricted active and passive glenohumeral motion. It has been reported that magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is useful in diagnosing adhesive capsulitis. We carried out this study to assess how pain and/or resistance during contrast material injection affects the diagnosis of adhesive capsulitis on magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography. The study included MR arthrography examinations of 21 patients with a diagnosis of adhesive capsulitis. The control group consisted of 20 patients who presented clinically with rotator cuff tear. The pain (visual analog scale, VAS), resistance to injection and the amount of contrast material that could be injected during injection phase of MR arthrography was assessed and compared between groups. The patients in adhesive capsulitis group (mean VAS score 66.5+/-25.5) experienced more pain when compared with the control group (mean VAS score 34.9+/-27.7, P<0.001). A statistically significant difference (P<0.001) in terms of the amount of the injected fluid (4.3+/-2.6 ml for adhesive capsulitis group, and 10.9+/-4.1 ml for control group) was seen into the joint cavity. Resistance to injection was significantly more (P<0.001) in patients with adhesive capsulitis when compared to control group. Experience of pain during injection, a decreased amount of contrast material injected and resistance to injection in patients during injection phase of MR arthrography may suggest adhesive capsulitis."}
{"id": "17596002", "title": "Detection of subacromial bursa thickening by sonography in shoulder impingement syndrome.", "content": "Detection of subacromial bursa thickening by sonography in shoulder impingement syndrome. Normally, the subacromial-subdeltoid bursa is thinner than 2 mm using ultrasound examination. The subtle thickening of the bursa could be an early sign of subacromial impingement and possibly a rotator cuff tear. The aim of this study was to compare the thickness of subacromial bursa measured using ultrasonography in the painful shoulder with normal side, and also to differentiate Neer stages I and II impingements in patients with unilateral shoulder pain. We performed bilateral shoulder sonography in 268 consecutive patients with unilateral shoulder pain and clinical suggestion of rotator cuff pathology. The study group consisted of 102 cases of Neer stage I and 166 cases of Neer stage II impingement syndrome. The bursa thickness was calculated from the superficial peribursal fat to the upper margin of the supraspinatus. A statistically significant association was detected (p < .0001) between the symptomatic shoulder and asymptomatic side (mean thickness, 1.27 mm/0.75 mm). The thickness of bursa in patients with Neer stage I impingement had no statistically important link the results of the patients with Neer stage II impingement. Increased bursa thickness in the symptomatic side may be an alternative sonographic indicator of subacromial bursitis and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears, even when measured to be less than 2 mm. Sonographic examination of subacromial bursa thickness is not an appropriate technique to differentiate the Neer stages I and II impingement. Further study is needed to quantify the echogenicity of the supraspinatus tendon and to show a level of accuracy in patients with rotator cuff tendinosis or partial tears."}
{"id": "17581904", "title": "Cystic changes at supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendon insertion sites: association with age and rotator cuff disorders in 238 patients.", "content": "Cystic changes at supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendon insertion sites: association with age and rotator cuff disorders in 238 patients. To retrospectively determine the frequency of posterior and anterior cystic abnormalities at rotator cuff insertion site on the greater tuberosity and to determine their relationship to patient age and rotator cuff disorders. Institutional review board approval was given; informed consent was waived. The study was HIPAA compliant. In 238 patients with rotator cuff diagnoses at surgery, preoperative magnetic resonance (MR) imaging studies were reviewed to localize osseous cystic changes as anterior (supraspinatus insertion site) or posterior (infraspinatus insertion site) on the greater tuberosity. If rotator cuff tear was present, tendon retraction and location of partial tear (articular or bursal surface) were recorded. Two radiologists reached conclusions by consensus. Locations of cysts were correlated to surgical cuff diagnoses: no tear, tendinopathy, partial-thickness tear, and complete tear. Prospective interpretations from original MR reports were compared with surgical results. Statistical analyses included one-way analysis of variance, chi(2), Fisher exact, and Student t tests, as well as logistic regression and receiver operating characteristic curve comparison. There were 238 consecutive patients (150 men, 88 women; mean age, 43 years). Cysts were located at or near footprint of cuff tendon and demonstrated fluid or soft-tissue signal intensities. Posterior cysts occurred in 56.7% of shoulders and showed no statistical correlation to age or cuff diagnosis. Anterior cysts occurred in 22.7% of shoulders and were strongly associated with cuff disorders (P<.001). Controlling for cuff disorders, there was no relationship between anterior cysts and age (P>.50). Anterior cysts were more common in partial-thickness articular (48%) than in bursal (13%) tears (P<.001). Posterior cysts were more common than anterior cysts and showed nearly random distribution among patients, regardless of age and cuff diagnosis. Anterior cysts were closely associated with cuff disorders."}
{"id": "17574875", "title": "Biologic augmentation of rotator cuff tendon repair.", "content": "Biologic augmentation of rotator cuff tendon repair. It is known that a histologically normal insertion site does not regenerate after rotator cuff tendon-to-bone repair. Cytokines play an important role in cell chemotaxis, proliferation, matrix synthesis, and cell differentiation and may thus improve rotator tendon-to-bone healing. We have used a sheep infraspinatus repair model to evaluate the effect of osteoinductive growth factors (bone morphogenetic protein [BMP] 2, BMP-7, transforming growth factor [TGF] beta1, TGF-beta2, TGF-beta3, and fibroblast growth factor) and BMP-12 on tendon-to-bone healing. We have found that these molecules improve formation of new bone and fibrocartilage at the healing tendon attachment site, resulting in improved load to failure. Several other avenues have the potential to augment repair site biology. For example, because platelets are known to contain various cytokines, they may be isolated from autologous blood and could provide an effective method by which to deliver growth factors to a rotator cuff tendon repair site. Furthermore, modalities that improve local vascularity, such as low-intensity pulsed ultrasound or nitroglycerine, have the potential to augment rotator cuff repair healing. Finally, important information about the biology of tendon healing can be gained from studies of substances that inhibit healing, such as nicotine and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications."}
{"id": "17564776", "title": "Ultrasonographic findings of painful shoulders and correlation between physical examination and ultrasonographic rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Ultrasonographic findings of painful shoulders and correlation between physical examination and ultrasonographic rotator cuff tear. The objectives of this study were to identify ultrasonographic (US) abnormalities and to compare physical examination with US findings, especially of rotator cuff abnormalities in patients with shoulder pain. A total of 120 patients with shoulder pain were prospectively studied. The physical examination of shoulders was performed as follows: (1) the area of tenderness; (2) the range of passive and active motion for abduction, forward flexion, external rotation, and internal rotation; (3) Neer and Hawkins's tests for shoulder impingement; and (4) maneuvers for determining the location of the tendon lesions. Transverse and longitudinal planes from the long head of the biceps, supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis tendons, the subacromial-subdeltoid bursa, and the glenohumeral and acromioclavicular joints were included for US examination. The range of motion most affected by shoulder pain was abduction, followed by external rotation and forward flexion. The most frequent US finding was effusion in the long head of the biceps tendon. Among the rotator cuff tendons, supraspinatus was the most frequently involved. Physical examination had low sensitivity and specificity for the detection of tendon tear. US examination leads to an anatomical diagnosis of shoulder pain in many patients. Whether the US examination of the painful shoulder improves its treatment should be investigated."}
{"id": "17563662", "title": "Does the presence of a full-thickness rotator cuff tear influence outcome after proximal humeral fractures?", "content": "Does the presence of a full-thickness rotator cuff tear influence outcome after proximal humeral fractures? Prevalence of rotator cuff tears increases with advancing age. Despite proximal humeral fractures being common in the elderly, the influence of a coexistent rotator cuff tear on outcome has, to our knowledge, not been previously investigated. This study prospectively assessed whether the presence of a rotator cuff tear in association with a proximal humeral fracture influences functional prognosis. Eighty-five patients treated conservatively for proximal humeral fractures were evaluated prospectively with ultrasonography to determine the status of the rotator cuff. Every patient was managed by immobilization in an arm sling for 2 weeks followed by physiotherapy. Functional outcome was measured using the Constant and the Oxford shoulder score, at 3 and 12 months postinjury. There were 43 patients with full-thickness cuff tears and 42 patients with no cuff tear or a partial-thickness tear. Full thickness cuff tears were more frequent in patients more than 60 years old. The outcome scores at 3 and 12 months showed no statistically significant difference for either the Constant or the Oxford shoulder score with regard to cuff integrity. Analysis of these scores showed no correlation between presence or absence of a full-thickness cuff tear and shoulder function. The results indicate that rotator cuff integrity is not a predictor of shoulder function at 12 months after proximal humeral fracture, as measured by outcome scores and therefore there is no clinical indication for routine imaging of the rotator cuff in patients for whom conservative management is the preferred treatment option."}
{"id": "17545428", "title": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with double-row fixation.", "content": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with double-row fixation. The treatment of rotator cuff tears has evolved from open surgical repairs to complete arthroscopic repairs over the past two decades. In this study, we reviewed the results of arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs with the so-called double-row, or footprint, reconstruction technique. Between 1998 and 2002, 264 patients underwent an arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with double-row fixation. The average age at the time of the operation was fifty-nine years. Two hundred and thirty-eight patients (242 shoulders) were available for follow-up; 210 were evaluated with a full clinical examination and thirty-two, with a questionnaire only. Preoperative and postoperative examinations consisted of determination of a Constant score and a visual analogue score for pain as well as a full physical examination of the shoulder. Ultrasonography was done at a minimum of twelve months postoperatively to assess the integrity of the cuff. The average score for pain improved from 7.4 points (range, 3 to 10 points) preoperatively to 0.7 point (range, 0 to 3 points) postoperatively. The subjective outcome was excellent or good in 220 (90.9%) of the 242 shoulders. The average increase in the Constant score after the operation was 25.4 points (range, 0 to 57 points). Ultrasonography demonstrated an intact rotator cuff in 83% (174) of the shoulders overall, 47% (fifteen) of the thirty-two with a repair of a massive tear, 78% (thirty-two) of the forty-one with a repair of a large tear, 93% (113) of the 121 with a repair of a medium tear, and 88% (fourteen) of the sixteen with a repair of a small tear. Strength and active elevation increased significantly more in the group with an intact repair at the time of follow-up than in the group with a failed repair; however, there was no difference in the pain scores. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with double-row fixation can achieve a high percentage of excellent subjective and objective results. Integrity of the repair can be expected in the majority of shoulders treated for a large, medium, or small tear, and the strength and range of motion provided by an intact repair are significantly better than those following a failed repair. Therapeutic Level IV."}
{"id": "17541370", "title": "[Imaging of traumatic injuries of the shoulder].", "content": "[Imaging of traumatic injuries of the shoulder]. The goals of this article are: 1) to review the different radiographic projections commonly used at the time of initial imaging evaluation of patients presenting with traumatic injuries of the shoulder; 2) to review the indications and findings of cross-sectional imaging modalities in the assessment of shoulder trauma; 3) to recognize the main anatomical lesions secondary to traumatic injuries of the shoulder."}
{"id": "17520851", "title": "[Two patients with an isolated traumatic rupture of the subscapular tendon].", "content": "[Two patients with an isolated traumatic rupture of the subscapular tendon]. A man aged 65 and a woman aged 55 were referred to the orthopaedic clinic because of persistent pain in the right shoulder following a fall, 5 and 16 months earlier respectively. On physical examination they were found to have a painful shoulder and loss of strength on endorotation of the right arm. Ultrasound examination of the shoulder revealed subscapular tendon rupture in both patients, this was confirmed by MRI scan in the first patient. Treatment was operative repair of the tendon by a deltopectoral approach, followed by wearing a exorotation-limiting sling. After six months the first patient was free of complaints and the second patient was still experiencing pain when laying on the right shoulder. An isolated traumatic rupture of the subscapular tendon is uncommon and is often misdiagnosed or only discovered later. This diagnostic delay negatively influences the success of operative treatment. Focusing attention on the typical trauma mechanism, the character of the symptoms and the use of simple physical examination such as the lift-offtest or the belly press test can lead to the correct diagnosis."}
{"id": "17508210", "title": "Muscle atrophy as a consequence of rotator cuff tears: should we compare the muscles of the rotator cuff with those of the deltoid?", "content": "Muscle atrophy as a consequence of rotator cuff tears: should we compare the muscles of the rotator cuff with those of the deltoid? The quantitative assessment of muscle atrophy has a degree of importance in prognosticating rotator cuff treatment. However, it has been conjectured that muscle fat increases with aging. Therefore, we thought that the quantitative assessment of the supraspinatous would be better if made in comparison with a standard of reference such as the deltoid. Consequently, we performed a two-part study, first evaluating supraspinatous changes compared with the deltoid in \"normals\" with aging, and second, determining if in patients with cuff tears the supraspinatous fat exceeds that of the deltoid. In part 1, we studied 50 patients stratified by decade. In the first sitting, two blinded independent observers quantitatively graded the deltoid (with the supraspinatous obscured) and in the second sitting the same two observers quantitatively graded the supraspinatous (with the deltoid obscured). In part 2 of the study, we evaluated patients with moderate rotator cuff tears (>2 cm) and performed the same blinded, two-sitting, quantitative assessment (with the comparison muscle obscured). We found that muscle atrophy increases with age in patients without tears (0.011/0.028 U/year), although to a greater degree in the deltoid (p = 0.032). Also, in similarly aged patients, quantitative scores of the deltoid closely matched those of the supraspinatous (p = 0.071). Notably, however, in patients with large tears, the supraspinatous showed significant changes disproportionate to those of the deltoid, regardless of patient age (p = 0.044). In the presence of a normal rotator cuff, fatty infiltration increases with age. Age-related changes occur more frequently in the deltoid, verifying this muscle's potential as a standard of reference. With cuff tears, supraspinatous atrophy was disproportionate to that of the deltoid. Therefore, systematic assessment of supraspinatous muscle atrophy may be more reliable using the deltoid as a control for comparison than assessing it in isolation."}
{"id": "17507248", "title": "Experiences with sheep as an animal model for shoulder surgery: strengths and shortcomings.", "content": "Experiences with sheep as an animal model for shoulder surgery: strengths and shortcomings. Sheep (and goats) are a convenient large-animal model for rotator cuff repair because of availability, ease of handling and housing, animal cost, and acceptance to society as a research animal. Tenotomy of the infraspinatus tendon and subsequent reattachment to the proximal humerus is useful to address the biomechanical, histologic, and biochemical processes of rotator cuff repair. Detaching this tendon and immediately reattaching it does not represent the clinical picture but serves as a relatively rapid way to screen different suture anchors, suture patterns, scaffolds, growth factors, and other biologics or a combination of these treatments to enhance the healing process. To minimize spontaneous reattachment and reproduce a chronic rotator cuff injury, the end of the tendon can be covered and then reattached 4 weeks later if bone-to-tendon healing is to be evaluated. This chronic model is useful to understand the biology (degree of muscle atrophy and fatty infiltration) of rotator cuff muscles as well as innovative methods of repair. Close-stall confinement is required during the convalescence in acute and chronic studies. Ultrasound in the awake animal can be used to monitor gap formation and tissue organization. Sheep have also been used to determine whether capsular healing after plication is equivalent to open capsular shift."}
{"id": "17504318", "title": "MR shoulder arthrography in patients younger than 40 years of age: frequency of rotator cuff tear versus labroligamentous pathology.", "content": "MR shoulder arthrography in patients younger than 40 years of age: frequency of rotator cuff tear versus labroligamentous pathology. The purpose of this study was to compare the frequency of rotator cuff pathology versus labroligamentous pathology in patients younger than 40 years and to determine whether routine MR arthrography is justified in all patients in this age group, regardless of the clinical symptoms. The MR arthrography was carried out on 332 patients 40 years of age and younger. Two hundred and forty-three patients had clinical history of instability and possible labroligamentous pathology. Eighty-nine patients had no history or physical signs of instability and were referred for reasons other than instability, such as assessment for rotator cuff tear. In the 243 patients younger than 40 years with clinical history of potential labral pathology, 39% (95/243) showed a labral tear and 2.1% (5/243) had a full-thickness rotator cuff tendon tear. In the 89 patients with no history suggesting labral pathology, 19% (17/89) showed an unsuspected labral tear and 4.5% (4/89) had a full-thickness rotator cuff tear. These findings suggest that, regardless of the clinical indication for referral, patients aged 40 and less referred for shoulder MRI should be imaged using MR arthrography because of the significant risk that symptoms are related to unsuspected labral pathology."}
{"id": "17504312", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of shoulder ultrasound performed by a single operator.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of shoulder ultrasound performed by a single operator. Both diagnostic ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are used for investigation of the presence and severity of rotator cuff lesions. There is no consensus as to which is the more accurate and cost-effective study. We sought to examine the sensitivity of ultrasound, when used by one experienced radiologist with modern equipment. We compared the ultrasound and surgical results obtained from 68 patients. Ultrasound showed a sensitivity of 89% and specificity of 100% (Positive Predictive Value 100%) for full-thickness tears, and a sensitivity of 79% and specificity of 94% (Positive Predictive Value 87%) for partial-thickness tears. We found that shoulder ultrasound, in the hands of an experienced radiologist with the use of modern high-resolution equipment, is highly sensitive in differentiating complete tears and partial-thickness tears. Our results are similar to the best published results for MRI and given that ultrasound is significantly cheaper and more available, ultrasound by an experienced radiologist should be considered as a primary diagnostic tool for imaging the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "17496066", "title": "Sclerosing therapy and eccentric training in flexor carpi radialis tendinopathy in a tennis player.", "content": "Sclerosing therapy and eccentric training in flexor carpi radialis tendinopathy in a tennis player. Tendinopathy of the flexor carpi ulnaris tendon is a rare entity. Recent research revealed the role of a neurovascular ingrowth at the point of pain in various tendinopathic locations, such as at the Achilles and patellar tendon, in plantar fasciitis as well as in supraspinatus and tennis elbow tendinopathy. However, beyond the elbow no such neovascularisation has been reported to date. We present a 35-year old tennis player suffering tremendous pain (visual analogue scale (VAS) rating of 9/10) at the flexor carpi ulnaris tendon with adjacent calcification in close proximity to the pisiform bone. The patient was assessed with power Doppler and laser Doppler quantification of neovascularisation at the point of pain. Power Doppler and laser Doppler quantification of neovascularisation at the point of pain identified higher capillary blood flow at three points over the painful vs the non-painful tendon (146/240/232rU vs 93/74/70rU at the non-affected side). Sclerosing therapy using polidocanol under power and laser Doppler guidance was initiated, with immediate decrease of capillary blood flow by 25% with resolution of the neovascularisation in power Doppler. Immediately following sclerosing, the patient's reported pain level on the VAS was reduced from 9/10 to 4/10. Following a short period of rest, eccentric training of the forearm muscle was initiated over 12 weeks with functional complete recovery and complete resolution of wrist pain. Sclerosing therapy using polidocanol under power- and laser-Doppler guidance can decrease capillary blood flow by 25% with resolution of the neovascularisation. Subsequent eccentric training of the forearm muscle over 12 weeks can result in complete resolution of wrist pain."}
{"id": "17489013", "title": "Rotator cuff tear in an elderly woman performing progressive resistance training: case report from a randomized controlled trial.", "content": "Rotator cuff tear in an elderly woman performing progressive resistance training: case report from a randomized controlled trial. The purpose of this article is to document a rotator cuff tear sustained by an elderly woman performing progressive resistance training (PRT) in a recent randomized controlled clinical trial. The patient was a sedentary 73-y-old Caucasian woman. Investigation revealed an acute, full-thickness tear of the right supraspinatus secondary to performing a shoulder press exercise. Further investigation via MRI revealed degenerative disease of the acromioclavicular joint including lateral downsloping of the acromion and an anteroinferior acromial spur, which would presdispose to impingement. Conservative management was implemented in this case for over 6 months with minimal success. The patient remained functionally limited in virtually all activities of daily living. Given the medical history, health status, physical condition, and age of our patient, it is probable that degenerative changes predisposed the patient to the injury. To our knowledge this is the first published report of an older adult sustaining a rotator cuff tear during PRT."}
{"id": "17483728", "title": "Spontaneous Clostridium perfringens myonecrosis of the shoulder: a case report.", "content": "Spontaneous Clostridium perfringens myonecrosis of the shoulder: a case report. Clostridium perfringens is a rare, life-threatening infection. We present an atypical evolution of spontaneous Clostridium perfringens myonecrosis in a monitored healthy patient. After a head injury, the hemodynamically stable patient became febrile and grew cultures of Clostridium perfringens with no identifiable focus. Antibiotics were initiated. Seventy-two hours after culture results, the patient complained of shoulder pain and imaging revealed periscapular subcutaneous emphysema. Multiple surgical d\u00e9bridements of the necrotic supraspinatus muscle were required to eradicate the infection. The unique features of this patient include the opportunity to (1) follow the progression of clostridial myonecrosis in a healthy patient in a monitored setting and (2) study the extended period of time between positive cultures and the onset of clinical myonecrosis, a feature at odds with the classic rapid progression."}
{"id": "17478283", "title": "Clinical outcome and tendon integrity of arthroscopic versus mini-open supraspinatus tendon repair: a magnetic resonance imaging-controlled matched-pair analysis.", "content": "Clinical outcome and tendon integrity of arthroscopic versus mini-open supraspinatus tendon repair: a magnetic resonance imaging-controlled matched-pair analysis. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair produces equally good clinical results compared with open or mini-open repair. However, there are concerns about whether the same repair integrity can be achieved. The purpose of our study was to compare clinical and structural results of arthroscopic and mini-open rotator cuff repair. Nineteen patients who had arthroscopic rotator cuff repair (mean follow-up, 25.0 months) were matched for age, gender, and duration of symptoms with nineteen patients who had mini-open repair (mean follow-up, 17.6 months). We compared preoperative and follow-up Constant scores, as well as early range of motion after 6 weeks and 3 months. All patients were examined with the same magnetic resonance imaging system at follow-up to evaluate cuff integrity. There was no difference in clinical and structural outcome. The overall Constant score improved from 53.8 to 83.9 in the arthroscopic group and from 53.5 to 83.7 in the mini-open group. Early range of motion did not differ significantly at 6 weeks or 3 months postoperatively. The number of retears was 6 (31.6%) in the arthroscopic group and 7 (36.8%) in the mini-open group. This difference was not statistically significant (P = .7358). Although smaller retears had no influence on the clinical result, more retracted retears correlated with lower abduction strength regardless of the repair method. In isolated supraspinatus tears arthroscopic rotator cuff repair produces excellent clinical results and equivalent tendon integrity compared with mini-open repair. Level III, retrospective therapeutic comparative study."}
{"id": "17473131", "title": "Repair integrity and functional outcome after arthroscopic double-row rotator cuff repair. A prospective outcome study.", "content": "Repair integrity and functional outcome after arthroscopic double-row rotator cuff repair. A prospective outcome study. The retear rate following rotator cuff repair is variable. Recent biomechanical studies have demonstrated that double-row tendon-to-bone fixation excels in initial fixation strength and footprint coverage compared with the single-row or transosseous fixation methods. This study was designed to report the repair integrity and clinical outcome following arthroscopic double-row rotator cuff repair. A consecutive series of 106 patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears underwent arthroscopic double-row rotator cuff repair with use of suture anchors and were followed prospectively. Twenty patients lacked complete follow-up data or were lost to follow-up. The eighty-six study subjects included fifty-two men and thirty-four women, with an average age of 60.5 years. There were twenty-six small, thirty medium, twenty-two large, and eight massive tears. Clinical outcomes were evaluated at an average of thirty-one months. Repair integrity was estimated with use of magnetic resonance imaging, which was performed, on the average, fourteen months postoperatively, and was classified into five categories, with type I indicating sufficient thickness with homogeneously low intensity; type II, sufficient thickness with partial high intensity; type III, insufficient thickness without discontinuity; type IV, the presence of a minor discontinuity; and type V, the presence of a major discontinuity. The average clinical outcome scores all improved significantly at the time of the final follow-up (p < 0.01). At a mean of fourteen months postoperatively, magnetic resonance imaging revealed that thirty-seven shoulders had a type-I repair; twenty-one, a type-II repair; thirteen, a type-III repair; eight, a type-IV repair; and seven, a type-V repair. The overall rate of retears (types IV and V) was 17%. The retear rate was 5% for small-to-medium tears, while it was 40% for large and massive tears. The shoulders with a type-V repair demonstrated significantly inferior functional outcome in terms of overall scores and strength compared with the other types of repairs (p < 0.01). Arthroscopic double-row repair can result in improved repair integrity compared with open or miniopen repair methods. However, the retear rate for shoulders with large and massive tears remains higher than that for smaller tears, and shoulders with large repair defects (type V) demonstrate significantly inferior functional outcomes."}
{"id": "17473128", "title": "Impact of fatty infiltration of the teres minor muscle on the outcome of reverse total shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Impact of fatty infiltration of the teres minor muscle on the outcome of reverse total shoulder arthroplasty. Reports have demonstrated that reverse shoulder arthroplasty restores overhead elevation but fails to restore active external rotation. The teres minor muscle-tendon unit contributes to active external rotation, and its deficiency may impair the clinical outcome. It was therefore the purpose of this study to evaluate the influence of fatty infiltration of the teres minor muscle on the clinical outcome after reverse total shoulder replacement. Forty-two shoulders in forty-two patients (average age, seventy-one years) with painful cuff tear arthropathy or an irreparable rotator cuff deficiency with pseudoparesis were treated with a reverse Delta-III shoulder arthroplasty and followed clinically for a minimum of twenty-four months. Preoperatively, fatty infiltration of the teres minor was assessed, according to the grading system of Goutallier et al., with use of magnetic resonance imaging. The effect of teres minor fatty infiltration on the subjective and objective outcomes of the reverse shoulder arthroplasty was evaluated. The thirty shoulders with stage-0, 1, or 2 fatty infiltration of the teres minor muscle (group 1) had a significantly better ultimate Constant score, a significantly better subjective shoulder value, and significantly greater preoperative-to-postoperative improvement than the twelve shoulders with stage-3 or 4 fatty infiltration (group 2). In group 1 the relative Constant score increased by an average of 41% and the subjective shoulder value increased by an average of 44%, whereas in group 2 the respective increases were 32% (p = 0.033) and 25% (p = 0.018). Group 1 had an average increase of 6.2 points in the score for extremity positioning, whereas group 2 gained only 5.3 points (p = 0.033). Group 1 had a net gain of 9 degrees of external rotation with the arm at the side compared with an average net loss of 7 degrees in group 2 (p < 0.001). Stage-3 or 4 fatty infiltration of the teres minor compromises the clinical outcome of reverse shoulder arthroplasty for the treatment of irreparable rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "17467393", "title": "Contribution of full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears to acquired subcoracoid impingement.", "content": "Contribution of full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears to acquired subcoracoid impingement. To assess the relationship between the severity of full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears and the development of subcoracoid impingement. Fifty-one magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) shoulder examination reports with full-thickness supraspinatus tears were retrospectively identified and reviewed by two dedicated musculoskeletal radiologists. The appearances of the rotator cuff muscles, biceps tendon and the lesser tubercle were recorded. The acromio-humeral distance and the axial coraco-humeral distance were measured. The data were recorded and analysed electronically. The kappa values for inter-observer agreement were: 0.91 for acromio-humeral distance and 0.85 for coraco-humeral distance measurements. Twenty-six patients had significant retraction of the supraspinatus tendon, 85% (22 cases) of this group had imaging evidence of tear or tendonopathy of the subscapularis tendon. Twenty-five patients had no significant retraction of the supraspinatus, 56% (14 cases) of this group had imaging evidence of a subscapularis tear or tendonopathy. The acromio-humeral distance was significantly less in patients with supraspinatus tears and retraction (p<0.05). The subscapularis tendon was significantly more likely to be abnormal if the supraspinatus was retracted than if no retraction was present (p<0.05). There were no significant differences in coraco-humeral distances between the groups. Subscapularis tendon signal and structural changes are frequently associated with full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears, particularly if the supraspinatus is significantly retracted. In this static MRI series, the data do not support the occurrence of classical subcoracoid impingement as an aetiology; however, they may support the possibility of a dynamic mechanism, to which future studies could be directed."}
{"id": "17448694", "title": "Imaging of the rotator cuff following repair: human and animal models.", "content": "Imaging of the rotator cuff following repair: human and animal models. Imaging of the rotator cuff following repair may be challenging due to the type of fixation, surgical manipulation of the tissue and the presence of residual defects that may exist in the presence of good functional outcome. Both ultrasound and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging present unique advantages in evaluation of the postoperative tissue. MR imaging has superior soft tissue contrast and provides a more global shoulder assessment, including the degree of arthrosis, while ultrasound enables a more dynamic testing of the repaired tissue. Power Doppler ultrasound and new contrast agents provide insight into the degree of vascular recruitment following repair."}
{"id": "17441667", "title": "Glenoid osteolysis after arthroscopic labrum repair with a bioabsorbable suture anchor.", "content": "Glenoid osteolysis after arthroscopic labrum repair with a bioabsorbable suture anchor. Bioabsorbable suture anchors are commonly used for arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff and labrum lesions. They provide soft-tissue attachment to bone. They have been introduced to avoid complications such as artefacts on MRI scans, commonly seen with metal anchors. However, bioabsorbable implants may lead to other problems such as local osteolysis, cyst formation, soft tissue inflammation and release of implant fragments into the joint space. The author describes the case of a professional female volleyball player, who presented osteolysis of the superior pole of the glenoid after arthroscopic repair of a SLAP lesion with a PLLA suture anchor. This is the first reported case of glenoid osteolysis after arthroscopic insertion of a bioabsorbable suture anchor. The author feels that the cause of osteolysis was a biological response to mechanical stress."}
{"id": "17440708", "title": "Arthroscopic footprint reconstruction of a bone cyst-associated rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Arthroscopic footprint reconstruction of a bone cyst-associated rotator cuff tear. Arthroscopic treatment of a symptomatic rotator cuff tear is problematic when the tear is associated with a large bone cyst. We describe procedure of arthroscopic bone grafting in the bone cyst and footprint reconstruction of the rotator cuff tear using a suture-bridge technique."}
{"id": "17418345", "title": "Arthroscopic treatment of a massive acromioclavicular joint cyst.", "content": "Arthroscopic treatment of a massive acromioclavicular joint cyst. A healthy 75-year-old man presented with a 9-month history of an enlarging painless shoulder mass. On examination, there was a 10 x 10 cm firm mass overlying the acromioclavicular (AC) joint. The active range of motion of the shoulder joint was 130 degrees of forward elevation, 90 degrees of abduction, 60 degrees of abduction and internal rotation to the level of the waist. There was weakness of the rotator cuff. Plain radiographs showed degenerative changes of the AC joint with superior migration of the humeral head. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a large cyst arising from a degenerative AC joint with an associated major tear of both the supraspinatus and infraspinatus. Arthroscopy of the AC joint and debridement of the cyst was performed in the lateral decubitus position. The major rotator cuff tear of supraspinatus and infraspinatus was confirmed. A conservative subacromial decompression and AC joint excision arthroplasty was performed. As the superior AC ligament was opened, dark brown gelatinous material was seen emanating from the cyst. A thorough debridement of the cyst was performed until the lavage fluid was clear. At last follow-up 6 months after surgery, the shoulder remained asymptomatic with no evidence of recurrence of the cyst. Arthroscopic treatment of a massive AC joint cyst allows assessment of associated pathology, is minimally invasive, and allows early rehabilitation."}
{"id": "17415560", "title": "Re-examining the association of os acromiale with supraspinatus and infraspinatus tears.", "content": "Re-examining the association of os acromiale with supraspinatus and infraspinatus tears. To re-evaluate the relationship between os acromiale and rotator cuff tears. We retrospectively analyzed 84 magnetic resonance imaging studies of the shoulder. Forty-two subjects with os acromiale (n = 42; 32 men and ten women, age 25-81 years, mean 47.6 years) were compared with age- and gender-matched subjects with no evidence of os acromiale (controls). Arthroscopy data were available in 19 os acromiale and 12 control subjects. Statistical analyses were performed to determine differences between groups regarding rotator cuff tears affecting the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons detected by magnetic resonance imaging and arthroscopy. Analysis of os acromiale type, ossicle synchondrosis edema, acromioclavicular joint degenerative changes and step-off deformity at the synchondrosis were tabulated. No statistically significant difference between the os acromiale and control groups was noted, either on magnetic resonance imaging or arthroscopy, with regard to tears of the supraspinatus (P = 1.000 and 0.981, respectively) and infraspinatus (P = 1.000 and 0.667, respectively) tendons. There was a statistically significant increased number of supraspinatus (P = 0.007) and infraspinatus (P = 0.03) tears in a comparison of subjects with os acromiale and step-off deformity (10/42) vs os acromiale without step-off deformity (32/42). The presence of os acromiale may not significantly predispose to supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendon tears. However, subjects with step-off deformity of an os acromiale are at greater risk of rotator cuff tears than are similar subjects without such deformity."}
{"id": "17410365", "title": "Deltoid detachment consequent to open surgical repair of massive rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Deltoid detachment consequent to open surgical repair of massive rotator cuff tears. Deltoid detachment is one of the complications in open rotator cuff repair. Although it is often described, the actual prevalence, time at which it occurs and the predisposing causes are still unknown. We prospectively studied 112 patients with massive rotator cuff tears with a mean age of 67. The surgical approach was performed with a lateral para-acromial incision. Clinical assessment was performed with Constant's method. Of the 112 patients, 9 (8%) had deltoid detachment. It occurred about 3 months after surgery. Of the nine patients, two underwent revision surgery for the deltoid trans-bone reattachment. At the follow-up, the patients with deltoid detachment had a mean increase of only 5.5 points in the Constant score compared to that of 16.9 obtained by the control group. Deltoid reattachment, performed on the two patients, provided a mean increase of 7 points only with respect to the post-operative control at the 4th month. Considering the unsatisfactory functional result consequent to deltoid detachment and the slight improvement obtained with the reattachment, we recommend the following: use suture thread thicker than #2, do not use a simple stitch and avoid extending acromioplasty to the lateral margin of the acromion."}
{"id": "17408977", "title": "The influence of medial reattachment of the torn cuff tendon for retracted rotator cuff tears.", "content": "The influence of medial reattachment of the torn cuff tendon for retracted rotator cuff tears. We reattached the torn rotator cuff medial to the anatomic cuff insertion site if it was retracted. The purpose was to correlate the amount of medial reattachment of the cuff with shoulder function. We evaluated 63 shoulders in which repaired cuffs were followed with magnetic resonance imaging at a mean follow-up of 8 years. The amount of medial reattachment of the cuff tendon was determined by use of a T2-weighted oblique coronal view, which passed through the center of the humeral head, and was defined as the NCA angle (where N indicates the new cuff insertion point, C indicates the center of the humeral head, and A indicates the anatomic cuff insertion point). Theoretically, the more medially the cuff tendon was reattached, the greater the NCA angle. Neither the Japanese Orthopaedic Association shoulder score nor isometric strength of forward elevation was correlated with the NCA angle. The NCA angle was significantly correlated (P = .001) with the active forward elevation angle, which dramatically decreased at 30 degrees of the NCA angle, approximately 13 mm from the original cuff insertion point, assuming a humeral head radius of 25 mm."}
{"id": "17403801", "title": "Restore orthobiologic implant: not recommended for augmentation of rotator cuff repairs.", "content": "Restore orthobiologic implant: not recommended for augmentation of rotator cuff repairs. Following repairs of large-to-massive tears of the rotator cuff, the rates of tendon retears are high and often involve tissue deficiency. Animal studies of the Restore Orthobiologic Implant, a collagen-based material derived from the small intestine mucosa of pigs, have indicated that it might be used to help overcome such problems. We carried out a study to determine whether patients who received this xenograft to augment a rotator cuff repair exhibited greater shoulder strength, shoulder function, and/or resistance to retearing. We compared data from a group of patients who had undergone conventional rotator cuff repair with xenograft augmentation (the xenograft group) with data from a group in whom a repair had been done by the same surgeon without augmentation (the controls). The groups were matched for gender, mean age, and mean size of the rotator cuff tear. All subjects completed a pain and function questionnaire and were given a systematic clinical shoulder examination preoperatively and at three, six, and twenty-four months postoperatively. The twenty-four-month visit included magnetic resonance imaging to determine whether a retear had occurred. Four patients who had received a xenograft had a severe postoperative reaction requiring surgical treatment. At two years after the surgery, six of the ten tendons repaired with a xenograft and seven of the twelve control tendons had retorn, as documented by magnetic resonance imaging. The patients with a xenograft had significantly less lift-off strength, as measured with a dynamometer, and significantly less strength in internal rotation and adduction than the controls at two years after the surgery (all p < 0.05). Also, the xenograft group had significantly more impingement in external rotation, a slower rate of resolution of pain during activities, more difficulty with hand-behind-the-back activities, and less sports participation (all p < 0.05). Two years after surgical repair of a large rotator cuff defect supplemented with a xenograft, patients had several persisting deficits and no recognizable benefit as compared with the results in a control group. In view of these findings, together with the unsatisfactorily high proportion of patients with a severe inflammatory reaction to the xenograft, we do not recommend use of the Restore Orthobiologic Implant in its present form. Therapeutic Level III. See Instructions to Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "17403336", "title": "[Magnetic resonance imaging of glenohumeral instability: new concepts].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance imaging of glenohumeral instability: new concepts]. The shoulder is the most unstable joint in the human body and is therefore susceptible not only to acute dislocations but also to minimal states of subluxation related to overuse. The latter condition is known as microinstability and is translated clinically into internal impingement syndromes. Both in dislocations due to acute traumatism and in microinstability, a series of injuries to the glenoid lip, glenohumeral capsule, the articular cartilage, the head of the humerus, the tendons of the rotator cuff, the long tendon of the biceps, the glenohumeral ligaments, and coracohumeral ligament can occur. Glenoid lip lesions are the most common and may present as isolated lesions or in combination with lesions of any of the other structures. These lesions most often affect the anteroinferior margin of the glenoids (the classic Bankard lesion), with different characteristics and variations on its location, (Bankard variants). Another predominant location of glenoid lip lesions is the superior margin (SLAP lesions). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), especially after intra-articular injection of contrast material, has shown great diagnostic accuracy in this type of lesions, although the interpretation of these images requires knowledge not only of the different lesions and combinations of lesions, but also of the normal variants that can easily be confused with these lesions."}
{"id": "17398265", "title": "MRI of the rotator interval of the shoulder.", "content": "MRI of the rotator interval of the shoulder. The rotator interval of the shoulder joint is located between the distal edges of the supraspinatus and subscapularis tendons and contains the insertions of the coracohumeral and superior glenohumeral ligaments. These structures form a complex pulley system that stabilizes the long head of the biceps tendon as it enters the bicipital groove of the humeral head. The rotator interval is the site of a variety of pathological processes including biceps tendon lesions, adhesive capsulitis and anterosuperior internal impingement. This article describes the anatomy, function and pathology of the rotator interval using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)."}
{"id": "17393674", "title": "The accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging in the assessment of glenohumeral articular degenerative disease.", "content": "The accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging in the assessment of glenohumeral articular degenerative disease. Degenerative joint disease is a major source of disability in the world with over 43 million individuals suffering from the affliction in the United States alone. It is the most common cause of activity limitation in individuals over 65 years of age. While much of the focus in recent years has been on osteoarthritis of the hips and knees, shoulder degenerative disease is becoming a more commonly recognized source of morbidity with a wide range of associated lifestyle-limiting disabilities. At the same time therapeutic options for treatment of degenerative joint disease are rapidly increasing, both medically and surgically. This combination of factors makes it necessary to determine a reliable, noninvasive means by which to accurately diagnose the early changes of shoulder degenerative disease. The clinical diagnosis of shoulder osteoarthritis is extremely challenging. There are numerous existing mimickers such as rotator cuff injuries, bursitis, and impingement syndrome. While the conventional radiographic findings are well recognized, they are generally late developments in the course of the disease when therapeutic options are more limited and less effective. Additionally, plain film evaluation has poor sensitivity for the detection of many of the alternative diagnoses that may underlie chronic shoulder pain. Though correlative findings are seen in MR imaging, its role in evaluating glenohumeral degenerative changes has been limited, with much of the focus being on the identification of tendinous and ligamentous disease or osseous tumors. A retrospective analysis is presented which demonstrates the efficacy of MR imaging in assessing GHJ OA, as well as shows that dedicated evaluation for specific degenerative findings results in improved detection rates of GHJ degenerative disease. It is believed that with improved detection and reporting, improved clinical care for this prevalent disorder may be achieved."}
{"id": "17390133", "title": "Deltoid muscle and tendon tears in patients with chronic rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Deltoid muscle and tendon tears in patients with chronic rotator cuff tears. To describe the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) appearances of tears of the deltoid muscle and tendon in patients with rotator cuff tears and without a prior history of shoulder surgery. Deltoid tears diagnosed on MR examinations were prospectively recorded between February 2003 through June 2004. The images of these patients were then retrospectively reviewed to determine the location of the deltoid tear, the presence of rotator cuff tears, tendon retraction, muscle atrophy, degree of humeral head subluxation, bony erosive changes involving the undersurface of the acromion, and the presence of edema or fluid-like signal intensity in the deltoid muscle and overlying subcutaneous tissues. There were 24 (0.3%) patients with deltoid tears; nine men and 15 women. The age range was 54 to 87 (average 73) years. The right side was involved in 20 cases, and the left in four cases. Fifteen patients had full thickness and nine had partial thickness tears of the deltoid. Shoulder pain was the most common presenting symptom. The physical examination revealed a defect in the region of the deltoid in two patients. Nineteen patients had tears in the muscle belly near the musculotendinous junction, and five had avulsion of the tendon from the acromial origin. Full thickness rotator cuff tears were present in all of the patients, and 22 patients had associated muscle atrophy. Subcutaneous edema and fluid-like signal was present in 15 patients. Tears of the deltoid muscle or tendon is an unusual finding, but they can be seen in patients with chronic massive rotator cuff tears. Partial thickness tears tend to involve the undersurface of the deltoid muscle and tendon. Associated findings such as intramuscular cyst or ganglion in the deltoid muscle belly and subcutaneous edema or fluid-like signal overlying the deltoid in a patient with a rotator cuff tear should raise the suspicion of a deltoid tear."}
{"id": "17380330", "title": "Posterior dislocation of the long head of biceps tendon: case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Posterior dislocation of the long head of biceps tendon: case report and review of the literature. Posterior or lateral dislocation of the long head of biceps is a rare complication of shoulder dislocation that can result in inability to relocate the humerus. The diagnosis should be suspected when certain radiographic features are present at the initial presentation. Other imaging modalities can aid diagnosis when clinical management is unsuccessful or protracted. We present a case of surgically proven posterior dislocation of the biceps tendon with conventional radiographic, computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging assessment. The literature on this subject is reviewed, and imaging features associated with the diagnosis are described."}
{"id": "17379917", "title": "Structural integrity and clinical function of the subscapularis musculotendinous unit after arthroscopic and open shoulder stabilization.", "content": "Structural integrity and clinical function of the subscapularis musculotendinous unit after arthroscopic and open shoulder stabilization. Postoperative subscapularis dysfunction after open shoulder stabilization has recently received increasing attention. The potential advantage of arthroscopic stabilization procedures is that they do not violate the subscapularis musculotendinous unit, which might preserve its structural integrity and clinical function, which would lead to superior clinical results. Arthroscopic shoulder stabilization does not lead to clinical and radiological signs of subscapularis insufficiency. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 3. Twenty-two patients who underwent arthroscopic (group I, n = 12; average age, 30.9 years; mean follow-up, 37 months) or open (group II, n = 10; average age, 28.8 years; mean follow-up, 35.9 months) shoulder stabilization procedure were followed up clinically (clinical subscapularis tests and signs, Constant Score, Rowe Score, Walch-Duplay Score, Western Ontario Shoulder Instability Index and Melbourne Instability Shoulder Score) and by magnetic resonance imaging (subscapularis tendon integrity, cross-sectional area, defined muscle diameters, and signal intensity analysis [ratio infraspinatus/upper subscapularis and infraspinatus/lower subscapularis]). A third group (group 0) of 12 healthy volunteers served as a control. Clinical signs for subscapularis insufficiency were present in 0% of cases in group I and in 70% of cases in group II. There were no statistically significant differences in either group regarding Constant Score, Rowe Score, Walch-Duplay Score, Western Ontario Shoulder Instability Index, and Melbourne Instability Shoulder Score (P > .05). On magnetic resonance image, no subscapularis tendon ruptures were found. The cross-sectional area, the mean vertical diameter, and the mean transverse diameter of the upper and lower subscapularis muscle portion was significantly less in group II than in group 0 (P < .05). The signal intensity analysis revealed the infraspinatus/upper subscapularis ratio was significantly lower in group II than in group I or group 0. The infraspinatus/lower subscapularis ratio did not significantly differ in all 3 groups (P > .05). This study confirms previous observations that open shoulder stabilization using a subscapularis tenotomy may lead to atrophy and fatty infiltration of the subscapularis muscle, resulting in postoperative subscapularis dysfunction. As expected, arthroscopic procedures do not significantly compromise clinical subscapularis function and structural integrity. However, no significant differences were observed in the overall outcome."}
{"id": "17379541", "title": "The reverse terrible triad of the shoulder: circumferential glenohumeral musculoligamentous disruption and neurologic injury associated with posterior shoulder dislocation.", "content": "The reverse terrible triad of the shoulder: circumferential glenohumeral musculoligamentous disruption and neurologic injury associated with posterior shoulder dislocation."}
{"id": "17375296", "title": "The relationship of glenoid and humeral version with supraspinatus tendon tears.", "content": "The relationship of glenoid and humeral version with supraspinatus tendon tears. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship of glenohumeral anatomic measurements on MR imaging with supraspinatus tendon tears. The study was approved by the institutional review board and informed consent was obtained from each subject. Forty-two patients (mean age 55.5 years; age range 40-73 years) with supraspinatus tendon tears and 50 asymptomatic shoulders of 32 controls (mean age 43 years; age range 17-69 years) without rotator cuff tears were included. The acromio-glenoid and supraspinatus-glenoid angles were measured on coronal images, the glenoid and humeral head version as well as the bicipital-humeral distance on axial images. Significant differences were found between the patients and controls for both glenoid version and bicipital-humeral distance, which are considered to influence the distribution of forces placed on the cuff (p < 0.05). The patients had a decreased glenoid version by an average of 2.3 degrees (-7.1 +/- 7.8 degrees vs. -4.8 +/- 5.6 degrees), and a decreased bicipital-humeral distance by an average of 2.7 mm (12.1 +/- 3.7 mm vs. 14.8 +/- 4.1 mm). No significant differences were found between these groups for humeral head version and the acromio-glenoid and supraspinatus-glenoid angles, which might contribute to extrinsic impingement by narrowing the supraspinatus tendon outlet. Differences in glenoid and humeral version may be responsible for RC tears by changing the orientation of the rotator cuff and thus increasing shearing stress."}
{"id": "17361872", "title": "[Shoulder arthroscopy. Partial thickness tears of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[Shoulder arthroscopy. Partial thickness tears of the rotator cuff]. Partial tears are frequent in rotator cuff pathology. Articular-side lesions, bursal-side lesion and interstitial lesion inside the thickness of the tendon are described. Etiopathogeny is not clearly known. It seems a multifactory association with intrinsic tendinous factors (vascularity, normal ageing of the tendon), extrinsic mechanical factors (impingement syndrome) and trauma. Clinically, the complaint is a painful shoulder with full range of motion. The rotator cuff examination does not shown weakness but pain. The onset is traumatic or degenerative. It could be the consequence of overuse specially in case of overhead sport. Diagnosis is confirmed by arthro-CT or/and (arthro) MRI. It is useful for the treatment to determine the size of the rupture regarding the thickness of the tendon. Natural history shows that partial tears do not healed. Treatment of the partial tear of the cuff is still debatable particularly for intertstitial lesion (acromioplasty, debridment, repair). Isolated acromioplasty permit to obtain pain relief but do not prevent evolution to full-thickness tear when the lesion concern more than 50% of the thickness of the tendon. In this case, arthroscopic tendon repair gives good and reliable results."}
{"id": "17349411", "title": "[Shoulder arthroscopy. Partial thickness tears of the rotator cuff.]", "content": "[Shoulder arthroscopy. Partial thickness tears of the rotator cuff.] Partial tears are frequent in rotator cuff pathology. Articular-side lesions, bursal-side lesion and interstitial lesion inside the thickness of the tendon are described. Etiopathogeny is not clearly known. It seems a multifactory association with intrinsic tendinous factors (vascularity, normal ageing of the tendon), extrinsic mechanical factors (impingement syndrome) and trauma. Clinically, the complaint is a painful shoulder with full range of motion. The rotator cuff examination does not shown weakness but pain. The onset is traumatic or degenerative. It could be the consequence of overuse specially in case of overhead sport. Diagnosis is confirmed by arthro-CT or/and (arthro) MRI. It is useful for the treatment to determine the size of the rupture regarding the thickness of the tendon. Natural history shows that partial tears do not healed. Treatment of the partial tear of the cuff is still debatable particularly for intertstitial lesion (acromioplasty, debridment, repair). Isolated acromioplasty permit to obtain pain relief but do not prevent evolution to full-thickness tear when the lesion concern more than 50% of the thickness of the tendon. In this case, arthroscopic tendon repair gives good and reliable results."}
{"id": "17337727", "title": "Fatty infiltration and atrophy of the rotator cuff do not improve after rotator cuff repair and correlate with poor functional outcome.", "content": "Fatty infiltration and atrophy of the rotator cuff do not improve after rotator cuff repair and correlate with poor functional outcome. The role of degenerative changes in rotator cuff musculature with respect to the functional outcomes of rotator cuff repair have only recently been recognized and are still not well understood. In addition, the reversibility of these changes with repair of the tendons is questionable. Poorer preoperative muscle quality negatively affects outcome, and a successful outcome (in terms of a healed repair) might demonstrate improvements in fatty infiltration and muscle atrophy. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 2. Thirty-eight patients (mean age, 62 years) were prospectively evaluated with preoperative and 1-year postoperative clinical examination and appropriate magnetic resonance image sequencing to determine grades of muscle atrophy and fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles. American Shoulder and Elbow Society (ASES), Constant, and pain scores were determined as well as strength measurements. The retear rate and progression of muscle degeneration were also evaluated. Independent predictors of outcome measurements and cuff integrity were determined. The overall clinical outcome, including ASES, Constant, and pain scores, improved significantly (P < .0001). Strength in forward elevation improved significantly (P < .006), while external rotation strength did not. There was a strongly negative correlation between muscle quality and outcome results in most cases. When the results were adjusted for multivariate effect, muscle atrophy and fatty infiltration of the infraspinatus muscle were the only independent predictors of ASES and Constant scores (P < .03). Tear size and rotator cuff healing did not play an independent role. Tear size, however, was the only independent predictor of ultimate cuff integrity (P = .002). Both atrophy and fatty infiltration progressed significantly over the course of the study. In cases in which the tendon had re-torn, the progression was found to be more significant than when the repair proved successful (P < .003). Muscle atrophy and fatty infiltration of the rotator cuff muscles, particularly of the infraspinatus, play a significant role in determining functional outcome after cuff repair. Tear size appears to have the most influential effect on repair integrity. A successful repair did not lead to improvement or reversal of muscle degeneration and a failed repair resulted in significantly more progression. In general, healed repairs demonstrated minimal progression. These findings suggest that repairs should be performed, if possible, before more significant deterioration in the cuff musculature in order to optimize outcomes, and that understanding the degree of muscle atrophy and fatty infiltration before surgery can help guide patient expectations."}
{"id": "17334761", "title": "MR imaging of delamination tears of the rotator cuff tendons.", "content": "MR imaging of delamination tears of the rotator cuff tendons. The objective was to describe the imaging appearances and location of delamination tears of the rotator cuff tendons on non-contrast conventional MR imaging. This study was reviewed and approved by our Institutional Review Board. The reports of 548 consecutive MR examinations of the shoulder were reviewed, looking for mention or description of delamination tears of the rotator cuff. The images of the identified cases were then reviewed by two radiologists to confirm the findings. Correlation with surgical and arthroscopic information was then performed. Delamination tears were defined as horizontal retraction of either the bursal or articular surface of the tendon, manifest as thickening of the torn retracted edge, and/or interstitial splitting of the tendon, manifest as fluid-like high signal intensity on fat-suppressed T2-weighted oblique coronal images. Fourteen cases of delamination tears were identified in 13 patients. Ten of the cases involved the supraspinatus tendon, all with articular surface involvement. Nine of these supraspinatus cases were isolated tears and one occurred as part of a full thickness tear. All 10 of these supraspinatus cases showed medial retraction of the articular surface of the tendon, with thickening of the retracted edge, and 5 of the 10 had a demonstrable horizontal cleft in the interstitium. Four cases involved the subscapularis tendon, with articular surface disruption in three and pure interstitial delamination in one. Medial subluxation of the tendon of the long head of the biceps was present in all four cases. No delamination tears occurred on the bursal surface. Only three of the 14 shoulders underwent surgical repair with one confirmation of supraspinatus delamination, one confirmation of a subscapularis tear that had become a full thickness tear 10 months after initial imaging and another interstitial subscapularis delamination that was not identified arthroscopically. Delamination tears occur most often in the supraspinatus tendon, and in our series always involved the articular surface of the tendon. Only half of these tears have a visible cleavage plane in the interstitium, but this cleavage plane is not necessary for diagnosis if the torn edge is retracted."}
{"id": "17332121", "title": "Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable posterosuperior rotator cuff tears. Surgical technique.", "content": "Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable posterosuperior rotator cuff tears. Surgical technique. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical results of latissimus dorsi tendon transfer in patients with an irreparable posterosuperior rotator cuff tear to help determine which patient and anatomic factors affect clinical outcome. Fourteen patients with a latissimus dorsi tendon transfer were clinically evaluated with use of the PENN (University of Pennsylvania) shoulder score as well as with quantitative measurement of isometric muscle strength and the range of motion of both shoulders at a minimum of twenty-four months postoperatively. The anatomic results were evaluated with postoperative magnetic resonance imaging and electromyography. Nine patients were satisfied with the outcome, had significant clinical improvement, and reported that they would have the operation again under similar circumstances. The other five patients were dissatisfied with the result and had significantly worse PENN scores, active elevation, and objective measures of strength. Eight of the nine patients with a good clinical result were male, and four of the five with a poor result were female. Patients with a good clinical result had had significantly better preoperative function in active forward flexion and active external rotation compared with the patients with a poor result. The magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated healing of the tendon to the greater tuberosity in twelve patients and equivocal healing in two. There was no significant atrophy of any of the transferred muscles. Electromyography demonstrated clear activity in the transferred latissimus muscle during humeral adduction in all fourteen patients, some electrical activity with active forward elevation in only one patient, and some electrical activity with active external rotation in six of the nine patients with a good clinical result. None of the patients with a poor clinical result demonstrated electrical activity of the transferred muscle with active forward flexion or external rotation. Synchronous in-phase contraction of the transferred latissimus dorsi is a variable finding following the surgical treatment of irreparable posterosuperior rotator cuff tears, but when it is present it is associated with a better clinical result. Preoperative shoulder function and general strength influence the clinical result. Female patients with poor shoulder function and generalized muscle weakness prior to surgery have a greater likelihood of having a poor clinical result."}
{"id": "17308479", "title": "Infraspinatus delamination does not affect supraspinatus tear repair.", "content": "Infraspinatus delamination does not affect supraspinatus tear repair. Supraspinatus full-thickness tears with associated infraspinatus delamination are a frequent lesion, although the results of repair have not been reported. We retrospectively identified 35 patients treated for this cuff lesion among 378 open repaired full-thickness cuff tears. The aim of the study was to assess the subjective, objective, and anatomic outcomes of a subset of patients with supraspinatus tears involving delamination of the whole infraspinatus tendon. Thirty of the 35 patients were reviewed with magnetic resonance imaging at a minimum followup of 2 years (mean, 3.5 years; range, 2-6.5 years). The mean nonweighted Constant-Murley score at followup was 80/100 points, with an average gain of 17 points. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed all supraspinatus tendons but two were continuous. We observed no tear of the infraspinatus tendon, although a persistent delamination was present in 11 cases. One half of the patients had minor weakness in external rotation. One third of the infraspinatus muscles had minor fatty infiltration. Conservation of the infraspinatus tendon after closing the delamination did not seem to compromise the outcome of the supraspinatus repair. Avoiding resection of the infraspinatus delamination and treatment with simple curettage and closure yields satisfactory midterm functional and anatomic results."}
{"id": "17308477", "title": "Defining the relationship between rotator cuff injury and proximal humerus fractures.", "content": "Defining the relationship between rotator cuff injury and proximal humerus fractures. The purpose of our study was to correlate radiographic characteristics with rotator cuff tendon injury on magnetic resonance imaging after fractures of the proximal humerus. We prospectively obtained magnetic resonance imaging on 30 patients with proximal humerus fractures after classifying each fracture radiographically using Neer and AO systems and determining the displacement of the greater tuberosity. Twelve patients (40.0%) had either complete ruptures or avulsions of at least one of the rotator cuff muscles. No abnormality was identified in the rotator cuff musculature in nine patients (29%). Severity of injury to the rotator cuff tendons increased substantially with respect to increasing AO and Neer classes and 5 mm or greater displacement of the greater tuberosity fragment. Additional study is needed to determine the exact role of rotator cuff tendon injury in the ultimate function attained by patients with proximal humerus fractures."}
{"id": "17289860", "title": "Reliability of MRI assessment of supraspinatus tendinopathy.", "content": "Reliability of MRI assessment of supraspinatus tendinopathy. To determine the interobserver and intraobserver reliability of the interpretation of MRIs for supraspinatus tendinosis. In the interobserver trial, the MRIs of 52 athletes' shoulders were observed by 3 observers on one occasion within a 2-month period. All 52 images were read by the most experienced musculoskeletal radiologist on 3 different occasions on separate days without access to the previous readings for the intraobserver trial. Supraspinatus tendinosis was graded using a modified 4-point scale from grades 0 to grade 3. The grading of MRI-determined supraspinatus tendinosis was reliable, having an intraclass correlation (ICC) of 0.85 when assessed by the single well-trained observer. Interobserver reliability was only fair to good (ICC = 0.55). Supraspinatus tendinosis can be accurately identified on MRI with little variation by a single well-trained observer. Interobserver reliability was only fair to good. Our data indicated that the reliability of the assessment was much greater in more experienced radiologists than in those with less experience."}
{"id": "17233496", "title": "[Indications to complementary radiological exams for pathologies of the shoulder].", "content": "[Indications to complementary radiological exams for pathologies of the shoulder]. Plain Xrays should stay in pole position for the evaluation of shoulder's pathologies. They allow frequently to make a diagnosis of the lesion. Indications to complementary exams are well established. CT-scan and MRI have to give responses to precise questions, which then will permit to manage the treatment. CT-scan allows to evaluate accurately bone structures. It is very useful for analysing complex fractures of the proximal humerus. It allows also to evaluate the amount of glenoid wear to correct before implanting a prosthesis. Arthro-MRI is used to study soft tissues, cartilage and bone. Therefore, it is the first choice exam to evaluate the rotator cuff tendons, as well as the labrum and ligaments in case of shoulder instability."}
{"id": "17225150", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging findings associated with surgically proven rotator interval lesions.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging findings associated with surgically proven rotator interval lesions. To identify shoulder magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings associated with surgically proven rotator interval abnormalities. The preoperative MRI examinations of five patients with surgically proven rotator interval (RI) lesions requiring closure were retrospectively evaluated by three musculoskeletal-trained radiologists in consensus. We assessed the structures in the RI, including the coracohumeral ligament, superior glenohumeral ligament, fat tissue, biceps tendon, and capsule for variations in size and signal alteration. In addition, we noted associated findings of rotator cuff and labral pathology. Three of three of the MR arthrogram studies demonstrated extension of gadolinium to the cortex of the undersurface of the coracoid process compared with the control images, seen best on the sagittal oblique images. Four of five of the studies demonstrated subjective thickening of the coracohumeral ligament, and three of five of the studies demonstrated subjective thickening of the superior glenohumeral ligament. Five of five of the studies demonstrated a labral tear. The MRI arthrogram finding of gadolinium extending to the cortex of the undersurface of the coracoid process was noted on the studies of those patients with rotator interval lesions at surgery in this series. Noting this finding-especially in the presence of a labral tear and/or thickening of the coracohumeral ligament or superior glenohumeral ligament-may be helpful in the preoperative diagnosis of rotator interval lesions."}
{"id": "17213772", "title": "[Isolated lesion of the infraspinatus at the myotendinous junction: a new lesion].", "content": "[Isolated lesion of the infraspinatus at the myotendinous junction: a new lesion]. We have identified a previously unpublished lesion of the infraspinatus muscle at the myotendinous junction. We describe its presentation and MRI appearance, notably the absence of other tendinous pathology in the rotator cuff. We retrospectively reviewed 25 patients with isolated infraspinatus lesions and associated edema identified on the fat-suppressed T2-weighted images of MRI. Imaging exams and medical records collected over a 7-year period were reviewed by a team of radiologists and surgeons specializing in the shoulder. A presentation of the mechanism of injury, radiological analysis of MRI scans and other investigations (arthro-CT and EMG studies) were carried out; all MRI included at least two fat-suppressed T2-weighted (transverse and coronal) sequences and one T1-weighted (transverse) sequence. The lesion was characterized by tearing or delamination at the myotendinous junction, which was accompanied by edema of the infraspinatus muscle in the initial phase. Over time the edema was seen to resolve and muscle atrophy and fatty degeneration became predominant. We identified two groups by the onset of their symptoms. In the \"chronic\" group (44%), onset was gradual, with these patients frequently having had one or more infiltrations at presentation to us. In the \"acute\" group (56%), there was an initial traumatic event that was variable in intensity and mechanism. This isolated lesion of the infraspinatus at the myotendinous junction has not been previously described. It is recognized by its characteristic MRI appearance and is not generally seen on CT arthrograms as there is no communication with the joint. Its natural history appears to be of a progression from edema to fatty degeneration with or without myotendinous retraction and scarring. Its etiology has not yet been clearly established."}
{"id": "17210431", "title": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with and without subacromial decompression: a prospective randomized study.", "content": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with and without subacromial decompression: a prospective randomized study. Our purpose was to evaluate the role of subacromial decompression in the arthroscopic repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears in a prospective randomized clinical study. Arthroscopic cuff repair was performed in 80 patients with a full-thickness rotator cuff tear. They were divided into 2 groups comprising 40 patients each. In group 1 arthroscopic rotator cuff repair was performed with subacromial decompression. In group 2 the repair was performed without decompression. Rotator cuff tears were repaired via metal suture anchors for tendon-to-bone repair, side-to-side repair, or a combination of the 2 techniques. Results were evaluated by use of the Constant score normalized for age and gender, as well as the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) and Work-DASH self-administered questionnaires. On analyzing the results at 2 years' follow-up, we considered the following independent variables: age; gender; dominance; location, shape, area, retraction, and reducibility of cuff tear; fatty degeneration; involvement of subscapularis tendon; treatment of biceps tendon; rotator cuff repair technique; and type of acromion. A univariate and multivariate statistical analysis was performed to determine which variables were independently associated with the outcome. Comparison between the groups did not show significant differences for each variable considered. The overall results for the Constant score were 103.6 points in group 1 and 96.1 points in group 2; those for the DASH score were 18.2 points and 23.1 points, respectively; and those for the Work-DASH score were 23.7 points and 26.2 points, respectively. Univariate and multivariate analysis showed that the following variables significantly and independently influenced the outcome: age; shape, retraction, and reducibility of cuff tear; fatty degeneration; involvement of subscapularis; and repair technique. Subacromial decompression did not influence the outcome significantly for each scoring system considered. At short-term follow-up, subacromial decompression did not seem to significantly affect the outcome of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. Longer follow-up studies will be necessary to confirm the clinical relevance of these observations. Level I, randomized controlled trial with no significant difference but narrow confidence intervals."}
{"id": "17196721", "title": "The three-dimensional motions of glenohumeral joint under semi-loaded condition during arm abduction using vertically open MRI.", "content": "The three-dimensional motions of glenohumeral joint under semi-loaded condition during arm abduction using vertically open MRI. Magnetic resonance imaging is an accurate non-invasive tool for visualizing muscles, tendons, and bones. It also provides 3D coordinate values. The purpose of the present study was to visualize and quantify the 3D positions of the glenohumeral joint during isometric abduction of the arm using vertically open magnetic resonance imaging. We examined 14 shoulders of seven healthy volunteers. Magnetic resonance images were obtained in a seated position and in seven static positions of the arm from 0 degrees to maximum abduction using vertically open magnetic resonance imaging. 3D surface models were created and 3D movements of each bone in the glenohumeral joint were calculated using a computer algorithm. We analyzed the translation and contact pattern of the glenohumeral joint. In supero-inferior direction, the humeral head translated slight inferiorly from +1.9 (SD 1.0) mm at 0 degrees to +0.8 (SD 1.8) mm at the maximum abduction. In antero-posterior direction, the humeral head translated anteriorly from 0 degrees to 90 degrees (mean +2.4, SD 2.6 mm) and posteriorly from 90 degrees to 150 degrees of abduction (mean -1.4, SD 2.7 mm). Furthermore, the humeral head had a unique contact patterns with the glenoid; the contact part of the humeral head with the glenoid changed from the central part to the posterior in the midrange of abduction. The humeral head showed a small translation in the antero-posterior direction between 90 degrees and 150 degrees of abduction. In addition, the posterior part of the humeral head contacted the glenoid in this range of abduction. These findings of motion patterns in asymptomatic subjects will be necessary when comparing the kinematics with pathologic condition such as the glenohumeral instability and rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "17196354", "title": "Ultrasound of the rotator cuff with MRI and anatomic correlation.", "content": "Ultrasound of the rotator cuff with MRI and anatomic correlation. Magnetic resonance imaging and high-resolution ultrasound (US) are frequently used for the detection of rotator cuff tears. The diagnostic yield of US is influenced by several factors as technique, knowledge of the imaging characteristics of anatomic and pathologic findings and of pitfalls. The purpose of this article is to illustrates that the standardized high-resolution US examination of the shoulder covers the entire rotator cuff and correlates with MR imaging and anatomic sections."}
{"id": "17195127", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the rotator cuff interval.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the rotator cuff interval. The rotator cuff interval (RCI) is an important and anatomically complex region of the rotator cuff that is critically important to normal glenohumeral function. Recognition of common pathologies in this region on imaging examinations is especially important as injuries may be difficult to detect on clinical examination and even at arthroscopy. Familiarity with the magnetic resonance imaging appearance of the normal and abnormal RCI and the ability to convey findings to orthopedic and sports medicine referrers are essential to facilitate prompt creation of effective treatment plans."}
{"id": "17187634", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the canine shoulder: an anatomic study.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the canine shoulder: an anatomic study. To describe the normal anatomy of the soft tissue stabilizing components of the canine shoulder identified by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and to evaluate specific acquisition sequences and planes for observing structures of diagnostic interest. Descriptive study. Canine cadavers (n=3). T1-weighted, proton density fat saturation (PD), and T2(*)-weighted gradient echo (GE) MRI sequences were obtained in the sagittal, transverse, and dorsal planes of the left shoulder of 3 canine cadavers. After imaging, each shoulder was embedded and thin sectioned. The corresponding right shoulder was frozen and thick sectioned. The anatomic structures on the histologic and frozen thick sections were visually correlated with the MR images. The sagittal plane provided a longitudinal view of the bicep, infraspinatus, and supraspinatus tendons. The biceps, supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis tendons, and the medial and lateral glenohumeral ligaments were identified in the transverse and dorsal planes. The dorsal plane allowed for the bicep tendon to be evaluated transversely as it passed over the humeral head. The GE sequence was more useful in identifying tendons and ligaments. The PD sequence was more helpful in identifying fluid accumulations in the joint and around tendons. The tendinous and ligamentous structures that stabilize the canine shoulder joint can be readily identified with MRI. MRI has the potential to be a useful tool in the diagnosis of canine soft tissue shoulder injuries."}
{"id": "17169582", "title": "Acute rotator cuff tear: do we miss the early diagnosis? A prospective study showing a high incidence of rotator cuff tears after shoulder trauma.", "content": "Acute rotator cuff tear: do we miss the early diagnosis? A prospective study showing a high incidence of rotator cuff tears after shoulder trauma. The aim of this study was to evaluate the epidemiologic data of patients with an acute soft-tissue injury to the shoulder, with an emphasis on improving the early diagnosis of acute rotator cuff tears. This study included 104 patients, with a median age of 49 years (range, 19-75 years). The patients were evaluated clinically and with ultrasonography at a median of 13 days (range, 3-49 days) after the injury. A total of 60 patients (58%) had some degree of cuff lesion on the ultrasonographic examination. Of these patients, 33 (32%) had a full-thickness rotator cuff tear, 14 (13%) had a partial-thickness cuff tear in the tendon substance, and 13 (13%) had a partial cuff tear at the insertion site on the major tubercle. The injury mechanism or activity at the moment of injury did not correlate with the presence of a rotator cuff lesion, but we found a strong age correlation, with a prevalence of any rotator cuff tear, above 50%, for patients aged above 50 years and with a prevalence of full-thickness tears of 50% in the groups aged 50 to 59 years and aged 60 to 69 years. In conclusion, this study found a high incidence of rotator cuff lesions by further evaluation of patients undergoing consultation at the emergency department, with an inability to perform active abduction above 90 degrees and normal radiographs, after an acute shoulder trauma."}
{"id": "17158276", "title": "Rotator cuff contusions of the shoulder in professional football players: epidemiology and magnetic resonance imaging findings.", "content": "Rotator cuff contusions of the shoulder in professional football players: epidemiology and magnetic resonance imaging findings. No published reports have studied the epidemiology and magnetic resonance imaging findings associated with rotator cuff contusions of the shoulder in professional football players. To determine a single professional football team's incidence, treatment, and magnetic resonance imaging appearance of players sustaining rotator cuff contusions of the shoulder. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. From 1999 to 2005, a North American professional football team's injury records were retrospectively reviewed for athletes who had sustained a rotator cuff contusion of the shoulder during in-season participation. Those patients who had magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder with a 1.5-Tesla magnet were reviewed by a musculoskeletal radiologist and graded according to the appearance and severity of clinical injury. Twenty-six players had a rotator cuff contusion. There was an average of 5.5 rotator cuff contusions per season (47% of all shoulder injuries). The predominant mechanism of injury was a direct blow in 70.3%. Magnetic resonance imaging findings included peritendon edema at the myotendinous junction, critical zone tendon edema, and subentheseal bone bruises. Treatment consisted of a protocol involving modalities and cuff rehabilitation in all patients. Six patients had persistent pain and weakness for a minimum of 3 days and were given a subacromial corticosteroid injection. Overall, 3 patients (11.4%) required later surgical treatment on the shoulder. Rotator cuff contusions accounted for nearly half of all shoulder injuries in the football players in this study. Magnetic resonance imaging is an extremely useful tool in determining severity of injury and integrity of the rotator cuff. The majority of athletes are able to return to sports with conservative treatment; a minority of shoulders might progress to more severe injuries such as rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "17157744", "title": "Rhabdomyolysis following shoulder arthroscopy.", "content": "Rhabdomyolysis following shoulder arthroscopy. Fluid extravasation is not uncommon after shoulder arthroscopy. We report a case of massive fluid extravasation that resulted in rhabdomyolysis and renal shutdown following routine shoulder arthroscopic surgery. Compartment pressures in the deltoid, supraspinatus, and infraspinatus were normal. Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder revealed extensive subcutaneous edema and high-signal changes in the entire deltoid muscle. The patient made an uneventful recovery with adequate supportive treatment and renal dialysis. Repeat imaging studies 3 months later revealed complete restoration to normal of the deltoid muscle. In addition to extensive fluid extravasation in this patient, the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medication, the development of a transient allergic reaction to a prescribed antibiotic, and the inclusion of epinephrine in the infusion fluid may have collectively contributed to rhabdomyolysis. We recommend that the use of infusion pumps should be limited to the shortest time possible, and that gravity inflow should be used as much as possible. Inflow should preferably occur through the arthroscope itself, rather than through a separate portal cannula, which may dislodge, inadvertently causing infusion of high-pressure fluid into the surrounding tissue."}
{"id": "17157728", "title": "Throwing shoulder injury involving the anterior rotator cuff: concealed tears not as uncommon as previously thought.", "content": "Throwing shoulder injury involving the anterior rotator cuff: concealed tears not as uncommon as previously thought. In throwing athletes, partial rotator cuff tears are usually located posterior to the site of the common rotator cuff tears seen in the general nonthrowing population. However, they sometimes have tears located around the anterior aspect of the supraspinatus tendon. In this study we investigated the characteristics of anterior rotator cuff tears in throwing athletes. We then compared several factors between anterior tears and posterior tears to investigate those related to the presence of anterior tears or the occurrence of such tears. We divided 37 athletes with partial rotator cuff tears into those with anterior tears (n = 17) and those with posterior tears (n = 20). The clinical profile, range of motion and joint laxity with patient under general anesthesia, and operative findings were retrospectively compared between the 2 groups. Among the 17 anterior rotator cuff tears, 12 tears were confined to the anterior one third of the supraspinatus tendon. Interestingly, concealed intratendinous degenerative tears were found in 6 shoulders. These appeared to be very shallow articular-side tears located around the attachment of the greater tuberosity, but severe tears were exposed after resection of the residual capsular portion of the tendon. Posterior capsular tightness was significantly related to the occurrence of anterior tears, whereas a greater tuberosity notch was significantly related to posterior tears. Anterior rotator cuff tears are not uncommon in throwing athletes, and a concealed type of tear was a representative lesion. Different mechanisms may be involved in the development of anterior and posterior rotator cuff tears resulting from throwing injuries. Posterior capsular tightness might influence the occurrence of anterior tears. Level IV, prognostic case series."}
{"id": "17152055", "title": "Cine phase contrast MRI to measure continuum Lagrangian finite strain fields in contracting skeletal muscle.", "content": "Cine phase contrast MRI to measure continuum Lagrangian finite strain fields in contracting skeletal muscle. To measure the complex mechanics and Lagrangian finite strain of contracting human skeletal muscle in vivo with cine phase contrast MRI (CPC-MRI) applied to the human supraspinatus muscle of the shoulder. Processing techniques are applied to transform velocities from CPC-MRI images to displacements and planar Lagrangian finite strain. An interpolation method describing the continuity of the velocity field and forward-backward and Fourier transform methods were used to track the displacement of regions of interest during a cyclic abduction motion of a subject's arm. The components of the Lagrangian strain tensor were derived during the motion and principal and maximum in-plane shear strain fields calculated. Derived displacement and strain fields are shown that describe the contraction mechanics of the supraspinatus. Strains vary over time during the cyclic motion and are highly nonuniform throughout the muscle. This method presented overcomes the physical resolution of the MRI scanner, which is crucial for the detection of detailed information within muscles, such as the changes that might occur with partial tears of the supraspinatus. These can then be used as input or validation data for modeling human skeletal muscle."}
{"id": "17149764", "title": "Sonography of the rotator cuff in painful shoulders performed without knowledge of clinical information: results from 58 sonographic examinations with surgical correlation.", "content": "Sonography of the rotator cuff in painful shoulders performed without knowledge of clinical information: results from 58 sonographic examinations with surgical correlation. To assess the value of sonography as an isolated diagnostic test for the detection and quantification of rotator cuff tears. Preoperative sonographic examination was performed on 58 shoulders. Key biases on sonographic interpretation such as history-taking, physical examination, or concurrent imaging examinations were excluded by way of blinding. Tears of the rotator cuff were the positive findings of interest. Assessment of tear size and localization was done sonographically, and the results were compared with operative findings. All 24 full-thickness tears observed at surgery had been diagnosed correctly via sonography. In 19 of 20 cases with an intact rotator cuff, preoperative sonography was negative. Thirteen of 14 partial-thickness tears were not detected via sonography; 1 was misinterpreted as a full-thickness tear. Location of the tears relative to the rotator cuff tendons was described correctly in 21 of 25 cases. For tear size measurement, the 95% range of agreement was less than +/-1 cm. Blinded sonographic examination is effective in the detection and quantification of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff but lacks sensitivity in the detection of partial-thickness tears."}
{"id": "17148619", "title": "Partial-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. Partial-thickness rotator cuff tears are not a single entity; rather, they represent a spectrum of disease states. Although often asymptomatic, they can be significantly disabling. Overhead throwing athletes with partial-thickness rotator cuff tears differ with respect to etiology, goals, and treatment from older, nonathlete patients with degenerative tears. Pathogenesis of degenerative partial-thickness tears is multifactorial, with evidence of intrinsic and extrinsic factors playing key roles. Diagnosis of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears should be based on the patient's symptoms together with magnetic resonance imaging studies. Conservative treatment is successful in most patients. Surgery generally is considered for patients with symptoms of sufficient duration and intensity. The role of acromioplasty has not been clearly delineated, but it should be considered when there is evidence of extrinsic causation for the partial-thickness rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "17142436", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder. Current techniques and spectrum of disease.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder. Current techniques and spectrum of disease."}
{"id": "17139865", "title": "[Shoulder pain: imaging examinations].", "content": "[Shoulder pain: imaging examinations]. Non-traumatic shoulder pain is a diagnostic challenge for clinicians. Usually, the clinical examination is supplemented by nowadays well-defined imaging studies. Radiography is the first examination to be requested on a systematic basis. It always includes several views to study the whole scapular region (glenohumeral joint, subacromial space, acromioclavicular joint etc.). If the radiographic examination is not precise enough, a noninvasive and non-irradiating examination is performed, either ultrasonography or magnetic resonance imaging. The latter seems to be more comprehensive than ultrasonography. However, the usefulness of the association radiography-ultrasonography should be emphasized: both examinations are perfectly complementary, inexpensive and easy to access. Invasive examinations, such as CT arthrography, are still too often requested following a radiological examination. Since they do not investigate the whole shoulder, they should be limited to the investigation of specific diseases, often as part of presurgical assessments required for or by the orthopedic surgeon."}
{"id": "17139864", "title": "[Diagnostic strategy for shoulder pathology?].", "content": "[Diagnostic strategy for shoulder pathology?]. Faced to shoulder pathology, the way of investigating must be very systematic. Before doing sophisticated explorations (arthroCT, MRI), we first have to use the triad \"interrogatory-clinical examination-standard X Rays\". This first step is absolutely necessary; it must allow to make the diagnosis to which the therapy must be adapted. The rotator cuff pathology is the most frequent one. Its frequency depends on patient's age, precessive trauma or not and the pratice of activities using the arm up (sports, leasures, works). A stiff shoulder must never be neglected, the diagnosis is done by clinical examination and its origine is very often precised by standard Xrays. Others diagnosis are done by the conjunction of several elements (pathologic context, clinical examination, standard Xrays). In some complex situations, other investigations (US, arthroCT, MRI) will be needed."}
{"id": "17138640", "title": "The \"bench-presser's shoulder\": an overuse insertional tendinopathy of the pectoralis minor muscle.", "content": "The \"bench-presser's shoulder\": an overuse insertional tendinopathy of the pectoralis minor muscle. Tendinopathies of the rotator cuff muscles, biceps tendon and pectoralis major muscle are common causes of shoulder pain in athletes. Overuse insertional tendinopathy of pectoralis minor is a previously undescribed cause of shoulder pain in weightlifters/sportsmen. To describe the clinical features, diagnostic tests and results of an overuse insertional tendinopathy of the pectoralis minor muscle. To also present a new technique of ultrasonographic evaluation and injection of the pectoralis minor muscle/tendon based on use of standard anatomical landmarks (subscapularis, coracoid process and axillary artery) as stepwise reference points for ultrasonographic orientation. Between 2005 and 2006, seven sportsmen presenting with this condition were diagnosed and treated at the Cape Shoulder Institute, Cape Town, South Africa. In five patients, the initiating and aggravating factor was performance of the bench-press exercise (hence the term \"bench-presser's shoulder\"). Medial juxta-coracoid tenderness, a painful active-contraction test and bench-press manoeuvre, and decrease in pain after ultrasound-guided injection of a local anaesthetic agent into the enthesis, in the absence of any other clinically/radiologically apparent pathology, were diagnostic of pectoralis minor insertional tendinopathy. All seven patients were successfully treated with a single ultrasound-guided injection of a corticosteroid into the enthesis of pectoralis minor followed by a period of rest and stretching exercises. This study describes the clinical features and management of pectoralis minor insertional tendinopathy, secondary to the bench-press type of weightlifting. A new pain site-based classification of shoulder pathology in weightlifters is suggested."}
{"id": "17137058", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging findings of a metastatic chemodectoma in a dog.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging findings of a metastatic chemodectoma in a dog. A 6-year-old, male, Collie-cross was presented with a non-weight bearing right thoracic limb lameness, right m. deltoideus, m. infraspinatus and m. supraspinatus atrophy, and severe neck pain with spasm of the cervical epaxial muscles. MRI revealed complete destruction of the 5th and 6th cervical vertebral bodies with lateral extradural spinal cord compression at the level of the 4th and 5th cervical vertebrae. These lesions were very clearly demonstrated on magnetic resonance images, while only subtle changes were seen on survey radiographs. Post mortem investigation revealed a large heart base chemodectoma with multiple smaller tumours in the cranial mediastinum and a single tumour nodule on the thoracic aorta. The 5th cervical vertebral body had necrotic, haemorrhagic and lytic changes. Histopathology of the heart base tumour, the nodules in the cranial mediastinum and on the thoracic aorta and samples from the 5th cervical vertebra confirmed the presence of a malignant aortic or carotid body tumour originating from the chemoreceptor organs. Diagnostic imaging features and post mortem findings are described. To our knowledge, this is the first report of the magnetic resonance features of a metastatic chemodectoma in a dog."}
{"id": "17088751", "title": "[Functional and sonographic shoulder assessment after Seidel nailing: a retrospective study of 29 cases].", "content": "[Functional and sonographic shoulder assessment after Seidel nailing: a retrospective study of 29 cases]. Centromedullary nailing with a Seidel nail is a validated treatment for humeral shaft fractures which some teams have abandoned due to the injury caused to the rotator muscles. The purpose of this study is to assess shoulder function (Constant and DASH) after nailing procedures and to analyze sonographic findings. Twenty-nine patients who underwent Seidel nailing between 1996 and 2002 were reviewed by an independent operator at 36 months follow-up on average (range 11-84 months). The sex-ratio was 1.64. Mean age at surgery was 41.5 years (range 17-81 years). The dominant side was involved in 17 cases. Fracture was caused by a traffic accident in 13 cases, a fall in 12, and a blunt injury in 4. The fracture was situated in the mid third of the shaft in 19 cases, the upper third in 3, the mid and lower third in 3 and mid and upper third in 3. Mean delay before surgery was 2.4 days. Initial complications were medioulnar palsy (n=1), complete brachial palsy (n=1), partial brachial palsy (n=1). There was one open Cauchoix I fracture. Bone healing was achieved in 27/29 patients at 3.5 months on average. Revision was required in nine patients. The Constant score was 69.1 (86.9% contralateral). The weighted Constant score was 81.7 and the DASH was 25. The Constant score was significantly better in patients aged less than 50 years and with transverse fractures. Sub-acromial space narrowing was observed in six patients at follow-up and only 9/28 sonographic examinations (32%) were normal; most shoulders presented transient healing lesions. This series was comparable with others regarding patient satisfaction, bone healing and complications, but was less satisfactory for the Constant score and time to healing. We have found that using a subjective function score (DASH) with an objective score (Constant) enables a better assessment of shoulder function. Like Gaullier, we consider that after cuff healing, anterograde nailing does not compromise shoulder function despite the injuries observed sonographically."}
{"id": "17087881", "title": "Imaging in evaluating the rotator cuff.", "content": "Imaging in evaluating the rotator cuff. Multiple modalities are available for imaging the shoulder, including radiography, arthrography, computed tomography (CT), CT arthrography, ultrasound (US), magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, and MR arthrography. Each of these modalities has advantages and disadvantages in the evaluation of shoulder structures. This article discusses imaging of the rotator cuff of the shoulder with a primary focus on evaluation by MR imaging and MR arthrography."}
{"id": "17076461", "title": "\"Uncoverage\" of the humeral head by the anterolateral acromion and its relationship to full-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "\"Uncoverage\" of the humeral head by the anterolateral acromion and its relationship to full-thickness rotator cuff tears. The relationship between the humeral head and the anterolateral acromion was compared for subjects with and without full-thickness rotator cuff tears, as indicated by magnetic resonance imaging, using a case-control design. \"Uncoverage\" of the humeral head by the anterolateral acromion was defined as the percentage of the humeral head width not covered superiorly by the anterolateral acromion, as measured digitally on magnetic resonance imaging scans of the shoulder in the oblique coronal plane. The uncoverage of the humeral head by the anterolateral acromion was 32.0% for men > or = 40 years of age with normal rotator cuffs (n = 39) and 38.2% for men > or = 40 years of age with full-thickness rotator cuff tears (n = 43). The difference in uncoverage of 6.2% was statistically significant (p < 0.001). The uncoverage of the humeral head by the anterolateral acromion was 36.1% for women > or = 40 years of age with normal rotator cuffs (n = 10) and 41.8% for women > or = 40 years of age with full-thickness rotator cuff tears (n = 17). The difference in uncoverage of 5.72% was not statistically significant with the number of subjects available (p = 0.108). We concluded that increased uncoverage of the humeral head by the anterolateral acromion may be a factor in the pathogenesis of full-thickness rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "17075837", "title": "The scapuloacromial angle: a 3D analysis of acromial slope and its relationship with shoulder impingement.", "content": "The scapuloacromial angle: a 3D analysis of acromial slope and its relationship with shoulder impingement. To quantify acromial slope (the scapuloacromial [SA] angle). We used shoulder MR studies in 64 subjects who were stratified surgically into impingement (with and without tear) and nonimpingement (shoulder instability) groups. We measure, in three dimensions, the angle between unit normal vectors to planes of best fit to the undersurface of the acromion and the medial surface of the blade of the scapula. We examine the projection of this SA angle onto the transverse, coronal, and sagittal planes to gauge some measure of rotation, lateral tilt, and anterior tilt with respect to the patient. Orientation of the acromion and scapular blade in relation to the MR scanner and therefore to the patient was also calculated. We found no significant differences between these two groups when examining age and side of pathology. A statistically significant difference was seen between males and females. Our study does not support the idea that a flatter acromial slope causes impingement and is an etiological basis for rotator cuff tears. We believe that acromial slope, regardless of imaging plane, is not useful in classifying patients who present with shoulder pain and should not be considered as a source of pathologic changes."}
{"id": "17075105", "title": "Tendon retracts more than muscle in experimental chronic tears of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Tendon retracts more than muscle in experimental chronic tears of the rotator cuff. We released the infraspinatus tendons of six sheep, allowed retraction of the musculotendinous unit over a period of 40 weeks and then performed a repair. We studied retraction of the musculotendinous unit 35 weeks later using CT, MRI and macroscopic dissection. The tendon was retracted by a mean of 4.7 cm (3.8 to 5.1) 40 weeks after release and remained at a mean of 4.2 cm (3.3 to 4.7) 35 weeks after the repair. Retraction of the muscle was only a mean of 2.7 cm (2.0 to 3.3) and 1.7 cm (1.1 to 2.2) respectively at these two points. Thus, the musculotendinous junction had shifted distally by a mean of 2.5 cm (2.0 to 2.8) relative to the tendon. Sheep muscle showed an ability to compensate for approximately 60% of the tendon retraction in a hitherto unknown fashion. Such retraction may not be a quantitatively reliable indicator of retraction of the muscle and may overestimate the need for elongation of the musculotendinous unit during repair."}
{"id": "17057069", "title": "US appearance of the rotator cable with histologic correlation: preliminary results.", "content": "US appearance of the rotator cable with histologic correlation: preliminary results. To characterize the ultrasonographic (US) appearance of the rotator cuff cable in asymptomatic shoulders and in cadaveric specimens, with histologic comparison for the latter. The cadaveric portion of this study was approved by the institution's Anatomical Donations Department. Institutional review board approval and informed consent were obtained from asymptomatic volunteers and clinical patients for the HIPAA-compliant portion of the study. Four fresh cadaveric shoulder specimens (two male subjects, 40 and 50 years old) were dissected, assessed for the presence of the rotator cable, and imaged with 12-MHz US. Histologic slides (hematoxylin-eosin stain) from three resected rotator cuff tendons were inspected for fibers in the expected location and orientation of the rotator cuff cable. The shoulders in 17 asymptomatic volunteers (seven men, two women; age range, 27-66 years; mean, 41 years) and contralateral asymptomatic shoulders in 10 patients (six men, four women; age range, 24-78 years; mean, 49 years) were scanned and evaluated for the presence and appearance of the rotator cable. The rotator cable was identified at gross dissection. Histologic examination and US of the cadaveric shoulders demonstrated an articular-sided fibrillar structure perpendicular to the rotator cuff tendon (average thickness and width, 1.2 mm and 4.5 mm, respectively). US of asymptomatic shoulders depicted a similar fibrillar structure in three (11%) shoulders up to 1.1-1.5 cm medial to the greater tuberosity (average thickness and width, 1.2 mm and 4.5 mm respectively). The rotator cable can be depicted with US."}
{"id": "17055750", "title": "Rupture of the subscapularis tendon (isolated or in combination with supraspinatus tear): when is a repair indicated?", "content": "Rupture of the subscapularis tendon (isolated or in combination with supraspinatus tear): when is a repair indicated? Ruptures of the subscapularis tendon, isolated or combined, are rare, and the treatment modalities are controversial. Of 1345 patients who underwent rotator cuff repair in a 7-year period, 73 had either an isolated rupture of the subscapularis or a subscapularis rupture combined with rupture of the supraspinatus. All reconstructions were performed through a deltopectoral approach. Reinsertion of the subscapularis was combined with reconstruction of the supraspinatus in 32 patients. Of the patients, 63 (86%) were re-examined at a mean follow-up of 35 months. The modified Constant score improved from 62% preoperatively to 91% at follow-up. Isolated or combined reconstructions did not result in significant differences with respect to the Constant score. Of the patients, 62 (98%) were satisfied with the operation. Rerupture was found by ultrasound in 8 subscapularis tendons (13%) and 4 supraspinatus tendons (13%). The rerupture rate showed a significant correlation with the Goutallier stage of fatty degeneration and the interval between injury and operation."}
{"id": "17055299", "title": "Arthroscopic treatment of posterior glenohumeral joint subluxation resulting from brachial plexus birth palsy.", "content": "Arthroscopic treatment of posterior glenohumeral joint subluxation resulting from brachial plexus birth palsy. The purpose of this study is to assess the ability of arthroscopic anterior capsular release, subscapularis tenotomy, and glenohumeral manipulation to reduce glenohumeral joint subluxation resulting from brachial plexus birth palsy. Twenty-two children with a mean age of 3.9 years (range, 1.6-8.3 years) underwent preoperative magnetic resonance imaging, arthroscopic surgery with or without tendon transfers, and postoperative imaging in their spica cast. In the uninvolved shoulders, the mean percentage of the humeral head anterior to the middle of the glenoid fossa (PHHA) was 45.2% +/- 4.8% and the mean glenoid version was -7% +/- 3%. In the involved shoulders, preoperatively, the mean PHHA was 15.6% +/- 13.5% and the mean glenoid version was -37 degrees +/- 15 degrees . Postoperatively, the mean PHHA corrected to 46.9% +/- 11.2% and the mean glenoid version improved to -8 degrees +/- 8 degrees . There was a significant improvement in the mean PHHA (P < .001) and mean glenoid version (P < .001) that approached the values of the uninvolved shoulder. Arthroscopic capsular release and subscapularis tenotomy were successful in obtaining reduction of glenohumeral joint subluxation in all patients. The maintenance of reduction requires continued follow-up over time."}
{"id": "17042899", "title": "Pre- and postoperative evaluation of the metabolic activity in muscles associated with ruptured rotator cuffs by F-FDG PET imaging.", "content": "Pre- and postoperative evaluation of the metabolic activity in muscles associated with ruptured rotator cuffs by F-FDG PET imaging. We examined uptake of 2-[(18)F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) using positron emission tomography (PET) into the bilateral shoulder muscles of four patients before and after unilateral rotator cuff repair. The relative ratio of the subtracted standardized uptake value on the supraspinatus with a torn supraspinatus tendon to that of the subscapularis on the ipsilateral side was significantly lower than that on the normal side (0.69 +/- 0.05 versus 1.06 +/- 0.36). The relative ratio of the infraspinatus on the rupture side was also significantly lower than that on the normal side (0.91 +/- 0.09 versus 1.41 +/- 0.35). However, by 6 months postoperative, the reduced glucose metabolism in these muscles had recovered to the same levels as those on the normal side. As indicated by FDG PET, muscle metabolism in rotator cuff tears was reduced, subsequently recovering to the level of the normal side after operative repair."}
{"id": "17042025", "title": "Physiotherapy rehabilitation in patients with massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Physiotherapy rehabilitation in patients with massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears. Massive rotator cuff tears provide a challenge for effective rehabilitation. Work has been ongoing at Torbay Hospital, Devon since 2000 to develop an exercise programme for the management of this patient group. This programme has been evaluated in a pilot study and a further randomised controlled trial is currently taking place which will enable us to estimate the treatment effect. This paper discusses the background to the development of the rehabilitation programme, the programme itself and the results of the pilot study. The pilot study was an evaluation of the rehabilitation programme. This study examined the effectiveness of a physiotherapy regime for the treatment of patients with massive rotator cuff tears. Patients identified through primary and secondary care referrals to physiotherapy with a clinical diagnosis of a massive rotator cuff tear underwent an ultrasound scan to confirm the diagnosis. A massive cuff tear was one where the leading edge of the tear had retracted past the glenoid margin. The clinical diagnosis was based on the presence of some or all of the following signs: positive humeral thrust on elevation, gross weakness and wasting of supraspinatus and infraspinatus, infraspinatus lag and rupture of the long head of biceps. Eligible patients were invited to take part in the study and informed consent was obtained. The baseline assessment was carried out and then the patient undertook the treatment programme. Outcome measures were reassessed 12 weeks from the baseline assessment. A cohort study of 10 patients evaluating the change from baseline to twelve weeks in the shoulder function of patients undergoing a programme of anterior deltoid strengthening and functional rehabilitation. The outcome measures used were the Oxford Shoulder Disability Questionnaire (OSDQ) and SF36. The OSDQ is validated for use with the UK population and has 12 questions with 5 point responses. The lowest (best) score is 12 and the highest (worse) score is 60. Scores on the OSDQ improved with all patients. The mean improvement was 9 (range 3 to 16, standard deviation 10.3). The SF36 showed an improvement in the pain scores for all patients (mean 22 points) and an overall improvement of 10 points for the sections on role limitation due to physical health. There was an overall decline in perceived general health (9 points) and in role limitation due to emotional health (23 points). As all 10 patients showed improved scores on the OSDQ, in spite of the long-standing nature of many of their shoulder problems, this rehabilitation programme was shown to improve shoulder function in this group of patients. The variation shown in the quality of life scores reflects the age group of this cohort who had a mean age of 75.5 years. All patients deemed their pain and function to have improved over the three-month period."}
{"id": "17027418", "title": "Calcific tendonitis of the subscapularis tendon causing subcoracoid stenosis and coracoid impingement.", "content": "Calcific tendonitis of the subscapularis tendon causing subcoracoid stenosis and coracoid impingement. Calcific tendonitis is a common disease of the shoulder which usually responds to conservative treatment. In cases unresponsive to conservative management, arthroscopic treatment is sometimes required. While there are several reports on calcifications within the supraspinatus tendon, documented cases involving the subscapularis tendon are rare. We present a case of a 47 year old farmer with recurrent anterior shoulder pain. An MRI revealed calcium deposits as well as a large subcoracoid cyst. Arthroscopic excision of the multiple calcific deposits left a large defect in the subscapularis tendon which was repaired back to the lesser tuberosity using arthroscopic techniques. A coracoplasty resulted in an increased coracohumeral space. The patient followed a conservative postop rehabilitation protocol and ultimately regained full strength and was pain free at the latest follow-up. We postulate two possible etiologies of subscapularis calcific tendonitis: either an idiopathic calcific tendonitis caused a secondary coracoid impingement or a primary subcoracoid stenosis resulted in an interstitial subscapularis tear which eventually resulted in calcium deposition. This report describes the clinical and technical details of arthroscopic excision of calcific deposits of the subscapularis tendon as well as arthroscopic repair of the resulting subscapularis defect."}
{"id": "17021902", "title": "Distal clavicular osteolysis: MR evidence for subchondral fracture.", "content": "Distal clavicular osteolysis: MR evidence for subchondral fracture. To investigate the association between distal clavicular osteolysis and subchondral fractures of the distal clavicle at MRI. This study was approved by the hospital human research committee, which waived the need for informed consent. Three radiologists retrospectively analyzed 36 shoulder MR examinations in 36 patients with imaging findings of distal clavicular osteolysis. The presence of a subchondral fracture of the distal clavicle, abnormalities of the acromioclavicular joint, rotator cuff tears and labral tears were assessed by MRI. These cases were then compared with 36 age-matched controls. At MRI, 31 of 36 patients (86%) had a subchondral line within the distal clavicular edema, consistent with a subchondral fracture. Of the 36 patients, 32 (89%) had fluid in the acromioclavicular joint, while 27 of 36 patients (75%) had cysts or erosions in the distal clavicle. There were 13 patients (36%) with associated labral tears, while eight patients (22%) had partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. In the control group one of 36 (3%) had a subchondral line (P<0.05), while ten of 36 (28%) had rotator cuff tears and 13 of 36 (36%) had labral tears. These latter two were not statistically significant between the groups. A distal clavicular subchondral fracture is a common finding in patients with imaging evidence of distal clavicular osteolysis. These subchondral fractures may be responsible for the propensity of findings occurring on the clavicular side of the acromioclavicular joint."}
{"id": "17012434", "title": "Incomplete discoid glenoid labrum combined with a ganglion cyst of the spinoglenoid notch.", "content": "Incomplete discoid glenoid labrum combined with a ganglion cyst of the spinoglenoid notch. In a 41-year-old man, right-sided infraspinatus muscle weakness was associated with compression of the suprascapular nerve caused by a spinoglenoid ganglion cyst. The lesion was confirmed using electromyography and MRI. In addition, arthroscopy showed an incomplete discoid labrum. The free inner edge of the labrum was removed as in a meniscectomy of a discoid meniscus in the knee joint. Arthroscopic decompression of the cyst was performed through a juxtaglenoid capsulotomy which was left open. Neurological function recovered completely."}
{"id": "16985129", "title": "3.0-T MRI of the supraspinatus tendon.", "content": "3.0-T MRI of the supraspinatus tendon. MRI of the shoulder has been found to be highly sensitive and specific for detection of full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears at 1.5-T or lower field strength compared with arthroscopy. MRI of the shoulder at 3.0 T has not been specifically assessed. This study assesses the sensitivity and specificity of MRI at 3.0 T for supraspinatus tendon tears compared with arthroscopy. Two experienced musculoskeletal radiologists retrospectively reviewed MR images of the shoulder in 150 consecutive patients who had subsequent arthroscopy. All patients had oblique coronal and sagittal T1-weighted and fat-saturated T2-weighted axial, oblique coronal, and sagittal imaging performed. The radiologists interpreted the MR images by consensus without knowledge of the arthroscopy results. Scans were interpreted for full-thickness or partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears. If partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears were seen on MRI, the reviewers noted whether the partial-thickness tear was articular or bursal in location. The radiologists also separated the supraspinatus tendon tears into small (< 1 cm retraction from the humeral head) and large (> 1 cm retraction from the humeral head). All 150 patients went on to arthroscopy. After consensus review of the MR images, arthroscopy results were compared with consensus MR interpretations. Ninety-eight of the 150 patients had full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears at arthroscopy. Twenty-six of the 150 patients had partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears. Seventeen of these 26 partial-thickness tears were along the articular surface and nine were along the bursal surface. Ninety-six of 98 full-thickness tears seen at arthroscopy were seen on consensus MRI interpretation. All 26 partial-thickness tears seen at arthroscopy were seen at consensus MR interpretation; however, two of the partial-thickness articular surface tears seen at arthroscopy were interpreted as full-thickness tears on consensus MRI interpretation. Twenty-eight of the 98 full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears were small tears (< 1 cm retraction from the humeral head) on arthroscopy. Two of these 28 small tears seen on arthroscopy were not seen on consensus MRI interpretation. Twenty-six patients had intact supraspinatus tendons on both retrospective consensus MRI interpretation and at arthroscopy. MRI of the shoulder at 3.0 T is highly sensitive and specific compared with arthroscopy in the detection of full-thickness and partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears."}
{"id": "16979049", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging and clinical findings before and after tendon transfers about the shoulder in children with residual brachial plexus birth palsy.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging and clinical findings before and after tendon transfers about the shoulder in children with residual brachial plexus birth palsy. The purpose of this study was to assess the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and clinical outcome after tendon transfers about the shoulder in children with residual brachial plexus birth palsy. Twenty-three children with an average age at surgery of 5.3 +/- 1.7 years underwent transfer of the latissimus dorsi and teres major to the posterior rotator cuff with or without concomitant musculotendinous lengthenings. Preoperative MRI revealed glenoid retroversion measuring -25.3 +/- 14.3 degrees and only 29.5 +/- 15.5% percent of humeral head anterior to the middle of the glenoid. Clinical evaluation showed significant improvements in external rotation and abduction. Postoperative MRI 1 year after surgery revealed no change in glenoid retroversion (-24.5 +/- 14.2) or percent of humeral head anterior to the middle of the glenoid (28.4 +/- 14.9%). These results demonstrate that tendon transfers improve overall shoulder motion but do not reduce humeral head subluxation or enhance glenohumeral joint realignment."}
{"id": "16979047", "title": "Ultrasound evaluation and clinical correlation of subscapularis repair after total shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Ultrasound evaluation and clinical correlation of subscapularis repair after total shoulder arthroplasty. The purpose of this study was to document the subscapularis healing rate by use of postoperative ultrasound and correlate healing to physical examination findings. We included 23 patients (30 shoulders), who underwent total shoulder arthroplasty in the study. The evaluation included a standard history and physical examination, ultrasound evaluation, and outcome questionnaires. The postoperative examination included careful documentation of an abdominal-compression test to evaluate subscapularis function. All patients had an improvement in functional outcome scores and shoulder range of motion. Of 30 shoulders, 26 (87%) had an intact subscapularis as determined by ultrasound. By use of ultrasound as the gold standard, the abdominal-compression test had 7 false-positive results, 3 false-negative results, 19 true-negative results, and 1 true-positive result. The sensitivity of the abdominal-compression test was 25%, and the specificity was 73%. The negative predictive value was 86%, and the positive predictive value was 13%. The abdominal-compression test demonstrated a low sensitivity, specificity, and positive predictive value in this study for the assessment of subscapularis function after total shoulder arthroplasty. If a subscapularis tear is suspected in a patient after total shoulder arthroplasty, the abdominal-compression test is unreliable in predicting a subscapularis defect."}
{"id": "16969638", "title": "Rotator cuff tears: assessment with MR arthrography in 275 patients with arthroscopic correlation.", "content": "Rotator cuff tears: assessment with MR arthrography in 275 patients with arthroscopic correlation. We assessed the diagnostic performance of magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography in the diagnosis of articular-sided partial-thickness and full-thickness rotator cuff tears in a large symptomatic population. MR arthrograms obtained in 275 patients including a study group of 139 patients with rotator cuff tears proved by arthroscopy and a control group of 136 patients with arthroscopically intact rotator cuff tendons were reviewed in random order. MR imaging was performed on a 1.0 T system (Magnetom Expert, Siemens). MR arthrograms were analyzed by two radiologists in consensus for articular-sided partial-thickness and full-thickness tears of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis tendons. At arthroscopy, 197 rotator cuff tears were diagnosed, including 105 partial-thickness (93 supraspinatus, nine infraspinatus, three subscapularis) and 92 full-thickness (43 supraspinatus, 20 infraspinatus, 29 subscapularis) tendon tears. For full-thickness tears, sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy were 96%, 99%, and 98%, respectively, and for partial tears 80%, 97%, and 95%, respectively. False negative and positive assessments in the diagnosis of articular-sided partial-thickness tears were predominantly [78% (35/45)] observed with small articular-sided (Ellman grade1) tendon tears. MR arthrography is highly accurate in the diagnosis of full-thickness rotator cuff tears and is accurate in the diagnosis of articular-sided partial-thickness tears. Limitations in the diagnosis of partial-thickness tears are mainly restricted to small articular-sided tears (Ellman grade 1) due to difficulties in differentiation between fiber tearing, tendinitis, synovitic changes, and superficial fraying at tendon margins."}
{"id": "16958438", "title": "Diagnosis and management of massive rotator cuff tears: the surgeon's dilemma.", "content": "Diagnosis and management of massive rotator cuff tears: the surgeon's dilemma. Several studies have documented high success rates following the surgical treatment of full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Historically, however, less favorable and predictable results have been found in the treatment of massive tears (>5 cm) compared with small and medium sized tears. Determining the most appropriate treatment for a patient with a massive rotator cuff tear can be challenging because of inconsistent outcome results. Some patients function well with nonsurgical treatment of massive tears, some have initially favorable results from surgical d\u00e9bridement of tears without repair that then deteriorate over time, and other patients who are surgically treated continue to maintain good function despite documented retears. Nonsurgical treatment of massive rotator cuff tears may be suitable for elderly patients with chronic tears and limited functional goals below shoulder level. Surgical d\u00e9bridement without repair of the tear may be considered for patients with low physical demands whose predominant symptom is pain. Surgical repair is recommended for patients who require maximal postoperative function, particularly for overhead activities. Open repairs have a lower rate of rerupture than arthroscopic repairs; however, arthroscopic repair offers the benefits of decreased morbidity and decreased risk of postoperative deltoid detachment. Early studies of arthroscopic repairs have shown good functional results; however, there has been a high incidence of retears. Tendon transfers and other reconstruction techniques may offer improvements in certain salvage cases, but results of these procedures are inferior to those for primary repair. Preservation of the coracoacromial arch should be considered in all forms of treatment of massive rotator cuff tears to avoid the devastating complication of superior humeral head escape."}
{"id": "16943859", "title": "Interpreting positive signs of the supraspinatus test in screening for torn rotator cuff.", "content": "Interpreting positive signs of the supraspinatus test in screening for torn rotator cuff. The purpose of this study was to investigate the validity of the supraspinatus test as a screening test for detecting torn rotator cuff and to determine what its valuable positive signs were. Both the empty-can test and full-can test were performed on 200 shoulders diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-and in some cases, surgical findings-to have full-thickness or partial-thickness torn rotator cuff s, or no tear in the rotator cuff . During the maneuver, the presence of pain or weakness or both pain and weakness were recorded as positive signs, and the distribution of these signs were analyzed according to the degree of tear. The predictive values were calculated in 2 ways by considering (1) only full-thickness tears as tears and (2) both full- and partial-thickness tears as tears. The 2 tests and the 2 ways of considering partial-thickness tears were compared. Pain and weakness were severity-dependent, and the empty-can test had a higher incidence of pain. The sensitivities of the 2 supraspinatus tests in all positive signs were higher when including partial-thickness tears in the tear group ; however, their specificities were higher when excluding partial-thickness tears. Both pain and weakness were interpretive for the supraspinatus test, and both tests were sensitive to full- and partial- thickness tears and specific for full-thickness tears."}
{"id": "16927096", "title": "Humeral osteochondroma causing a subscapularis tear: a rare source of shoulder dysfunction.", "content": "Humeral osteochondroma causing a subscapularis tear: a rare source of shoulder dysfunction. The proximal humerus is a well-known site of predilection for the solitary osteochondroma-the most common benign bone tumor. Subscapularis tears were underreported in the pre-arthroscopic era. Literature about rotator cuff impairment caused by osteochondromas is almost non-existent. We will present the case of a young man, who had a complete non-traumatic subscapularis tear, where the tendon had been peeled off the lesser tuberosity by an osteochondroma. Diagnostic features such as MRI and arthroscopy are emphasized. The patient was successfully treated by open resection of the tumor and reattachment of the tendon with suture anchors."}
{"id": "16927071", "title": "Preliminary results after rotator cuff reconstruction augmented with an autologous periosteal flap.", "content": "Preliminary results after rotator cuff reconstruction augmented with an autologous periosteal flap. Periosteal augmentation of tendons in the course of refixation to bone has been shown to be a suitable method for early primarily stable osteofibroblastic integration. The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical and radiological results of open rotator cuff reconstruction using an autologous periosteal flap augmentation technique. The research was performed as a prospective cohort study. Twenty-three prospective patients (average age 59.7 years) with degenerative rotator cuff tears were operated on with an open technique and a subtendinous periosteal flap augmentation using bioabsorbable suture anchors and a modified Mason-Allen technique. Clinical evaluation consisted of the Constant-Score and the Simple Shoulder test. Radiological evaluation included standard radiographs and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Twenty patients were evaluated at a mean follow-up of 14.4 months. The average Constant Score increased significantly from 51.7 to 80.9 points (p<0.05) with 12 excellent, seven good and one satisfactory result. The Simple Shoulder test showed a significant increase of an average of 4.8-10.7 questions answered with yes (p<0.05). Four patients (20%) demonstrated a retear of the tendon on postoperative MRI. Ectopic ossifications in the supraspinatus tendon were found in four patients (20%) but these had no impact on the final clinical results. Open rotator cuff repair augmented with an autologous periosteal flap shows high patient satisfaction level with low rerupture rates. Mid- and long-term results remain to be seen. The potential benefits compared with conventional open or arthroscopic rotator cuff surgery must be examined in prospective randomized studies."}
{"id": "16910855", "title": "Disorders of the infraspinatus tendon and bursa in three horses.", "content": "Disorders of the infraspinatus tendon and bursa in three horses. 3 horses with penetrating wounds to the shoulder area were examined because of forelimb lameness. All horses had physical examination findings (decreased cranial phase of the stride, swelling in the shoulder region, and signs of pain on manipulation of the shoulder) that were suggestive of problems in the upper portion of the forelimb. Injury to the biceps tendon or bursa was the primary differential diagnosis in each instance, but no abnormalities involving those structures were found. Radiographic and ultrasonographic imaging revealed injuries to the caudal eminence of the greater tubercle of the humerus, the infraspinatus tendon, and the infraspinatus bursa. Examination with ultrasound was more sensitive than radiography at detecting both osseous and soft tissue changes. All 3 horses responded favorably to treatment with antimicrobials and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Although initial response to standing lavage was favorable in 1 horse, endoscopic lavage was later required. Standing removal of fracture fragments was performed in 2 horses. Ultrasonographic imaging was helpful in monitoring the response to treatment and changes in the affected structures. All 3 horses eventually became sound after treatment. Infraspinatus bursitis and tendonitis should be included in the differential diagnoses of horses with shoulder lameness. Diagnosis and monitoring should include ultrasonographic monitoring. The prognosis for return to soundness after appropriate treatment appears to be good."}
{"id": "16910603", "title": "[Ganglion cyst of the shoulder: six cases and review of the literature].", "content": "[Ganglion cyst of the shoulder: six cases and review of the literature]. Paraglenoid glenohumeral cysts can be observed in 2-4% of the general population, particularly in men during the third and fourth decade. On average, these cysts measure 10-20 mm in diameter and are located preferentially on the posterosuperior aspect of the glenoid. An articular origin (rim injury) is generally accepted. The pathogenesis is similar to that of meniscal cysts. Depending on the exact localization, there is generally little clinical expression. The most frequent complication involves compression of the suprascapular nerve leading to suffering of the supra and/or infraspinatus. Amyotrophy can occur without clinical expression. An attentive examination is necessary to identify the cyst. EMG is often falsely negative. MRI is currently gold standard diagnostic tool but will probably be improved with arthro-MRI. Ultrasonography and computed tomography can visualize with difficulty small cysts located very close to the bone. The best treatment is arthroscopy which enables complete cure (emptying the cyst and resection or suture of the rim). We present a review of the pertinent literature together with a retrospective series of six cases of paraglenoid glenohumeral ganglion cysts."}
{"id": "16905894", "title": "[Surgical treatment of isolated post-traumatic subscapularis tendon ruptures].", "content": "[Surgical treatment of isolated post-traumatic subscapularis tendon ruptures]. We retrospectively evaluated the functional results of patients who were treated surgically for post-traumatic isolated subscapularis tendon ruptures. The study included six patients (5 males, 1 female; mean age 63.3 years; range 53 to 70 years) who were operated on for isolated post-traumatic subscapularis ruptures. The mean interval between the development of symptoms due to trauma and operation was 4.3 months (range 1 to 9 months). Mechanism of injury, complaints, clinical findings, imaging methods, arthroscopic and surgical findings, repair techniques, and postoperative follow-up data were assessed. Evaluations were based on physical assessment, radiographic examination, and the UCLA (University of California at Los Angeles) score. The mean follow-up was 29.6 months (range 13 to 53 months). The mean UCLA score was 11.3 (range 9 to 14) preoperatively. It increased to 25.8 (range 12 to 31) postoperatively (p<0.05). The results were good in four patients, fair in one patient, and poor in one patient. Magnetic resonance images obtained in five patients at the final follow-up showed total rupture in the patient with poor outcome, partial rupture in the patient with fair outcome, and maintenance of tendon integrity in the remaining patients. A careful clinical examination may enable the diagnosis of subscapularis tendon ruptures. Magnetic resonance imaging may provide additional information. In most patients, the repair of the tendon is possible by proper protection of the axillary nerve and appropriate mobilization."}
{"id": "16904579", "title": "Comparison of suture welding and hand-tied knots in mini-open rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Comparison of suture welding and hand-tied knots in mini-open rotator cuff repair. This study was undertaken to compare the results of mini-open rotator cuff repair with outcomes attained with hand-tied knots and suture welds. A total of 50 consecutive patients treated by a single surgeon with mini-open cuff repair and suture welding were retrospectively evaluated and compared with 55 consecutive patients treated with mini-open cuff repair and hand-tied knots. The groups were similar in terms of age, sex, hand dominance, and preoperative duration of symptoms. All procedures were performed in a hospital outpatient surgery center with patients in a lateral decubitus position under general anesthetic. Glenohumeral arthroscopy and arthroscopic acromioplasty were performed in all cases. Rotator cuff tears were repaired through enlargement of the lateral portal. All patients were evaluated before and after surgery with the University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) Shoulder Scale. In all, 47 of 50 patients treated with suture weld were available for evaluation, with an average follow-up of 26 months. Preoperative UCLA scores averaged 12.5, and postoperative scores averaged 29.6. Of 55 patients treated with hand-tied knots, 40 were available, with an average follow-up of 28 months. Preoperative UCLA scores averaged 13.2, and postoperative scores averaged 31.5. No statistical difference in postoperative UCLA scores was noted between the 2 groups (P = .297). Level III, retrospective comparative study."}
{"id": "16890886", "title": "Pathological muscle activation patterns in patients with massive rotator cuff tears, with and without subacromial anaesthetics.", "content": "Pathological muscle activation patterns in patients with massive rotator cuff tears, with and without subacromial anaesthetics. A mechanical deficit due to a massive rotator cuff tear is generally concurrent to a pain-induced decrease of maximum arm elevation and peak elevation torque. The purpose of this study was to measure shoulder muscle coordination in patients with massive cuff tears, including the effect of subacromial pain suppression. Ten patients, with MRI-proven cuff tears, performed an isometric force task in which they were asked to exert a force in 24 equidistant intervals in a plane perpendicular to the humerus. By means of bi-polar surface electromyography (EMG) the direction of the maximal muscle activation or principal action of six muscles, as well as the external force, were identified prior to, and after subacromial pain suppression. Subacromial lidocaine injection led to a significant reduction of pain and a significant increase in exerted arm force. Prior to the pain suppression, we observed an activation pattern of the arm adductors (pectoralis major pars clavicularis and/or latissimus dorsi and/or teres major) during abduction force delivery in eight patients. In these eight patients, adductor activation was different from the normal adductor activation pattern. Five out of these eight restored this aberrant activity (partly) in one or more adductor muscles after subacromial lidocaine injection. Absence of glenoid directed forces of the supraspinate muscle and compensation for the lost supraspinate abduction torque by the deltoideus leads to destabilizating forces in the glenohumeral joint, with subsequent upward translation of the humeral head and pain. In order to reduce the superior translation force, arm adductors will be co-activated at the cost of arm force and abduction torque. Pain seems to be the key factor in this (avoidance) mechanism, explaining the observed limitations in arm force and limitations in maximum arm elevation in patients suffering subacromial pathologies. Masking this pain may further deteriorate the subacromial tissues as a result of proximal migration of the humeral head and subsequent impingement of subacromial tissues."}
{"id": "16882890", "title": "The demographic and morphological features of rotator cuff disease. A comparison of asymptomatic and symptomatic shoulders.", "content": "The demographic and morphological features of rotator cuff disease. A comparison of asymptomatic and symptomatic shoulders. Very little comparative information is available regarding the demographic and morphological characteristics of asymptomatic and symptomatic rotator cuff tears. This information is important to provide insight into the natural history of rotator cuff disease and to identify which factors may be important in the development of pain. The purpose of the present study was to compare the morphological characteristics and prevalences of asymptomatic and symptomatic rotator cuff disease in patients who presented with unilateral shoulder pain. Five hundred and eighty-eight consecutive patients in whom a standardized ultrasonographic study had been performed by an experienced radiologist for the assessment of unilateral shoulder pain were evaluated with regard to the presence and size of rotator cuff tears in each shoulder. The demographic factors that were analyzed included age, gender, side, and cuff thickness. All of these factors were evaluated with regard to their correlation with the presence of pain. Of the 588 consecutive patients who met the inclusion criteria, 212 had an intact rotator cuff bilaterally, 199 had a unilateral rotator cuff tear (either partial or full thickness), and 177 had a bilateral tear (either partial or full thickness). The presence of rotator cuff disease was highly correlated with age. The average age was 48.7 years for patients with no rotator cuff tear, 58.7 years for those with a unilateral tear, and 67.8 years for those with a bilateral tear. Logistic regression analysis indicated a 50% likelihood of a bilateral tear after the age of sixty-six years (p < 0.01). In patients with a bilateral rotator cuff tear in whom one tear was symptomatic and the other tear was asymptomatic, the symptomatic tear was significantly larger (p < 0.01). The average size of a symptomatic tear was 30% greater than that of an asymptomatic tear. Overall, patients who presented with a full-thickness symptomatic tear had a 35.5% prevalence of a full-thickness tear on the contralateral side. There is a high correlation between the onset of rotator cuff tears (either partial or full thickness) and increasing age. Bilateral rotator cuff disease, either symptomatic or asymptomatic, is common in patients who present with unilateral symptomatic disease. As the size of a tear appears to be an important factor in the development of symptoms, we recommend surveillance at yearly intervals for patients with known rotator cuff tears that are treated nonoperatively."}
{"id": "16870821", "title": "Outcome and structural integrity after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using 2 rows of fixation: minimum 2-year follow-up.", "content": "Outcome and structural integrity after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using 2 rows of fixation: minimum 2-year follow-up. Although arthroscopic repairs of the rotator cuff are becoming increasingly popular, security of fixation remains a concern. Two-row repairs have been described, but clinical outcome reports have primarily involved open techniques. An arthroscopic repair technique that uses 2 rows of fixation produces satisfactory outcome and structural integrity by ultrasonography. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Forty-eight patients (52 shoulders) with a full-thickness, but fully reducible, rotator cuff tear who met the inclusion criteria were treated with an arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using 2 rows of suture anchors. The mean tear size was 2.47 cm (range, 1-4 cm). Patients were evaluated by subjective functional assessment (L'Insalata Shoulder Rating Questionnaire), clinical examination, including measured strength testing, and ultrasonography. At a mean follow-up of 30 months (minimum of 2 years), functional scores improved from a mean of 42 preoperatively to 93 postoperatively (P < .001). Active range of motion was increased in all measured planes (P < .001). Strength was also increased in elevation (P < .001), external rotation (P < .001), and internal rotation (P = .033). Nine of the 52 shoulders (17%) had evidence of retear or persistent defect on postoperative ultrasonography. There were no differences detected in functional scores between those with an intact repair and those with a defect, but those with an intact repair were stronger in elevation (P = .006) and external rotation (P = .001). An arthroscopic 2-row rotator cuff repair produces excellent functional outcome and repair integrity comparable with previously reported open repairs. Presence of a defect after repair did not appear to affect patient-reported function and return to preinjury activity but did affect measured strength."}
{"id": "16869012", "title": "Ultrasound findings of teres minor denervation in suspected quadrilateral space syndrome.", "content": "Ultrasound findings of teres minor denervation in suspected quadrilateral space syndrome. Isolated teres minor denervation is an uncommon finding on sonographic examination. We present a case of a 64-year-old man with increased echogenity of the teres minor muscle and a slight reduction in muscle bulk. Investigation of a suspected axillary nerve lesion included a detailed sonographic examination of the posterior shoulder and the axillary space, followed by MR imaging and electrophysiologic testing. This case demonstrates the potential importance of examining rotator cuff muscles when performing sonographic examination of the shoulder in patients with persistent symptoms, no history of trauma, and absence of tendon tears."}
{"id": "16861541", "title": "Association between rotator cuff abnormalities and reduced acromiohumeral distance.", "content": "Association between rotator cuff abnormalities and reduced acromiohumeral distance. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the association between rotator cuff abnormalities and reduced acromiohumeral distance. Acromiohumeral distance was measured on conventional radiographs and on MR images. Three age- and sex-matched patient groups each including 21 patients were stratified according to acromiohumeral distance on conventional radiographs (group 1, <or= 7 mm; group 2, 8-10 mm; group 3, > 10 mm). Acromiohumeral distance was related to the presence, location, and size of a rotator cuff tear and the degree of fatty degeneration of the muscle assessed on MR arthrography. The relative influence on acromiohumeral distance of the various MR arthrographic findings was assessed. Spearman's rank correlation and stepwise regression were used for statistical analysis. In group 1 (acromiohumeral distance <or= 7 mm) full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears were present in 90% (19/21) of the patients, infraspinatus tendon tears in 67% (14/21) of the patients, and subscapularis tendon tears in 43% (9/21) of the patients. The size of rotator cuff tendon tears and the degree of fatty degeneration in all rotator cuff muscles showed a significant negative correlation with acromiohumeral distance (p < 0.05). After stepwise regression, a significant relative influence on acromiohumeral distance remained for size of rotator cuff tear (p < 0.0001) and for degree of fatty degeneration of the infraspinatus muscle (p = 0.013). Tendon tears and fatty muscle degeneration in the rotator cuff correlate with reduced acromiohumeral distance. Size of rotator cuff tear and degree of fatty degeneration of the infraspinatus muscle have the most pronounced influence on acromiohumeral distance."}
{"id": "16848145", "title": "Relevant sonographic parameters of a painful shoulder in symptomatic dialyzed patients versus asymptomatic dialyzed and healthy volunteers.", "content": "Relevant sonographic parameters of a painful shoulder in symptomatic dialyzed patients versus asymptomatic dialyzed and healthy volunteers. The aim of this study is to find dialysis relevant sonographic parameters of painful shoulder of the symptomatic dialyzed patients comparing them with parameters in asymptomatic dialyzed patients and healthy volunteers. Significant difference in all metric parameters (thickness of supraspinatus tendon, diameter of biceps tendon sheet and capsula-bone distance) were noticed between all groups and the symptomatic had the highest values. Asymptomatic had the higher values then volunteers. Inhomogenicity of the tendon and biceps tendon sheet effusion in the symptomatic patients were the most often occurred. Subdeltoid effusion, deposits and tendon rupture were found only in symptomatic patients. No difference in presence of calcifications between symptomatic and asymptomatic was found. Metric parameters are relevant and associated with dialysis, as well as biceps tendon effusion tendon inhomogenicity, deposits and subdeltoid effusion. Tendon ruptures are relatively rare and nonspecific."}
{"id": "16846763", "title": "Magnetic resonance arthrography.", "content": "Magnetic resonance arthrography. For decades, fluoroscopic arthrography was the only method available to image a joint with contrast enhancement. Advances in CT led to the natural development of CT arthrography. Development of MRI and its capability for multiplanar imaging led to direct magnetic resonance arthrography (MRA). This technique has been performed since 1987 and has surpassed CT arthrography in popularity in the United States. Indirect MRA developed subsequently to offer a less invasive alternative. This article presents an overview of direct MRA and addresses joint-specific issues regarding direct MRA. An overview of indirect MRA also is provided."}
{"id": "16846761", "title": "Ultrasound of the shoulder and elbow.", "content": "Ultrasound of the shoulder and elbow. Ultrasound examination of the shoulder and elbow requires careful technique, appreciation of normal anatomy, and appropriate high-end equipment. Ultrasound provides detailed diagnostic information. Its accuracy is comparable to that of MRI in the assessment of the rotator cuff. Ultrasound is cheaper than MRI and is preferred by patients."}
{"id": "16845547", "title": "Influence of tendon healing after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair on clinical outcome using single-row Mason-Allen suture technique: a prospective, MRI controlled study.", "content": "Influence of tendon healing after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair on clinical outcome using single-row Mason-Allen suture technique: a prospective, MRI controlled study. The reported functional results of rotator cuff repair performed arthroscopically have been good. Only little is known about the cuff integrity after arthroscopic repair and how it influences the outcome. The aim of the study is to set a baseline of what rate of healing response respectively re-tears to expect and how cuff integrity alters the outcome. Fifty-three consecutive patients with an isolated supraspinatus tendon tear were arthroscopically operated and their tendons repaired. All pre- and postoperative data were prospectively collected. At a minimum follow-up after 24 months (average 26.4 months), the integrity of the cuff was evaluated by an open magnetic resonance imaging and the patients' function and satisfaction were documented and graded to the sex- and age-related Constant-score also using a dynamometer for strength testing. The re-tear rate was 24.5% with 13 non-healed tendons. The Constant-score of all patients improved significantly. The scores of the patients with a re-tear were significantly lower than those of the patient with an intact cuff. That was due to a less good performance in strength testing. The other categories of the Constant-score did not show any differences. The age of the patients with a re-tear was significantly higher. With the exception of age, we did not find any negative prognostic factor for a re-tear, and with the exception of re-tear no other factor influenced the Constant-score. Arthroscopic supraspinatus tendon repair yields a re-tear rate of 25% which is comparable with the results of open or mini/open repair. Cuff integrity influences postoperative strength and Constant-score. Patients older than 65 years show a higher re-tear rate. Therapeutic Level IV is the level of evidence."}
{"id": "16844931", "title": "MR imaging of rotator cuff injury: what the clinician needs to know.", "content": "MR imaging of rotator cuff injury: what the clinician needs to know. The rotator cuff muscles generate torque forces to move the humerus while acting in concord to produce balanced compressive forces to stabilize the glenohumeral joint. Thus, rotator cuff tears are often associated with loss of shoulder strength and stability, which are crucial for optimal shoulder function. The dimensions and extent of rotator cuff tears, the condition of the involved tendon, tear morphologic features, involvement of the subscapularis and infraspinatus tendons or of contiguous structures (eg, rotator interval, long head of the biceps brachii tendon, specific cuff tendons), and evidence of muscle atrophy may all have implications for rotator cuff treatment and prognosis. Magnetic resonance imaging can demonstrate the extent and configuration of rotator cuff abnormalities, suggest mechanical imbalance within the cuff, and document abnormalities of the cuff muscles and adjacent structures. A thorough understanding of the anatomy and function of the rotator cuff and of the consequences of rotator cuff disorders is essential for optimal treatment planning and prognostic accuracy. Identifying the disorder, understanding the potential clinical consequences, and reporting all relevant findings at rotator cuff imaging are also essential."}
{"id": "16831639", "title": "The association of suprascapular neuropathy with massive rotator cuff tears: a preliminary report.", "content": "The association of suprascapular neuropathy with massive rotator cuff tears: a preliminary report. We studied a prospective, consecutive series of 8 patients presenting with massive rotator cuff tears (>5 cm. in maximum dimension), all associated with severe retraction and fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus muscle on magnetic resonance imaging studies. All 8 patients had suprascapular neuropathy shown by electromyography (EMG) findings of denervation in the supraspinatus and/or infraspinatus muscles. Clinically, all patients had severe limitation of active motion, with no patient able to elevate their affected arm actively >40 degrees . Four patients elected d\u00e9bridement and partial surgical repair using margin convergence principles via a mini-open approach. Follow-up of these patients averaged 24 months. All 4 patients regained the ability to elevate their affected arm to >90 degrees , and to place their hand actively behind their head without assistance. Two of the 4 surgical patients consented to follow-up EMG studies that demonstrated, in both cases, that the suprascapular nerve had significant renervation potentials, with almost complete recovery of the nerve in 1 case. We conclude that suprascapular neuropathy may be associated with massive rotator cuff tears, and that partial rotator cuff repair may allow recovery of the nerve and improvement of function."}
{"id": "16829248", "title": "MR imaging of the shoulder after surgery.", "content": "MR imaging of the shoulder after surgery. This review article describes postoperative MR findings relating to surgery in shoulder impingement syndrome, including rotator cuff lesions, shoulder instability, and arthroplasty. Potentially misleading postoperative findings are emphasized. Because standard MR imaging may not always be the method of choice for post operative imaging, alternative imaging techniques have been included (MR arthrography, CT arthrography, and sonography)."}
{"id": "16829247", "title": "MR imaging of the rotator cuff interval.", "content": "MR imaging of the rotator cuff interval. The rotator cuff interval is defined as the space between the anterior aspect of the supraspinatus tendon and the superior aspect of the subscapularis tendon. Knowledge of the anatomy, an understanding of the commonly encountered pathology, and an approach for the systematic inspection of the rotator cuff interval is crucial for the accurate characterization and diagnosis of pathology of this region. This article reviews the basic normal anatomy of the rotator cuff interval, imaging considerations unique to this area, and commonly encountered pathology."}
{"id": "16829246", "title": "MR imaging of the rotator cuff.", "content": "MR imaging of the rotator cuff. MR imaging is the optimal method for evaluating suspected rotator cuff pathology. Current techniques of fast spin-echo imaging without and with fat suppression allow accurate identification and characterization of tendinous and myotendinous abnormalities of the rotator cuff. Impingement disorders, tendon degeneration, instability,and trauma comprise the multifactorial nature of rotator cuff disease. This article addresses the role of MR imaging in evaluating the rotator cuff and the importance of MR imaging in identifying other lesions that may mimic rotator cuff pathology. A rationale for protocol design, including MR arthrography and the use of specialized positioning, such as abduction and external rotation (ABER), are discussed."}
{"id": "16822450", "title": "Clinical inquiries. What is the best way to diagnose a suspected rotator cuff tear?", "content": "Clinical inquiries. What is the best way to diagnose a suspected rotator cuff tear? The evaluation of a suspected rotator cuff tear should start with a history and a clinical exam of the shoulder (strength of recommendation [SOR]: B, based on a systematic review of cohort studies). Three clinical test results in particular--supraspinatus weakness, weakness of external rotation, and impingement--or 2 positive tests for a patient older than 60 years were highly predictive of rotator cuff tear (SOR: B, based on individual prospective study). Either magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or ultrasound can confirm a possible full-thickness tear (SOR: B, based on a systematic review of cohort studies). If a patient has an implantable device prohibiting MRI imaging, conventional arthrography is an alternative (SOR: A, individual randomized controlled trial). Suspected partial-thickness tears are best verified with an ultrasound (SOR: B, based on a systematic review of cohort studies)."}
{"id": "16810630", "title": "[Magnetic resonance analysis of the subscapularis muscle after open anterior shoulder stabilization].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance analysis of the subscapularis muscle after open anterior shoulder stabilization]. Analysis of the magnetic resonance imaging of the subscapularis musculotendinous unit (SSC) after primary and revision open shoulder stabilization and their correlation with the clinical function. In a retrospective cohort study, 13 patients (mean age of group A: 36.5 years) after primary and 12 (mean age of group B: 34.2 years) after revision open stabilization underwent postoperative MRI of the shoulder. The digital data was analyzed with respect to the vertical und transverse diameters (V[slashed circle], T[slashed circle]) in a defined image slice. A signal intensity analysis was performed (infraspinatus/subscapularis signal-to-noise ratio = ISP/SSC SNR). The clinical examination included the SSC tests and signs and the Constant and Rowe score. Twelve healthy volunteers (group C) served as the control. From group C to group B, the mean V[slashed circle] of the SSC decreased significantly (p < 0.05) as did the mean T[slashed circle] of the cranial part of the SSC muscle (= crSSC) (p < 0.05). The mean T[slashed circle] of the caudal part of the SSC muscle (= caSSC) did not differ significantly between all groups (p > 0.05). The ISP-SSC SNR was significantly lower (p < 0.05) in the crSSC of groups A und B than in group C. In the caSSC, the SNR increased in groups A and B. In 53.8 % of group A and 92.3 % of group B, clinical signs of SSC insufficiency were found. There was no significant difference between the Constant and the Rowe score in both groups (p > 0.05). Complete tendon ruptures were not observed in any case. MRI enables semi-quantitative analysis of the postoperative changes of the subscapularis muscle. The decrease of the ISP/SSC SNR points to a fatty degeneration in the crSSC. The results provide indications of the causes of the clinical dysfunction of the subscapularis musculotendinous unit after open shoulder stabilization."}
{"id": "16801689", "title": "Postoperative subscapularis muscle insufficiency after primary and revision open shoulder stabilization.", "content": "Postoperative subscapularis muscle insufficiency after primary and revision open shoulder stabilization. Postoperative subscapularis muscle insufficiency after open shoulder stabilization procedures represents an unrecognized condition. Primary and revision open shoulder stabilization using the inverted L-shaped tenotomy approach impairs subscapularis muscle recovery and affects final clinical outcome. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 3. Twenty-five patients who underwent primary (group 1: n = 13; mean age, 36.5 years; follow-up, 48 months) or revision (group 2: n = 12; mean age, 34.2 years; follow-up, 52 months) open shoulder stabilization procedures were followed up clinically (clinical subscapularis tests and signs, Constant score, and Rowe score) and by magnetic resonance imaging (tendon integrity, defined muscle diameters, and signal intensity analysis [ratio infraspinatus/upper subscapularis muscle and infraspinatus/lower subscapularis muscle]). A third group (group 0) of 12 healthy volunteers served as a control. Clinical signs for subscapularis muscle insufficiency were present in 53.8% of cases in group 1 and 91.6% of cases in group 2. There were no significant differences between groups with regard to Constant and Rowe scores (P > .05). On magnetic resonance imaging, no complete tendon ruptures were found. The mean vertical diameter of the subscapularis muscle and the mean transverse diameter of the upper subscapularis muscle portion were significantly greater in group 0 than in group 1 and greater in group 1 than in group 2 (P < .05). The mean transverse diameter of the lower subscapularis muscle was comparable in all groups (P > .05). The signal intensity analysis revealed the infraspinatus/upper subscapularis muscle ratio was greater in group 0 than in group 1 and greater in group 1 than in group 2 (P < .05). The infraspinatus/lower subscapularis muscle ratio was lower in group 0 than in groups 1 and 2 (P < .05). Open shoulder stabilization using an inverted L-shaped tenotomy approach may lead to atrophy and fatty infiltration, particularly of the upper part of the subscapularis muscle, resulting in postoperative subscapularis muscle insufficiency. Revision procedures using the same approach may further compromise clinical subscapularis muscle function and structure. The lower portion of the subscapularis muscle seems to have a compensating effect that may, in addition to a meticulous capsulolabral reconstruction, account for the uncompromised overall clinical outcome."}
{"id": "16798142", "title": "Imaging of sports injuries of the upper extremity in children.", "content": "Imaging of sports injuries of the upper extremity in children. Competitive athletics in school-aged children has become the norm rather than the exception. The increased repetitive stresses placed on the upper extremity in a wide variety of sports result in a host of injuries unique to the skeletally immature athlete. This article focuses on a discussion of the more common upper extremity injuries encountered in the child athlete and the role of radiography and MRI in diagnosis and management."}
{"id": "16798137", "title": "MRI of the postoperative shoulder.", "content": "MRI of the postoperative shoulder. Pain in the postoperative shoulder is difficult for all individuals involved. The patient has already undergone a surgical procedure and is presenting now with pain possibly relating to a complication of the procedure or reinjury. In addition, the patient typically has undergone a series of maneuvers, from physical therapy to cortisone injection, without relief of the symptoms. For the orthopaedic surgeon the possibility of a complication of the procedure is disheartening. Finally, for the radiologist the postoperative shoulder usually is more difficult to interpret because of a change in the normal anatomy, not knowing exactly what was accomplished at surgery or what techniques or types of equipment were used, and, more typically, the presence of artifact."}
{"id": "16798133", "title": "Shoulder magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Shoulder magnetic resonance imaging. MRI provides excellent soft tissue contrast and allows for multiplanar imaging in anatomic planes. Because of these advantages MRI has become the study of choice for imaging of shoulder pathology. Some structures, such as the rotator cuff, humeral head contour, and glenoid shape, are evaluated well with conventional MRI. When more sensitive evaluation of the labrum, capsule, articular cartilage, and glenohumeral ligaments is required or when a partial-thickness rotator cuff tear is suspected,magnetic resonance arthrography with intra-articular contrast can be performed. For MR arthrography contrast is injected directly into the glenohumeral joint. This article reviews the appearances of normal anatomic structures in MRI of the shoulder and disorders involving the rotator cuff and glenoid labrum."}
{"id": "16788406", "title": "Subacromial space measurement: a reliable method indicating fatty infiltration in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.", "content": "Subacromial space measurement: a reliable method indicating fatty infiltration in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Proximal migration of the humeral head is thought to indicate fatty infiltration of the rotator cuff muscles or rotator cuff tears. We sought to evaluate the influence of these rotator cuff abnormalities on the subacromial space. Using anteroposterior radiographs, ultrasound, and computed tomography, we analyzed 54 shoulders in 29 patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The upward migration index was defined as proximal migration of the humeral head relative to its size. The mean muscle density from computed tomography images was used to indicate fatty infiltration. Fatty infiltration of the infraspinatus muscle showed the strongest correlation with proximal migration. After correcting for age, cuff tears, and rheumatoid disease, the partial correlation coefficient between both remained strong. A subdivision in proximal migration is proposed to screen for rotator cuff abnormalities. A large amount of fatty infiltration was indicated by an upward migration index less than 1.25, a medium amount by an upward migration index between 1.25 to 1.35, and a small amount by an upward migration index greater than 1.35. Measurement of proximal migration using the upward migration index provides a reliable screening method indicating fatty infiltration of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "16778635", "title": "Hypoplasia of the glenoid neck of the scapula: imaging findings and report of 16 patients.", "content": "Hypoplasia of the glenoid neck of the scapula: imaging findings and report of 16 patients. Our purpose was to describe the primary and associated imaging findings in patients with glenoid hypoplasia required for an accurate diagnostic appraisal of this uncommon abnormality. The medical records and imaging studies of 16 patients with glenoid hypoplasia were retrospectively reviewed. Plain films were available in all patients, arthrography in 2, computed tomography (CT) in 5, CT arthrotomography in 3, magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in 9, and MR arthrography in 3 patients. The imaging studies were reviewed with special attention to the primary and secondary findings associated with glenoid hypoplasia. On radiographs, the 21 abnormal shoulders documented in the 16 patients with glenoid hypoplasia had an irregular (n=15) or shallow and smooth (n=6) articular surface of the glenoid. Computed tomography findings showed subluxation of the humeral head in 5 cases. On MR images, the hypoplastic bony glenoid and scapular neck were replaced by abnormal tissue of inhomogeneous signal intensity, showing the signal intensity characteristics of fibrocartilage (n=6) or fat (n=5). Widening of the inferior glenohumeral joint space was seen in all cases. Magnetic resonance imaging or MR arthrography revealed variable abnormalities of the labrum, including enlargement (10 shoulders), detachment of labrum from the bony glenoid (6 shoulders), intrasubstance tear (4 shoulders), and perilabral cyst (2 shoulders). The posterior labrum was absent (n=1) or torn (n=1) in one patient with bilateral deformity. Other findings included partial tear of the subscapularis tendon (n=1) and rotator cuff atrophy (n=1) and tear (n=2). Glenoid hypoplasia is a developmental skeletal anomaly comprising a spectrum of associated osseous and cartilaginous changes of the articular cartilage and glenoid labrum. Cross-sectional imaging studies, with or without arthrography, may help further characterize associated derangements of the shoulder, some of which are indicative of shoulder instability."}
{"id": "16775682", "title": "[Immobilization in external rotation after primary shoulder dislocation].", "content": "[Immobilization in external rotation after primary shoulder dislocation]. The standard method of treating acute primary dislocation of the glenohumeral joint is immobilization of the arm in adduction and internal rotation with a sling. The recurrence rate for anterior instability after nonoperative treatment in young active patients is extremely high (up to 90%) and well reported. A new method of immobilization with the arm in external rotation improves the position of the displaced labrum on the glenoid rim. With the use of control MRI before and after immobilization in external rotation, a study on this new repositioning of the labrum is evaluated. Ten patients (mean age 30.4 years) with primary anterior dislocation of the shoulder and Bankart lesion as shown on MRI but with no hyperlaxity of the contralateral side were immobilized in 10-20 degrees of external rotation for 3 weeks. Scans with MRI were taken in internal and external shoulder rotation post trauma and in internal rotation after 6 weeks. All patients were reevaluated after 6 and 12 months. Dislocation and separation of the labrum were both significantly less with the arm in external rotation due to the tension of the anterior capsule and the tendon of the subscapularis muscle. In the MRI taken in internal rotation 6 weeks post trauma, all Bankart lesions were fixed in reposition after three weeks of immobilization in external rotation. At 12-month follow-up, the average Constant Score was 96.1 points (range 63-100), and the Rowe Score was 91.5 points (range 25-100). One patient had traumatic redislocation after 8 months. After primary shoulder dislocation, immobilizing the arm in 10-20 degrees external rotation provided stable fixation of the Bankart lesion in an anatomic position. First long-term indications from an ongoing prospective study of recurrence rates after immobilization in external rotation are promising."}
{"id": "16762695", "title": "All-arthroscopic versus mini-open rotator cuff repair: a retrospective review with minimum 2-year follow-up.", "content": "All-arthroscopic versus mini-open rotator cuff repair: a retrospective review with minimum 2-year follow-up. To compare the clinical outcomes of patients undergoing all-arthroscopic versus mini-open rotator cuff repair. In addition, ultrasound was used to assess the integrity of the repair. A total of 38 patients who had undergone all-arthroscopic repair and 33 patients who had undergone mini-open repair with minimum 2-year follow-up were evaluated. All patients completed the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons' Scoring Survey (ASES), the Simple Shoulder Test, the L'Insalata Scoring Survey, and visual analog scales for pain. Physical examination, including strength testing and ultrasound evaluation to determine the integrity of the rotator cuff, was performed. No statistical difference in ASES scores was noted between patients who had all-arthroscopic repair versus mini-open repair, and 24% of all-arthroscopic repairs and 27% of mini-open repairs showed recurrent defects on ultrasound at follow-up. This difference was not statistically significant. Patients with an original tear larger than 3 cm were 7 times more likely to have a recurrent defect at follow-up. Patients with persistent defects had statistically significant deficits in strength on forward elevation and external rotation when compared with those with a normal shoulder. However, no difference was observed with regard to pain or outcome scores between patients with intact repairs and those with persistent defects. No difference in clinical outcomes was found between patients with rotator cuffs repaired arthroscopically and those repaired with use of a mini-open technique. Level III, retrospective comparative study."}
{"id": "16757756", "title": "Porcine small intestine submucosa augmentation of surgical repair of chronic two-tendon rotator cuff tears. A randomized, controlled trial.", "content": "Porcine small intestine submucosa augmentation of surgical repair of chronic two-tendon rotator cuff tears. A randomized, controlled trial. Evidence to justify the use of porcine small intestine submucosa to augment repairs of large and massive rotator cuff tears is based on favorable results found in studies of Achilles tendon and infraspinatus tendon repairs in canines. The purpose of this study was to determine the effectiveness of a small intestine submucosal patch to augment the repair of chronic two-tendon rotator cuff tears in humans. Thirty shoulders with a chronic two-tendon rotator cuff tear that was completely repairable with open surgery were randomized to be treated with either augmentation with porcine small intestine mucosa or no augmentation. All patients completed a PENN shoulder-score questionnaire preoperatively and at the time of the latest follow-up (at an average of fourteen months). Magnetic resonance imaging showed that nine shoulders had a large tear and twenty-one had a massive tear. All patients underwent a magnetic resonance imaging scan with intra-articular gadolinium one year after the repair to assess the status of the rotator cuff. The rotator cuff healed in four of the fifteen shoulders in the augmentation group compared with nine of the fifteen in the control group (p = 0.11). The median postoperative PENN total score was 83 points in the augmentation group compared with 91 points in the control group (p = 0.07). Healing of the defects in both groups demonstrated a strong correlation with the patients' clinical scores. The median postoperative PENN total score was 96 points in the group with a healed repair and 81 points in the group with a failed repair (p = 0.007). The percentage change between the preoperative and postoperative patient satisfaction scores was 400% in the group with a healed repair, and 50% in the group with a failed repair (p = 0.04). Augmentation of the surgical repair of large and massive chronic rotator cuff tears with porcine small intestine submucosa did not improve the rate of tendon-healing or the clinical outcome scores. On the basis of these data, we do not recommend using porcine small intestine submucosa to augment repairs of massive chronic rotator cuff tears done with the surgical and postoperative procedures described in this study."}
{"id": "16741738", "title": "Humeral head cysts and rotator cuff tears: an MR arthrographic study.", "content": "Humeral head cysts and rotator cuff tears: an MR arthrographic study. Humeral tuberosity cysts are a common finding, with previous reports suggesting they are related to rotator cuff tear or aging. The aim of this study was to investigate the characteristics of cysts in the tuberosities of the humeral head and their relationship with rotator cuff tear and age. Shoulder MR arthrograms were reviewed in 120 consecutive patients-83 males (mean age 38.0, range 19-59 years) and 37 females (mean age 41.2, range 15-59 years). Patients were referred for investigation of a variety of conditions, and instability was suspected in only a minority of cases. MR was performed before and after direct arthrography with 0.01% solution of gadolinium. Cysts were defined as well-demarcated circular/ovoid foci in two planes that demonstrated high signal on pre-arthrographic T2W sequences. Location, size and numbers of cysts and post-arthrographic enhancement were documented, along with the location of rotator cuff tears, if present. Cysts in the tuberosities of the humerus were identified in 84 patients (70%), and were seen seven times more frequently in the posterior aspect of the greater tuberosity than anteriorly. Most cysts (94%) demonstrated communication with the joint post-arthrogram. Rotator cuff tears were present in 36 patients, and 79% of all tears occurred in supraspinatus tendon. There was no significant difference in the occurrence of cysts between patients older or younger than age 40 or between genders, but rotator cuff tears were seen significantly more often in the older age group (p<0.01). Tuberosity cysts and rotator cuff tears did not appear to be related (p=0.55). However, whilst this lack of association was quite obvious posteriorly (p=0.84), the trend in the anterior aspect of the greater tuberosity is not as clear (p=0.14). Humeral cysts are most often located in the posterior aspect of the greater tuberosity, communicate with the joint space and, in this location, are not related to aging or rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "16729747", "title": "Isolated teres minor atrophy: manifestation of quadrilateral space syndrome or traction injury to the axillary nerve?", "content": "Isolated teres minor atrophy: manifestation of quadrilateral space syndrome or traction injury to the axillary nerve? This article prospectively determines through magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) the incidence of isolated teres minor atrophy and its gender and age distribution, and documents associated findings related to the rotator cuff, labroligamentous complex, and quadrilateral space. Two hundred seventeen consecutive shoulder MRI examinations performed over a 3-month period were prospectively reviewed and evaluated for isolated teres minor atrophy. Twelve (5.5%) patients had non-compressive isolated teres minor atrophy. Ninety-two percent (n=11) of these patients had rotator cuff or labroligamentous complex tears. No patients had an associated mass within the quadrilateral space. The average patient age was 60 years and 11 of the 12 patients were male. Isolated teres minor atrophy on MRI is most commonly seen in older patients who do not fit the expected clinical presentation of quadrilateral space syndrome. The anatomical relationship of the teres minor nerve to the joint capsule and the frequency of associated shoulder injuries in these patients raises the possibility of an association between humeral decentering and teres minor atrophy. Quadrilateral space syndrome would appear to be a very rare cause of isolated teres minor atrophy."}
{"id": "16715658", "title": "Comparison of the MR findings on indirect MR arthrography in patients with rotator cuff tears with and without symptoms.", "content": "Comparison of the MR findings on indirect MR arthrography in patients with rotator cuff tears with and without symptoms. To compare indirect magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography findings in patients with rotator cuff tears with and without symptoms. Indirect MR arthrography results of 15 asymptomatic and 23 symptomatic rotator cuff tears were retrospectively reviewed, comparing the type and size of tears and amount of subacrominal-subdeltoid bursal fluid. There were 14 partial-thickness tears and one full-thickness tear in the asymptomatic group, with 4 small and 11 medium tears. In the symptomatic group, there were 16 partial-thickness and 7 full-thickness tears, with 14 small, 5 medium, and 4 large tears. In the asymptomatic group, the amount of subacrominal-subdeltoid bursal fluid was grade 0, 6 patients; grade 1, 6 patients; grade 2, 2 patients; and grade 3, 1 patient. In the symptomatic group, the amount of subacrominal-subdeltoid bursal fluid was grade 0, 4 patients; grade 1, 3 patients; grade 2, 8 patients; and grade 3, 8 patients. We found no statistically significant difference between symptomatic and asymptomatic tears in the kind and size of tears, and in the amount of subacrominal-subdeltoid bursal fluid. We found no difference in the MR findings between symptomatic and asymptomatic rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "16709790", "title": "Indirect MR arthrography of the shoulder: use of abduction and external rotation to detect full- and partial-thickness tears of the supraspinatus tendon.", "content": "Indirect MR arthrography of the shoulder: use of abduction and external rotation to detect full- and partial-thickness tears of the supraspinatus tendon. To evaluate prospectively the accuracy of indirect magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography for supraspinatus tendon tears during neutral positioning or abduction and external rotation (ABER) and neutral positioning. Informed consent was obtained in all patients, and the study was approved by the institutional review board. Indirect MR arthrography of the shoulder was performed in 51 symptomatic patients (14 female, 37 male; mean age, 47 years) in the neutral position (set 1) and in the neutral and ABER positions (set 2). Two readers independently interpreted both sets, and diagnoses were compared with arthroscopic findings. Diagnostic accuracy was calculated, and 95% confidence intervals were used to detect significant differences between sets. Diagnostic confidence was recorded by using a three-level confidence score. Differences between sets were evaluated by using the Wilcoxon signed rank test. Interobserver agreement was determined separately for each set and for all diagnoses, full-thickness tears, and partial-thickness tears. For full-thickness tears, there was no benefit to reading set 2. For reader 1, sensitivity and specificity were 95% and 100%, respectively, for set 1 and 100% and 100%, respectively, for set 2. For reader 2, sensitivity and specificity were 80% and 100%, respectively, for set 1 and 100% and 100%, respectively, for set 2. For partial-thickness tears, sensitivity was significantly higher after reading set 2. For reader 1, sensitivity and specificity were 71% and 88%, respectively, for set 1 and 93% and 100%, respectively, for set 2. For reader 2, sensitivity and specificity were 50% and 88%, respectively, for set 1 and 86% and 94%, respectively, for set 2. For both readers, diagnostic confidence for partial-thickness tears was significantly higher after reading set 2. After the interpretation of set 2, kappa values increased from 0.35 to 1.00 for full-thickness tears and from 0.12 to 0.63 for partial-thickness tears. Indirect MR arthrography with supplementary images obtained with patients in the ABER position significantly improved sensitivity and increased diagnostic confidence for partial-thickness tears of the supraspinatus tendon. Interobserver agreement was improved for both full- and partial-thickness tears."}
{"id": "16709684", "title": "The magic-angle effect of the supraspinatus tendon.", "content": "The magic-angle effect of the supraspinatus tendon. Rotator cuff injuries are common and result in either a tear or tendinopathy within the distal portion of the supraspinatus tendon. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging shows the injury as a high signal region within the distal tendon. Similarly, a magic-angle effect also appears within healthy patients in this same region on T1- or proton density (PD)-weighted MR sequences. This study was conducted to evaluate the prevalence of the magic-angle effect found with MR imaging within the supraspinatus tendon. In this study, 300 consecutive patients were selected from those symptomatic patients referred for MR evaluation of the shoulder using a 1.5T unit and both PD and T2-weighted sequences. To eliminate patients with a real injury, the written reports were reviewed; those with positive findings for injury to the supraspinatus tendon were eliminated from the sample group, leaving 164 patients. Two radiographers independently examined the oblique coronal images nearest the center of the supraspinatus tendon and compared the signal on PD and T2-weighted images. Images found to have a higher signal with the PD sequence were classified as having the magic-angle effect since a real injury would be more likely to have a strong signal on T2-weighted images. Of the 164 patients evaluated, both reviewers found the same 8 patients to have the magic-angle effect. Based on these results, our study suggests the artifact will appear in 5% of healthy patients and may lead to false-positive results on oblique coronal PD-weighted images through the supraspinatus tendon. In comparison with previous studies that have shown a much greater incidence rate, our findings also suggest that external rotation of the arm greatly reduces the incidence of the magic-angle effect."}
{"id": "16705497", "title": "Treatment of impingement syndrome: a systematic review of the effects on functional limitations and return to work.", "content": "Treatment of impingement syndrome: a systematic review of the effects on functional limitations and return to work. The goal of this systematic review is to evaluate the effectiveness of different treatments for impingement syndrome and rotator cuff tear on the improvement in functional limitations and concomitant duration of sick leave. A systematic search for clinical trials or controlled studies was conducted with the following text words: should*, rotator cuff, impingement, work, sick leave, disabilit*, function*. Nineteen articles were included in this review. For functional limitations, there is strong evidence that extracorporeal shock-wave therapy is not effective, moderate evidence that exercise combined with manual therapy is more effective than exercise alone, that ultrasound is not effective, and that open and arthroscopic acromioplasty are equally effective on the long term. For all other interventions there is only limited evidence. We found many studies using range of motion and pain as outcome measures but functional limitations were less often used as an outcome measure in this type of research. Duration of sick leave was seldom included as an outcome measure."}
{"id": "16703494", "title": "[Magnetic resonance imaging of glenohumeral instability].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance imaging of glenohumeral instability]. Conventional MR imaging and MR arthrography are established diagnostic imaging modalities for investigating shoulder instability. Since there are currently various surgical shoulder stabilization methods as well as conservative treatment strategies, the role of imaging is to provide diagnostic information to help determine the therapeutic approach. Whereas conventional MR imaging is usually sufficient for the evaluation of acute shoulder injuries due to the presence of a posttraumatic joint effusion, MR arthrography is the imaging modality of choice for chronic shoulder instability. Atraumatic and microtraumatic instability of the shoulder must be distinguished from traumatic instability since clinical findings and secondary or associated injuries differ from those of traumatic instability. Injuries of the IGHL-complex can be reliably diagnosed with MR arthrography. Traumatic anteroinferior luxation causes labroligamentous injuries at the glenoid insertion (Bankart-, Perthes-, ALPSA-, and non-classifiable chronic lesions) and injuries of the IGHL and its humeral insertion (HAGL-, BHAGL-, and floating AIGL-lesions). The type of injury and extent of degenerative changes or scarring that can be assessed with MR arthrography influence the therapeutic approach and in particular the decision between arthroscopic and open surgical methods of stabilization."}
{"id": "16687708", "title": "Images in clinical medicine. Rotator-cuff tear.", "content": "Images in clinical medicine. Rotator-cuff tear."}
{"id": "16679227", "title": "Cuff integrity after arthroscopic versus open rotator cuff repair: a prospective study.", "content": "Cuff integrity after arthroscopic versus open rotator cuff repair: a prospective study. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair (RCR) has been reported to have good clinical results but high retear rates by ultrasound. We prospectively assessed postoperative cuff integrity and outcome after arthroscopic RCR (40 patients) and compared these results with open RCR (32 patients). Evaluation preoperatively and at 1 year included a physical examination and magnetic resonance imaging. American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons and Constant scores improved significantly in both groups (P < .0001). Overall, 69% of repairs in the open group and 53% in the arthroscopic group were intact by magnetic resonance imaging. Of tears less than 3 cm in size, 74% in the open group and 84% in the arthroscopic group were intact. Of tears greater than 3 cm in size, 62% in the open group and 24% in the arthroscopic group were intact (P < .036). In the arthroscopic group, patients with an intact cuff had significantly greater strength of elevation (P = .01) and external rotation (P = .02). We conclude that open and arthroscopic RCRs have similar clinical outcomes. Cuff integrity is comparable for small tears, but large tears have twice the retear rate after arthroscopic repair."}
{"id": "16679225", "title": "Pathogenesis of partial tear of the rotator cuff: a clinical and pathologic study.", "content": "Pathogenesis of partial tear of the rotator cuff: a clinical and pathologic study. This prospective study investigated the clinical and pathologic results in 66 patients with partial tears of the rotator cuff from January 1996 to December 1998. The pathologic change in the rotator cuff was graded from the magnetic resonance images by using the criteria described by Zlatkin and Iannotti. A modified grading system from Ozaki and Panni was used for pathologic grading of the anterior acromion. The functional score of Constant and Murley was used for clinical assessment. The pathologic change in the rotator cuff revealed by the magnetic resonance imaging study was more severe in patients with articular side tears compared with patients who had bursal side tears. On the contrary, the pathologic changes in the acromion were significantly milder in patients with articular side tears compared with bursal side tears. These observations indicate that articular side tears of the rotator cuff are mainly associated with intrinsic pathologic changes of the rotator cuff, whereas bursal side tears are associated with subacromial impingement on an underlying milder pathologic change of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "16677677", "title": "Does decalcification alter the tissue sound speed of rabbit supraspinatus tendon insertion? In vitro measurement using scanning acoustic microscopy.", "content": "Does decalcification alter the tissue sound speed of rabbit supraspinatus tendon insertion? In vitro measurement using scanning acoustic microscopy. Failure of the tendon or ligament insertions is one of the most common injuries in the Orthopaedic field. To elucidate the pathogenesis of those injuries, the authors had attempted to measure the tissue sound speed that could be correlated to its elasticity using scanning acoustic microscopy (SAM). For the application of SAM to tendon or ligament insertions, it was necessary to determine the role of decalcification in SAM measurements since mineralized tissues including bone or mineralized fibrocartilage were present at the insertion site. To assess whether decalcification alters the tissue sound speed or not, supraspinatus tendon insertion of six Japanese white rabbits were measured with SAM operating in the frequency range of 50-150 MHz. Right supraspinatus tendons attached to the humeral head were cut into two pieces at the center of the tendon. Then, they were fixed with 10% neutralized formalin for 12 h. In each specimen, medial half was not decalcified, while lateral half was decalcified with ethylene-diamine-tetra-acetic acid (EDTA). After embedding in paraffin, 5 microm thick specimens were prepared for the measurement using SAM. The mean sound speed in each histologic zone was evaluated, and subsequently compared to that measured in the undecalcified and the decalcified specimens. Mean sound speed of non-mineralized fibrocartilage was 1544 m/s in the undecalcified specimens, while the value of 1541 m/s was determined in the decalcified ones. On the other hand, it decreased 2-3% after decalcification in the mineralized tissue including mineralized fibrocartilage and bone (mineralized fibrocartilage: undecalcified = 1648 m/s, decalcified = 1604 m/s; bone: undecalcified = 1716 m/s, decalcified = 1677 m/s). However, no significant differences were found between the undecalcified and the decalcified specimens (non-mineralized fibrocartilage: p = 0.84, mineralized fibrocartilage: p = 0.35, bone: p = 0.28). These results indicate that SAM could be applied to determine the properties of the tendon or the ligament insertions after decalcification with EDTA. Although SAM is applicable only for in vitro experimental study, it is expected that these data will contribute to better understanding concerning the biomechanics of tendon or ligament insertions as well as the pathogenesis of their failure at a microscopic level."}
{"id": "16648678", "title": "[The results of arthroscopic repair in partial rotator cuff tears].", "content": "[The results of arthroscopic repair in partial rotator cuff tears]. We evaluated patients who underwent arthroscopic repair for partial rotator cuff tears less than 50% of tendon thickness with respect to the course of tears and functional results. Nineteen patients (10 women, 9 men; mean age 49 years; range 40 to 70 years) who did not benefit from conservative treatment for partial rotator cuff tears were treated with arthroscopic debridement with or without subacromial decompression. Twelve patients had a history of trauma before the appearance of complaints which had a mean duration of 12 months (range 7 to 24 months) before arthroscopic repair. Partial tears were on the articular side in 12 patients, and on the bursal side in seven patients. The patients were assessed with preoperative and postoperative physical examination, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and UCLA scores. The mean preoperative and postoperative UCLA scores were 16.8 (range 10 to 20) and 29.0 (range 9 to 35), respectively (p<0.05). The results were excellent or good in 14 patients (73.7%), fair in two patients (10.5%), and poor in three patients (15.8%). One patient developed shoulder stiffness which improved following rehabilitation. Postoperative MRI showed persistence of partial tears in 13 patients, progression in five patients, and development of total rupture in one patient. Complaints of pain increased in severity in patients in whom partial tears manifested a progressive course. One patient with total rupture underwent mini-open rotator cuff repair in the postoperative sixth month. Although clinical symptoms show improvement in most of the patients following arthroscopic treatment, partial rotator cuff tears do not heal completely in a considerable number of cases, and may progress to full-thickness tears in some."}
{"id": "16636345", "title": "Short-term effectiveness of hyperthermia for supraspinatus tendinopathy in athletes: a short-term randomized controlled study.", "content": "Short-term effectiveness of hyperthermia for supraspinatus tendinopathy in athletes: a short-term randomized controlled study. Hyperthermia has been introduced as a physical therapy modality for soft tissue injuries. The authors tested the null hypothesis that there are no short-term differences after the use of hyperthermia, ultrasound, and exercises for tendinopathy of the supraspinatus tendon. Randomized controlled trial; Level of evidence, 1. The authors studied 37 athletes (29 men, 8 women; mean age, 26.7 +/- 5.8 years; range, 19-43 years) with supraspinatus tendinopathy who had had symptoms between 3 and 6 months. Subjects were randomly assigned to 3 groups. Group A (n = 14) received hyperthermia at 434 MHz. Group B (n = 12) received continuous ultrasound at 1 MHz at an intensity of 2.0 w/cm(2) 3 times a week. Group C (n = 11) undertook exercises, consisting of pendular swinging and stretching exercises 5 minutes twice a day every day. All interventions were undertaken for 4 weeks. Subjects were evaluated at baseline, immediately on completion of treatment, and at 6 weeks after the end of the intervention using mean pain score for pain at night, during movement, and at rest on a visual analog scale; pain on resisted movement and painful arc on active abduction between 40 degrees and 120 degrees on a 4-point scale; and Constant score. Patients who received hyperthermia experienced significantly better pain relief than did patients receiving ultrasound or exercises: group A, 5.96 to 1.2 (P = .03); group B, 6.3 to 5.15 (P = .10); group C, 6.1 to 4.9 (P = .09). Hyperthermia at 434 MHz appears safe and effective in the short term for the management of supraspinatus tendinopathy."}
{"id": "16632711", "title": "Shoulder pain and disability: comparison with MR findings.", "content": "Shoulder pain and disability: comparison with MR findings. The objective of our study was to compare the level of disability induced by shoulder pain as reported by patients on the L'Insalata Self-Administered Questionnaire (SAQ) with shoulder MRI results. One thousand seventy-nine consecutive patients referred for shoulder MRI were asked to complete the L'Insalata SAQ. Results from the L'Insalata SAQ and MRI were cross-tabulated and analyzed with multivariable linear regression. No statistical relationship could be found between the level of pain, impairment, and disability as reported on the L'Insalata SAQ and the location and size of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff as observed on MRI. Pain and disability are significantly linked to the presence of supraspinatus tendon lesions and the presence of bursitis, but these factors contribute little to the symptoms. Patients with biceps tendinopathy did not experience increased pain when compared with patients without biceps tendinopathy or with biceps tendon rupture. No statistical relationship was found between the level of pain and disability and the size and location of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "16628056", "title": "Range of normal and abnormal subacromial/subdeltoid bursa fluid.", "content": "Range of normal and abnormal subacromial/subdeltoid bursa fluid. To determine the range of normal and abnormal subacromial/subdeltoid (SA/SD) bursa fluid. Using a 1.5-T magnetic resonance (MR) imaging scanner, 2 observers evaluated coronal oblique T2-weighted, fast spin echo, fat-suppressed images of 71 persons (36 asymptomatic volunteers and 35 patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears [RCTs]) for the 1) widest thickness of the SA/SD bursa; 2) medial extent of bursa from the acromioclavicular joint (ACJ); and 3) because patients were supine, whether fluid was in the posterior quarter, middle quarter, anterior quarter, or anterior-most quarter of the bursa. The range of bursa thickness was 0 to 7 mm (mean = 1.3 mm, median = 2 mm) in normal bursas and 0 to 8 mm (mean = 3.3 mm, median = 3 mm; P < 0.05, t test) in RCTs. Only 2 volunteers exceeded 3 mm in bursa thickness. In volunteers, 36% had no fluid present, 61% had a small amount of fluid lateral to the ACJ, and 1 had fluid directly beneath the ACJ (P < 0.05). In RCT patients, 37% had fluid directly under the ACJ or medial to the ACJ. Only 1 patient with an RCT had no bursal fluid. In volunteers, most fluid was in the posterior quarter (53%) or middle quarter (22%) of the bursa, whereas in RCT patients, most fluid was located in the anterior quarter of the humerus or anterior to the humerus (89%; P < 0.05). Normal SA/SD bursa fluid is rarely thicker than 2 mm and tends to be located posteriorly. An abnormal amount of fluid is present when the thickness exceeds 3 mm, fluid is present medial to the ACJ, and fluid is seen in the part of the bursa anterior to the humerus."}
{"id": "16623305", "title": "One-shot CT and MR arthrography of the shoulder with a mixture of iodinated and paramagnetic contrast agents using arthroscopy as a gold standard.", "content": "One-shot CT and MR arthrography of the shoulder with a mixture of iodinated and paramagnetic contrast agents using arthroscopy as a gold standard. Our aim was to perform computed tomography arthrography (CTA) and magnetic resonance arthrography (MRA) of the shoulder as a one-shot examination and to evaluate its value on the basis of arthroscopy as a gold standard. Fifteen men and 16 women with planned arthroscopy for chronic (n=17) or traumatic tear of the rotator cuff (n=8), congenital atraumatic (n=1) or traumatic glenohumeral instability (n=2), traumatic tear of the rotator cuff with glenohumeral instability (n=1), or \"frozen shoulder\" (n=2) underwent plain helical CT in neutral position and intra-articular CT-guided injection of a mixture of iodinated and paramagnetic contrast agents (gadodiamide at 1:250 and iobitridol 350 at 1:5 in 20 ml of saline solution). CT helical scans in intra- and extrarotation and T1-weighted MRA scans in the neutral position were obtained. CTA and MRA were evaluated separately and jointly (CTA-MRA) in different blinded sessions, giving a 0-3 score to the agreement of CTA, MRA, and CTA-MRA with arthroscopy. The injected volume of the solution ranged from 10 to 24 ml. No side effects were observed. CTA obtained a score of 2.33+/-0.62, MRA 2.47+/-0.52, and CTA-MRA 2.67+/-0.49. Significant differences were found for CTA-MRA versus CTA (p=0.0281) and MRA (p=0.0277). There was no significant difference for CTA versus MRA. CTA and MRA can be performed as a one-shot exam. CTA-MRA seems to give more information than CTA or MRA separately."}
{"id": "16623304", "title": "Supraspinatus tendon US morphology in basketball players: correlation with main pathologic models of secondary impingement syndrome in young overhead athletes. Preliminary report.", "content": "Supraspinatus tendon US morphology in basketball players: correlation with main pathologic models of secondary impingement syndrome in young overhead athletes. Preliminary report. The purpose of this study was to investigate supraspinatus tendon sonographic morphology in a population of young overhead athletes in correlation with main pathologic models of secondary shoulder impingement syndrome. Between April and May 2004, 20 subjects (ten professional basketball players and ten non-athlete controls of the same age, weight and height ranges) underwent bilateral, standardised, sonographic sholulder examination to evaluate supraspinatus echotexture, supraspinatus and subacromial bursa thickness, subacromial space width (cutoff of 7 mm) and dynamic anterior impingement beneath the acromial margin. All subjects were right handed. No symptomatic controls were found. Four players showed signs and symptoms of right atraumatic shoulder instability (two cases) or supraspinatus impingement with anterior pain (one right and one left shoulder). Subacromial space width was reduced in five right-dominant players' shoulders (three symptomatic and two asymptomatic) versus zero controls (p<0.05) and in eight players' shoulders versus zero controls on total shoulders (p<0.05). No other significant differences were observed between the two groups in sonographic parameters considered. Despite the study limitations, ultrasonography (US) is able to detect subacromial space narrowing in young overhead athletes as early shoulder impingement sign, according to the continuum impingement-instability pathologic model."}
{"id": "16619659", "title": "Suprascapular intraneural ganglia and glenohumeral joint connections.", "content": "Suprascapular intraneural ganglia and glenohumeral joint connections. Unlike the more commonly noted paralabral cysts (extraneural ganglia), which are well known to result in suprascapular nerve compression, only four cases of suprascapular intraneural ganglia have been reported. Because of their rarity, the pathogenesis of suprascapular intraneural ganglia has been poorly understood and a pathoanatomical explanation has not been provided. In view of the growing literature demonstrating strong associations between paralabral cysts and labral (capsular) pathology, joint connections, and joint communications, the authors retrospectively reviewed the magnetic resonance (MR) imaging studies and postoperative results in the two featured patients to test a hypothesis that suprascapular intraneural ganglia would have analogous findings. Two patients who presented with suprascapular neuropathy were found to have intraneural ganglia. Connections to the glenohumeral joint could be established in both patients through posterior labrocapsular complex tears. In neither patient was the joint connection identified preoperatively or intraoperatively, and cyst decompression was performed by itself without attention to the labral tear. The suprascapular intraneural ganglia extended from the glenohumeral joint as far proximally as the level of the nerves' origin from the upper trunk in the supraclavicular fossa. Although both patients experienced symptomatic improvement after surgery, neurological recovery was incomplete. In both cases, postoperative MR images revealed cyst persistence. In addition, previously unrecognized superior labral anteroposterior (SLAP) Type II lesions (tears of the superior labrum extending anteroposterior and involving the biceps anchor at the labrum without actual extension into the tendon) were visualized. In one patient with a persistent cyst, an MR arthrogram was obtained and demonstrated a communication between the joint and the cyst. The findings in these two patients support the synovial theory for intraneural ganglia. Based on their experience with intraneural ganglia at other sites, the authors believe that suprascapular intraneural ganglia arise from the glenohumeral joint, egress through a superior (posterior) labral tear, and dissect within the epineurium along an articular branch into the main nerve, following the path of least resistance. Furthermore, these two cases of intraneural ganglia with SLAP lesions are directly analogous to the many cases of paralabral cysts associated with these types of labral tears. By better understanding the origin of this unusual type of ganglia and drawing analogies to the more common extraneural cysts, surgical strategies can be formulated to address the underlying pathoanatomy, improve operative outcomes, and prevent recurrences."}
{"id": "16609552", "title": "[Arthroscopic repair of full-thickness cuff tears: a multicentric retrospective study of 576 cases with anatomical assessment].", "content": "[Arthroscopic repair of full-thickness cuff tears: a multicentric retrospective study of 576 cases with anatomical assessment]. Totally arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears is now common practice. The techniques used were evaluated by a retrospective multicentric analysis conducted by the French Society of Arthroscopy. The series was limited to arthroscopic repair of full thickness tears of the supraspinatus or infraspinatus evaluated using the Constant score and arthro-MRI or arthroscan performed with at least one year follow-up. Data were processed with SPSS 10. The series included 576 patients who underwent surgery between January 2001 and June 2003. Mean patient age was 57.7 years; 52% were men and 60% were manual laborers. The mean preoperative Constant score was 46.4 +/- 13.4/100. The tear was limited to the supraspinatus in 69% of shoulders, with extension to the upper third of the infraspinatus in 23.5% and the entire infraspinatus in 7.5%. The supraspinatus tear was distal in 41.7% of shoulders, intermediary in 44% and retracted in 14.3%. Fatty degeneration of the supraspinatus was noted grade 0 in 60%, 1 in 27%, 2 in 11% and 3 in 2%. Arthroscopic repair was performed in all cases, with locoregional anesthesia in 60.9%. Bioresorbable implants were used in 33% and metallic implants in 62.1%. Acromioplasty was performed in 92.7% and capsulotomy in 14.9%. On average, the subjective outcome was scored 8.89/10. The Constant score improved from 46.3 +/- 13.4 to 82.7 +/- 10.3 with 62% having a strictly pain free shoulder. Muscle force improved from 5.8 +/- 3.7 to 13.6 +/- 5.4. Outcome was excellent in 94% of shoulders at 18.5 months mean follow-up. The complication rate in this series was 6.2% with 3.1% prolonged stiffness, 2.7% reflex dystrophy, 0.2% infection, and 0.2% anchor migration. The cuff was considered normal in 55.7% of shoulders with an intratendon addition image in 19%, i.e. 74.7% of non-ruptured cuffs. Minimal loss of integrity was noted in 9.5% and was marked in 15.7%, i.e. 25.2% iterative tears.ANATOMOCLINICAL CORRELATIONS: The Constant score was strongly correlated with rotator cuff integrity (p<0001). This correlation was also found for force (p<0001), motion (0.01) and activity (0.04), but not for pain. The clinical outcome was correlated with extension, retraction, intrasubstance tear, and fatty degeneration of the lesion preoperatively. Anatomic results were statistically less favorable for tears which were older, extensive, retracted or associated with fatty degeneration. Age was correlated with extent of the initial tear and also with less favorable anatomic and clinical outcome. Occupational accidents were correlated with less favorable clinical outcome. Functional improvement after healing is a strong argument for repair. Arthroscopy has the advantage of combining a low complication rate with good clinical and anatomic results. Age is correlated with functional outcome and healing, but is not a contraindication."}
{"id": "16607589", "title": "[Initial results of shoulder MRI in external rotation after primary shoulder dislocation and after immobilization in external rotation].", "content": "[Initial results of shoulder MRI in external rotation after primary shoulder dislocation and after immobilization in external rotation]. A change in the strategy for treating primary anterior traumatic dislocation of the shoulder has occurred. To date, brief fixation of internal rotation via a Gilchrist bandage has been used. Depending on the patient's age, a redislocation is seen in up to 90 % of cases. This is due to healing of the internally rotated labrum-ligament tear in an incorrect position. In the case of external rotation of the humerus, better repositioning of the labrum ligament complex is achieved. Using MRI of the shoulder in external rotation, the extent of the improved labrum-ligament adjustment can be documented, and the indication of immobilization of the shoulder in external rotation can be derived. The aim of this investigation is to describe the degree of position changing of the labrum-ligament tear in internal und external rotation. 10 patients (9 male, 1 female, mean age 30.4 years, range 15 - 43 years) with a primary anterior dislocation of the shoulder without hyper laxity of the contra lateral side and labrum-ligament lesion substantiated by MRI were investigated using a standard shoulder MRI protocol (PD-TSE axial fs, PD-TSE coronar fs, T2-TSE sagittal, T1-TSE coronar) by an axial PD-TSE sequence in internal and external rotation. The dislocation and separation of the anterior labrum-ligament complex were measured. The shoulders were immobilized in 10 degrees external rotation for 3 weeks. After 6 weeks a shoulder MRI in internal rotation was performed. In all patients there was a significantly better position of the labrum-ligament complex of the inferior rim in external rotation, because of the tension of the ventral capsule and the subscapular muscle. In the initial investigation, the separation of the labrum-ligament complex in internal rotation was 0.44 +/- 0.27 mm and the dislocation was 0.45 +/- 0.33 mm. In external rotation the separation was 0.01 +/- 0.19 mm and the dislocation was - 0.08 +/- 0.28 mm. After 6 weeks of immobilization in 10 degrees external rotation, the separation of the labrum was - 0.10 +/- 0.14 mm and the dislocation was - 0.23 +/- 0.21 mm. In anterior labrum-ligament tears, the axial MRI of the shoulder in external rotation demonstrates a more physiologic position of the glenoid. This may indicate an immobilization of the shoulder in external rotation, which results in a more anatomical healing of the glenoidal tear. Thus, in the case of labrum-ligament tears, MRI in external rotation is becoming indispensable."}
{"id": "16595470", "title": "Association of a large lateral extension of the acromion with rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Association of a large lateral extension of the acromion with rotator cuff tears. Factors predisposing to tearing of the rotator cuff are poorly understood. We have observed that the acromion of patients with a rotator cuff tear very often appears large on anteroposterior radiographs or during surgery. The purpose of this study was to quantify the lateral extension of the acromion in patients with a full-thickness rotator cuff tear and in patients with an intact rotator cuff. The lateral extension of the acromion was assessed on true anteroposterior radiographs made with the arm in neutral rotation. The distance from the glenoid plane to the lateral border of the acromion was divided by the distance from the glenoid plane to the lateral aspect of the humeral head to calculate the acromion index. This index was determined in a group of 102 patients (average age, 65.0 years) with a proven full-thickness rotator cuff tear, in an age and gender-matched group of forty-seven patients (average age, 63.7 years) with osteoarthritis of the shoulder and an intact rotator cuff, and in an age and gender-matched control group of seventy volunteers (average age, 64.4 years) with an intact rotator cuff as demonstrated by ultrasonography. The average acromion index (and standard deviation) was 0.73 +/- 0.06 in the shoulders with a full-thickness tear, 0.60 +/- 0.08 in those with osteoarthritis and an intact rotator cuff, and 0.64 +/- 0.06 in the asymptomatic, normal shoulders with an intact rotator cuff. The difference between the index in the shoulders with a full-thickness supraspinatus tear and the index in those with an intact rotator cuff was highly significant (p < 0.0001). A large lateral extension of the acromion appears to be associated with full-thickness tearing of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "16551396", "title": "Dead men and radiologists don't lie: a review of cadaveric and radiological studies of rotator cuff tear prevalence.", "content": "Dead men and radiologists don't lie: a review of cadaveric and radiological studies of rotator cuff tear prevalence. Rotator cuff tears are a common pathology, with a varied prevalence reported. A literature review was undertaken to determine the cadaveric and radiological (ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging [MRI]) prevalence of rotator cuff tear. The radiological studies were subdivided into symptomatic and asymptomatic subjects. Cadaveric rotator cuff tears were found in 4629 shoulders of which only 2553 met the inclusion criteria. The prevalence of full-thickness tears was 11.75% and partial thickness 18.49% (total tears 30.24%). The total tear rate in ultrasound asymptomatic was 38.9% and ultrasound symptomatic 41.4%. The total rate in MRI asymptomatic was 26.2% whilst MRI symptomatic was 49.4%. The unselected cadaveric population should contain both symptomatic and asymptomatic subjects. A prevalence of tears between the symptomatic and asymptomatic radiological groups would be expected. However, apart from the MRI asymptomatic group, the radiological prevalence of rotator cuff tears exceeds the cadaveric. Rotator cuff tears are frequently asymptomatic. Tears demonstrated during radiological investigation of the shoulder may be asymptomatic. It is important to correlate radiological and clinical findings in the shoulder."}
{"id": "16549619", "title": "From the RSNA refresher courses: US of the rotator cuff: pitfalls, limitations, and artifacts.", "content": "From the RSNA refresher courses: US of the rotator cuff: pitfalls, limitations, and artifacts. High-resolution ultrasonography (US) has gained increasing popularity as a diagnostic tool for assessment of the soft tissues in shoulder impingement syndrome. US is a powerful and accurate method for diagnosis of rotator cuff tears and other rotator cuff abnormalities, provided the examiner has a detailed knowledge of shoulder anatomy, uses a standardized examination technique, and has a thorough understanding of the potential pitfalls, limitations, and artifacts. False-positive sonographic findings of rotator cuff tears can be caused by the technique (anisotropy, transducer positioning, acoustic shadowing by the deltoid septum), by the anatomy (rotator cuff interval, supraspinatus-infraspinatus interface, musculotendinous junction, fibrocartilaginous insertion), or by disease (criteria for diagnosis of rotator cuff tears, tendon inhomogeneity, acoustic shadowing by scar tissue or calcification, rotator cuff thinning). False-negative sonographic findings of rotator cuff tears can be caused by the technique (transducer frequency, suboptimal focusing, imaging protocol, transducer handling), by the anatomy (nondiastasis of the ruptured tendon fibers, posttraumatic obscuration of landmarks), by disease (tendinosis, calcifications, synovial proliferation, granulation or scar tissue, bursal thickening, massive rotator cuff tears), or by patient factors (obesity, muscularity, limited shoulder motion)."}
{"id": "16543591", "title": "Shoulder impingement: objective 3D shape analysis of acromial morphologic features.", "content": "Shoulder impingement: objective 3D shape analysis of acromial morphologic features. To retrospectively and quantitatively analyze the acromial undersurface in three dimensions and to determine its association with impingement syndrome and rotator cuff tears. Institutional review board approval was received with exemption of informed consent for this retrospective HIPAA-compliant study. Magnetic resonance images were evaluated in 84 patients (63 males, 21 females; mean age, 42.6 years; age range, 15-74 years). On the basis of surgical results, patients were separated into three groups: those without shoulder impingement or rotator cuff tears (31 patients), those with shoulder impingement (22 patients), and those with rotator cuff tears (31 patients). To quantitate the acromial undersurface, the structure was manually plotted, and a mathematic model was created by using splines. The undersurface was divided into a 20 x 20 grid. For each patient, a shape index (SI) data set and local undersurface angulation (LUA) data set were determined. Regression analyses were used to identify differences between groups, and prediction models were constructed on the basis of correspondent areas. Analysis of both data sets yielded no apparent progression between groups and demonstrated a lack of similarity between the impingement and rotator cuff tear groups. Discrimination between groups could be demonstrated by dividing the lateral portion of the acromial undersurface into contiguous blocks. The highest overall diagnostic accuracy of our prediction models was 58.3% (49 of 84) by using 10 blocks of the SI data set and 73.8% (62 of 84) by using five blocks of the LUA data set. Three-dimensional modeling yields objective data about the acromial undersurface. On the basis of this method, osseous impingement by the acromion is not a primary cause of shoulder impingement syndrome or rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "16539812", "title": "Ultrasound imaging for the rheumatologist. I. Ultrasonography of the shoulder.", "content": "Ultrasound imaging for the rheumatologist. I. Ultrasonography of the shoulder. Ultrasonography (US) has proved to be a useful diagnostic tool in patients with shoulder pain and/or limited range of motion. It allows careful assessment of a wide range of changes involving many different anatomic structures of the shoulder girdle, such as the rotator cuff tendons (tendonitis, tendon tears and calcific deposits), the long head of the biceps tendon (tenosynovitis, tendonitis, tears, rupture and displacement), the bursae (bursitis), the soft tissues of the gleno-humeral (synovial proliferation, joint effusion) and acromioclavicular joints (synovial proliferation and joint effusion). In addition, it is also a reliable tool in the evaluation of bony profiles detecting the presence of erosions and osteophytes. The use of high quality equipment and the application of a standard scanning protocol are mandatory for reliable US assessment of shoulder pathology."}
{"id": "16531695", "title": "[Arthroscopic evaluation of the mobility of the meso-acromion].", "content": "[Arthroscopic evaluation of the mobility of the meso-acromion]. Failure of fusion of the secondary centers of ossification of the acromial apophyses is a pathology that should be included in the differential diagnosis of shoulder pain and subacromial impingement syndrome. Mobility of the meso-acromion is of particular importance in choosing the appropriate treatment. This study presents a new arthroscopic method to evaluate the mobility of os acromiale. We presented the arthroscopic evaluation and surgical treatment of three women (mean age 43.3 years; range 34 to 53 years) with shoulder pain and a radiographically confirmed meso-acromiale. The Neer and Hawkins impingement signs were positive and palpation over the acromion gave rise to pain. Axillary radiographs showed a meso-acromion in all the affected shoulders. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a rotator cuff tear in one patient. During arthroscopic examination the motility of the meso-acromion was dynamically observed in the subacromial region and the rotator cuff tear was repaired. Acromioplasty was not performed. Following removal of pseudarthrotic areas, the mobile meso-acromion was fixed with a cerclage wire, two cannulated screws and bone grafting, followed by a tension-band configuration. The mean follow-up was five years (range 3 to 6 years). Union occurred in all the patients. None of the patients had shoulder pain at rest or during activities. When compared with the normal side, the range of motion and the strength of the shoulder were normal in all the patients, with Constant scores being 89, 96, and 98, respectively. Identification of the type of os acromiale is important for the treatment plan. The meso-acromion is particularly important because of its greater size and its role in narrowing the subacromial space. It is necessary to determine whether the meso-acromion fragment is mobile. Dynamic arthroscopic examination offers significant help in this respect."}
{"id": "16529658", "title": "All-arthroscopic versus mini-open repair of small or moderate-sized rotator cuff tears: a protocol for a randomized trial [NCT00128076].", "content": "All-arthroscopic versus mini-open repair of small or moderate-sized rotator cuff tears: a protocol for a randomized trial [NCT00128076]. Rotator cuff tears are the most common source of shoulder pain and disability. Only poor quality studies have compared mini-open to arthroscopic repair, leaving surgeons with inadequate evidence to support optimal, minimally-invasive repair. This randomized, multi-centre, national trial will determine whether an arthroscopic or mini-open repair provides better quality of life for patients with small or moderate-sized rotator cuff tears. A national consensus meeting of investigators in the Joint Orthopaedic Initiative for National Trials of the Shoulder (JOINTS Canada) identified this question as the top priority for shoulder surgeons across Canada. The primary outcome measure is a valid quality-of-life scale (Western Ontario Rotator Cuff (WORC)) that addresses 5 domains of health affected by rotator cuff disease. Secondary outcomes will assess rotator cuff functionality (ROM, strength, Constant score), secondary dimensions of health (general health status (SF-12) and work limitations), and repair integrity (MRI). Outcomes are measured at baseline, at 6 weeks, 3, 6, 12, and 24 months post-operatively by blinded research assistants and musculoskeletal radiologists. Patients (n = 250) with small or medium-sized cuff tears identified by clinical examination and MRI who meet eligibility criteria will be recruited. This sample size will provide 80% power to statistically detect a clinically important difference of 20% in WORC scores between procedures after controlling for baseline WORC score (alpha = 0.05). A central methods centre will manage randomization, data management, and monitoring under supervision of experienced epidemiologists. Surgeons will participate in either conventional or expertise-based designs according to defined criteria to avoid biases from differential surgeon expertise. Mini-open or all-arthroscopic repair procedures will be performed according to a standardized protocol. Central Adjudication (of cases), Trial Oversight and Safety Committees will monitor trial conduct. We will use an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), where the baseline WORC score is used as a covariate, to compare the quality of life (WORC score) at 2 years post-operatively. As a secondary analysis, we will conduct the same statistical test but will include age and tear size as covariates with the baseline score. Enrollment will require 2 years and follow-up an additional 2 years. The trial will commence when funding is in place. These results will have immediate impact on the practice behaviors of practicing surgeons and surgical trainees at JOINTS centres across Canada. JOINTS Canada is actively engaged in knowledge exchange and will publish and present findings internationally to facilitate wider application. This trial will establish definitive evidence on this question at an international level."}
{"id": "16518655", "title": "MR assessment of the repaired rotator cuff: prevalence, size, location, and clinical relevance of tendon rerupture.", "content": "MR assessment of the repaired rotator cuff: prevalence, size, location, and clinical relevance of tendon rerupture. The objectives of this study were to use magnetic resonance (MR) imaging to evaluate the prevalence, size, location, and clinical relevance of tendon rerupture following complete repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tear (RCT). A total of 78 surgically proven full-thickness rotator cuff tears in 74 patients were retrospectively included in the study. Clinical assessment was performed using the University of California at Los Angeles score. Postoperative MR imaging was evaluated to determine prevalence, size, and location of tendon rerupture. At a mean 48.4 months' follow-up, 62 shoulders (79.5%) had favorable outcomes and 45 shoulders (57.6%) showed rerupture on MR imaging studies. Reruptures were significantly more prevalent among patients with intermediate-to-bad outcomes (81.3%), with surgically demonstrated two-tendon tears (78.9%) or three-tendon tears (100%), and with preoperative fatty degeneration of the supraspinatus muscle greater than 1 (91.6%). Reruptures were also significantly larger in those subgroups. Complete repair of RCT of all sizes may have favorable outcomes in a significant proportion of patients in spite of a high prevalence of reruptures. Preoperative tear size and degree of muscle fatty degeneration influence the prevalence and rerupture size. After repair of supraspinatus tears, reruptures tend to invade the posterior aspect of the tendon."}
{"id": "16517311", "title": "The accuracy of subacromial injections: a prospective randomized magnetic resonance imaging study.", "content": "The accuracy of subacromial injections: a prospective randomized magnetic resonance imaging study. To assess the accuracy of shoulder infiltrations in the subacromial bursa (SAB) by a posterior or an anteromedial approach. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and clinical outcome were used for evaluation. A prospective randomized study. Thirty-three patients (22 women, 11 men; average age, 46 years; range, 25 to 64 years) with clinical signs of subacromial impingement were infiltrated with a mixture of bupivacaine, methylprednisolone, and gadolinium-DTPA directly followed by MRI to determine the actual site of injection. The SAB was randomly infiltrated posteriorly (n = 17) or anteromedially (n = 16). Injection confidence of the surgeon and body-mass index of the patient were recorded. Follow-up consisted of the Constant Score, Simple Shoulder Test, and visual analog scale score for pain taken within 24 hours and 6 weeks after infiltration. Thirteen injections (76%) were in the SAB with a posterior approach and 10 (69%) with an anteromedial approach. Many surrounding structures were hit as well, especially the rotator cuff. A positive correlation between the injection confidence of the orthopaedic surgeon and the MRI was found in 66%. Only injection of the SAB alone resulted in a significant decrease of the pain (P = .004) and an increase in the functional scores. Injection in the bursa and rotator cuff muscle showed a significant increase in pain (P = .032) but no change in clinical scores. The body mass index had no influence on the scores. Injections in the SAB are inaccurate, despite the confident feeling of the clinician. The finding that many different structures can be infiltrated with 1 injection can create both false-positive and -negative results. Level II."}
{"id": "16510810", "title": "Long-term outcome after structural failure of rotator cuff repairs.", "content": "Long-term outcome after structural failure of rotator cuff repairs. In a previous study, twenty consecutive patients with a rerupture of the rotator cuff, as documented with magnetic resonance imaging, were found to have significantly less pain and better function and strength, compared with the preoperative state, at 3.2 years postoperatively. It was the purpose of this study to determine the clinical and structural outcomes of these reruptures in the same twenty patients after a longer period of follow-up. At a mean of 7.6 years postoperatively, the twenty patients were reexamined clinically and with standard radiographs and magnetic resonance imaging with use of the same clinical, radiographic, and magnetic resonance imaging criteria as were utilized in the review at 3.2 years. The mean age at the time of final follow-up was sixty-six years. Nineteen of the twenty patients continued to be either very satisfied or satisfied with the outcome. The relative Constant score averaged 88% and was not significantly different from the score at 3.2 years, which averaged 83%. The mean scores for pain, function, and strength also had not changed significantly. Overall, the twenty reruptures had not increased in size, and eight of them had healed structurally at the time of the 7.6-year follow-up. Seven of these eight reruptures had been of the supraspinatus tendon only, and seven had been smaller than 400 mm(2) at 3.2 years. Twelve reruptures persisted, and five were larger than the preoperative tear. Fatty infiltration of the infraspinatus muscle progressed significantly (p = 0.015) and the acromiohumeral distance decreased significantly (p = 0.006) between the two follow-up periods. Neither fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus and subscapularis muscles nor glenohumeral osteoarthritis progressed significantly. At an average of 7.6 years, the clinical outcomes after structural failure of rotator cuff repairs remained significantly improved over the preoperative state in terms of pain, function, strength, and patient satisfaction. Overall, the reruptures that had been present at 3.2 years did not increase in size. We also found that reruptures of the supraspinatus that had been smaller than 400 mm(2) had the potential to heal."}
{"id": "16488235", "title": "Using support vector machines to optimally classify rotator cuff strength data and quantify post-operative strength in rotator cuff tear patients.", "content": "Using support vector machines to optimally classify rotator cuff strength data and quantify post-operative strength in rotator cuff tear patients. Shoulder strength data are important for post-operative assessment of shoulder function and have been used in diagnosis of rotator cuff pathology. Support vector machines (SVM) employ complex analysis techniques to solve classification and regression problems. A SVM, a machine learning technique, can be used for analysis and classification of shoulder strength data. The goals of this study were to determine the diagnostic competency of SVM based on shoulder strength data and to apply SVM analysis in efforts to derive a single representative shoulder strength score. Data were taken from fourteen isometric shoulder strength measurements of each shoulder (involved and uninvolved) in 45 rotator cuff tear patients. SVM diagnostic proficiency was found to be comparable to reported ultrasound values. Improvement of shoulder function was accurately represented by a single score in pairwise comparison of the pre-operative and the 12 month post-operative group (P < 0.004). Thus, the SVM-based score may be a promising metric for summarizing rotator cuff strength data."}
{"id": "16477333", "title": "Imaging factors related to rotator cuff tear in patients with deltoid contracture.", "content": "Imaging factors related to rotator cuff tear in patients with deltoid contracture. Bony deformity and muscular malfunction around the shoulder induced by deltoid contracture may influence rotator cuff function and lead to subsequent tearing. The purpose of this study was to investigate the imaging and clinical factors related to rotator cuff tear in patients with deltoid contracture. We retrospectively reviewed 48 shoulders in 44 patients with magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis of deltoid contracture and surgically-proven rotator cuff tear. These shoulders were subdivided into partial-thickness and full-thickness tear groups. Another 17 shoulders in 17 patients with deltoid contracture but no evident rotator cuff tear were included as the control group. The characteristics, including age, gender and imaging features, of these three groups were compared. Two patients who underwent initial operations for cuff tears required secondary operations for distal release of deltoid contracture. The age of patients with full-thickness tear was significantly greater than that of patients with partial-thickness tear or without tear. The winging angle of the glenoid (WAG) in the full-thickness tear group was significantly greater than that in the partial-thickness tear group. Patients with partial-thickness tear also had greater WAG than those without tear. However, WAG was not significantly correlated with the fibrotic size or age of the patient. In patients with deltoid contracture, age and WAG are associated with the development of rotator cuff tear. To prevent the occurrence of rotator cuff tear, early surgical release of deltoid contracture is highly recommended, especially in patients with greater WAG."}
{"id": "16464555", "title": "An overview of MR arthrography with emphasis on the current technique and applicational hints and tips.", "content": "An overview of MR arthrography with emphasis on the current technique and applicational hints and tips. Magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography has been investigated in every major peripheral joint of the body, and has been proven to be effective in determining the integrity of intraarticular ligamentous and fibrocartilaginous structures and in the detection or assessment of osteochondral lesions and loose bodies in selected cases. Several methods could be used to create arthrogram effect during MR imaging, however, direct MR arthrography using diluted gadolinium as the contrast agent is the most commonly used technique and is the most reliable of all. MR arthrography is useful for demonstrating labrocapsular-ligamentous abnormalities and distinguishing partial thickness rotator cuff tears from focal full thickness tears in the shoulder, identifying or excluding recurrent tears following meniscal operations in the knee, demonstrating perforations of the triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC) and ligaments in the wrist, showing labral tears in the hip, diagnosing ligament tears in the ankle and identifying osteochondral lesions or loose bodies in any of the aforementioned joints. In this article, an overview of techniques of MR arthrography is provided with emphasis on direct MR arthrography using diluted gadolinium as the contrast agent. The current applications of the technique in major peripheral joints are reviewed, with emphasis given to the shoulder joint where the role of this technique has become well established."}
{"id": "16459867", "title": "Rotator cuff impingement due to enchondroma of the acromion.", "content": "Rotator cuff impingement due to enchondroma of the acromion. We report the case of a patient with a long standing clinical history of subacromial impingement, in which plain radiographs and CT-scan revealed a well-circumscribed lucent lesion expanding the undersurface of the acromion. MRI showed the subacromial fat to be completely obliterated and the infraspinatus tendon deformed due to compression by a mass localised at the acromion. The acromial lesion was curetted, and histopathologic analysis was consistent with the diagnosis of enchondroma. Tumours located in the coracoacromial arch have been very rarely reported as a cause of subacromial impingement. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first description of subacromial impingement secondary to acromial enchondroma."}
{"id": "16459855", "title": "Treatment of irreparable rotator cuff tears by latissimus dorsi muscle transfer.", "content": "Treatment of irreparable rotator cuff tears by latissimus dorsi muscle transfer. In this retrospective study, a latissimus dorsi transfer as first described by Gerber in 1988 was performed in 12 patients with massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears. Their average age was 59 years and the preliminary results are reported here after an average follow-up of 39 months. In 50% of the patients there was no pain and 41% had mild to moderate pain at follow-up. Functional Constant scoring was excellent in 42%, good in 8%, moderate in 42% and poor in 8%. Active range of motion in the shoulder improved significantly in external rotation and abduction. Abduction force as measured with Atlantech and Cybex systems showed weak results. In two patients these tests could not be performed due to lack of force, in 9 patients abduction force was much weaker than on the contralateral side and in one patient the operated arm was stronger than the other side. We conclude that in most patients good pain relief and functional improvement can be achieved after latissimus dorsi transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tear. A good active range of motion can be expected but a lack of force persists. However, it remains difficult to conclude for which patients this surgery can be predictably successful."}
{"id": "16456661", "title": "Glenohumeral interposition of a torn rotator cuff in a young motorcyclist.", "content": "Glenohumeral interposition of a torn rotator cuff in a young motorcyclist. This report describes the rare case of a traumatic rotator cuff tear in a young patient which led to a pseudo-paralyzed shoulder by interposition of the tendon stump into the glenohumeral joint. The patient underwent an open rotator cuff repair and regained an almost normal shoulder function after 12 weeks. A review of the literature is presented."}
{"id": "16453345", "title": "Effect of experimental suprascapular nerve block on active glenohumeral translations in vivo.", "content": "Effect of experimental suprascapular nerve block on active glenohumeral translations in vivo. Static superior shoulder instability is associated with long-standing rotator cuff tears. Factors or mechanisms which can prevent superior migration of the humeral head, and therefore allow preservation or restoration of shoulder function despite nonanatomical cuff repair, are poorly understood. The question has therefore arisen, whether centering of the humeral head was the result of active shoulder muscle function. It was the goal of this experimental investigation to (1) determine the pattern of glenohumeral translations during active shoulder abduction measured by open-magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques, and to (2) determine the influence of experimental paralysis of the infra- and supraspinatus muscles on these translations. In contrast to prior experimental investigations, the humeral head remained always centered in the glenoid fossa during active abduction. No superior migration of the humeral head could be provoked with experimental paralysis of the supra- and/or infraspinatus muscles. The hypothesis that static or dynamic superior humeral head displacement is prevented by active-supra- and/or infraspinatus muscle function must therefore be rejected, for the shoulder with a structurally intact muscle-tendon-bone unit."}
{"id": "16452746", "title": "Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable posterosuperior rotator cuff tears. Factors affecting outcome.", "content": "Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable posterosuperior rotator cuff tears. Factors affecting outcome. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical results of latissimus dorsi tendon transfer in patients with an irreparable posterosuperior rotator cuff tear to help determine which patient and anatomic factors affect clinical outcome. Fourteen patients with a latissimus dorsi tendon transfer were clinically evaluated with use of the PENN (University of Pennsylvania) shoulder score as well as with quantitative measurement of isometric muscle strength and the range of motion of both shoulders at a minimum of twenty-four months postoperatively. The anatomic results were evaluated with postoperative magnetic resonance imaging and electromyography. Nine patients were satisfied with the outcome, had significant clinical improvement, and reported that they would have the operation again under similar circumstances. The other five patients were dissatisfied with the result and had significantly worse PENN scores, active elevation, and objective measures of strength. Eight of the nine patients with a good clinical result were male, and four of the five with a poor result were female. Patients with a good clinical result had had significantly better preoperative function in active forward flexion and active external rotation compared with the patients with a poor result. The magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated healing of the tendon to the greater tuberosity in twelve patients and equivocal healing in two. There was no significant atrophy of any of the transferred muscles. Electromyography demonstrated clear activity in the transferred latissimus muscle during humeral adduction in all fourteen patients, some electrical activity with active forward elevation in only one patient, and some electrical activity with active external rotation in six of the nine patients with a good clinical result. None of the patients with a poor clinical result demonstrated electrical activity of the transferred muscle with active forward flexion or external rotation. Synchronous in-phase contraction of the transferred latissimus dorsi is a variable finding following the surgical treatment of irreparable posterosuperior rotator cuff tears, but when it is present it is associated with a better clinical result. Preoperative shoulder function and general strength influence the clinical result. Female patients with poor shoulder function and generalized muscle weakness prior to surgery have a greater likelihood of having a poor clinical result."}
{"id": "16452742", "title": "Clinical and structural results of open repair of an isolated one-tendon tear of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Clinical and structural results of open repair of an isolated one-tendon tear of the rotator cuff. The clinical outcomes of open rotator cuff repair are well established, but the structural results and their effect on clinical outcome are poorly known. We assessed the structural changes in the musculotendinous units after open rotator cuff repair and correlated these findings with the clinical outcome to establish a benchmark for future series. Thirty-two consecutive standardized open repairs of a single tendon tear of the rotator cuff were analyzed in twenty-one men and eleven women with an average age of 59.0 years. The supraspinatus tendon was involved in twenty-two patients and the subscapularis tendon, in ten. The clinical outcome, including the Constant score, was assessed prospectively for all patients at an average of thirty-eight months postoperatively. The structural outcome was assessed on standardized magnetic resonance imaging scans. The mean overall subjective shoulder value was 82.8% of the value for a normal shoulder. On the average, the age and gender-adjusted Constant score increased from 63.9% preoperatively to 94.5% postoperatively (p < 0.0001); the score for pain, from 6.8 points to 13.2 points (p < 0.0001); and the score for activities of daily living, from 11.2 points to 17.9 points (p < 0.0001). The overall rerupture rate was 13% (four of the thirty-two shoulders). All reruptures were distinctly smaller than the original tear. Muscular atrophy or fatty infiltration did not significantly decrease after the tendon repair. In fact, fatty infiltration in the supraspinatus (p < 0.0053) and infraspinatus (p < 0.003) muscles increased significantly. Direct open repair of a complete, isolated tear of one tendon of the rotator cuff resulted in significant subjective and objective improvement and very high patient satisfaction. Successful direct repair was not associated with a decrease in preoperative muscular atrophy and was associated with increased fatty infiltration of the muscle."}
{"id": "16437046", "title": "Standard sonography and arthrosonography in the study of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Standard sonography and arthrosonography in the study of rotator cuff tears. The aim of this study was to evaluate the sensitivity of ultrasonography, integrating standard ultrasound and arthrosonography after injecting a saline solution into the glenohumeral cavity in cases of suspected rotator cuff tears. We prospectively examined 40 patients awaiting shoulder arthroscopy for suspected or diagnosed tears of the rotator cuff. A radiologist, unaware of the pre-operative diagnosis, performed an ultrasound scan on all the patients before and after the injection of saline solution into the glenohumeral cavity. The parameters considered were presence or absence of a rotator cuff injury; type of injury according to Snyder and its extent along the longitudinal and transverse planes; presence or absence of effusion into the articular cavity; subacromial/subdeltoid bursal distension. All the patients underwent arthroscopy either the same day or the day after the ultrasound examination. Standard sonography showed 26 complete rotator cuff tears (type C according to Snyder), 2 partial tears (type B according to Snyder) and 12 intact rotator cuffs. Arthrosonography detected 31 complete rotator cuff tears (type C according to Snyder), 1 partial tear (type B according to Snyder) and 8 intact rotator cuffs.Arthroscopy identified 32 complete rotator cuff tears (type C according to Snyder), 1 partial tear (type B according to Snyder) and 8 intact rotator cuffs. Analysis of the results shows that, taking arthroscopy as the gold standard, the sensitivity of normal sonography is 81.2%, whereas that of arthrosonography is 96.8% (p < 0.05). On the basis of the data obtained in this study, standard sonography, integrated with the injection of a saline solution into the glenohumeral cavity, considerably increases the diagnostic sensitivity for rotator cuff tears. The authors suggest that arthrosonography can be used in the event of suspected rotator cuff tears, when MRI is contraindicated."}
{"id": "16423952", "title": "Abnormalities on MRI of the subscapularis tendon in the presence of a full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tear.", "content": "Abnormalities on MRI of the subscapularis tendon in the presence of a full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tear. Our objective was to determine the association between size and chronicity of full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears with subscapularis tendon abnormalities on MRI. One hundred forty-two MRI examinations with full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears were categorized on the basis of the supraspinatus muscle (SS): normal muscle (SS(normal)), suggesting a recent or small tear; reduced muscle bulk without fatty atrophy (SS(volume loss)); and those with fatty atrophy, suggesting a large or chronic tear (SS(fatty atrophy)). Subscapularis tendon abnormalities, the subcoracoid interval, and subcortical bone marrow edema in the lesser tuberosity and coracoid process were recorded. The mean size of supraspinatus tendon tears in the SS(normal) (n = 45) group was 8.5 mm, 16.6 mm in SS(volume loss) (n = 53), and 29 mm in the SS(fatty atrophy) group (n = 44). Subscapularis tendon abnormality was identified in 22% of SS(normal) patients, 61% of SS(volume loss), and 86% of the SS(fatty atrophy) group (p < 0.001). There was moderate correlation between chronicity of supraspinatus tendon tears and subscapularis tendon abnormality (r = 0.47; p < 0.0001), with no correlation between the subcoracoid interval and abnormalities of the subscapularis tendon. There was moderate correlation between chronicity of supraspinatus tendon tears and bone marrow changes in the lesser tuberosity (r = 0.44; p < 0.0001). Subscapularis tendon abnormality is related to chronicity of supraspinatus tendon tears. Bone marrow edema in the lesser tuberosity with a subscapularis tendon abnormality suggests increased stress at the subscapularis tendon insertion with chronicity of full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears. Lack of correlation with the subcoracoid interval indicates that anterior instability may be a more important contributing factor to subscapularis tendon abnormalities than static subcoracoid impingement in the setting of a full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tear."}
{"id": "16422237", "title": "Transplant of the teres major in the treatment of irreparable injuries of the rotator cuff (long-term analysis of results).", "content": "Transplant of the teres major in the treatment of irreparable injuries of the rotator cuff (long-term analysis of results). Purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of muscle transfer of the teres major in the treatment of irreparable posterosuperior injuries of the rotator cuff. Long-term monitoring of the results obtained in 20 patients treated at our clinic using this method are reported, comparing the data obtained in evaluations of results with preoperative values. Clinical evaluations were obtained using the Constant Score System, while X-ray examination showed the presence of osteoarticular modifications, and MRI and electromyography the preserved morphology and function of transplant. The mean Constant Score increased from 31.6 points preoperatively to 66.1 points postoperatively at the time of follow-up. At follow-up, MRI allowed us to evaluate any fatty degeneration of the muscle fibers of transfer and the integrity of tendinous insertion on the humeral greater tuberosity. The obtained results allowed us to reveal the advantages and the disadvantages of teres major transplant in irreparable posterosuperior ruptures of the cuff."}
{"id": "16422234", "title": "Clinical and ultrasound results after arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Clinical and ultrasound results after arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff. The literature reports good functional results obtained with arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff, but the incidence of anatomical healing has not been sufficiently studied. Ultrasound examination makes it possible to accurately document the healing process of the tendon at the bone, gathering information that may be useful in a comparison with clinical data. A total of 43 consecutive arthroscopic repairs of rotator cuff injuries were considered, that had made use of anchors and non-resorbable suturing. A total of 42 patients were willing to undergo clinical monitoring with an associated ultrasound examination after 3, 6 and 12 months. When ultrasound examination after 6 and 12 months was carried out, 36 patients presented with anatomical healing of the rotator cuff. The total percentage of repair failures was 14.3% and increased to 23% if we take into consideration the subscapular tendon alone. Constant score went from a preoperative mean of 51.25 to a mean of 78.21 after 12 months (p<0.001). Arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff leads to anatomical healing of the tendons in a high percentage of cases, obtaining good functional results. The absence of healing is associated with lower values for recovery of strength at clinical follow-up. The advanced age of the patients (p<0.001) and the extensive injuries that involve several tendons (p=0.002) are negative prognostic factors."}
{"id": "16419376", "title": "Reliability and comparison of acromion assessment techniques on X-ray and magnetic resonance imaging (reliability of acromion assessment techniques).", "content": "Reliability and comparison of acromion assessment techniques on X-ray and magnetic resonance imaging (reliability of acromion assessment techniques). To determine the reliability and correlation of plain radiography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the assessment of acromion morphology. Acromion morphology was assessed using the lateral acromion angle (LAA) and the acromion-humeral interval (AHI). Thirty patients who had X-rays and MRI for impingement syndrome were included. Six blinded observers assessed the acromion morphology subjectively and objectively. Neither acromion assessment technique demonstrated a positive correlation (kappa and intraclass coefficient < 0.55) between X-ray and MRI. Both techniques were reliable (kappa and intraclass coefficient > 0.55) when measured objectively by experienced observers. The LAA and the AHI are both reliable acromion assessment techniques on X-ray and MRI when measured objectively and by experienced observers."}
{"id": "16414467", "title": "In vivo anatomy of the Neer and Hawkins sign positions for shoulder impingement.", "content": "In vivo anatomy of the Neer and Hawkins sign positions for shoulder impingement. The Neer and Hawkins impingement signs are commonly used to diagnose subacromial pathology, but the anatomy of these maneuvers has not been well elucidated in vivo. This 3-dimensional open magnetic resonance imaging study characterized shoulder anatomy and rotator cuff impingement in 8 normal volunteers placed in the Neer and Hawkins positions. Subacromial and intraarticular contact of the rotator cuff was graded, and minimum distances were computed between the tendon insertion sites and the glenoid, acromion, and coracoid. Both the Neer and Hawkins maneuvers significantly decreased the distance from the supraspinatus insertion to the acromion and posterior glenoid and from the subscapularis insertion to the anterior glenoid. However, the Hawkins position resulted in significantly greater subacromial space narrowing and subacromial rotator cuff contact than the Neer position. In the Hawkins position, subacromial contact of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus was observed in 7 of 8 and 5 of 8 subjects, respectively. In contrast, rotator cuff contact with the acromion did not occur in any subject in the Neer position. Intraarticular contact of the supraspinatus with the posterosuperior glenoid was observed in all subjects in both positions. Subscapularis contact with the anterior glenoid was also seen in 7 of 8 subjects in the Neer position and in all subjects in the Hawkins position. This extensive intraarticular contact suggests that internal impingement may play a role in the Neer and Hawkins signs."}
{"id": "16399460", "title": "Long-term clinical and ultrasound evaluation after arthroscopic acromioplasty in patients with partial rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Long-term clinical and ultrasound evaluation after arthroscopic acromioplasty in patients with partial rotator cuff tears. Clinical and ultrasound evaluation of patients who had undergone debridement of a partial rotator cuff tear in conjunction with an arthroscopic acromioplasty. Retrospective follow-up study. Thirty-three consecutive patients were included in the study; 26 of the 33 (79%) patients underwent ultrasound evaluation of both shoulders and were examined by independent observers after a follow-up period of 101 months (range, 60 to 128 months; minimum, 5 years). The median time between onset of symptoms and surgery was 24 months (range, 6 to 360 months). At follow-up, the Constant score was 65 points (range, 15-98). The Constant score on the contralateral side was 84 points (range, 15-96; P < .0001). The strength in abduction was 4.7 kg (range, 1.2 to 11.1 kg) on the operated side and 5.1 kg (range, 1.8 to 10.4 kg) on the contralateral side (not significant). Twelve of the 26 patients reported discomfort or pain in the contralateral shoulder and during the follow-up period, and 3 of 26 had undergone an arthroscopic acromioplasty of the contralateral shoulder. Two of 26 patients underwent further surgery of the index shoulder during the follow-up period. The visual analogue score for pain for the index shoulder was 20 mm (range, 0 to 85). The ultrasound evaluation revealed that 9 of 26 patients had a full-thickness rotator cuff tear in the index shoulder and, of these, 3 of 9 were bilateral. It appears that an arthroscopic acromioplasty and rotator cuff debridement in patients with partial tears does not protect the rotator cuff from undergoing further degeneration. Level IV."}
{"id": "16392611", "title": "Ultrasonography of the rotator cuff: a comparison with arthroscopy in one-hundred-and-ninety consecutive cases.", "content": "Ultrasonography of the rotator cuff: a comparison with arthroscopy in one-hundred-and-ninety consecutive cases. To evaluate the accuracy of high-resolution ultrasonography compared to arthroscopy in the detection of rotator cuff tears. Preoperative ultrasonography (US) with a 10-MHz commercially available linear-array transducer and a standardized study protocol was performed in 190 consecutive shoulders in 185 patients with a history of shoulder pain for more than 3 months. The findings at US were classified into intact cuff, partial-thickness, and full-thickness rotator cuff tears, and correlated with findings at shoulder arthroscopy. US correctly depicted 118 of 124 rotator cuff tears with sensitivity 95%, specificity 94%, PPV 97%, NPV 91% and accuracy 95%, all 94 full-thickness tears (sensitivity 100%, specificity 91%, PPV 91%, NPV 100%, and accuracy 95%), 24 of 30 partial-thickness tears (sensitivity 80%, specificity 98%, PPV 86%, NPV 96%, and accuracy 95%). US is a highly accurate diagnostic method for detecting full-thickness rotator cuff tears, but is less sensitive in detecting partial-thickness rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "16387384", "title": "[Conservative management of full-thickness rotator cuff tears. A prospective study of 24 patients].", "content": "[Conservative management of full-thickness rotator cuff tears. A prospective study of 24 patients]. To evaluate the efficacy of conservative treatment of full-thickness rotator cuff tears. A prospective open study of patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears. The diagnosis was confirmed by ultrasonography examination. Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated before treatment, at the end of the treatment, and at 1, 3 and 6 months. Pain and handicap intensity were measured by a visual analogue scale, by the algo-functional Constant score, by articular mobility and, finally, by the resumption of daily and/or professional activities. Successful treatment was considered with a VAS pain score<or=20, a VAS handicap score<or=20, and a Constant score>or=80. Twenty-four patients, mean age 59 years, with full-thickness rotator cuff tears for 9 months, on average, were included in the study. The parameters of pain function and handicap improved significantly since the end of treatment. The Constant score improved greatly, from 44.8 before treatment to 71.8 at the end of treatment and 74.2 at 6 months. This improvement continued until 3 months after treatment. The rate of success was 75% at 6 months. Despite the small sample size, our study confirm that rehabilitation should always be performed before a decision of surgical repair."}
{"id": "16382328", "title": "Ultrasound appearance of tendon tears. Part 2: lower extremity and myotendinous tears.", "content": "Ultrasound appearance of tendon tears. Part 2: lower extremity and myotendinous tears. Traumatic tears of the musculotendinous complex at the lower limb are common in clinical practice but can be difficult to detect and to evaluate because of swelling and pain that can limit proper physical examination. They can affect sedentary subjects or active sports participants involved in amateur or professional activities. In the first group tendons are more commonly affected, while myotendinous tears are common in sports players. The aims of this review article are to review the aetiology and pathomechanism of the most common ruptures affecting the tendons and the main myotendinous junctions of the lower extremity and to describe their ultrasound findings as well as to correlate ultrasound appearance with that of the other imaging modalities."}
{"id": "16376230", "title": "Use of preoperative magnetic resonance imaging to predict rotator cuff tear pattern and method of repair.", "content": "Use of preoperative magnetic resonance imaging to predict rotator cuff tear pattern and method of repair. To determine the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) criteria for predicting rotator cuff tear pattern and method of repair. Retrospective MRI/arthroscopy correlation. Sixty-six preoperative MRI scans were evaluated. The maximum medial to lateral length (L) of the tear was measured on T2-weighted coronal cuts. The maximum anterior to posterior width (W) was measured on T2-weighted sagittal cuts. The cases were divided into 3 groups: group 1, short-wide tears, L < or = W, L < 2 cm; group 2, long-narrow tears, L > W, W < 2 cm; and group 3, long-wide tears, L > or = 2 cm, W > or = 2 cm. Of the 66 MRI scans, 55 were adequate for standardized measurement. Group 1, 16 cases: 15 were found at arthroscopy to be crescent-shaped tears repaired end-to-bone; 1 was repaired with interval slides. Group 2, 22 cases: all 22 were repaired side-to-side/margin convergence. Group 3, 17 cases: 12 required interval slides, 1 partial repair was performed, and 4 were repaired side-to-side/margin convergence. Tear pattern and method of repair can be predicted on high-quality MRI scan. Group 1, L < or = W and L < 2 cm, predicts a crescent-shaped tear and end-to-bone repair (positive predictive value, 93.8%). Group 2, L > W and W < 2 cm, predicts a longitudinal tear and side-to-side/margin convergence repair (positive predictive value 100%). Group 3, L > or = 2 cm and W > or = 2 cm, predicts a massive contracted tear and that primary end-to-bone or side-to-side repairs are usually not possible and that interval slides or partial repair may be necessary (positive predictive value, 76.5%). The overall diagnostic model based on usable MRI scans significantly predicted arthroscopic findings (P < .001 for chi-square test). Level III, development of diagnostic criteria with universally applied reference (nonconsecutive patients)."}
{"id": "16357549", "title": "Shoulder impingement syndrome: relationships between clinical, functional, and radiologic findings.", "content": "Shoulder impingement syndrome: relationships between clinical, functional, and radiologic findings. Although there has been much research about imaging methods for shoulder impingement syndrome, the clinical information and upper limb level of disability have been generally ignored. The purpose of this study was to detect the relationships between clinical, functional, and radiologic variables in patients with shoulder impingement syndrome. A cross-sectional, clinical, and radiologic study was planned and 59 shoulders of 58 consecutive patients waiting for physical therapy because of a clinically suspected shoulder impingement syndrome were included into this study. Comprehensive clinical examination, radiography, shoulder ultrasonography, and magnetic resonance imaging were performed in the same month. Despite the high sensitivities of ultrasonography for diagnosing rotator cuff tears (98.1%) and biceps pathologies (100%), magnetic resonance imaging was superior to ultrasonography in many important shoulder structures such as a glenoid labral tear and subacromial bursal effusion/hypertrophy (P < 0.01). These structures were the determinants of the shoulder's disability measured by disabilities of the arm, shoulder, and hand questionnaire. Ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging had comparable high accuracy for identifying the biceps pathologies and rotator cuff tears. The basic clinical tests had modest accuracy in both disorders. The choice of which imaging test to perform should be based on the patient's clinical information (regarding lesion of glenoid labrum, joint capsule, muscle, and bone), cost, and imaging experience of the radiology department."}
{"id": "16357409", "title": "Diagnostic performance of MR arthrography after rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Diagnostic performance of MR arthrography after rotator cuff repair. The objective of this study was to investigate the diagnostic performance of MR arthrography after rotator cuff repair. MR arthrographic examinations of the shoulder performed after rotator cuff repair and before revision surgery were retrospectively analyzed in 48 patients (31 males, 17 females; mean age, 50.3 years; age range, 17-69 years). Full-thickness and partial-thickness defects of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis tendons were diagnosed independently by two radiologists. Revision surgery served as the standard of reference. Observer 1 correctly recognized five of eight intact supraspinatus tendons, 10 of 19 partial-thickness defects, and 19 of 21 full-thickness defects. For observer 2, the numbers were three of eight, eight of 19, and 18 of 21. The corresponding numbers for the infraspinatus tendon for observer 1 were 28 of 31, 0 of three, and 14 of 14 tendons. For observer 2, they were 28 of 31, two of three, and 11 of 14. For the subscapularis tendon, observer 1 made the correct diagnosis in 18 of 31, five of six, and nine of 11 tendons. The results for observer 2 were 26 of 31, one of six, and 10 of 11 tendons. Interobserver agreement (weighted kappa) was 0.47 for the supraspinatus, 0.64 for the infraspinatus, and 0.20 for the subscapularis tendons, respectively. Postoperative full-thickness defects of the rotator cuff are reliably diagnosed with MR arthrography. The diagnostic performance for partial-thickness defects is only moderate."}
{"id": "16352733", "title": "US of the shoulder: rotator cuff and non-rotator cuff disorders.", "content": "US of the shoulder: rotator cuff and non-rotator cuff disorders. Ultrasonography (US) has been shown to be an effective imaging modality in the evaluation of both rotator cuff and non-rotator cuff disorders, usually serving in a complementary role to magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder. US technique for shoulder examination depends on patient positioning, scanning protocol for every tendon and anatomic part, and dynamic imaging. The primary US signs for rotator cuff supraspinatus tendon tears are tendon nonvisualization for complete tears, focal tendon defect for full-thickness tears, a hypoechoic defect of the articular side of the tendon for an articular-side partial-thickness tear, and flattening of the bursal surface of the tendon for a bursal-side partial-thickness tear. Secondary US signs such as cortical irregularity of the greater tuberosity and joint and subacromial-subdeltoid bursal fluid are helpful when correlated with the primary signs. Tendon degeneration, tendinosis, and intrasubstance tear are demonstrated as internal heterogeneity. Long-head biceps tendon abnormalities include instability, acute or chronic tear, and tendinosis. The acromioclavicular joint is assessed for dislocation, fluid collection, cysts, and bone erosions. Other non-rotator cuff disorders include synovial disorders such as adhesive capsulitis and synovial osteochondromatosis; degenerative disorders such as osteoarthritis, amyloid arthropathy, hemarthrosis, and chondrocalcinosis; infectious disorders such as septic arthritis and bursitis; and space-occupying lesions."}
{"id": "16337532", "title": "Volume changes of supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles after supraspinatus tendon repair: a magnetic resonance imaging study.", "content": "Volume changes of supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles after supraspinatus tendon repair: a magnetic resonance imaging study. Muscle volume was measured, by use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), as a direct indicator of functional recovery of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles after supraspinatus tendon repair, because atrophy of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles was observed in all patients with a torn supraspinatus tendon. Seventy-three patients who had a cuff tear limited only to the supraspinatus tendon were included in this study. The University of California, Los Angeles score improved significantly after surgery. MRI was carried out before surgery and 6, 12, and 24 months postoperatively in all patients. Muscle volume of the supraspinatus was assessed on images of the oblique coronal plane, and that of the infraspinatus was assessed on images of the axial plane. The width of the supraspinatus muscle did not recover until 6 months postoperatively. Direct measurement of the infraspinatus muscle volume by use of MRI can be a good indicator when evaluating whether the repaired rotator cuffs are actually functioning."}
{"id": "16337524", "title": "Outcome of glenoid neck fractures.", "content": "Outcome of glenoid neck fractures. The aim of this study was to analyze the outcome of extraarticular glenoid neck fractures with respect to glenoid neck malunion and rotator cuff injury. These fractures are often considered to have a favorable outcome if treated conservatively. More recent studies reveal that the outcome is not uniformly good, but the cause of poor outcomes has not been investigated. Our study identified 9 patients who had sustained a glenoid neck fracture of the scapula within the last 10 years and who were treated conservatively with immobilization and then early active motion. Their functional and anatomic outcomes were analyzed by clinical examination and validated scoring systems, including the Oxford questionnaire and Constant score. Plain radiography and magnetic resonance imaging were correlated to outcome. None of the 9 patients were pain-free, and some had poor Oxford and Constant scores. Pain was associated with glenoid neck malunion and evidence of subacromial bursitis or rotator cuff tendinopathy (or both)."}
{"id": "16328380", "title": "Imaging findings of spontaneous detachment of the deltoid muscle as a complication of massive rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Imaging findings of spontaneous detachment of the deltoid muscle as a complication of massive rotator cuff tear. A tear at the origin of the deltoid muscle is uncommon and usually occurs as a complication of shoulder surgery. We report a case of spontaneous deltoid detachment as a complication of massive rotator cuff tear in a 70-year-old woman evaluated by standard radiographs, ultrasound, arthrography and MR-arthrography. We present the multimodality imaging findings with review of the literature. We found that ultrasound is an accurate modality in detecting and assessing spontaneous detachment of the deltoid muscle. As ultrasound is a noninvasive, low-cost, and universally available imaging modality we suggest using ultrasound as the first modality for evaluation of spontaneous detachment of the deltoid muscle."}
{"id": "16328210", "title": "[MR imaging of the shoulder. Impingement and instability-related abnormalities].", "content": "[MR imaging of the shoulder. Impingement and instability-related abnormalities]. In addition to the case history and the clinical examination, MR imaging has an important role in the diagnosis and differential diagnosis of numerous shoulder abnormalities and in the investigation of chronic shoulder pain. Important indications for MR imaging are any conditions or symptoms making assessment of the rotator cuff and the labrocapsular complex necessary. Assessment of the rotator cuff muscles, in particular, is crucial. The value of MR arthrography, which is still controversial, is discussed. The greatest potential benefit of MR arthrography is the accurate evaluation of subtle rotator cuff abnormalities and shoulder instability-related lesions, and the assessment of pathologic conditions of the long biceps tendon. This paper describes the most common pathologic findings of the shoulder joint and describes how the relevant findings are reported and quantified for the orthopaedic shoulder surgeon."}
{"id": "16327685", "title": "[Shoulder function and scores in 180 asymptomatic individuals aged over 75 years].", "content": "[Shoulder function and scores in 180 asymptomatic individuals aged over 75 years]. The purpose of this study was to define the normal shoulder in patients aged over 75 years and to look for correlations between general health, mental status and shoulder function. Shoulder motion, rotator cuff strength and abnormal movements were evaluated in 180 subjects over 75 without surgical history involving the shoulder. Body mass index (BMI) was determined for each subject. The Simple Shoulder Test (SST) was performed and the Constant and Murley score was calculated for each shoulder. The Beck test was used to assess depression. When joint function was impaired, supplementary x-ray and ultrasound examinations were performed. Asymptomatic pathological features (rotator cuff tears, stiffness, degenerative joint disease) were identified in 56% of the shoulders. Only 44% of the shoulders were free of pathological features. 56.4% of rotator cuff tears were found in the dominant shoulder; 13.9% of subjects had bilateral degenerative joint disease; 23.3% had bilateral stiffness. There were many associated conditions: cardiovascular (33%), pulmonary (28%), gastrointestinal (25.6%), diabetes (12.2%), tumors (10.6%). 18.3% of the subjects were depressive and 14.4% were taking treatment for depression. Shoulder motion and strength were correlated with BMI and nutritional status. Thin subjects (BMI < 20) had more rotator cuff tears. Obese subjects (BMI > 29.9) had more degenerative joint disease and joint stiffness. Demand for treatment and examinations were greater among depressed subjects. Shoulder function is compatible with normal lifestyle in subjects over 75, corresponding to their desires and expectations. Shoulder function is correlated with body mass index and mental status. We should carefully assess shoulders in elderly subjects because good shoulder function, even if impaired, is often compatible with moderate stiffness, mild osteoarthritis, and rotator cuff tears, with no particular need for surgery."}
{"id": "16326727", "title": "The use of magnetic resonance arthrography to detect partial-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "The use of magnetic resonance arthrography to detect partial-thickness rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "16325080", "title": "Functional and structural outcome after arthroscopic full-thickness rotator cuff repair: single-row versus dual-row fixation.", "content": "Functional and structural outcome after arthroscopic full-thickness rotator cuff repair: single-row versus dual-row fixation. The purpose of this study was to compare the functional as well as the structural outcomes of single-row and dual-row fixation after arthroscopic full-thickness rotator cuff repair. Retrospective cohort study. A consecutive series of 80 shoulders in 78 patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears was evaluated using the rating scale of the University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) and the shoulder index of the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) at an average of 35 months (range, 24 to 60 months) after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. Thirty-nine shoulders were repaired using the single-row technique and 41 shoulders using the dual-row technique. Postoperative cuff integrity was determined through magnetic resonance imaging and was classified into 5 categories: type I, sufficient thickness with homogenously low intensity; type II, sufficient thickness with partial high intensity; type III, insufficient thickness without discontinuity; type IV, presence of a minor discontinuity; type V, presence of a major discontinuity. The average UCLA score improved significantly to 32.4 in the single-row and to 33.1 in the dual-row group. The ASES shoulder index improved significantly to 93.0 in the single-row group and to 94.6 in the dual-row group. However, there was no statistical difference between the groups in the postoperative scores. Postoperative MRI revealed 11 type I, 6 type II, 12 type III, 4 type IV, and 6 type V in the single-row group, and 22 type I, 8 type II, 7 type III, 4 type IV, and no type V in the dual-row group. A statistical difference was observed between the groups (P < .01). Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair yielded successful functional outcomes without significant difference between single and dual-row fixation techniques. However, dual-row repairs excelled in structural outcome over the single-row technique. Level III."}
{"id": "16322616", "title": "Changes in rotator cuff muscle volume, fat content, and passive mechanics after chronic detachment in a canine model.", "content": "Changes in rotator cuff muscle volume, fat content, and passive mechanics after chronic detachment in a canine model. Long-standing tears of the rotator cuff can lead to substantial and perhaps irreversible changes in the affected rotator cuff muscles. We developed a chronic rotator cuff tear in a canine model to investigate and quantify the time-related changes in passive mechanics, volume, and fat of the infraspinatus muscle. We hypothesized that infraspinatus muscle stiffness would increase, volume would decrease, and fat content would increase at twelve weeks following tendon detachment. The right infraspinatus tendon of eight adult mongrel dogs were surgically detached from the proximal part of the humerus. The uninvolved left shoulder served as a control. Muscle volume changes were quantified with use of magnetic resonance imaging. At twelve weeks, the passive mechanical properties of the chronically detached and control muscles were determined intraoperatively with use of a custom-designed device. Intramuscular fat was evaluated histologically at the time that the animals were killed. After twelve weeks of detachment, the stiffness was significantly increased in the detached infraspinatus muscles relative to that in the controls (p < 0.0001). Magnetic resonance image analysis demonstrated that the detached muscle volumes decreased by an average of 32% in the first six weeks and remained constant thereafter. Intramuscular fat increased significantly in the detached muscles and to a greater extent in the lateral regions (p < 0.05). The chronically detached muscle is not merely a smaller version of the original muscle but, rather, a different muscle. The detached muscle becomes stiffer, and the passive loads required to repair it can become excessive. A significant reduction in muscle volume occurs within days to weeks following tendon detachment (p < 0.0001). The nonuniformity of changes in muscle fat suggests that fat content should be used cautiously as an indicator of muscle quality."}
{"id": "16315115", "title": "Imaging of the overhead throwing athlete.", "content": "Imaging of the overhead throwing athlete. Knowledge of overhead throwing biomechanics is crucial to understand specific injuries encountered in throwing athletes on diagnostic imaging. Most specific injuries of overhead throwing athletes occur at the shoulder and elbow. Throwing athletes are susceptible to rotator cuff tears from tensile overload and external and internal impingement. The labrum is also commonly degenerated or torn secondary to overuse syndrome, internal impingement, and microtrauma. The elbow is typically injured secondary to excessive valgus forces during throwing. The ulnar collateral ligament, ulnar nerve, and common flexor tendon origin are all at increased risk of injury. Capitellar osteochondral injuries and loose intra-articular bodies are also frequent. Knowledge of injury pathophysiology is crucial to understanding the treatment rationale in throwing athletes."}
{"id": "16307290", "title": "A study for evaluating the effect of the deltoid-flap repair in massive rotator cuff defects.", "content": "A study for evaluating the effect of the deltoid-flap repair in massive rotator cuff defects. The repair of massive cuff defects by direct suture often is impossible. In these cases, a repair by musculo-tendineous flaps (latissimus-dorsi, pectoralis or deltoideus) is required. It was the goal of this study to evaluate the result of delta-flap repair in case of massive cuff defects with a diameter of 5 cm or more. Between 1998 and 2000 for all patients who were suffering from a massive rotator cuff tear more than 5 cm a deltoid transfer was performed. A total of 20 patients (14 male, 6 female; age: 60.9+/-8.7 years) were available for a follow-up after 47.2+/-8.0 (range, 36 to 60) month. The operation included an arthroscopic evaluation, acromioplasty with resection of the lateral clavicular end, and biceps tenodesis. The cuff defect was repaired by transfer a muscular flap from the anterior part of the deltoid (about 2 x 6 cm) into the defect. The patients subjectively rated their result-10 excellent, 9 good, and 1 poor. Preoperatively, the Constant amounted 26.3+/-5.1 points. At follow-up, the score significantly increased to 74.5+/-8.5 points. The acromiohumeral distance increased from 4.9+/-1.1 to 9.2+/-1.7 mm. In MRI examination of 11 patients all had an intact flap. Two complications (a wound hematoma and a deep infection) did not influence the result. The repair of massive rotator cuff tears by a deltoid transfer produces acceptable clinical and radiological results."}
{"id": "16303992", "title": "Width of high signal and extension posterior to biceps tendon as signs of superior labrum anterior to posterior tears on MRI and MR arthrography.", "content": "Width of high signal and extension posterior to biceps tendon as signs of superior labrum anterior to posterior tears on MRI and MR arthrography. The purpose of our study was to determine the accuracy of two signs for superior labrum anterior to posterior (SLAP) tears: increased width of high signal between the superior labrum and glenoid, and high signal posterior to the biceps tendon. Forty-one patients with SLAP tears and 40 patients without a tear at surgery who had undergone MRI or MR arthrography were retrospectively evaluated. The MR studies were combined and interpreted in a blinded manner. The reviewers measured the width of high signal that extended to the articular surface on oblique coronal images and determined whether the high signal extended posterior to the biceps. A Student's t test was used to determine statistical significance between the means of the signal width. High-signal width was greater in patients with a SLAP tear than in the control group on both MRI and MR arthrography (both p = 0.003). The sensitivity and specificity of at least 2.0 mm on MRI are 39% (11/28) and 89% (24/27) and at least 2.5 mm on MR arthrography are 46% (6/13) and 85% (11/13). The sensitivity and specificity of high signal posterior to the biceps are 54% (15/28) and 74% (20/27) on MRI and 69% (9/13) and 54% (7/13) on MR arthrography. Increased width of high signal has a moderate specificity but a poor positive predictive value for distinguishing a SLAP tear from a normal recess. In addition, labral signal posterior to the biceps tendon is not rare in patients with no SLAP tear."}
{"id": "16284137", "title": "Rotator cuff tears: clinical, radiographic, and US findings.", "content": "Rotator cuff tears: clinical, radiographic, and US findings. Rotator cuff tears are a common cause of shoulder pain. Clinical and radiographic findings can suggest the presence of a rotator cuff tear. The most sensitive clinical findings are impingement and the \"arc of pain\" sign. Radiographic findings are usually normal in the acute setting, although the \"active abduction\" view may show decreased acromiohumeral distance. In more chronic cases, an outlet view may show decreased opacity and decreased size of the supraspinatus muscle due to atrophy. In late cases, the humeral head may become subluxated superiorly, and secondary degenerative arthritis of the glenohumeral joint may ensue. Ultrasonography (US), with over 90% sensitivity and specificity, can help confirm the diagnosis in clinically or radiographically equivocal cases. US can also reveal the presence of other abnormalities that may mimic rotator cuff tear at clinical examination, including tendinosis, calcific tendinitis, subacromial subdeltoid bursitis, greater tuberosity fracture, and adhesive capsulitis."}
{"id": "16279387", "title": "Supraspinatus tendinosis associated with biceps brachii tendon displacement in a dog.", "content": "Supraspinatus tendinosis associated with biceps brachii tendon displacement in a dog. A 4-year-old spayed female Australian Cattle Dog (Blue Heeler) was evaluated because of right forelimb lameness of 5 months' duration. Orthopedic evaluation revealed signs of pain localized to the cranial aspects of both shoulder joints. Via magnetic resonance imaging, the mass of the supraspinatus tendon insertion in both shoulder joints was increased, compared with findings in cadavers of clinically normal dogs; additional imaging procedures revealed that, compared with clinically normal tendons, the tendon had increased signal intensity that was consistent with increased fluid content. The increased supraspinatus tendon mass in each shoulder joint was associated with medial displacement of the biceps brachii tendon, which was more severe in the right limb. Arthroscopic evaluations of both shoulder joints revealed no abnormalities. The dog underwent surgery, and the abnormal parts of the tendons were resected. The most prominent finding on histologic examination of excised tissues was severe myxomatous degeneration. The lameness resolved, and at 22 months after surgery, the dog was reported to have had no recurrence of lameness. The clinical signs and histologic appearance of the tendons in this dog strongly resemble findings associated with tendinosis in humans. Decompression of the biceps brachii tendon may have contributed to the successful outcome after surgery in this dog. Supraspinatus tendinosis should be considered among the differential diagnoses in dogs with uni- or bilateral forelimb lameness."}
{"id": "16267650", "title": "Treatment option in a SLAP-related ganglion cyst resulting in suprascapular nerve entrapment.", "content": "Treatment option in a SLAP-related ganglion cyst resulting in suprascapular nerve entrapment. Our report shows a rare case of suprascapular nerve palsy due to a SLAP-related ganglion cyst resulting in isolated weakness of the infraspinatus muscle. We report on a 31-year old volleyball player with severe shoulder pain. A ganglion cyst was excised in an open procedure and was completely resolved in a postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). But the patient again had pain and disability 7 months after this procedure. A renewed MRI scan showed a cystic mass in the spinoglenoid notch. An electromyography revealed an isolated lesion of the suprascapular nerve. The patient was treated by shoulder arthroscopy with refixation of a type-II-SLAP-lesion and drainage of the cyst formation. At latest follow-up 29 months after surgery, the patient's pain and shoulder function improved with a constant score of 94 points. A MRI scan documented complete cyst resolution. Treatment options for ganglion cysts at the spinoglenoid notch are various and can be handled in conservative and operative ways. We believe that the arthroscopic concept with the management of a SLAP lesion as the cause of cyst formation, and the drainage of the ganglion is an effective way with low surgical morbidity that shows good postoperative results."}
{"id": "16260468", "title": "Patterns of vascular and anatomical response after rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Patterns of vascular and anatomical response after rotator cuff repair. It has been assumed that a robust vascular response at the tendon to bone interface during rotator cuff repairs is an integral part to the healing process. There are few studies that have explored this in an in-vivo prospective fashion. To prospectively characterize vascular and anatomical patterns in repaired rotator cuff tendons using Power Doppler sonography in a double-blinded fashion. Case control study; Level of evidence, 3. Fifty patients undergoing rotator cuff repair were enrolled: 28 mini-open, 14 open, and 8 arthroscopic repairs; 20 patients were controls. Patients underwent Power Doppler sonography at 6 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months postoperatively. Power Doppler sonography analysis examined 6 areas of the rotator cuff repair: discretely marginated intrasubstance, partial-thickness defects, full-thickness defects, focal thinning of repair, presence of bursal or joint fluid, and location of anchors. A subjective scoring system assessed blood flow in each region. There was a predictable, significant decrease in vascular scores after rotator cuff repair over time. The mean vascular score was 11.6 at 6 weeks, 8.3 at 3 months, 7.0 at 6 months, and 2.4 for controls. There was a significant difference (P < .05) in vascular recruitment scores between each time period, with the most robust flow at the peritendinous region. The lowest vascular score was at the anchor site or cancellous trough. Forty-eight percent of the patients had a rotator cuff repair defect postoperatively. These findings did not correlate with functional assessment and outcome at 6 months. There was no significant difference in vascular scores between the defect and no-defect groups. Mean University of California, Los Angeles; L'Insalata; and American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores at 6 months were 28.6, 86.3, and 81.5, respectively. Thirty-three percent of asymptomatic controls had a rotator cuff tear that averaged 7.6 x 7.1 mm. The robust vascular response dropped with time, which is not seen in asymptomatic shoulders. Nearly half of the patients demonstrated persistent rotator cuff defects after rotator cuff repair that did not correlate with functional outcome and physical findings at 6 months."}
{"id": "16260463", "title": "Allograft reconstruction for massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Allograft reconstruction for massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears. There is currently no widely accepted treatment for massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears. Allograft reconstruction to span the remaining defect in massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears will lead to increased functional results and will demonstrate healing of the allograft on follow-up magnetic resonance imaging studies. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Between 1989 and 2003, 32 patients underwent allograft reconstruction of massive rotator cuff tears. University of California, Los Angeles shoulder scores were compared preoperatively and postoperatively and analyzed using paired Student t tests. In addition, 15 patients underwent postoperative magnetic resonance imaging to evaluate the structural integrity of the allograft reconstruction at the greater tuberosity insertion. Of 32 patients, 28 were available for review at a mean follow-up of 31.3 months; 23 of the 28 patients were satisfied with their outcome. There was 1 postoperative infection and 1 acute allograft rejection. The mean University of California, Los Angeles score increased from 12.1 preoperatively to 26.1 postoperatively (P < .001). All 15 patients evaluated with postoperative magnetic resonance imaging arthrograms demonstrated complete radiographic failure of the allograft rotator cuff reconstruction. Despite radiographic failure, the mean University of California, Los Angeles score increased from 13.2 preoperatively to 28.3 postoperatively in this subset of patients. The functional results of this reconstruction method are similar to those reported for debridement and subacromial decompression alone and are satisfactory, despite magnetic resonance imaging arthrogram evaluation demonstrating failure of the structural integrity of the allograft. Allograft reconstruction carries increased risk of infection and rejection and is technically more difficult than other less expensive treatment options with similar functional results. Therefore, we do not recommend allograft reconstruction of massive and otherwise irreparable rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "16226652", "title": "The belly-off sign: a new clinical diagnostic sign for subscapularis lesions.", "content": "The belly-off sign: a new clinical diagnostic sign for subscapularis lesions. We describe a new clinical sign for subscapularis lesions that we call the belly-off sign and compare its diagnostic value with standard subscapularis tests (the lift-off test, internal rotation lag sign, and belly-press test/Napoleon sign) in cases of different types of subscapularis lesions. The belly-off sign represents the inability of the patient to maintain the palm of the hand attached to the abdomen with the arm passively brought into flexion and internal rotation. Case series. This descriptive and explorative study included 60 patients (mean age, 55.3 years) with clinical, surgical, and/or magnetic resonance imaging-confirmed evidence of isolated or combined lesions of the subscapularis musculotendinous unit. In all patients, a complete physical shoulder examination was performed and the results were compared with the intraoperative and magnetic resonance imaging findings. The belly-off sign appeared to be more reliable than any other diagnostic test or sign in detecting isolated partial tears of the subscapularis tendon (group I), combined partial subscapularis and complete supraspinatus tendon tears (group II), and postoperative subscapularis insufficiency with mild atrophy of the upper aspect of the subscapularis muscle (group VII). In cases of complete/near complete subscapularis tears with or without supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendon tears (groups IV, V, and VI), the belly-off sign appeared to be as reliable as the belly-press test, internal rotation lag sign, and lift-off test. For assessing partial subscapularis tendon tears and insufficient external rotators (group III), the belly-off sign was less reliable than any other diagnostic test or sign. The belly-off sign represents a promising new clinical diagnostic sign for subscapularis lesions. In particular, subtle lesions of the upper subscapularis tendon and postoperative subscapularis insufficiencies can be detected by the belly-off sign in cases of intact external rotators. In cases of an advanced lack of external rotators, the belly-off sign becomes negative and loses its diagnostic value. We therefore conclude that the belly-off sign is attributable to an unbalanced transverse force couple with overwhelming of the external rotators of the shoulder. Level IV, case series with no, or historical, control group."}
{"id": "16226651", "title": "Relation between narrowed coracohumeral distance and subscapularis tears.", "content": "Relation between narrowed coracohumeral distance and subscapularis tears. To determine whether coracohumeral distance was significantly narrowed in the presence of a torn subscapularis. Retrospective cohort study. The coracohumeral distance of a consecutive series of patients (n = 35, 36 shoulders) requiring an arthroscopic repair of the subscapularis was compared with a control group (n = 35). The control group consisted of patients who underwent shoulder arthroscopy but who did not have any rotator cuff, subscapularis, or subcoracoid pathology. The coracohumeral distance was measured from the tip of the coracoid to the cortex of the proximal humerus on an axial cut of preoperative magnetic resonance imaging. A Student t test was used to determine the statistical differences between the 2 groups. The average coracohumeral distance in the subscapularis group was 5.0 +/- 1.7 mm and the average coracohumeral distance in the control group was 10.0 +/- 1.3 mm. Statistical analysis, using the Student t test, showed that the coracohumeral distance was significantly narrowed in the group of patients with a torn subscapularis. These results show a significant relationship between a narrowed coracohumeral distance and subscapularis pathology. Level III, retrospective cohort study."}
{"id": "16210463", "title": "Correlation between clinical diagnosis and arthroscopic findings of the shoulder.", "content": "Correlation between clinical diagnosis and arthroscopic findings of the shoulder. To assess the accuracy of clinical examination by non-specialist orthopaedic surgeons of patients presenting to a diagnostic and treatment centre (DTC) for arthroscopic shoulder surgery. A retrospective review of notes of 130 consecutive shoulder arthroscopies performed at a DTC over a 10 month period. Preoperative clinical diagnosis was compared with operative arthroscopic findings. Additional information from preoperative imaging was compared with clinical examination and arthroscopic findings. Preoperative clinical examinations and consent were undertaken by clinical fellows, (SpR level) and non-upper limb consultant orthopaedic surgeons. Consultants specialising in upper limb surgery performed the operations. Six main groups were identified on the basis of clinical examination: impingement 76 cases (58%), instability 22 cases (17%), frozen shoulder 11 cases (8%), rotator cuff tear four cases (3%), non-specific pain eight cases (6%), and normal clinical examination nine cases (7%). Impingement and instability diagnosed clinically strongly correlated with the arthroscopic findings. Clinical diagnosis of frozen shoulder and rotator cuff tears had a weaker correlation with the arthroscopic findings. Of the nine cases of normal clinical examination, abnormality was found at arthroscopy in all cases. There have been very few studies comparing clinical examination of the shoulder with arthroscopic findings. This study emphasises the importance of good clinical examination skills in diagnosing common shoulder abnormalities. The addition of imaging, particularly ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging further increases the likelihood of an accurate diagnosis. Shoulder examination should be taught with as much emphasis at both undergraduate and postgraduate level as other orthopaedic clinical examinations."}
{"id": "16205148", "title": "Evaluation of rotator cuff tears with magnetic resonance arthrography.", "content": "Evaluation of rotator cuff tears with magnetic resonance arthrography. The size and morphologic features of rotator cuff tears may influence treatment selection and affect final outcomes. Magnetic resonance arthrography allows observation of these features and other intraarticular structures. To assess the utility of magnetic resonance imaging in assessing size and morphologic features, we retrospectively reviewed observations on 41 shoulders in 37 consecutive surgically treated patients (mean age, 63.2 years) who had magnetic resonance imaging followed by magnetic resonance arthrography. The maximum rotator cuff defect size in the anteroposterior direction defined transverse size, and the maximum rotator cuff defect size in the mediolateral direction defined longitudinal size. Sensitivities for detecting full-thickness rotator cuff tears by magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance arthrography were 90.2% and 100%, respectively. Maximum longitudinal and transverse dimensions of the tear as shown by magnetic resonance arthrography correlated better with intraoperative measurements (r2 = 0.85 transversely, 0.92 longitudinally) than magnetic resonance imaging measurements (r2 = 0.47 transversely, 0.26 longitudinally). The reproducibility of the two methods is similar. Magnetic resonance arthrography also allowed morphologic classification of the torn tendon as blunt end, tapering end, indistinct end, horizontal tear, and global tear. There was good agreement in classifying torn edges; the imaging findings agreed with findings at surgery. Magnetic resonance arthrography was more accurate in evaluating rotator cuff tear size and morphologic features than conventional magnetic resonance imaging."}
{"id": "16200386", "title": "Posterior-inferior glenoid rim shapes by MR imaging.", "content": "Posterior-inferior glenoid rim shapes by MR imaging. Our purpose was to try to apply a CT classification of glenoid rim shapes to MR images and to determine the reliability of the subsequent MR classification by testing observer variability. Shoulder MR imaging exams of 54 consecutive patients were reviewed retrospectively by two musculoskeletal radiologists independently. Posterior-inferior glenoid rim shape was categorized, based on reported CT criteria, as triangle, \"lazy-J\" or \"delta\" using the most caudal MR section that unequivocally showed articular cartilage. The same studies were reviewed again one month later to test interobserver and intraobserver variability. Final determination of glenoid rim type was made by consensus. There were 31 males and 23 females with an average age of 42 years, range 14-75 years. Forty-one patients were referred for evaluation of nonspecific shoulder pain, 9 for suspected rotator cuff tear and 4 for instability. The most common shape was \"lazy-J\" with 32 patients (59%) having this type. The least common was delta shape, with 7 patients (13%) having this form. Fifteen patients (28%) had a normal triangle shape. There was significant interobserver variability in determining the shape of the glenoid rim with 17/54 (31%) discordant readings. For the \"lazy-J\" shape, the kappa value was .02, for the \"delta\" type, kappa value was .60 and for the triangle shape, kappa was .32. Intraobserver variability was 35% for radiologist A and 28% for radiologist B. Kappa values for intraobserver variability ranged from .53 to .85. Four patients had posterior instability, 3 were judged to have normal triangular inferior glenoid rims and 1 a \"lazy J\" type by Radiologist A. Radiologist B judged 2 of the instability patients as normal triangular and 2 as \"lazy J\". A CT classification of posterior-inferior glenoid rim shapes can be applied using MR imaging, however, there is significant observer variability that limits the applicability of this classification scheme with MR imaging."}
{"id": "16200049", "title": "MR study of the intrinsic acromial angle in 74 symptomatic patients.", "content": "MR study of the intrinsic acromial angle in 74 symptomatic patients. The study was undertaken to define some measurements on sagittal MR images that could provide quantitative data on the subacromial space in patients affected by nonspecific impingement syndrome and to correlate these measurements with the Bigliani classification of acromial morphology. We retrospectively reviewed 74 shoulders in 74 patients (47 males, 27 females, age range 35-62 years) who presented with mechanical disability and pain. The patients underwent MRI using T1-weighted sagittal oblique and coronal SE sequences (TR 500 ms ,TE 12 ms) and T2-weighted FSE sequences (TR 3500, TE 25 ms) with dedicated coil. Two parameters were evaluated: the intrinsec acromial angle and the acromio-humeral distance. The measurements were made on the sagittal images at the acromion-clavicular junction and correlated to the Bigliani classification of acromial morphology. The images were evaluated by two radiologists blinded to the patients' identity, history and arthroscopic results. The acromial angle was measured in 72 shoulders. The values were found to correlate with the Bigliani classification. In our series, the intrinsic acromial angle (resulting from the intersection between the longitudinal acromial axis and the tangent to the acromial undersurface) ranged from 0 degrees to 17 degrees. In shoulders with rotator cuff tears the acromial angle varied between 8 degrees and 17 degrees. There were no tears for acromial angles below 8 degrees, whereas in patients with full-thickness tears the angles ranged from a minimum of 12 degrees to a maximum of 15 degrees. Acromio-humeral distance ranged from 2 mm to 10 mm; in patients with cuff tears it could not be assessed as it was close to zero in nearly all cases, whereas in cases of impingement without cuff tear it ranged from 5 mm to 10 mm. Impingement without cuff tear was detected in 31 cases, with angles ranging from 10 degrees to 17 degrees. Our findings demonstrate the effectiveness of the two quantitative parameters (intrinsic acromial angle and acromio-humeral distance) which are important causative factors in impingement syndrome. These parameters were found to be consistent and comparable with the Bigliani classification of acromial morphology which, although providing useful qualitative data, does not fully respond to our quantitative needs. Our study suggests that impingement syndrome is negatively correlated to acromio-humeral distance and positively correlated to intrinsic acromial angle. These parameters, which are readily detected with MRI, may be used by the radiologist and orthopaedic surgeon to screen patients with nonspecific impingement syndrome."}
{"id": "16195065", "title": "Diagnostic ultrasound of the shoulder--a method for experts only? Results from an orthopedic surgeon with relative inexpensive compared to operative findings.", "content": "Diagnostic ultrasound of the shoulder--a method for experts only? Results from an orthopedic surgeon with relative inexpensive compared to operative findings. Diagnostic ultrasound examination of the shoulder is generally considered to require long experience. We examined the results of an orthopedic surgeon with little experience of ultrasound. A relatively inexperienced examiner performed preoperative ultrasound scanning of 79 patients with symptoms from the rotator cuff and/or the long head of the biceps muscle. Tears of the rotator cuff and rupture or dislocation of the long head of the biceps muscle were the positive findings of interest. Results were compared to operative findings. In 66 of 79 shoulders, ultrasonographic rotator cuff findings were confirmed at surgery (accuracy 84%). 20 of 26 full-thickness tears were diagnosed correctly. 6 of 7 partial-thickness tears were overlooked. Ultrasound was false positive in 1 case. For the long head of the biceps muscle, all 8 cases of dislocation or rupture of the tendon were diagnosed but differentiation between the two conditions was not possible in 2 cases. Our results may encourage orthopedic surgeons to start using ultrasound as a diagnostic technique for full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff and for pathology in the long head of the biceps muscle."}
{"id": "16192321", "title": "Fatty atrophy of supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles: accuracy of US.", "content": "Fatty atrophy of supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles: accuracy of US. To prospectively evaluate the accuracy of ultrasonography (US) in depicting fatty atrophy of the supraspinatus (SSP) and infraspinatus (ISP) muscles, with magnetic resonance (MR) imaging as the reference standard. Institutional review board approval and informed consent were obtained. SSP and ISP muscles of 65 consecutive patients (27 women, 38 men; mean age, 53.1 years; range, 28-83 years) with possible rotator cuff tears were evaluated with US in two planes. Visibility of muscle contour, pennate pattern, the central tendon, and muscle echogenicity was assessed by two radiologists. On the basis of these findings, diagnosis of substantial fatty atrophy was made at US. Accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, proportion of over- and underestimations, and interobserver agreement in diagnosis of substantial (grade 2 or greater) muscle atrophy were determined. Fatty atrophy was graded at MR imaging as follows: score of 0 = no intramuscular fat, score of 1 = some fatty streaks, score of 2 = fat evident but less extensive than muscle, score of 3 = fat equal to muscle, and score of 4 = fat more extensive than muscle. For readers 1 and 2, the accuracy of US in depicting fatty atrophy of SSP muscle was 75% (49 of 65) and 72% (47 of 65), sensitivity was 89% (eight of nine) and 100% (nine of nine), and specificity was 73% (41 of 56) and 68% (38 of 56), respectively. For readers 1 and 2, the accuracy of US in depicting fatty atrophy of ISP muscle was 85% (55 of 65) and 80% (52 of 65), sensitivity was 58% (11 of 19) and 63% (12 of 19), and specificity was 96% (44 of 46) and 87% (40 of 46), respectively. Overestimation of SSP muscle atrophy was more common (23% [15 of 65] for reader 1 and 28% [18 of 65] for reader 2) than underestimation (2% [one of 65] for reader 1 and 0% [0 of 65] for reader 2). For readers 1 and 2, overestimation of ISP muscle atrophy was 3% (two of 65) and 9% (six of 65) and underestimation was 12% (eight of 65) and 9% (seven of 65), respectively. Interobserver agreement was moderate for SSP (kappa = 0.55) and substantial for ISP (kappa = 0.71) muscles. US is moderately accurate in the diagnosis of substantial fatty atrophy of the SSP or ISP muscle."}
{"id": "16187723", "title": "Infraspinatus muscle contracture.", "content": "Infraspinatus muscle contracture."}
{"id": "16181197", "title": "Sonography and visualizing rotator cuff injuries in older people.", "content": "Sonography and visualizing rotator cuff injuries in older people."}
{"id": "16177410", "title": "MRI of internal impingement of the shoulder.", "content": "MRI of internal impingement of the shoulder. Internal impingement is a condition that occurs in athletes in which the shoulder is put in extreme abduction and external rotation during overhead movements. During this motion, the posterior fibers of the supraspinatus tendon, anterior fibers of the infraspinatus tendon, or both can get impinged between the humeral head and the posterior glenoid. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the ability of MRI to show the findings of internal impingement of the shoulder. As opposed to our six patients with clinically and surgically diagnosed internal impingement, the control patients had isolated pathology in the rotator cuff, labrum, or humeral head. We found that the constellation of findings of undersurface tears of the supraspinatus or infraspinatus tendon and cystic changes in the posterior aspect of the humeral head associated with posterosuperior labral pathology is a consistent finding diagnostic of internal impingement."}
{"id": "16171668", "title": "Cerebral ischemia during shoulder surgery in the upright position: a case series.", "content": "Cerebral ischemia during shoulder surgery in the upright position: a case series. We report 4 cases of ischemic brain and spinal cord injury after shoulder surgery in the beach chair position, using data from medical legal case reviews. We argue that the correlation between cardiovascular risk factors and cerebral ischemic complications for this type of surgery is poor in these middle-aged patients. Rather, our analysis suggests that the sitting position and the head position create specific physiological conditions that may be conducive to cerebral and spinal cord ischemia during this type of surgery. Thromboembolic events may be an additional cause of adverse neurologic outcomes."}
{"id": "16171634", "title": "A comparison of arthroscopic and open rotator cuff repair.", "content": "A comparison of arthroscopic and open rotator cuff repair. The purpose of this study was to compare the results of all-arthroscopic repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears including massive tear with those of open repair. Nonrandomized control study. We evaluated 100 consecutive patients (100 shoulders) who were treated for full-thickness rotator cuff tears either by all-arthroscopic (50 patients) or open repair (50 patients). The mean age was 57 years (range, 24 to 78 years). The mean follow-up period was 49 months (range, 25 to 83 months). Of all the patients, 7 had a small tear, 63 a medium tear, 17 a large tear, and 13 a massive tear; in the arthroscopic group, 5 had a small tear, 28 a medium tear, 9 a large tear, and 8 a massive tear. The results of the arthroscopic and open groups were compared using the shoulder rating scale of the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) and the Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA). The 2 groups were statistically similar in terms of age, gender, trauma incidence, tear size, duration of symptoms, and preoperative shoulder scores. The UCLA and JOA scores improved significantly in both groups postoperatively. Outcomes and the postoperative UCLA and JOA scores were not significantly different between the 2 groups. The postoperative UCLA and JOA scores in patients with a large-to-massive tear were significantly lower than those with a small-to-medium tear, but outcomes were not statistically different between the arthroscopic and open groups depending on the tear size. The percentage of satisfactory results of arthroscopic and open repair for small-to-medium tears was 97.0% and 94.6%, respectively. Those of arthroscopic and open repair for large-to-massive tears was 82.4% and 76.9%, respectively. Arthroscopic repair of small-to-massive tears had outcomes equivalent to those of open repair. Outcomes in patients with large-to-massive tears were inferior to those in patients with small-to-medium tears, regardless of repair method. Level III, case-control study."}
{"id": "16170042", "title": "The transverse humeral ligament: a separate anatomical structure or a continuation of the osseous attachment of the rotator cuff?", "content": "The transverse humeral ligament: a separate anatomical structure or a continuation of the osseous attachment of the rotator cuff? No study to date has isolated the anatomical nature of the transverse humeral ligament and its relationship to the biceps tendon and the anterosuperior portion of the rotator cuff. There is no separate identifiable transverse humeral ligament, but rather the fibers covering the intertubercular groove are composed of a sling formed by fibers from the subscapularis and supraspinatus tendons. Descriptive laboratory study. A total of 14 shoulder examinations were performed on 7 matched pairs of fresh-frozen cadaveric shoulders. Magnetic resonance imaging scans were performed, followed by gross and microscopic anatomical dissection. In the location of the transverse humeral ligament, magnetic resonance imaging and gross dissection revealed the continuation of superficial fibers of the subscapularis tendon from the tendon body across the intertubercular groove to attach to the greater tuberosity, whereas deeper fibers of the subscapularis tendon inserted on the lesser tuberosity. Longitudinal fibers of the supraspinatus tendon and the coracohumeral ligament were also noted to travel the length of the groove, deep to the other interdigitating fibers but superficial to the biceps tendon. Histologic studies confirmed these gross dissection patterns of fiber attachment and also revealed the absence of elastin fibers, which are more commonly seen in ligamentous structures and are typically absent from tendinous structures. There is no identifiable transverse humeral ligament, but rather the fibers covering the intertubercular groove are composed of a sling formed mainly by the fibers of the subscapularis tendon, with contributions from the supraspinatus tendon and the coracohumeral ligament. According to our findings, dislocations of the long head of the biceps must disrupt at least the deep fibers of the annular sling created mainly by the subscapularis tendon insertion. This finding provides anatomical support for the findings of a positive biceps tendon subluxation or dislocation and subscapularis tear during glenohumeral arthroscopy with a normal-appearing subscapularis during open surgery or subacromial arthroscopy."}
{"id": "16156339", "title": "Common overuse tendon problems: A review and recommendations for treatment.", "content": "Common overuse tendon problems: A review and recommendations for treatment. There is a common misconception that symptomatic tendon injuries are inflammatory; because of this, these injuries often are mislabeled as \"tendonitis.\"' Acute inflammatory tendinopathies exist, but most patients seen in primary care will have chronic symptoms suggesting a degenerative condition that should be labeled as \"tendinosus\" or \"tendinopathy.\" Accurate diagnosis requires physicians to recognize the historical features, anatomy, and useful physical examination maneuvers for these common tendon problems. The natural history is gradually increasing load-related localized pain coinciding with increased activity. The most common overuse tendinopathies involve the rotator cuff, medial and lateral elbow epicondyles, patellar tendon, and Achilles tendon. Examination should include thorough inspection to assess for swelling, asymmetry, and erythema of involved tendons; range-of-motion testing; palpation for tenderness; and examination maneuvers that simulate tendon loading and reproduce pain. Plain radiography, ultrasonography, and magnetic resonance imaging can be helpful if the diagnosis remains unclear. Most patients with overuse tendinopathies (about 80 percent) fully recover within three to six months, and outpatient treatment should consist of relative rest of the affected area, icing, and eccentric strengthening exercises. Although topical and systemic nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are effective for acute pain relief, these cannot be recommended in favor of other analgesics. Injected corticosteroids also can relieve pain, but these drugs should be used with caution. Ultrasonography, shock wave therapy, orthotics, massage, and technique modification are treatment options, but few data exist to support their use at this time. Surgery is an effective treatment that should be reserved for patients who have failed conservative therapy."}
{"id": "16148361", "title": "Subscapularis tendon tears.", "content": "Subscapularis tendon tears. Pathology of the subscapularis tendon is both infrequently identified and not commonly considered as a major source of shoulder pain and dysfunction. Subscapularis tendon pathology can present as isolated tears; partial-thickness tears; anterosuperior tears, also involving the supraspinatus tendon; complete rotator cuff avulsion; and rotator interval lesions, in which instability of the long head of the biceps tendon may dominate the clinical presentation. Although an accurate physical examination is paramount, modalities such as arthroscopy, magnetic resonance imaging, and ultrasound have advanced knowledge of the spectrum of abnormalities involving the subscapularis tendon. Nonsurgical management may be effective for most partial tears. Surgically, open repair is more frequent than use of arthroscopic techniques. Tears of the subscapularis tendon portend a different prognosis than do supraspinatus tendon tears, especially when the injury is acute and diagnosis is delayed."}
{"id": "16127127", "title": "Partial-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. Partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff have been diagnosed with increased frequency because of a heightened awareness of the condition by clinicians and improved diagnostic methods. Research into the causes, natural history, and optimal treatment of this condition lags behind that of full-thickness tears. However, despite the limitations in the existing literature, there has emerged a consensus among shoulder experts that partial-thickness rotator cuff tears should be aggressively treated in the active athlete because of the unfavorable natural history of these lesions and success of accepted surgical algorithms. This review will provide an overview of the theories regarding the origins of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears, discuss the relative accuracy of accepted diagnostic techniques, and summarize the indications and methods of operative repair with an emphasis on the results of various treatment approaches."}
{"id": "16123923", "title": "[Validity of ultrasound examinations of disorders of the shoulder joint].", "content": "[Validity of ultrasound examinations of disorders of the shoulder joint]. The objective of the present study was to assess the validity of ultrasound diagnosis of shoulder disorders in relation to examiner experience. A total of 239 patients referred to us for shoulder arthroscopy from October 2001 to June 2004 were prospectively studied by ultrasound. The following ultrasound diagnoses were evaluated: total and partial rotator cuff tears, calcific tendinitis, biceps tendon injuries and subacromial bursitis. Examiner A established the ultrasound diagnoses and examiner B performed the surgery during week A, whereas examiner B did the examinations and examiner A operated in week B. The surgeon was blinded to the ultrasound results. Examiner A conducts ultrasound training seminars for DEGUM, the German Society of Ultrasound in Medicine, and has performed over 10,000 ultrasound examinations, with an average of roughly 150 examinations per year. Examiner B completed his ultrasound training some years ago and has performed roughly 1500 examinations (50 per year). The results were analysed in a time-independent and blinded manner by the co-author (H), who neither operated nor examined the patients. Ultrasound correctly identified 103 of 104 complete rotator cuff tears (sensitivity: 0.99--specificity: 0.99--accuracy: 98.7%). Both examiners achieved comparable results. Moreover, 41 of 52 partial rotator cuff tears were detected preoperatively (sensitivity: 0.79--specificity: 0.91--accuracy: 88.7%). Examiner A achieved a sensitivity of 0.92, a specificity of 0.95, and an accuracy of 94.7%. The corresponding rates for examiner B were: sensitivity 0.68, specificity 0.86, and accuracy 81.3%. 16 of 23 injuries of the long biceps tendon were identified correctly (4 of 8 dislocations and 12 of 15 tears: sensitivity 0.53; specificity 0.9; accuracy 95.3%). Examiner A achieved: sensitivity 0.58; specificity 0.99; accuracy 91.7% compared to examiner B: sensitivity 0.33; specificity 0.97; accuracy 95.3%. Both examiners correctly identified all 32 cases of calcific tendinitis (sensitivity 1.0; specificity 0.98; accuracy 98.3 % examiner A: 1.0--1.0--100% examiner B: 1.0--0.96--96.2%). 22 of 28 cases of subacromial bursitis were correctly diagnosed (sensitivity 0.79; specificity 0.98; accuracy 95.8% examiner A: 0.92--0.99--98.5% examiner B: 0.69--0.97--92.5%). Preoperative ultrasound examination of the shoulder permits a reliable diagnosis of complete rotator cuff tears and calcium deposits (calcific tendinitis). The method is less sensitive but sufficiently reliable for the diagnosis of partial rotator cuff tears and pathology of the long biceps tendon. Examiner experience plays an important role in these special cases. Permanent continuous training in the field of ultrasound diagnosis is a prerequisite for sufficient reliability of ultrasound diagnosis of shoulder disorders."}
{"id": "16123875", "title": "[MR-guided core biopsy of the shoulder: possibilities and experience with a vertically open 0.5T system].", "content": "[MR-guided core biopsy of the shoulder: possibilities and experience with a vertically open 0.5T system]. The availability of open whole body MRI magnets and MR-compatible instrumentarium were essential conditions for the progression of interventional MRI. The advantages of an MR-guided biopsy at the musculoskeletal system are the visualization of the puncture site of a representative area for tumor histology, the absence of exposure to radiation and the free selection of imaging planes. The purpose of the study was the development of a new technique of a secure MR-guided biopsy of intraosseus lesions in the humeral head. MR-guided core biopsy of a intraosseus lesion of the humeral head was performed in five male patients on a vertical open, whole body MRI magnet (SIGNA SP/i 0.5T, GE Medical Systems). The technique using interactive MRI and the MR-compatible instrumentarium are described. A secure core biopsy could be obtained from a representative area for tumor histology in all cases. No complications occurred, especially no nerve or vessel lesion, no rotator cuff lesion and no intra-articular contamination of the shoulder joint were observed. A new technique is presented to obtain MR-guided core biopsies of intraosseous lesions of the humeral head. Furthermore, clinical indications of this technique are described."}
{"id": "16114204", "title": "[Reactive synovitis: MRI features with arthroscopic correlation].", "content": "[Reactive synovitis: MRI features with arthroscopic correlation]. To evaluate MR imaging in detecting and characterizing secondary reactive synovitis and correlate the results with arthroscopy. Retrospective study of 10 patients referred for MR imaging and arthroscopy of the knee or shoulder. The diagnosis of reactive synovitis was confirmed by arthroscopy and pathological examination. Synovial thickening was graded at MRI as follows. Grade 0: normal; grade 1: diffuse synovial thickening; grade 2: nodular synovial hypertrophy; grade 3: pseudotumoral synovial mass. Synovitis was described at MRI in 8 cases. There were 2 false negative results on MR imaging for the knee. Synovitis was secondary to knee trauma and rotator cuff tear or surgery of the shoulder. On arthroscopy, all synovial lesions were detected and confirmed at pathology. Synovitis was not detected at MRI (grade 0) in 20% of cases. Synovitis appeared diffuse (grade 1) in 30%, nodular (grade 2) in 30% and pseudotumoral (grade 3) in 20%. Bony erosions were adjacent to synovial thickening in 5 cases. Reactive synovitis can occur after trauma. MR imaging is useful in detecting and evaluating secondary reactive synovitis. Arthroscopy and synovial biopsy are necessary to exclude infectious or tumoral synovitis."}
{"id": "16060553", "title": "Rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Rotator cuff repair."}
{"id": "16047388", "title": "Dynamic ultrasonography of rotator cuff muscles.", "content": "Dynamic ultrasonography of rotator cuff muscles. To confirm the neuromuscular integrity of the rotator cuff and to investigate the effect of different contraction patterns on shoulder function, we sonographically analyzed dynamic contraction patterns of this muscle group. Fifty supra- and 50 infraspinatus muscle contraction patterns of patients with different shoulder pathologies examined with a 7.5-MHz transducer were recorded and saved as video files. Both data sets were analyzed by 3 independent observers who then assigned a grade to each contraction pattern: normal, slightly disturbed, severely disturbed, or no contraction. Intra- and inter-observer variations were calculated. In 43 patients with isolated supraspinatus tears, the clinical relation to shoulder function as measured with the Constant score was evaluated. In the 100 cases tested, the intraclass correlations for the 3 observers were 0.82, 0.88, and 0.88. The inter-observer reliability was 0.74. No pair of first and second readings for either the supraspinatus or infraspinatus muscle differed by more than 1 grade. In patients with a supraspinatus tear, the contraction type of the supraspinatus correlated significantly with the Constant score (p=0.02). When dynamic ultrasonography is used to assess the contraction patterns of the supra- and infraspinatus muscles, good intra- and inter-observer reliability is attained. Because a better contraction type correlates significantly with better shoulder function, this new diagnostic criterion may improve decision-making in the treatment of shoulder diseases."}
{"id": "16047149", "title": "Variants of the superior labrum and labro-bicipital complex: a comparative study of shoulder specimens using MR arthrography, multi-slice CT arthrography and anatomical dissection.", "content": "Variants of the superior labrum and labro-bicipital complex: a comparative study of shoulder specimens using MR arthrography, multi-slice CT arthrography and anatomical dissection. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the anatomical variability of the superior labrum and to compare the value of MR arthrography and multi-slice CT arthrography in the diagnosis of variants of the labro-bicipital complex. Forty-three human shoulder specimens (age range and mean age at death, 61-89 years and 78.3 years) were examined with the use of MR arthrography and multi-slice CT arthrography prior to joint exploration and macroscopic inspection of the superior labrum and labro-bicipital complex. Two radiologists evaluated MR and CT arthrograms, and the results were compared with macroscopic assessments. Anatomical dissection of all shoulder specimens revealed a sublabral recess in 32/43 (74%) cases. The attachment of the superior labrum was categorised as type 1 in ten (23%) cases, as type 2 in eight (19%), as type 3 in ten (23%), and as type 4 in 14 (33%) cases. One superior labrum showed detachment consistent with a superior labral anteroposterior (SLAP) type 3 lesion. On MR arthrography and CT arthrography the attachment of the superior labrum was categorised in concordance with macroscopic assessments in 79% and 84% of cases, respectively. The anteroposterior extension of sublabral recesses was accurately determined with MR and CT arthrography in 59% and 81% of cases, respectively. The attachment of the superior labrum shows considerable variability. Thus, exact depiction of variants is essential in order to avoid the false positive diagnosis of a superior labral tear (SLAP or Andrews lesion). Both, MR arthrography and multi-slice CT arthrography were effective in the detection and classification of sublabral recesses."}
{"id": "16037507", "title": "Comparison of fat-suppressed T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequence and modified STIR sequence in the evaluation of the rotator cuff tendon.", "content": "Comparison of fat-suppressed T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequence and modified STIR sequence in the evaluation of the rotator cuff tendon. This study was performed to determine whether a modified version of the classic STIR sequence provides similar information about the integrity of the rotator cuff tendon as the commonly used fat-suppressed T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequence. Sixty-one consecutive MRI examinations of the shoulder in 57 patients were performed using a coronal oblique T1-weighted spin-echo sequence, a modified version of the STIR sequence, and a fat-suppressed T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequence. Three reviewers independently assessed the rotator cuff tendon using the coronal oblique modified inversion recovery sequence and T1-weighted spin-echo sequence. After a minimum of 4 weeks, reviewers assessed the rotator cuff tendon using the fat-suppressed T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequence and T1-weighted spin-echo sequence. The kappa statistic was used to measure the degree of concordance between interpretations when each sequence was used independently. The conditional probability that a full- and a partial-thickness tear would be diagnosed on both sequences was calculated. Image quality was assessed in a side-by-side comparison. The overall weighted kappa score was 0.82, which indicates excellent concordance between the two sequences. If a full-thickness tear of the rotator cuff tendon was found on the fat-suppressed T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequence, there was a 94.1% probability that the same conclusion would be reached using the modified inversion recovery sequence. If a partial-thickness tear was found on the fat-suppressed T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequence, there was an 80.3% probability that the same conclusion would be reached with the modified inversion recovery sequence. Fat suppression in the modified inversion recovery sequence was superior to that in the T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequence in 26-39% of the examinations. The modified inversion recovery sequence and fat-suppressed T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequence provide similar information about the integrity of the rotator cuff tendon."}
{"id": "16035699", "title": "Suprascapular neuropathy in volleyball players.", "content": "Suprascapular neuropathy in volleyball players. Entrapment neuropathy of the suprascapular nerve (SNE), although a recognised clinical entity, is a relatively rare cause of shoulder pain and subjective weakness in the athlete involved in overhead sports like volleyball and badminton. This study deals with the presentation and management of four unusual cases of suprascapular nerve entrapment in volleyball players. Four male volleyball players presented to our department with intractable shoulder pain and subjective sensation of shoulder weakness. They all had visible wasting of both supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles, together with weakness of abduction and external rotation of the arm. They all responded temporarily to a diagnostic injection of local anaesthetic. MR imaging was useful in diagnosing space occupying lesions in three cases and the presence of a hypertrophic suprascapular ligament in one case. Due to failure of non- operative treatment, which included activity modification, rest, analgesics and rehabilitation programme over 6 months, surgery was then required to decompress the suprascapular nerve. All patients were symptom free at 6 months postoperatively and after an intensive rehabilitation programme, they were able to return to their normal level of activity including sport."}
{"id": "16034236", "title": "Solving a common shoulder problem.", "content": "Solving a common shoulder problem."}
{"id": "16032117", "title": "Bicipital tendinitis and tenosynovitis in the dog: a study of 15 cases.", "content": "Bicipital tendinitis and tenosynovitis in the dog: a study of 15 cases. To describe the clinical, radiographic, and sonographic features of 15 dogs with bicipital tendinitis and tenosynovitis, classify them according to cause, and evaluate the long-term efficacy of treatment. Dogs exhibiting forelimb lameness with pain localised to the biceps tendon were included in the study. Sonographic examination of the tendon and tendon sheath, and radiographic examination including positive contrast arthrograms of the shoulder joint were performed, and assessed for features consistent with biceps tendon disease. In some cases, synovial-fluid analysis and surgical investigation were also undertaken. The causes of the conditions were classified as either traumatic, mechanical, neoplastic or inflammatory. Dogs were treated conservatively with rest and anti-inflammatory drugs, or surgically by either transection of the transverse humeral ligament or tenodesis of the biceps tendon. Assessment of the effects of treatment was made by re-examination at six weeks and from information gained by telephone interview with the dog's owner at longer-term follow-up. Bicipital tendinitis and tenosynovitis were common causes of forelimb lameness in active, middle-aged or older, medium to large-breed dogs. The most sensitive physical tests for localising pain to the biceps apparatus were shoulder flexion with the elbow extended, focal digital pressure applied directly to the biceps origin, and the biceps retraction test. Sonographic assessment was found to be more sensitive than shoulder radiography or arthrography for characterising the lesion. Conservative treatment of 11 traumatic cases resulted in good or excellent function at long-term follow-up. One mechanical bicipital tendinitis secondary to mineral deposits within the supraspinatus tendon improved following transection of the transverse humeral ligament and removal of the deposits. One of two cases of inflammatory tendinitis/ tenosynovitis improved following tenodesis. One dog with neoplastic disease did not improve and was euthanased. The diagnosis of bicipital tendinitis and tenosynovitis requires a careful examination using a combination of physical tests. Of the ancillary tests, sonography was the most reliable, however information gained from all tests was useful in fully evaluating the biceps apparatus and shoulder joint. The classification system employed in this study was helpful in selecting a treatment protocol and determining the likely prognosis."}
{"id": "16015236", "title": "Superior excursion of the humeral head: a diagnostic tool in rotator cuff tear surgery.", "content": "Superior excursion of the humeral head: a diagnostic tool in rotator cuff tear surgery. Superior excursion of the humeral head on the face of the glenoid was investigated to determine whether a relationship exists between the degree of humeral head excursion and the identity of the injured tendon in a shoulder with a torn rotator cuff. Twenty-seven patients with unilateral full-thickness rotator cuff tears diagnosed by either positive arthrogram or magnetic resonance imaging were included in this study. Three groups were formed based on intraoperative findings: 10 patients had isolated supraspinatus tendon tears (group 1), 11 patients had supraspinatus and infraspinatus tears (group 2), and 6 patients had supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis tendon tears (group 3). There was no statistically significant difference between the degree of humeral head excursion in groups 1 and 2. However, patients in group 3 had a statistically significantly higher degree of excursion of the humeral head (P < .05) when compared with groups 1 and 2. In addition, an inverse relationship between the degree of humeral head excursion and preoperative Constant scores was found. Superior excursion of the humeral head on the glenoid had a significantly higher incidence in patients with subscapularis tears, and a larger amount of excursion was present in patients who had lower preoperative Constant scores."}
{"id": "16012501", "title": "Arthroscopically repaired Bankart lesions and the effect of two different arm positions on immediate postoperative evaluation with magnetic resonance arthrography.", "content": "Arthroscopically repaired Bankart lesions and the effect of two different arm positions on immediate postoperative evaluation with magnetic resonance arthrography. To evaluate and describe the findings of immediate postoperative magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography of repaired capsulolabral buttress using 2 different arm positions (internal rotation and external rotation) for patients who have undergone arthroscopic Bankart repair. Case series. Arthroscopically repaired Bankart lesions in 22 nonconsecutive patients were examined with axial T2-weighted MR arthrography. We studied each of the 22 shoulders on the day of surgery for each patient. We measured 3 parameters (height, slope, and medial overhang) on the axial image at the anteroinferior portion of the glenoid (near the most inferior anchor) while placing each patient's arm into 2 different positions. The first involved internal rotation and the second, external rotation of the shoulder with the arm held at the side of the trunk and the elbow at 90 degrees flexion. The mean internal rotation of the arm was 30 degrees (range, 14 degrees to 45 degrees) and the mean external rotation was 19 degrees (range, 2 degrees to 44 degrees). The mean labral height and slope differences between the 2 arm positions were 1.47 mm (standard deviation [SD], 0.75 mm; range, 0.6 mm to 3.5 mm; P < .001) and 6.91 degrees (SD, 3.4 degrees; range, 2.2 degrees to 11.2 degrees; P < .001), respectively. Medial overhang on the glenoid rim was 81% positive with the arm at internal rotation whereas medial overhang was 86% negative with the arm at external rotation (P < .001). On MR arthrography, internal rotation of shoulder showed the loss of the capsulolabral buttress in all patients. On MR arthrography, the arthroscopically repaired capsulolabral buttress was affected by rotation of the arm after Bankart repair. Internal rotation of the arm significantly decreased our ability to see the repaired capsulolabral buttress on MR arthrography. Level III, diagnostic study of nonconsecutive patients."}
{"id": "16002483", "title": "Prevalence and variance of shoulder injuries in elite collegiate football players.", "content": "Prevalence and variance of shoulder injuries in elite collegiate football players. Shoulder injuries are the fourth most common musculoskeletal injury encountered in American football players. There is little information in the literature on the role of playing position in the type of shoulder injuries seen. There is a high prevalence of shoulder injuries in elite collegiate American football players, with type of injury varying by playing position. Cohort study (prevalence); Level of evidence, 3. A total of 336 elite collegiate American football players were invited to the National Football League Combine for physical testing and medical evaluation. Current and historical data were evaluated for the purpose of this study, and all players underwent radiographic examinations, including plain radiographs and/or magnetic resonance imaging when necessary. All shoulder pathological conditions and shoulder surgical procedures were recorded. Players were categorized by position for the analysis of position-specific trends. Of the players, 50% had a history of shoulder injuries, with a total of 226 shoulder injuries (1.3 injuries per player injured); 56 players (34%) had a total of 73 surgeries. The most common injuries were acromioclavicular separation (41%), anterior instability (20%), rotator cuff injury (12%), clavicle fracture (4%), and posterior instability (4%). The most common surgeries performed were anterior instability reconstruction (48%), Mumford/Weaver-Dunn surgery (15%), posterior instability surgery (10%), and rotator cuff surgery (10%). Shoulder injuries were more common in quarterbacks and defensive backs. Surgery was more common in linebackers or linemen. A history of anterior instability was more common in defensive players, with surgery required 76% of the time. Linemen had more rotator cuff injuries and posterior instability than players in other positions. Shoulder injuries are common injuries in elite collegiate football players, with one-third undergoing surgical procedures. There are definitive trends in the types of injuries per player position."}
{"id": "15999281", "title": "Ultrasound of tendon tears. Part 1: general considerations and upper extremity.", "content": "Ultrasound of tendon tears. Part 1: general considerations and upper extremity. The role of ultrasound (US) in assessing musculoskeletal disorders is persistently increasing because of its low cost, readiness, noninvasiveness, and possibility of allowing a dynamic examination. Secondary to increased sport practice, tendon tears are more frequently observed in daily medical practice. They deserve early diagnosis to allow proper treatment that can limit functional impairment. The aim of this review article is twofold: to illustrate the US appearance of normal tendons and to describe the US findings of the most common tendon tears."}
{"id": "15999280", "title": "Adhesive capsulitis: sonographic changes in the rotator cuff interval with arthroscopic correlation.", "content": "Adhesive capsulitis: sonographic changes in the rotator cuff interval with arthroscopic correlation. To evaluate the sonographic findings of the rotator interval in patients with clinical evidence of adhesive capsulitis immediately prior to arthroscopy. We prospectively compared 30 patients with clinically diagnosed adhesive capsulitis (20 females, 10 males, mean age 50 years) with a control population of 10 normal volunteers and 100 patients with a clinical suspicion of rotator cuff tears. Grey-scale and colour Doppler sonography of the rotator interval were used. Twenty-six patients (87%) demonstrated hypoechoic echotexture and increased vascularity within the rotator interval, all of whom had had symptoms for less than 1 year. Three patients had hypoechoic echotexture but no increase in vascularity, and one patient had a normal sonographic appearance. All patients were shown to have fibrovascular inflammatory soft-tissue changes in the rotator interval at arthroscopy commensurate with adhesive capsulitis. None of the volunteers or the patients with a clinical diagnosis of rotator cuff tear showed such changes. Sonography can provide an early accurate diagnosis of adhesive capsulitis by assessing the rotator interval for hypoechoic vascular soft tissue."}
{"id": "15995469", "title": "Incidence and severity of biceps long head tendon lesion in patients with complete rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Incidence and severity of biceps long head tendon lesion in patients with complete rotator cuff tears. Biceps long head tendon lesion is commonly associated with rotator cuff tendon pathology. This study is to determine the pathologic spectrum of biceps long head tendon in surgical cases with complete full thickness rotator cuff tear. Between 1993 and 2002, 122 complete rotator cuff tears with surgery were included for the analysis. During surgery, biceps long head tendon was grossly examined or evaluated via arthroscopy. A simplified classification was used to describe the biceps lesion. 50 (41%) patients had type 1 lesion (tendinitis), 10 (8%) patients had type 2 lesion (subluxation), 12 (10%) patients had type 3 (dislocation), 15 (12%) patients had type 4 (partial tear), and 6 patients (5%) had type 5 (complete rupture). The remaining 29 patients (24%) did not have obvious pathology. All chronic rotator cuff tear (> 3 months) were associated with biceps tendon pathology. A rotator cuff tear greater than 5 cm as determined at surgery was strongly associated with an advanced biceps lesion. Biceps tendon injuries are associated with complete rotator cuff tears and there may be a causal relationship due to the impingement that occurs. Early identification and repair of rotator cuff lesions may prevent further deterioration of the biceps tendon."}
{"id": "15983127", "title": "A systematic approach to magnetic resonance imaging interpretation of sports medicine injuries of the shoulder.", "content": "A systematic approach to magnetic resonance imaging interpretation of sports medicine injuries of the shoulder. Magnetic resonance imaging has developed as a useful imaging modality in the evaluation of the athlete with shoulder pain. The multiplanar capabilities of magnetic resonance imaging make it ideal for detecting the anatomical variations of the osseous outlet that may contribute to the clinical syndrome of impingement. Its superb soft tissue contrast and spatial resolution allow for accurate differentiation between tendinopathy, partial-thickness tear, and full-thickness tear of the rotator cuff and also allow for detection of the subtle lesions of the capsule and labrum that are associated with shoulder instability. However, to accurately interpret the numerous images and pulse sequences obtained in a standard magnetic resonance examination of the shoulder, it is helpful to have a systematic approach to ensure that each of the pertinent anatomical structures are evaluated. This article will provide a systematic approach to the interpretation of a magnetic resonance examination of the shoulder. The normal imaging appearance of each anatomical structure will be described, and the most useful pulse sequences and imaging planes for the evaluation of each structure will be discussed. Finally, the signs of injury will be described and illustrated."}
{"id": "15972417", "title": "Intramuscular rotator cuff cysts: association with tendon tears on MRI and arthroscopy.", "content": "Intramuscular rotator cuff cysts: association with tendon tears on MRI and arthroscopy. This study was designed to explore the relationship between intramuscular cysts and rotator cuff tendon tears. Intramuscular cysts are strongly associated with rotator cuff tendon tears. Identification of such a cyst should prompt a search for a rotator cuff tear. Findings on MR arthrography and surgery suggest that a delaminating component of the rotator cuff tear may lead to the development of these cysts and may explain the occasional discrepancy between location of tears and location of cysts."}
{"id": "15940560", "title": "Ultrasonographic evaluation of tendons and enthesal sites in rheumatoid arthritis: comparison with ankylosing spondylitis and healthy subjects.", "content": "Ultrasonographic evaluation of tendons and enthesal sites in rheumatoid arthritis: comparison with ankylosing spondylitis and healthy subjects. The objective of this study was to determine tendon involvements and enthesal abnormalities in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) using high-resolution ultrasonographic images and to compare the findings with those seen in patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and healthy controls. A total of 24 patients with RA, 18 with AS, and 20 healthy controls matched by age and body mass index (BMI) were included in the study. All of the patients and controls underwent clinical and ultrasonographic examinations of both lower limbs at five enthesal sites (superior and inferior pole of the patella, tibial tuberosity, Achilles tendon, and plantar aponeurosis) and both upper limbs at two tendon sites (tendons of m. biceps brachii and supraspinatus at the shoulder). High-resolution ultrasonographic examinations were performed to detect bursitis, structure thickness, bony erosion, and enthesophyte. An ultrasonographic score of lower limb enthesitis was calculated using the Glasgow Ultrasound Enthesitis Scoring System (GUESS) in all patients. Tendon involvements and enthesal abnormalities were found significantly more often in the RA group than in controls (p<0.05 to <0.001), but were not found to be different from the AS group (p>0.05). On clinical examination 67 of 336 (19.9%) tendon and enthesal sites were abnormal and on ultrasonographic examination 130 of 336 (38.2%) sites were abnormal in RA patients. The most frequently affected enthesal sites in the lower limbs were suprapatellar, infrapatellar, and Achilles tendon in both the RA and AS groups. The tibial tuberosity was less affected in both groups, and involvement of the plantar aponeurosis was not different from the controls. A statistically significant correlation was found between the Ritchie articular index and GUESS (r=0.578, p=0.008). Tendon involvements and enthesal abnormalities in RA patients were found more often than had been estimated. Further studies are required to validate our results."}
{"id": "15930541", "title": "Accuracy of office-based ultrasonography of the shoulder for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Accuracy of office-based ultrasonography of the shoulder for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. This prospective multi-institutional study was designed to define the accuracy of ultrasonography, when performed in an orthopaedic surgeon's office, for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. An anatomic diagnosis and a treatment plan were made on the basis of office-based shoulder ultrasonography, physical examination, and radiographs for ninety-eight patients (ninety-nine shoulders) with a clinical diagnosis of a rotator-cuff-related problem. The results of the ultrasonographic studies were then compared with the results of magnetic resonance imaging and the operative findings. Office-based ultrasonography led to the correct diagnosis for thirty-seven (88%) of forty-two shoulders with a full-thickness rotator cuff tear or both full and partial-thickness tears, twenty-six (70%) of thirty-seven shoulders with a partial-thickness rotator cuff tear only, and sixteen (80%) of twenty shoulders with normal tendons. In no case was the surgical approach (open or arthroscopic) that had been planned on the basis of the ultrasonography altered by the operative findings, but the operative finding of a full-thickness tear resulted in an arthroscopic cuff repair in four shoulders. Magnetic resonance imaging led to the correct diagnosis for forty (95%) of forty-two shoulders with a full-thickness rotator cuff tear or both full and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears, twenty-seven (73%) of thirty-seven shoulders with only a partial-thickness tear, and fifteen (75%) of twenty shoulders with normal tendons. There were no significant differences between magnetic resonance imaging and ultrasonography with regard to the correct identification of a full-thickness tear or its size. The sensitivity of ultrasonography for detecting tear size in the anterior-posterior dimension was 86% (95% confidence interval, 71% to 95%), and that of magnetic resonance imaging was 93% (95% confidence interval, 81% to 99%) (p = 0.26). The sensitivity of ultrasonography for detecting tear size in the medial-lateral dimension was 83% (95% confidence interval, 69% to 93%), and that of magnetic resonance imaging was 88% (95% confidence interval, 74% to 96%) (p = 0.41). A well-trained office staff and an experienced orthopaedic surgeon can effectively utilize ultrasonography, in conjunction with clinical examination and a review of shoulder radiographs, to accurately diagnose the extent of rotator cuff tears in patients suspected of having such tears. Errors in diagnosis made on the basis of ultrasonography most often consist of an inability to distinguish between partial and full-thickness tears that are approximately 1 cm in size. In this study, such errors did not significantly affect the planned surgical approach."}
{"id": "15930531", "title": "Arthroscopic repair of full-thickness tears of the supraspinatus: does the tendon really heal?", "content": "Arthroscopic repair of full-thickness tears of the supraspinatus: does the tendon really heal? Good functional results have been reported for arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears, but the rate of tendon-to-bone healing is still unknown. Our hypothesis was that arthroscopic repair of full-thickness supraspinatus tears achieves a rate of complete tendon healing equivalent to those reported in the literature with open or mini-open techniques. Sixty-five consecutive shoulders with a chronic full-thickness supraspinatus tear were repaired arthroscopically in sixty-five patients with use of a tension-band suture technique. Patients ranged in age from twenty-nine to seventy-nine years. The average duration of follow-up was twenty-nine months. Fifty-one patients (fifty-one shoulders) had a computed tomographic arthrogram, and fourteen had a magnetic resonance imaging scan, performed between six months and three years after surgery. All patients were assessed with regard to function and the strength of the shoulder elevation. The rotator cuff was completely healed and watertight in forty-six (71%) of the sixty-five patients and was partially healed in three. Although the supraspinatus tendon did not heal to the tuberosity in sixteen shoulders, the size of the persistent defect was smaller than the initial tear in fifteen. Sixty-two of the sixty-five patients were satisfied with the result. The Constant score improved from an average (and standard deviation) of 51.6 +/- 10.6 points preoperatively to 83.8 +/- 10.3 points at the time of the last follow-up evaluation (p < 0.001), and the average University of California at Los Angeles score improved from 11.5 +/- 1.1 to 32.3 +/- 1.3 (p < 0.001). The average strength of the shoulder elevation was significantly better (p = 0.001) when the tendon had healed (7.3 +/- 2.9 kg) than when it had not (4.7 +/- 1.9 kg). Factors that were negatively associated with tendon healing were increasing age and associated delamination of the subscapularis or infraspinatus tendon. Only ten (43%) of twenty-three patients over the age of sixty-five years had completely healed tendons (p < 0.001). Arthroscopic repair of an isolated supraspinatus detachment commonly leads to complete tendon healing. The absence of healing of the repaired rotator cuff is associated with inferior strength. Patients over the age of sixty-five years (p = 0.001) and patients with associated delamination of the subscapularis and/or the infraspinatus (p = 0.02) have significantly lower rates of healing."}
{"id": "15925934", "title": "[Arthroscopic-assisted mini-open repair of rotator cuff tears].", "content": "[Arthroscopic-assisted mini-open repair of rotator cuff tears]. We retrospectively evaluated the results of patients who underwent arthroscopic-assisted mini-open repair of rotator cuff tears. Twenty-three patients (7 males, 16 females; mean age 56 years; range 41 to 75 years) underwent arthroscopic-assisted mini-open repair for nonretracted rotator cuff tears. The right shoulder was involved in 15 patients and the left in eight patients; 83% being on the dominant side. The range of motion was measured with a goniometer, and muscle strength by manual examination. The patients were assessed by physical examination, the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons Standardized Shoulder Assessment Form (ASES), the UCLA scale, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The mean follow-up was 32 months (range 12 to 61 months). All the patients had medium-sized ruptures. Biceps tenotomy was performed in three patients for tears affecting more than 50% of the biceps tendon. The mean preoperative active forward flexion increased from 99 degrees to 161 degrees , and active external rotation from 28 degrees to 50 degrees postoperatively (p<0.05); the strength of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles increased significantly (p<0.05). The mean UCLA score was found as 31.6, showing an excellent result in nine patients (39.1%), good in 12 patients (52.2%), moderate in one (4.4%), and poor in one patient. The mean preoperative ASES score increased from 23.7 to 92.4 (p<0.05). The mean healing time was 1.7 months (range 1.5 to 12 months). Twenty-one patients (91.3%) were satisfied with the outcome. Of 16 patients with postoperative MRI scans, three (18.8%) exhibited recurrent ruptures. In selective cases, the clinical and functional results are successful following arthroscopic-assisted mini-open repair for rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "15925933", "title": "[The results of arthroscopic repair of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[The results of arthroscopic repair of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff]. This study was designed to evaluate the functional results of arthroscopic repair of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff and to investigate the degree of fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff muscles and recurrent ruptures by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Twenty-two patients (9 males, 13 females; mean age 56 years; range 38 to 71 years) underwent arthroscopic repair of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff following conservative treatment for a mean of 15 months (range 45 days to 120 months). Involvement was in the right shoulder in 17 patients, being on the dominant side in 77%. The range of motion was measured with a goniometer, and muscle strength by manual examination. Clinical and functional evaluations were made by physical examination and according to the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons Standardized Shoulder Assessment Form (ASES) and the UCLA scale. Fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff muscles and recurrence were analyzed by MRI. The mean follow-up was 24 months (range 12 to 36 months). The mean active forward flexion and external rotation increased from 105 degrees to 160 degrees (p<0.05) and from 41 degrees to 44 degrees (p>0.05), respectively. The strength of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles significantly increased (p<0.05). The mean ASES and UCLA scores significantly increased from 25.4 to 86.7 and from 10.6 to 25.6, respectively (p<0.05). The mean healing time was three months (range 1 to 12 months). Twenty patients (90.9%) were satisfied with the result of the treatment. On MRI scans, recurrent ruptures were detected in seven patients (31.8%); the extent of fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff muscles did not differ pre- and postoperatively (p>0.05). Arthroscopic repair of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff yields high clinical and functional success rates."}
{"id": "15925931", "title": "[Treatment of recurrent post-traumatic anterior-inferior glenohumeral instabilities with the selective capsular shift technique].", "content": "[Treatment of recurrent post-traumatic anterior-inferior glenohumeral instabilities with the selective capsular shift technique]. We evaluated the functional results of treatment with the selective capsular shift technique in patients with recurrent post-traumatic anterior-inferior glenohumeral instability. The study included 16 patients (15 males, 1 female; mean age 30 years; range 25 to 38 years) who underwent selective capsular shift operation for recurrent post-traumatic anterior-inferior glenohumeral instability. Dislocations occurred following severe (n=14) or mild (n=2) trauma. Preoperatively, the mean number of dislocations was 14 (range 4 to 45) and magnetic resonance imaging showed a Bankart lesion in all the patients and a Hill-Sachs lesion in 20%. The patients were evaluated according to the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons Standardized Shoulder Assessment Form (ASES) and Rowe's scoring for Bankart repair. Preoperative and postoperative anteroposterior and axillary x-rays were obtained from all the patients. Range of motion was measured with a goniometer and manual muscle strength tests were performed. The mean follow-up was 41 months (range 21 to 74 months). Statistical analysis was made using the t-test. The mean preoperative and postoperative ASES scores differed significantly (63.2 vs 95.8; p<0.05). The mean Rowe score was 92.5 (range 70 to 100). Strength of the infraspinatus, supraspinatus, and subscapularis muscles increased significantly (p<0.05). The results were excellent in 12 patients (75%), good in two patients (12.5%), and fair in two patients. Fifteen patients (93.8%) expressed satisfaction with the operation and results. Addition of the selective capsular shift technique to the Bankart repair procedure improves stability and preserves the range of motion of the glenohumeral joint in patients with anterior-inferior glenohumeral instability accompanied by a Bankart lesion and capsular injury or laxity."}
{"id": "15911666", "title": "The effect of suture materials and techniques on the outcome of repair of the rotator cuff: a prospective, randomised study.", "content": "The effect of suture materials and techniques on the outcome of repair of the rotator cuff: a prospective, randomised study. In a prospective, randomised study on the repair of tears of the rotator cuff we compared the clinical results of two suture techniques for which different suture materials were used. We prospectively randomised 100 patients with tears of the rotator cuff into two groups. Group 1 had transosseous repair with No. 3 Ethibond using modified Mason-Allen sutures and group 2 had transosseous repair with 1.0 mm polydioxanone cord using modified Kessler sutures. After 24 to 30 months the patients were evaluated clinically using the Constant score and by ultrasonography. Of the 100 patients, 92 completed the study. No significant statistical difference was seen between the two groups: Constant score, 91% vs 92%; rate of further tear, 18% vs 22%; and revision, 4% vs 4%. In cases of further tear the outcome in group 2 did not differ from that for the intact repairs (91% vs 91%), but in group 1 it was significantly worse (94% vs 77%, p = 0.005). Overall, seven patients had complications which required revision surgery, in four for pain (two in each group) and in three for infection (two in group 1 and one in group 2)."}
{"id": "15908528", "title": "Detection and measurement of rotator cuff tears with sonography: analysis of diagnostic errors.", "content": "Detection and measurement of rotator cuff tears with sonography: analysis of diagnostic errors. The purpose of this study was to analyze the causes of errors in the detection and measurement of rotator cuff tears in our patient population. Seventy-one consecutive patients with shoulder pain who were prospectively studied with sonography had subsequent arthroscopy that showed a full-thickness or partial-thickness tear or intact cuff. For sonography and arthroscopy, the length or degree of retraction and width of a tear, when present, was recorded. When there were discrepant findings, representative images were jointly evaluated by the radiologist and orthopedic surgeon to determine the cause of the error. Fifteen detection errors were found, including five misses (three < 5-mm subscapularis and two small partial-thickness tears), four errors inherent with the test (distinguishing large bursal side or extensive partial-thickness from full-thickness tears and tendinopathy from partial-thickness tears), three errors of an unknown cause, two due to misinterpretation, and one error inherent with the patient. Seventeen measurement errors occurred with full-thickness tears, 15 of those in patients with large or massive tears. Bursal thickening (n = 4), non-visualization of the torn tendon end (n = 2), nonretracted tear (n = 2), and complex tear (n = 1) contributed to the errors. Eight measurement errors occurred with partial-thickness tears. Difficulty distinguishing tendinopathy from partial-thickness tears (n = 3) and complex tears (n = 3) accounted for six errors. Although infrequent, detection errors were due to limitations inherent with the test or misses. Limitations inherent with the patient and misinterpretation of the findings were rare. Most measurement errors occurred in patients with large or massive cuff tears."}
{"id": "15905994", "title": "[MR imaging of tendon diseases. Exemplified using the examples of rotator cuff, epicondylitis and achillodynia].", "content": "[MR imaging of tendon diseases. Exemplified using the examples of rotator cuff, epicondylitis and achillodynia]. Diseases of tendons have recently increased in importance. This may be due to the increasing popularity of free time sport, but also to the increasing number of treatment possibilities. The origin of damage to the tendons can be explained by a series of mechanisms, of which reduced tissue perfusion and mechanical irritation with microtrauma, which lead to degeneration, can be considered as the most important. Imaging diagnostics plays a significant role in the diagnosis and planning of the therapy of such illnesses. In addition to the conventional x-ray to determine the position of the joint and bony structures, ultrasound can be used to examine the tendons, bursae and tissue.MRI is an excellent method for examining the pathology of tendons due to its exceptional qualities for imaging tissue and joints as well as its high specificity. Using MRI, it is possible to determine the degree of morphological change, make reproducible examinations, as well as determining comorbidity factors or the reasons for the changes early in the illness. It therefore influences surgical decisions and can play a key role in the planning of operations. MRI arthography can-depending on the question-increase the diagnostic power in cases of alterations in the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "15893531", "title": "Shoulder MR arthrography: how, why, when.", "content": "Shoulder MR arthrography: how, why, when. This article reviews current MR techniques for shoulder imaging, discusses advantages and disadvantages of each, and reviews the literature regarding sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of MR arthrography versus nonenhanced MR in the evaluation of shoulder pathology, specifically, glenoid labral tears and rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "15891546", "title": "Avulsion fractures of the lesser tuberosity of the humerus in adolescents: review of the literature and case report.", "content": "Avulsion fractures of the lesser tuberosity of the humerus in adolescents: review of the literature and case report. Isolated fracture of the lesser tuberosity is an unusual phenomenon in children and adolescents. These injuries are difficult to diagnose acutely and often present as chronic shoulder pain. In this study, we report on 1 case of a displaced lesser tuberosity apophysis avulsion fracture in an adolescent treated with open reduction and internal fixation, as well as a review of the literature. A 14-year-old adolescent male presented to the senior surgeon complaining of left shoulder pain and weakness 10 days after a wrestling injury. He was diagnosed with a displaced, isolated fracture of the lesser tuberosity apophysis for which he underwent open reduction and internal fixation. A combination of sutures passed through drill holes in the proximal humerus and bioabsorbable suture tacks were used to anatomically fix the lesser tuberosity fragment and subscapularis tendon. Postoperatively, he underwent a progressive physical therapy regimen. At 4 months follow-up, he had full range of motion, complete return of strength, and returned to competitive athletics. We report here on the successful surgical treatment of a fracture of the lesser tuberosity apophysis in an adolescent."}
{"id": "15889019", "title": "Overutilization of shoulder magnetic resonance imaging as a diagnostic screening tool in patients with chronic shoulder pain.", "content": "Overutilization of shoulder magnetic resonance imaging as a diagnostic screening tool in patients with chronic shoulder pain. This was a retrospective study of 101 consecutive patients (104 shoulders) with chronic, atraumatic shoulder pain who were evaluated by a fellowship-trained shoulder specialist. The patients were assessed with a complete history, physical examination, plain radiographs, Simple Shoulder Test, and visual analog scores of pain, shoulder function, and quality of life. Forty-one percent of the shoulders presented with shoulder magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Data analysis was performed to determine the effect of pre-evaluation MRI on patient treatment and outcome. There were no statistically significant differences in age, sex, affected shoulder, insurance status, mechanism of injury, comorbid conditions, range of motion, treatment, initial outcome parameter assessments, or improvement of outcomes between the patients who had pre-evaluation MRI and those who did not. The majority of the pre-evaluation MRI scans had no impact on the outcome. Routine pre-evaluation with MRI does not appear to have a significant effect on the treatment or outcome and should not be used as a screening tool for atraumatic shoulder pain before a comprehensive clinical evaluation of the shoulder."}
{"id": "15864042", "title": "MRI findings in throwing shoulders: abnormalities in professional handball players.", "content": "MRI findings in throwing shoulders: abnormalities in professional handball players. Shoulders of throwing athletes are highly stressed joints and likely to have more structural abnormalities seen on magnetic resonance imaging scans. Prevalence and type of structural abnormalities, especially abnormalities of the rotator cuff tendons and the superolateral humeral head, and correlation of magnetic resonance imaging findings with symptoms and clinical tests, are not well known. Throwing and nonthrowing (symptomatic and asymptomatic) shoulders of 30 fully competitive professional handball players and 20 dominant shoulders of randomly selected volunteers were evaluated for comparison clinically and with magnetic resonance imaging. An average of seven abnormal magnetic resonance imaging findings was observed in the throwing shoulders; more than in the nonthrowing and the control shoulders. Although 93% of the throwing shoulders had abnormal magnetic resonance imaging findings, only 37% were symptomatic. Partial rotator cuff tears and mainly superolateral osteochondral defects of the humeral head were identified as typical throwing lesions. Symptoms correlated poorly with abnormalities seen on magnetic resonance imaging scans and findings from clinical tests. This suggests that the evaluation of an athlete's throwing shoulder should be done very thoroughly and should not be based mainly on abnormalities seen on magnetic resonance imaging scans."}
{"id": "15855096", "title": "Surgically repaired massive rotator cuff tears: MRI of tendon integrity, muscle fatty degeneration, and muscle atrophy correlated with intraoperative and clinical findings.", "content": "Surgically repaired massive rotator cuff tears: MRI of tendon integrity, muscle fatty degeneration, and muscle atrophy correlated with intraoperative and clinical findings. Our goal in this study was to evaluate by means of MRI the clinical significance of tendon integrity, muscle fatty degeneration, and muscle atrophy in surgically repaired massive rotator cuff tears and to correlate these and other prognostic factors with intraoperative and clinical findings. Twenty-eight surgically proven massive rotator cuff tears were retrospectively included in the study. Twenty-two patients underwent complete repair, and six patients underwent partial repair. Preoperative and postoperative clinical assessment was performed by using the University of California at Los Angeles score. Preoperative and postoperative MRI studies were evaluated for the presence and extent of rotator cuff tear and for the degree of fatty degeneration and atrophy of the rotator cuff muscles. At a mean 44.4 months' follow-up, 20 patients (71.4%) had a favorable result. A total of 25 patients (89.2%) showed postoperative full-thickness rotator cuff tear, 19 of which were reruptures. A sagittal preoperative rotator cuff tear of less than or equal to 34 mm showed a specificity of 100% for predicting a favorable outcome. A coronal postoperative rotator cuff tear of less than or equal to 34 mm showed a specificity of 85.7% and a positive predictive value of 92.9% for predicting a favorable outcome. A postoperative fatty degeneration of infraspinatus muscle less than or equal to 2 had a specificity of 87.5% and a positive predictive value of 90.9% for predicting a favorable outcome. Open repair of massive rotator cuff tears may reach a favorable outcome in a significant proportion of patients, despite a high rate of recurrent or residual tears. Oblique coronal sizes of the recurrent or residual tear of less than or equal to 34 mm and postoperative fatty degenerations of infraspinatus muscle of less than or equal to 2 may allow a favorable outcome."}
{"id": "15805942", "title": "The acromiohumeral and coracohumeral intervals are abnormal in rotator cuff tears with muscular fatty degeneration.", "content": "The acromiohumeral and coracohumeral intervals are abnormal in rotator cuff tears with muscular fatty degeneration. We sought to determine how various types of full-thickness rotator cuff tears, fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff muscles, duration of symptoms, and mechanism of injury affect the sizes of the acromiohumeral and coracohumeral intervals. We studied 206 shoulders with rotator cuff tears that had surgical treatment. The acromiohumeral interval (anteroposterior radiograph) and the coracohumeral interval (computed tomogram) were measured on preoperative imaging studies. An abnormal acromiohumeral interval was associated with multiple-tendon rotator cuff tears involving the infraspinatus, fatty degeneration of the supraspinatus or infraspinatus, and duration of symptoms longer than 5 years. An abnormal coracohumeral interval was associated with a combined tear of the supraspinatus and subscapularis and fatty degeneration of the infraspinatus or subscapularis. Fatty degeneration of the infraspinatus therefore was associated with an abnormal acromiohumeral interval and an abnormal coracohumeral interval. Evaluation of a patient who has a diminished acromiohumeral or coracohumeral interval should involve examination with computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging of the rotator cuff tendons to determine the type of tear and of the rotator cuff muscles to determine the degree of fatty degeneration. Diagnostic study, Level II-1 (development of diagnostic criteria on basis of consecutive patients--with universally applied reference \"gold\" standard). See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "15805937", "title": "Medicolegal aspects of the orthopaedic care for shoulder injuries.", "content": "Medicolegal aspects of the orthopaedic care for shoulder injuries. The medicolegal aspects of orthopaedic care increasingly are becoming an important focus of physicians. Because of the rarity of publications on the subject, I will examine medical litigation in orthopaedics, specifically in regards to shoulder injuries. There are several reasons for recent increases in malpractice litigation. Increased orthopaedic specialization and advanced technologies have raised patient expectations while the media have informed patients of the potential financial rewards of litigation. I will discuss three cases of litigation regarding shoulder injuries including reasons for malpractice and what can be done to avoid it. In Case 1 I examine an implant failure of a rotator cuff repair. The failure was caused by a manufacturing error; therefore, the importance of being familiar with the equipment and the companies that a physician deals with is emphasized in this case. Case 2 is another failed rotator cuff repair; this litigation stemmed from poor patient selection and a lack of preoperative patient-physician communication. Finally, Case 3 involved retained hardware, a surgical mistake that often results in a substantial settlement because it is considered indefensible. These cases highlight the potential for malpractice and can be applied more broadly to all branches of orthopaedics. Most litigation, however, can be avoided with careful diagnostic procedures, greater experience with equipment, and better communication."}
{"id": "15800530", "title": "Arthroscopic reconstruction of an isolated avulsion fracture of the lesser tuberosity.", "content": "Arthroscopic reconstruction of an isolated avulsion fracture of the lesser tuberosity. Isolated avulsion fracture of the lesser tuberosity represents an extremely rare injury that occurs mainly in younger patients. This report outlines the case of a 35-year-old healthy man who sustained a bony avulsion of the subscapularis tendon during an abduction external rotation trauma to his left shoulder. The injury was diagnosed by physical examination, standard radiographs, and magnetic resonance imaging. An arthroscopic reconstruction including closed reduction and internal fixation using suture anchors was performed. After a follow-up of 6 months, the patient's Constant Score increased from 62.4 points preoperatively to 91.3 points. At the latest follow-up, the patient was completely pain free, had regained a full work activity level, and returned to overhead sports. On postoperative standard radiographs and magnetic resonance images, the bony fragment was shown to be consolidated in an anatomic position. In cases of displaced isolated fractures of the lesser tuberosity without significant subluxation or dislocation of the long head of the biceps arthroscopic reconstruction using suture anchors can lead to a good clinical and radiological result."}
{"id": "15798625", "title": "[Hyperechoic rotator cuff tendon tear].", "content": "[Hyperechoic rotator cuff tendon tear]. To describe unusual rotator cuff tendon tears which are hyperechoic at ultrasonography (US). We retrospectively reviewed the shoulder US examinations of 100 patients with rotator cuff tear demonstrated by CT arthrogram with bursography. We included in this study hyperechoic foci without surrounding hypoechoic zone. A second US examination was performed after bursal distension. Six (6%) hyperechoic foci were detected. The initial US diagnosis was tendinosis in five cases (n=5) and full thickness tear in one case (n=1). At repeat US examination, the hyperechoic area was completely or partially hypoechoic, probably because the tears were filled with the injected hypoechoic fluid. Some rotator cuff tears, filled with fibrinoid fragments, are probably underdiagnosed at US."}
{"id": "15789018", "title": "Acute subscapularis tendon rupture caused by throwing: a case report.", "content": "Acute subscapularis tendon rupture caused by throwing: a case report."}
{"id": "15789010", "title": "Differential patterns of muscle activation in patients with symptomatic and asymptomatic rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Differential patterns of muscle activation in patients with symptomatic and asymptomatic rotator cuff tears. Patients with rotator cuff tears have varying degrees of symptom expression. Our purpose was to evaluate the differential firing patterns of the rotator cuff, deltoid, and scapular stabilizer muscle groups in normal control subjects and in patients with symptomatic and asymptomatic 2-tendon rotator cuff tears. Eighteen subjects were evaluated: six normal subjects and twelve with 2-tendon cuff tears (six asymptomatic and six symptomatic). All cuff tear patients had magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans documenting superoposterior tear configurations involving the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons; all normal subjects had an ultrasound examination confirming the absence of cuff pathology. Subjects were grouped based on shoulder examination and outcomes questionnaires. Asymptomatic patients had minimal pain (<3 on the visual analog scale and no loss of active range of motion compared with the contralateral side); symptomatic patients had pain greater than 3 on the visual analog scale and decreased range of motion compared with the contralateral side (>10 degrees of motion loss). Electromyographic activity from 12 muscles and kinematic data were collected simultaneously during 10 functional tasks. Both symptomatic and asymptomatic cuff subjects demonstrated a trend toward increased muscle activation during all tasks compared with normal subjects. During the internal rotation tasks, asymptomatic patients had significantly greater (P<.05) subscapularis activity than symptomatic patients (65% maximal voluntary contraction [MVC] vs 42% MVC). During the carrying task, asymptomatic patients demonstrated significantly less (P<.03) upper trapezius muscle activation than symptomatic patients (16% MVC vs 50% MVC). During shoulder elevation tasks, symptomatic patients had significantly greater supraspinatus (52% MVC vs 28% MVC, P<.03), infraspinatus (32% MVC vs 16% MVC, P<.05), and upper trapezius (39% MVC vs 20% MVC, P<.04) muscle activation compared with asymptomatic patients. During heavy elevation (8 lb), asymptomatic patients showed a trend toward increased activation (P<.06) of the subscapularis compared with symptomatic patients (34% MVC vs 21% MVC). Differential shoulder muscle firing patterns in patients with rotator cuff pathology may play a role in the presence or absence of symptoms. Asymptomatic subjects demonstrated increased firing of the intact subscapularis, whereas symptomatic subjects continued to rely on torn rotator cuff tendons and periscapular muscle substitution, resulting in compromised function."}
{"id": "15789006", "title": "Biceps tenodesis associated with arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Biceps tenodesis associated with arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears. Associated lesions of the biceps tendon are commonly found during arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears. These lesions are treated with tenodesis, classically performed through an open approach. However, it seems reasonable to seek a single approach to correct both lesions; therefore, we have proposed a new arthroscopic technique that allows an exclusive arthroscopic tenodesis by including the biceps tendon in the rotator cuff suture, a surgical technique with a single suture of the rotator cuff that includes the biceps tendon. We treated 97 shoulders in 96 patients arthroscopically for complete rotator cuff tears. Of these shoulders, 15 required tenodesis for treatment of biceps tendon lesions. Through an arthroscopic approach, a subacromial decompression followed by a rotator cuff repair was carried out in association with a biceps tenodesis. In this technique, one limb of the suture was passed through the biceps tendon, and the other was passed through the rotator cuff tear, bringing both tissues together in the final suture. Of the patients, 9 were men and 5 were women. Their mean age was 71 years (range, 41-80 years). The dominant arm was affected in all patients. Postoperative evaluation, by use of the UCLA score, after a mean follow-up period of 32.4 months showed satisfactory results in 93.4% of patients: 11 had excellent results, 3 had good results, and only 1 had an unsatisfactory result. In this case a postoperative magnetic resonance imaging scan showed an intact rotator cuff and biceps tenodesis. The suture involving the rotator cuff and the biceps tendon proved effective to correct both lesions, with the main advantage being that an additional approach was not required."}
{"id": "15776325", "title": "[Efficacy of home exercises for symptomatic rotator cuff tears in correlation to the size of the defect].", "content": "[Efficacy of home exercises for symptomatic rotator cuff tears in correlation to the size of the defect]. Although the outcome of surgical treatment of rotator cuff tears is well documented in the literature, less is known about the efficacy of home exercises for symptomatic rotator cuff tears in correlation to the size of the defect. A series of 30 patients (38 shoulders) with rotator cuff tears seen by ultrasonography were included in this prospective study. Rotator cuff tears were divided into partial defects (group A), full thickness tears of the supraspinatus tendon (group B), and massive rotator cuff defects (group C). Treatment consisted of a home program of stretching and strengthening exercises that were performed by the patients daily for a period of 12 weeks and controlled by a physician every 2 weeks. Range of motion, a modified constant score, and impingement signs at initial examination and after 12 weeks were compared. All groups experienced improvement in range of motion. The Constant scores improved significantly (p < 0.05) in all groups (A: 13.0 [+/- 7.9 SD], B: 13.2 [+/- 11.4 SD], and C: 17.5 [+/- 6.6 SD]). Impingement signs showed a downward trend in all groups. The results of this study show that patients with rotator cuff defects do benefit from simple home exercises independent from the size of the defect."}
{"id": "15773644", "title": "Comparison of total and partial traumatic tears of the subscapularis tendon.", "content": "Comparison of total and partial traumatic tears of the subscapularis tendon. We treated surgically 16 shoulders with an isolated traumatic rupture of the subscapularis tendon over a six-year period. Nine patients had a total and seven a partial tear of the subscapularis tendon. Repair was undertaken through a small deltopectoral groove approach. The mean Constant score improved in total tears from 38.7 to 89.3 points (p = 0.003) and in partial tears from 50.7 to 87.9 points (p = 0.008). The total tears were significantly more improved by surgery than the partial tears (p = 0.001). The delay between trauma and surgery was inversely proportional to the improvement in the Constant score suggesting that early diagnosis and surgical repair improves outcome."}
{"id": "15756195", "title": "Partial-thickness articular surface supraspinatus tears: a new transtendon suture technique.", "content": "Partial-thickness articular surface supraspinatus tears: a new transtendon suture technique. The standard technique for repairing partial-thickness tears of the supraspinatus tendon includes completion of the lesion to a full-thickness tear. Partial articular-side supraspinatus tendon avulsions (PASTA) form a subgroup deserving special consideration. We present a transtendon suture technique that is able to preserve the intact tendon fibers and to achieve firm attachment of the tendon to the humeral footprint using 1 double-loaded bone anchor. The surgical technique is described in detail, and pitfalls and complications are noted. The clinical results of the first 22 consecutive patients are reported, showing an increase in the UCLA score from 17.1 to 31.2 points and a patient satisfaction rate of 91%."}
{"id": "15734234", "title": "Asymmetric atrophy of the supraspinatus muscle following tendon tear.", "content": "Asymmetric atrophy of the supraspinatus muscle following tendon tear. Muscle atrophy is a known consequence of muscle disuse, muscle denervation and tendon tear. Whereas after nerve injury muscle atrophies in the denervated area, the distribution of muscle atrophy following tear of its tendon is not known. Standardized MRI scans of 64 consecutive, painful shoulders were evaluated for supraspinatus tendon tearing, myotendinous retraction, supraspinatus muscle atrophy, fatty infiltration, ratio of the scapular (deep) and fascial (superficial) muscle area (\"symmetry\") and position of the central tendon within the supraspinatus fossa. There were thirteen shoulders with no and eleven shoulders with partial thickness supraspinatus tendon tears. In the forty cases with full thickness tendon tear, there was significant muscle atrophy and fatty infiltration. Atrophy of the fascial muscle portion was 43%, on the bony side it was 9% (p<0.005). The position of the central tendon within the supraspinatus fossa, was unaltered. Muscular changes following tendon tear occur highly asymmetrically: the muscle portion originating from the fascia primarily atrophies, the portion originating from the scapula primarily undergoes fatty infiltration. Muscular changes are not simply a consequence of muscle disuse, but dependent on architectural changes in the muscle."}
{"id": "15723212", "title": "Acromioclavicular joint cyst: nine cases of a pseudotumor of the shoulder.", "content": "Acromioclavicular joint cyst: nine cases of a pseudotumor of the shoulder. (1) To analyse the imaging appearances of nine patients with acromioclavicular joint cysts presenting as shoulder masses for tumor staging with operative, histopathological and joint aspiration findings. Retrospective review of imaging and correlation with clinical, operative and surgical notes. Images were reviewed by two musculoskeletal radiologists by consensus. Nine patients who presented clinically with a shoulder mass were evaluated by radiographs (n=9), ultrasound (n=1), conventional arthrography (n=3), MRI (n=6; with direct MR arthrography n=2, indirect MR arthrography n=4). All patients had a focal mass superior to the AC joint, with a size ranging from 1.5 cm to 6 cm and a mean of 3.27 cm. Correlation was available with surgery (n=7), histopathology (n=2) and cyst aspiration (n=2). Two patients were managed conservatively. Geyser sign was positive in all three arthrograms. All MRIs revealed extensive rotator cuff tears with a column of fluid extending from the glenohumeral joint through the rotator cuff tear into the acromioclavicular joint and acromioclavicular cyst. Chondrocalcinosis was seen in the acromioclavicular joint cyst (n=2) and in the glenohumeral joint (n=1). Aspirate in two patients contained calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystals. Acromioclavicular joint cysts may present as a tumor mass. They are associated with extensive rotator cuff tears and there is usually communication of the cyst with the joint space. This feature excludes a diagnosis of tumor. AC joint cysts may be associated with calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate deposition disease."}
{"id": "15723008", "title": "Quantitative assessment of thinning of the subscapularis tendon in recurrent anterior dislocation of the shoulder by use of magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Quantitative assessment of thinning of the subscapularis tendon in recurrent anterior dislocation of the shoulder by use of magnetic resonance imaging. It is known that thinning and lengthening of the subscapularis tendon occur in shoulders with recurrent anterior dislocation. However, no studies have been performed to quantify the morphologic changes of the subscapularis tendon under such conditions. We retrospectively measured the thickness and cross-sectional area of the subscapularis tendon by use of magnetic resonance imaging in 22 shoulders in 11 patients with unilateral recurrent anterior dislocation of the shoulder. The contralateral shoulder in each patient served as a control. The thickness and cross-sectional area of the subscapularis on the affected side were smaller than those on the normal side (6.5 +/- 1.7 mm vs 8.0 +/- 1.9 mm, P = .001, and 388.6 +/- 120.0 mm 2 vs 547.9 +/- 128.5 mm 2 , P = .0001, respectively). We conclude that the subscapularis tendon undergoes an 18.7% decrease in thickness and a 29.1% decrease in cross-sectional area in shoulders with recurrent anterior dislocation."}
{"id": "15693538", "title": "Severe lymphedema of the arm as a potential cause of shoulder trauma.", "content": "Severe lymphedema of the arm as a potential cause of shoulder trauma. The aim of this study was to determine whether lymphedema of the arm is associated with traumatic injury to the shoulder and to assess the role of lymphatic physiotherapy in reducing disabling shoulder pain. The study group consisted of 10 women aged 58-81 years (mean 66.9) with arm lymphedema after surgery for breast cancer. The average interval between the operation and the appearance of lymphedema was 9.8 years. All patients complained of shoulder pain. Five patients had a tear in the supraspinatus muscle diagnosed by ultrasound examination, and 5 had chronic bursitis; the nonaffected arm showed no pathology. The mean volume of the affected arm was 568 ml greater. Treatment consisted of manual lymphatic drainage and intermittent sessions of pneumatic compression with the LymphaPress device. This led to an average decrease in arm volume of 170 ml, with improvement of arm mobility and a drastic reduction in shoulder pain. In conclusion, lymphedema of the arm can cause severe shoulder trauma, pain and disability. Proper physiotherapy can reduce these effects. Patients should be referred for early treatment and follow-up to avoid permanent damage to the shoulder muscles."}
{"id": "15687154", "title": "Effect of tendon transfers and extra-articular soft-tissue balancing on glenohumeral development in brachial plexus birth palsy.", "content": "Effect of tendon transfers and extra-articular soft-tissue balancing on glenohumeral development in brachial plexus birth palsy. Persistent muscle imbalance and soft-tissue contractures can lead to progressive glenohumeral joint deformity in patients with brachial plexus birth palsy. The objective of this investigation was to determine the effects of correction of external rotation weakness and internal rotation contractures with tendon transfers and extra-articular soft-tissue releases on glenohumeral development in patients with brachial plexus birth palsy. Twenty-five patients with brachial plexus birth palsy who underwent latissimus dorsi and teres major tendon transfers to the rotator cuff-with or without concomitant musculotendinous lengthenings-were evaluated clinically and radiographically before the operation and at a minimum of two years (average, forty-three months) postoperatively. Shoulder function was prospectively assessed with use of the modified Mallet classification system, in which aggregate shoulder function is assigned a score of 5 to 25 points. Glenoid version and humeral head subluxation were quantified with magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography, and glenohumeral deformity was graded. Clinically, all patients demonstrated improved global shoulder function, with the mean aggregate Mallet score improving from 13 points preoperatively to 18 points postoperatively (p < 0.01). As seen radiographically, the mean glenoid retroversion improved from 22 degrees preoperatively to 16.5 degrees postoperatively (p = 0.012). The mean posterior humeral head subluxation improved from 30% to 37% (p = 0.03). No patient had progressive worsening of the glenohumeral deformity. Latissimus dorsi and teres major tendon transfers to the rotator cuff, combined with appropriate extraarticular musculotendinous lengthenings, significantly improved global shoulder function but led to only modest improvements in glenoid retroversion and humeral head subluxation. No profound glenohumeral remodeling occurs after these extra-articular rebalancing procedures, even when they are performed in patients of a young age. While the long-term clinical and radiographically apparent effects at skeletal maturity are uncertain, soft-tissue rebalancing procedures alone were found to have halted the progression of, but not to have markedly decreased, glenohumeral dysplasia at the time of a two to five-year follow-up."}
{"id": "15685073", "title": "The causes of pain in benign solitary enchondromas of the proximal humerus.", "content": "The causes of pain in benign solitary enchondromas of the proximal humerus. Patients with benign solitary enchondromas of the proximal humerus frequently present to the diagnosing physician with shoulder pain. Once the lesion is considered benign, emphasis can be placed on identifying the etiology for the pain. We reviewed our experience with these patients to identify the cause of the presenting pain. A retrospective review of clinical records and radiographic studies (radiographs, magnetic resonance images, and bone scans) was done for all patients presenting to an orthopaedic oncology unit with solitary enchondroma of the proximal humerus. Attention was focused on diagnostic evidence of additional disease in the shoulder. Fifty-seven patients (mean age, 53.6 years) met the criteria of the study and were included for evaluation. Of patients presenting with pain, 82% (47 of 57 patients) had findings seen on magnetic resonance imaging scans that correlated with the initial clinical diagnostic impression, suggesting that other disease was present that could explain the pain. Solitary enchondromas of the proximal humerus often are found incidentally during the initial evaluation of patients with shoulder pain. This study showed that additional treatable disease usually is present in patients with enchondromas of the proximal humerus."}
{"id": "15679569", "title": "Sonographic evaluations in elite college baseball athletes.", "content": "Sonographic evaluations in elite college baseball athletes. This study compared the thickness of the biceps and supraspinatus tendons, the widths of the subacromial space in the frontal and scapular planes, and abnormal sonographic findings in the shoulders of injured, and uninjured elite college baseball athletes and healthy controls. This study recruited two groups of 42 and 12 athletes, with and without histories of shoulder injuries, respectively, as well as one control group of 16 college students who were matched for physical characteristics but not involved in sports. The results showed that the thickness of the biceps and supraspinatus tendons and the subacromial space widths at 0 degrees and 90 degrees shoulder abduction in the frontal plane were significantly greater in the athletes than in the controls (P-values <0.004). The occurrences of the acromioclavicular joint bulging, bicep tendon degeneration, infraspinatus tendon degeneration and infraspinatus cortical irregularity differ significantly between the injured athlete and the group of uninjured athletes and controls (P-values <0.05). However, only infraspinatus tendon degeneration corresponded to the injury histories. There was a high similarity of sonographic spectrum of abnormal findings among the groups. Longitudinal follow-ups are required to determine the clinical importance of the sonographic spectrums and the occurrences of abnormal finding in asymptomatic athletes' shoulders."}
{"id": "15674840", "title": "Interobserver variation in sonography of the painful shoulder.", "content": "Interobserver variation in sonography of the painful shoulder. This study was conducted as a prospective assessment of interobserver variability in the sonographic evaluation of the rotator cuff. Three musculoskeletal radiologists who had different levels of scanning experience each performed shoulder sonography on 24 consecutive patients during 1 patient visit. The diagnostic criteria full-thickness rotator cuff tear, tendon calcification, tendinosis of the supraspinatus, subacromial fluid, subacromial synovial/bursal thickening, dynamic signs of impingement, and abnormality in the long head of biceps tendon were scored, with independent observers recording the data. Statistical analysis was performed using Cohen's kappa test, with significance assessed at p values of less than 0.05. There was good agreement (kappa >0.60, p <0.01) between the experienced operators for full-thickness rotator cuff tear, tendon calcification, dynamic signs of impingement, and abnormality of the long head of biceps tendon. There was no significant agreement between the experienced operators and the less experienced operator in several categories, including (and importantly) full-thickness rotator cuff tears (kappa=0.18-0.21). In experienced hands sonography of the rotator cuff is a reproducible diagnostic test, but agreement is poor when there is marked disparity between the operators' experience levels. Our findings suggest a need for a more clearly defined training curriculum for sonography of the shoulder in radiology training programs."}
{"id": "15669566", "title": "[Focused lithotripsy in the treatment of tendinosis calcarea of the shoulder: results at 2 months and one year].", "content": "[Focused lithotripsy in the treatment of tendinosis calcarea of the shoulder: results at 2 months and one year]. The authors report their experience with extracorporeal lithotripsy in 30 patients with calcific tendinosis of the rotator cuff. This technique is based upon the utilization of high-energy shockwaves (6000 shocks in 3 sessions Day 1, D8, D30) under continuous ultrasound localization of the lesion (EPOS Ultra1). Calcification were evaluated at plain film, US and CT to characterize their length and features. Complete or partial resorption of calcifying deposits within 2 months and one year was observed in 27.5% and 25% of cases respectively. Clinical improvement results are encouraging at two months (50%), but reduced at one year (28.5%), consistent with the rate of resorption of calcifications. This painful, long, and expensive technique seems to be disappointing in the treatment of the calcific tendinosis."}
{"id": "15665693", "title": "Magnetic resonance appearance of bone marrow edema associated with hydroxyapatite deposition disease without cortical erosion.", "content": "Magnetic resonance appearance of bone marrow edema associated with hydroxyapatite deposition disease without cortical erosion. The authors report the magnetic resonance (MR) appearance of bone marrow edema associated with hydroxyapatite deposition disease without cortical erosion. Hydroxyapatite deposition disease may have bone marrow edema on MR imaging without radiographic evidence of cortical erosion, mimicking the appearance of fracture, neoplasm, or infection. Awareness of this association can prevent unnecessary additional imaging evaluation or biopsy."}
{"id": "15658142", "title": "Ultrasonography as a diagnostic modality in acromioclavicular joint pathologies.", "content": "Ultrasonography as a diagnostic modality in acromioclavicular joint pathologies. Ultrasound is useful in detecting acromioclavicular pathologies in cases of trauma, inflammations and degenerative changes. To describe the sonographic findings of acromioclavicular joint pathology in patients with anterior shoulder pain. Sonographic examination of the ACJ was used to examine 30 adults with anterior shoulder pain. As a control group we studied 30 asymptomatic patients and compared the findings to plain radiographs of the symptomatic group. The pathologic findings consisted of swelling of the joints, bone irregularities, widening and/or narrowing of the ACJ, soft tissue cyst formation, excessive fluid collection, and calcification. All these signs represent degenerative changes compatible with early osteoarthritis. We encountered one case of septic arthritis that required joint aspiration and antibiotic treatment. It is our belief that ultrasonography should be used routinely in cases of anterior shoulder pain since it demonstrates various pathologies undetected by plain radiographs."}
{"id": "15635469", "title": "MRI of rotator cuff muscle atrophy in relation to glenohumeral joint incongruence in brachial plexus birth injury.", "content": "MRI of rotator cuff muscle atrophy in relation to glenohumeral joint incongruence in brachial plexus birth injury. To evaluate rotator cuff muscles and the glenohumeral (GH) joint in brachial plexus birth injury (BPBI) using MRI and to determine whether any correlation exists between muscular abnormality and the development of glenoid dysplasia and GH joint incongruity. Thirty-nine consecutive BPBI patients with internal rotation contracture or absent active external rotation of the shoulder joint were examined clinically and imaged with MRI. In the physical examination, passive external rotation was measured to evaluate internal rotation contracture. Both shoulders were imaged and the glenoscapular angle, percentage of humeral head anterior to the middle of the glenoid fossa (PHHA) and the greatest thickness of the subscapular, infraspinous and supraspinous muscles were measured. The muscle ratio between the affected side and the normal side was calculated to exclude age variation in the assessment of muscle atrophy. All muscles of the rotator cuff were atrophic, with the subscapular and infraspinous muscles being most severely affected. A correlation was found between the percentage of humeral head anterior to the middle of the glenoid fossa (PHHA) and the extent of subscapular muscle atrophy (r(s)=0.45, P=0.01), as well as between its ratio (r(s)=0.5, P P=0.01). Severity of rotator cuff muscle atrophy correlated with increased glenoid retroversion and the degree of internal rotation contracture. Glenoid retroversion and subluxation of the humeral head are common in patients with BPBI. All rotator cuff muscles are atrophic, especially the subscapular muscle. Muscle atrophy due to neurogenic damage apparently results in an imbalance of the shoulder muscles and progressive retroversion and subluxation of the GH joint, which in turn lead to internal rotation contracture and deformation of the joint."}
{"id": "15615971", "title": "Sonography of full-thickness supraspinatus tears: comparison of patient positioning technique with surgical correlation.", "content": "Sonography of full-thickness supraspinatus tears: comparison of patient positioning technique with surgical correlation. Sonography has become a popular technique for the assessment of musculoskeletal disorders. Patient positioning is crucial to a thorough and accurate assessment of rotator cuff tendons. Two positions, the Crass and modified Crass, have been routinely used in the research and clinical settings to examine the supraspinatus tendon. Our study was a prospective trial to determine whether the Crass or the modified Crass position affords the most accurate measure of supraspinatus tears when compared with surgical findings. Twenty-one patients with full-thickness supraspinatus tears underwent shoulder sonography in both the Crass and the modified Crass positions. Measurements of supraspinatus tears were performed in the sagittal and transverse dimensions. Patients subsequently underwent either arthroscopic or open supraspinatus repair. Intraoperative measurements were made in two dimensions and were compared with sonographic findings. Sonography had 100% specificity in detecting full-thickness supraspinatus tears. No statistically significant difference was seen between the size of supraspinatus tears in the Crass and modified Crass positions and surgical findings in the transverse plane (p = 0.55 and 0.61, respectively). In the sagittal dimension, no statistically significant difference was seen between surgical findings and the Crass position (p = 0.14); however, a difference existed when the modified Crass position was used (p = 0.03). Sonography reliably detects and quantifies supraspinatus tears. Both the Crass and the modified Crass positions reflected the true size of supraspinatus tears in the transverse plane. In the sagittal plane, the Crass position is the more useful to quantify supraspinatus tears because the modified Crass position overestimates the size of such tears."}
{"id": "15553955", "title": "Sternoclavicular joint infection and mediastinitis originally attributed to concomitant rotator cuff pathology.", "content": "Sternoclavicular joint infection and mediastinitis originally attributed to concomitant rotator cuff pathology."}
{"id": "15544823", "title": "Superior labrum, anterior-posterior lesions and biceps injuries: diagnostic and treatment considerations.", "content": "Superior labrum, anterior-posterior lesions and biceps injuries: diagnostic and treatment considerations. Proximal biceps tendon rupture, biceps tendinitis, and medical biceps subluxation are injuries that occur alone and in association with other pathologic conditions of the shoulder. The literature describes various strategies for imaging and treating these biceps tendon complex injuries but offers no clear consensus on a gold-standard approach. The keys to successful treatment are an accurate diagnosis, identification of associated pathologic conditions, and assessment of functional limitations of the injury."}
{"id": "15544822", "title": "Rotator cuff injuries and treatment.", "content": "Rotator cuff injuries and treatment. Rotator cuff problems are among the most commonly encountered disorders of the shoulder, and are commonly seen by primary care physicians. Their exact mechanism for susceptibility to injury remains unclear; however, with an understanding of the shoulder's anatomy and biomechanics, we are better able to treat the insults incurred on the cuff. Early recognition, proper treatment, and appropriate follow-up may expedite healing and prevent the occurrence of further injury or complications."}
{"id": "15533948", "title": "Evaluation of shoulder integrity in space: first report of musculoskeletal US on the International Space Station.", "content": "Evaluation of shoulder integrity in space: first report of musculoskeletal US on the International Space Station. Investigative procedures were approved by Henry Ford Human Investigation Committee and NASA Johnson Space Center Committee for Protection of Human Subjects. Informed consent was obtained. Authors evaluated ability of nonphysician crewmember to obtain diagnostic-quality musculoskeletal ultrasonographic (US) data of the shoulder by following a just-in-time training algorithm and using real-time remote guidance aboard the International Space Station (ISS). ISS Expedition-9 crewmembers attended a 2.5-hour didactic and hands-on US training session 4 months before launch. Aboard the ISS, they completed a 1-hour computer-based Onboard Proficiency Enhancement program 7 days before examination. Crewmembers did not receive specific training in shoulder anatomy or shoulder US techniques. Evaluation of astronaut shoulder integrity was done by using a Human Research Facility US system. Crew used special positioning techniques for subject and operator to facilitate US in microgravity environment. Common anatomic reference points aided initial probe placement. Real-time US video of shoulder was transmitted to remote experienced sonologists in Telescience Center at Johnson Space Center. Probe manipulation and equipment adjustments were guided with verbal commands from remote sonologists to astronaut operators to complete rotator cuff evaluation. Comprehensive US of crewmember's shoulder included transverse and longitudinal images of biceps and supraspinatus tendons and articular cartilage surface. Total examination time required to guide astronaut operator to acquire necessary images was approximately 15 minutes. Multiple arm and probe positions were used to acquire dynamic video images that were of excellent quality to allow evaluation of shoulder integrity. Postsession download and analysis of high-fidelity US images collected onboard demonstrated additional anatomic detail that could be used to exclude subtle injury. Musculoskeletal US can be performed in space by minimally trained operators by using remote guidance. This technique can be used to evaluate shoulder integrity in symptomatic crewmembers after strenuous extravehicular activities or to monitor microgravity-associated changes in musculoskeletal anatomy. Just-in-time training, combined with remote experienced physician guidance, may provide a useful approach to complex medical tasks performed by nonexperienced personnel in a variety of remote settings, including current and future space programs."}
{"id": "15515515", "title": "Long-term MRI findings in operated rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Long-term MRI findings in operated rotator cuff tear. To describe magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings at long-term follow-up after rotator cuff (RC) tear using standard MRI sequences without fat saturation. Twenty-eight patients aged 55.8+/-7.6 underwent MRI examination 4.6+/-2.1 years after surgery for RC tear. Standard sequences in oblique coronal, oblique sagittal, and axial planes were obtained. The RC, including re-tears and tendon degeneration, was independently evaluated by two observers. Thickness of the supraspinatus tendon and narrowing of the subacromial space were measured. The clinical outcome was evaluated with the Constant score and compared with the MRI findings. The RC tear was traumatic in 18 (64%) patients and degenerative in 10 (36%). At follow-up, 11 (39%) had normal RC tendons with good clinical outcome. Four (14%) patients had painful tendinosis without RC tear. A full-thickness RC tear was found in 7 (25%) patients and a partial tear in 6 (21%). In one patient with a full-thickness tear, and in two with partial tear, tendinosis was found in another of the RC tendons. The subacromial space was narrowed in 13 (46%) of the patients. A narrowing of the subacromial space correlated with re-tear (P<0.05). The RC may be evaluated with standard MRI sequences without fat saturation at long-term follow-up. A normal appearance of the RC is correlated with good clinical outcome, while re-tear and tendinosis are associated with pain."}
{"id": "15515507", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder."}
{"id": "15505321", "title": "Sonography of the rotator cuff: analysis of interobserver variability.", "content": "Sonography of the rotator cuff: analysis of interobserver variability. The purpose of our study was to determine the interobserver variability in the sonographic evaluation of the rotator cuff. Two radiologists independently scanned 61 patients with shoulder pain. Each radiologist categorized the rotator cuff as normal, partially torn, or fully torn. When a tear was present, the tendons involved were specified. All diagnoses were made prospectively without knowledge of the findings of the other radiologist. The radiologists were in full agreement in the categorization of 92% (56/61) of the patients. In four of the five discrepant cases, the disagreement was whether there was a full-thickness or a partial-thickness tear. The radiologists were in agreement concerning which tendons were involved in 80% (41/51) of the patients in whom a tear was detected by both observers. In all 10 discrepant cases, the disagreement was whether a tear involved both the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons or was isolated to one or the other of these tendons. The level of interobserver variability in the sonographic detection and characterization of rotator cuff tears is low."}
{"id": "15505319", "title": "Sonography and MRI of the shoulder: comparison of patient satisfaction.", "content": "Sonography and MRI of the shoulder: comparison of patient satisfaction. MRI and sonography are both used to evaluate patients with painful shoulders. This study was conducted to compare patients' perceptions and satisfaction with both tests. One hundred eighteen patients with shoulder pain and a clinically suspected rotator cuff tear underwent both MRI and sonography and filled out satisfaction surveys after both tests. Patients were asked the following questions: Did the test cause pain? If it did, they were asked to grade the pain on a scale of 1-10 (1, minimal pain; 10, severe pain). Did the test take too long? Would they be willing to undergo the test again? How would they grade their overall satisfaction with the test (1, poor; 2, fair; 3, good; 4, very good; and 5, excellent)? Which test did they prefer if both were equally accurate? Sonography caused pain above the baseline in 39 patients, with an average pain score (mean +/- SD) of 5.4 +/- 2.3, and MRI caused pain above the baseline in 40 patients, with an average pain score of 6.1 +/- 2.7 (p = 0.36). Two patients thought the sonography examination took too long, and 28 patients though the MRI examination was too long (p < 0.001). The average satisfaction level for sonography was 4.3 +/- 0.7 and for MRI, 3.6 +/- 1.2 (p < 0.001). The satisfaction score was higher for sonography in 54 patients, higher for MRI in 13 patients, and the same for both in 50 patients (p < 0.001). All patients were willing to repeat the sonography, but 10 patients were unwilling to repeat the MRI (p = 0.002). Ninety-three patients preferred sonography, eight patients preferred MRI, and 17 patients had no preference (p < 0.001). Most patients with shoulder pain prefer sonography to MRI."}
{"id": "15494338", "title": "Prospective evaluation of the effect of rotator cuff integrity on the outcome of open rotator cuff repairs.", "content": "Prospective evaluation of the effect of rotator cuff integrity on the outcome of open rotator cuff repairs. Open rotator cuff repairs have led to excellent clinical results; however, several studies have linked postoperative structural integrity to patient outcomes. The purpose of this study is to prospectively assess postoperative cuff integrity after open rotator cuff repair and assess its relationship to clinical outcome. Preoperative rotator cuff tear size and postoperative rotator cuff integrity are important factors in overall clinical outcomes. Prospective nonrandomized clinical outcomes study. Forty-seven consecutive patients undergoing repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears by a single surgeon were enrolled in this prospective study. A standardized evaluation was performed preoperatively and postoperatively at annual intervals. All patients underwent postoperative magnetic resonance imaging at least 1 year after surgery. Statistical evaluation was performed using paired and unpaired 2-tailed t tests for comparison. Thirty-two patients were available for evaluation. Overall, the patients experienced a significant (P < .05) improvement in their American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons survey (40-85) and Constant (53-80) scores. The overall retear rate was 31%. Although patients with large tears preoperatively and retears postoperatively had lower overall outcomes scores, this was not significant. These data support open rotator cuff repair as an effective technique that restores excellent shoulder function. The authors did not find postoperative cuff integrity to have a significant effect on outcomes when compared with those with an intact cuff. In fact, those with a retear still had a significant improvement in all clinical areas assessed, including strength."}
{"id": "15483532", "title": "Bursoscopic evaluation for degree of rotator cuff tear using an air-infusion method.", "content": "Bursoscopic evaluation for degree of rotator cuff tear using an air-infusion method. This article presents a method of bursoscopic examination with use of a glenohumeral air-infusion technique for the detection of full-thickness tears hidden by bursal tissue. We inflated the glenohumeral joint with 50 to 60 mL of air while simultaneously observing the joint with bursoscopy for the detection of air bubble leakage. The air-infusion technique is valuable in detecting full-thickness tears and useful for evaluating the patency of repair."}
{"id": "15478149", "title": "High prevalence of symptomatic enthesopathy of the shoulder in ankylosing spondylitis: deltoid origin involvement constitutes a hallmark of disease.", "content": "High prevalence of symptomatic enthesopathy of the shoulder in ankylosing spondylitis: deltoid origin involvement constitutes a hallmark of disease. To examine the prevalence and characteristics of shoulder involvement in ankylosing spondylitis (AS). To analyze the sensitivity and specificity of shoulder lesions defined by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in patients with AS. Prevalence of shoulder involvement was ascertained by chart review of 400 AS patients. One hundred of these patients and 285 controls were selected for clinical evaluation. AS patients with a clinically defined shoulder disorder (n = 15) and a control group of 91 patients (94 shoulders) with nonspecific shoulder pain were studied with MRI. Fifty-four MRI-defined variables per shoulder were analyzed by 2 observers. A third cohort of patients with AS (n = 76) was prospectively evaluated by clinical exam for AS-specific shoulder lesions identified on MRI. Shoulder pain was recorded in 3.5% of patients by chart review. Shoulder involvement by clinical evaluation was noted in 24.7% of patients versus 14.2% of controls (odds ratio [OR] 8.17, 95% confidence interval [95% CI] 3.14-21.28, P < 0.001). Rotator cuff tendinitis was significantly more prevalent in patients (15.1%) than controls (3.5%; OR 8.17, 95% CI 2.66-25.14, P < 0.001). Acromioclavicular joint arthrosis was the most common lesion observed in AS shoulders (94%), although specificity was low (32%). Bone marrow edema at any entheseal site was noted in significantly more AS shoulders (70.6%) than in control (19.1%) shoulders (P < 0.001, corrected P = 0.02). Erosion of the greater tuberosity with or without adjacent bone edema had the best combination of sensitivity (58-65%) and specificity (86-92%). Intense acromial entheseal edema at the deltoid origin was observed only in AS shoulders (41.2%; P < 0.001). Evaluation of a prospective cohort of patients with AS showed that 22.4% had rotator cuff enthesopathy. Shoulder lesions in AS are common and characterized clinically by rotator cuff tendinitis and on MRI by intense bone edema localized to the supraspinatus/greater tuberosity and deltoid/acromial entheses. Intense acromial bone edema at the deltoid origin is a hitherto undescribed and highly specific feature of AS. Enthesopathy of the rotator cuff is underrecognized in AS and should be incorporated into instruments measuring enthesitis."}
{"id": "15472772", "title": "[The effects of hook plates on the subacromial space--a clinical and MRT study].", "content": "[The effects of hook plates on the subacromial space--a clinical and MRT study]. The analysis of middle- and long-term results after treatment of acromioclavicular joint injuries with a hook plate as a temporary implant and a comparison of the results with those described in literature have been made. In a retrospective study we were able to conduct follow-up examinations on 28 out of 39 Tossy III patients (72 %) who received surgical treatment using a hook plate according to Dreithaler. Examinations took place on average 3.0 (1.2-5.6) years after surgery. A special focus of attention was the effect of the hook plate on the subacromial space. Accordingly, physical examination was supplemented by sonography of the shoulder as well as comparative bilateral shoulder MRI. 86 % of our patients expressed satisfaction with the functional outcome of surgery as opposed to 54 % concerning its cosmetic result. In shoulder sonography no patient turned out to have suffered a higher grade rotator cuff lesion, whereas age-related degenerative alterations were found in 46 % of the patients. Instability under load was found in 7 patients (25 %). Among these were 3 with severe instability (11 %). 2 patients (7 %) were found to have a permanent subluxation of the acromioclavicular joint with partial range of motion impairment. All scores monitored (DASH, Taft, Constant-Murley) on average returned good to excellent results. MRI scans displayed no case of higher grade rotator cuff lesion. In accordance with the findings of ultrasound imaging a higher incidence of extraarticular ossification was found as well as, in some cases, arthrosis of the acromioclavicular joint. In our opinion, the hook plate designed by Dreithaler is easy to handle and serves as a qualified implant for temporary stabilisation of the acromioclavicular joint with middle- and long-term good to excellent results."}
{"id": "15472769", "title": "[MRI after reconstruction of the supraspinatus tendon: MR-tomographic findings].", "content": "[MRI after reconstruction of the supraspinatus tendon: MR-tomographic findings]. The value of MRI for pre-operative evaluation of the rotator cuff is proven. In spite of its clinical relevance, there have been only few studies on MR imaging of patients who have already been operated. Thus, the question rises to what extent the post-operative MRI can contribute to the evaluation of the integrity of the rotator cuff. At least 10 months after successful open repair of the supraspinatus tendon, mostly combined with Neer's anterior acromioplasty, an MR scan was performed on 33 shoulders. Only patients satisfied with the outcome of surgery and showing a Constant score of 65 to 100 points were included. More than half the patients had positive direct diagnostic criteria for a full- or partial-thickness tear of the supraspinatus tendon, in the form of signal intensity or morphological alterations. In addition, the indirect diagnostic criteria described by Zlatkin, such as the absence of the subacromial-subdeltoid fat or the appearance of subacromial-subdeltoid fluid, were often positive. Atrophy of the supraspinatus muscle, as a further indirect diagnostic criterion of a rupture, was also frequently noted. Taking the excellent clinical outcome of our patients into consideration, this study shows that caution should be taken in evaluating postoperative MR images. There is a high risk of over-interpreting MR findings."}
{"id": "15385288", "title": "Shoulder MR arthrography: which patient group benefits most?", "content": "Shoulder MR arthrography: which patient group benefits most? We sought to compare the diagnostic accuracy of conventional MRI versus MR arthrography of the shoulder in the assessment of high-performance athletes (professional baseball players) and to compare our findings in these patients with the conventional MRI and MR arthrographic findings in an age-matched control group of nonprofessional athletes. Conventional MRI and MR arthrographic examinations of the shoulder in 20 consecutive professional baseball players with shoulder pain were reviewed retrospectively by two musculoskeletal radiologists in consensus. These interpretations were compared with retrospective consensus interpretations of conventional MRI and MR arthrographic examinations of the shoulder obtained in a control group of 50 consecutive nonprofessional athletes with shoulder pain. MR images were assessed for full- or partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears, superior labral anteroposterior (SLAP) tears, and anterior or posterior labral tears. In the 20 consecutive professional athlete patients, two full-thickness and six partial-thickness undersurface supraspinatus tendon tears were seen on MR arthrography but not seen on conventional MRI as well as six SLAP tears, two anterior labral tears, and one posterior labral tear. Three patients had both SLAP tears and full- or partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears. Of 14 patients with findings on MR arthrography that were not seen on MRI, 11 had arthroscopic correlation. In all 11, arthroscopic findings confirmed findings on MR arthrography. In the group of 50 nonprofessional athlete patients, five had additional findings on MR arthrography not seen on conventional MRI: two anterior labral tears, two partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears, and two SLAP tears. One patient had both a partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tear and a SLAP tear seen on MR arthrography. The five patients with additional findings on MR arthrography had arthroscopy. In all five, arthroscopic findings confirmed the findings on MR arthrography. MR arthrography is considerably more sensitive for detection of partial-thickness supraspinatus tears and labral tears than conventional MRI. MR arthrography showed injuries in addition to those seen on conventional MRI in 14 of 20 patients in the high-performance athlete group. These results suggest high-performance athletes may be a subgroup of patients for whom MR arthrography yields considerably more diagnostic information than conventional MRI."}
{"id": "15383980", "title": "[Direct MR-arthrography of the shoulder with maximum capsular distension for surgical planning].", "content": "[Direct MR-arthrography of the shoulder with maximum capsular distension for surgical planning]. To evaluate the effectiveness of direct MR arthrography of the glenohumeral joint with maximum distension of the joint capsule in patients with glenohumeral instability for preoperative diagnosis and for determining the method of surgical intervention. MR arthrography of the shoulder joint was performed on a 1.5 T system in 38 patients. All patients suffered from anterior or bidirectional instability. Using a fluoroscopically guided posterior approach, a 1 % dilution of dimeglumine gadopentetate (5 mmol Gd-DTPA/l) was injected until full capsular stretching was achieved. MR imaging protocol included fat-saturated transversal, oblique-coronal and oblique-sagittal T1-weighted spin-echo, T1-weighted 3-D and transversal T2-weighted Flash-2D. MR imaging revealed significant capsule distention in 22 patients and ventral capsule defects in 9 patients. Labral lesions were depicted in 25 patients, bicipital tendon lesions in 4 patients and partial ruptures of the rotator cuff in 3 patients. 15 of the 38 patients underwent surgery. Areas of pathologic laxity of the glenohumeral capsule were correctly described in all cases. In 12 of 15 patients, the best method of intervention could be determined prospectively. In 3 of 15 patients, the necessary operation was overestimated. Regarding labral ruptures, MRI had a sensitivity of 88 %, a specificity of 86 %, and a diagnostic accuracy of 87 %. Direct glenohumeral MR arthrography allows accurate preoperative evaluation of labral and tendinous structures. Judging the capsular laxity allows the determination of the optimal method of surgical intervention. The maximum extent of a stabilizing operation can be predicted preoperatively."}
{"id": "15383811", "title": "Six-month magnetic resonance imaging follow-up of large and massive rotator cuff repairs reinforced with porcine small intestinal submucosa.", "content": "Six-month magnetic resonance imaging follow-up of large and massive rotator cuff repairs reinforced with porcine small intestinal submucosa. Small intestinal submucosa (SIS) has been used for reinforcement of other tissues in the body with success and has been shown to act as a bioabsorbable tissue scaffold that promotes and assists healing. The effectiveness of using porcine SIS as a tissue scaffold for reinforcement of rotator cuff repair is unclear. This study evaluates both clinical and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) follow-up at 6 months in patients with large and massive rotator cuff tears treated with open repair and SIS reinforcement or interpositional grafting. Eleven consecutive patients who underwent open rotator cuff repair with SIS augmentation for large or massive tears were selected retrospectively, and their charts were reviewed. Magnetic resonance images were then obtained at least 6 months after the index procedure. Patients were evaluated clinically and with a questionnaire, and an American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons shoulder score was calculated. Results showed retear on MRI in 10 of 11 patients with recurrence of large, retracted tears. One repair remained intact by MRI evaluation at 10 months. Clinically, there was no statistically significant difference between preoperative and postoperative shoulder scores by use of a paired t test analysis (P =.70). Five patients had worse scores postoperatively. We concluded that, though SIS xenografting may be effective in other areas of the body for tendon healing, its use in reinforcement of large and massive rotator cuff repairs seems to be ineffective and does not improve clinical outcome."}
{"id": "15383805", "title": "Arthroscopic treatment of calcifying tendinitis of the shoulder: clinical and ultrasonographic follow-up findings at two to five years.", "content": "Arthroscopic treatment of calcifying tendinitis of the shoulder: clinical and ultrasonographic follow-up findings at two to five years. From 1996 to 1999, 95 shoulders with calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff were treated arthroscopically by the same surgeon and assigned to the same rehabilitation program. The 63 patients matching the inclusion criteria were reviewed after a mean follow-up of 36 months. Preoperative and postoperative clinical functional assessment was performed separately by the same three surgeons using the Constant method. The Pearson correlation coefficient was used to verify interobserver variability and to correlate the presence of residual calcifications with follow-up Constant scores and preoperative ultrasound findings. At 24 months, improved Constant scores were inversely related to the number and size of residual calcifications in all patients. Ultrasound examination showed no cuff tears. As outcome seemed to relate strongly only to the presence of residual calcium deposits in the tendon, their complete removal is recommended."}
{"id": "15378320", "title": "Arthroscopic debridement of massive rotator cuff tears: negative prognostic factors.", "content": "Arthroscopic debridement of massive rotator cuff tears: negative prognostic factors. The purpose of this study was to identify the factors that may lead to poor outcomes after arthroscopic debridement in massive rotator cuff tears. Thirty-three patients (10 women and 23 men) with massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears underwent arthroscopy by a single surgeon. The preoperative diagnosis was based on the clinical examination and MRI. Their mean age was 69 years (range 62-79 years), and the average follow-up was 31 months (range 24-46 months). If indicated, the performed arthroscopic debridement included acromioplasty, debridement of the cuff, resection of the distal part of the clavicle or tenotomy of the long head of the biceps. In 28 cases (85%) acromioplasties and in 6 cases (18%) biceps tenotomies were performed, 2 of which were a single tenotomy without any associated acromioplasty. One patient had been managed with concomitant resection of the distal part of the clavicle. The Constant and Murley Score improved by a mean of 30 points, from a mean of 37 points (range 21-52) preoperatively to a mean of 67 points (range 31-82) at the time of follow-up. Some 82% of the patients were satisfied with the procedure. The result was considered unsatisfactory because of inadequate pain relief in 4 shoulders, because of limited active abduction in 1 and because of limited external rotation in 1. A poor outcome was associated with a complete tear of the subscapularis tendon in 6 patients. The radiological study showed no significant narrowing of the subacromial space. Our early results suggest that arthroscopic debridement is an excellent treatment for elderly patients with modest functional demands. However, its long-term consequences remain to be evaluated by studies with lengthy follow-up. Prognostic factors that may lead to a negative outcome are preoperative superior migration of the humeral head, presence of subscapularis tear, presence of glenohumeral arthritis and decreased range of motion."}
{"id": "15358849", "title": "Frozen shoulder: MR arthrographic findings.", "content": "Frozen shoulder: MR arthrographic findings. To evaluate the magnetic resonance (MR) arthrographic findings in patients with frozen shoulder. Preoperative MR arthrograms of 22 patients (six women, 16 men; mean age, 54.7 years) with frozen shoulder treated with arthroscopic capsulotomy were compared with arthrograms of 22 age- and sex-matched control subjects without frozen shoulder. The thickness of the coracohumeral ligament (CHL) and the joint capsule, as well as the volume of the axillary recess, were measured (Mann-Whitney test). Abnormalities in the CHL, subcoracoid fat, superior glenohumeral ligament, superior border of the subscapularis tendon, long biceps tendon, and subscapularis recess were analyzed in consensus by two blinded radiologists (chi(2) test). Patients with frozen shoulder had a significantly thickened CHL (4.1 mm vs 2.7 mm in controls) and a thickened joint capsule in the rotator cuff interval (7.1 mm vs 4.5 mm; P < .001 for both comparisons, Mann-Whitney test) but not in the axillary recess. The volume of the axillary recess was significantly smaller in patients with frozen shoulder than in control subjects (P = .03, Mann-Whitney test). Thickening of the CHL to 4 mm or more had a specificity of 95% and a sensitivity of 59% for diagnosis of frozen shoulder. Thickening of the capsule in the rotator cuff interval to 7 mm or more had a specificity of 86% and a sensitivity of 64%. Synovitis-like abnormalities at the superior border of the subscapularis tendon were significantly more common in patients with frozen shoulder than in control subjects (P = .014, chi(2) test). Complete obliteration of the fat triangle between the CHL and the coracoid process (subcoracoid triangle sign) was specific (100%) but not sensitive (32%). Thickening of the CHL and the joint capsule in the rotator cuff interval, as well as the subcoracoid triangle sign, are characteristic MR arthrographic findings in frozen shoulder."}
{"id": "15346111", "title": "Internal impingement: findings on magnetic resonance imaging and arthroscopic evaluation.", "content": "Internal impingement: findings on magnetic resonance imaging and arthroscopic evaluation. The purpose of this study was to examine preoperative shoulder magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and intraoperative arthroscopic findings in throwing athletes with a clinical diagnosis of internal impingement. Retrospective review. A retrospective review of the surgical indications for 769 shoulder arthroscopic procedures performed from 1997 to 2000 revealed 9 throwing athletes with a diagnosis of severe internal impingement. Each had failed treatment that included a minimum of 3 months of rehabilitation. Preoperative MRIs in all 9 were read by a fellowship-trained musculoskeletal radiologist blinded to the operative findings. Findings at arthroscopy were culled from the operative reports. On both MRI and at arthroscopy, all 9 athletes had posterosuperior labral lesions, 1 had a humeral head articular cartilage lesion, and 1 had a SLAP lesion. Additional findings on MRI included humeral head edema, subchondral cystic changes, posterosuperior glenoid sclerosis, and rotator cuff tendonopathy predominantly in the infraspinatus. At arthroscopy, there were additional findings of articular-sided partial rotator cuff tears not shown on MRI. Both MRI and arthroscopic findings described labral and humeral head articular cartilage lesions. These findings may be indicative of internal impingement in throwing athletes. Level III, diagnostic."}
{"id": "15333791", "title": "Assessment of fat content in supraspinatus muscle with proton MR spectroscopy in asymptomatic volunteers and patients with supraspinatus tendon lesions.", "content": "Assessment of fat content in supraspinatus muscle with proton MR spectroscopy in asymptomatic volunteers and patients with supraspinatus tendon lesions. To evaluate proton magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy in the assessment of lipid content of the supraspinatus muscle in asymptomatic volunteers and patients with supraspinatus tendon lesions. Single-voxel proton MR spectroscopy was used to assess lipid content of the supraspinatus muscle in asymptomatic volunteers (n = 30) and patients with partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears (n = 30), newly diagnosed full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears (n = 30), and chronic full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears (n = 30). The apparent lipid content of the supraspinatus muscle measured with proton MR spectroscopy was related to its appearance on sagittal-oblique T1-weighted spin-echo MR images (grades 0-4). One-way analysis of variance was performed to test for significant differences, and the Tukey honestly significant difference procedure was performed for post hoc comparisons. Mean apparent lipid content was 13.7% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 11.5%, 15.8%) for asymptomatic volunteers, 29.5% (95% CI: 25.1%, 34.0%) for patients with partial-thickness tears, 48.6% (95% CI: 41.3%, 55.9%) for patients with full-thickness tears, and 66.1% (95% CI: 57.7%, 74.5%) for patients with chronic tears. Values were significantly different (analysis of variance, P <.001; P <.001-.002 for all post hoc pairwise comparisons). Mean apparent lipid content for the supraspinatus muscle was as follows: grade 0, 19.6% (95% CI: 16.7%, 22.6%); grade 1, 36.8% (95% CI: 33.2%, 40.4%); grade 2, 53.6% (95% CI: 43.1%, 64.2%); grade 3, 67.5% (95% CI: 52.6%, 82.3%); and grade 4, 79.2% (95% CI: 73.2%, 85.3%). With analysis of variance (P <.001), all post hoc pairwise comparisons were significant (P </=.001) except between grades 2 and 3 (P =.112) and between grades 3 and 4 (P =.261). In 14 (25%) subjects who had grade 0 appearance on T1-weighted images, lipid content values were greater than the upper range of values in the volunteers. Proton MR spectroscopy is suitable in the assessment of apparent lipid content of rotator cuff muscles."}
{"id": "15323397", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the rotator cuff in destroyed rheumatoid shoulder: comparison with findings during shoulder replacement.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the rotator cuff in destroyed rheumatoid shoulder: comparison with findings during shoulder replacement. To evaluate the predictive value of preoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with respect to rotator cuff ruptures. Thirty-one patients with rheumatic disease underwent preoperative MRI before shoulder arthroplasty. The scans were reviewed independently by two experienced radiologists. Three surgeons performed all the replacements (hemiarthroplasties), and the condition of the rotator cuff was assessed. Complete and massive tears of the rotator cuff were recorded and compared at surgery and on MRI. With MRI, 21 shoulders (68%) were classified as having complete or massive tears of the rotator cuff and at surgery 14 shoulders (45%). Cohen's kappa coefficient was 0.44 (95% CI: 0.16 to 0.72) and accuracy 0.71 (95% CI: 0.52 to 0.86). In severely destroyed rheumatoid shoulder, the findings of soft tissues were incoherent both with MRI and at surgery. The integrity of tendons could not readily be elucidated with MRI because of an inflammatory process and scarred tissues; in surgery, too, changes were frequently difficult to categorize. Preoperative MRI of severely destroyed rheumatoid shoulder before arthroplasty turned out to be of only minor importance."}
{"id": "15314536", "title": "Shoulder pain in hemiplegia: results from a national rehabilitation hospital in Turkey.", "content": "Shoulder pain in hemiplegia: results from a national rehabilitation hospital in Turkey. Shoulder pain is a common complication after stroke that can limit the patients' ability to reach their maximum functional potential and impede rehabilitation. The aim of our study was to examine the occurrence of hemiplegic shoulder pain in a group of Turkish patients and clarify contributing factors such as glenohumeral subluxation, reflex sympathetic dystrophy, tonus changes, motor functional level, limitation in shoulder range of motion, thalamic pain, neglect, and time since onset of hemiplegia. The effect of shoulder pain on the duration of rehabilitation stay was also identified. A total of 85 consecutive patients with hemiplegia admitted to a national rehabilitation center were evaluated for the presence of shoulder pain. A brief history of pain was taken for each patient, and each patient was evaluated by radiographic and ultrasonographic examination. The subjects with shoulder pain were compared with those without pain in regard to certain of the above variables. Of the 85 patients with stroke, 54 patients (54/85, 63.5%) were found to have shoulder pain. Shoulder pain was significantly more frequent in subjects with reflex sympathetic dystrophy, lower motor functional level of shoulder and hand (P < 0001), subluxation, and limitation of external rotation and flexion of shoulder (P < 0,05). Age was also a significant factor in the development of shoulder pain. We were unable to demonstrate a significant relationship between shoulder pain and sex, time since onset of disease, hemiplegic side, pathogenesis, spasticity, neglect, and thalamic pain. There was no prolongation of rehabilitation stay in patients with shoulder pain. These results indicate that shoulder pain is a frequent complication after stroke and that it may develop from a variety of factors. To prevent and alleviate shoulder pain, efforts should be directed toward proper positioning of the shoulder, range of motion activities, and the avoidance of immobilization."}
{"id": "15294335", "title": "Rotator cuff tears in asymptomatic individuals: a clinical and ultrasonographic screening study.", "content": "Rotator cuff tears in asymptomatic individuals: a clinical and ultrasonographic screening study. To determine the prevalence and clinical impact of rotator cuff tears in asymptomatic volunteers. Sonographic examinations of the shoulder of 212 asymptomatic individuals between 18 and 85 years old were performed by a single experienced operator. The prevalence and location of complete rotator cuff tears were evaluated. The clinical assessment was based on the Constant Score. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the shoulder was obtained in those patients where US showed rotator cuff pathology. Ultrasound showed a complete rupture of the supraspinatus tendon in 6% of 212 patients from 56 to 83 years of age (mean: 67 years). MRI confirmed a complete rupture of the supraspinatus tendon in 90%. All patients reported no functional deficits, although strength was significantly lower in the patient group with complete supraspinatus tendon tear (P < 0.01). There is a higher prevalence in older individuals of rotator cuff tendon tears that cause no pain or decrease in activities of daily living."}
{"id": "15284460", "title": "Detection of muscle atrophy on routine sonography of the shoulder.", "content": "Detection of muscle atrophy on routine sonography of the shoulder. To describe the utility of sonography in visualizing muscle atrophy during routine sonographic examination of the shoulder for evaluation of the rotator cuff tendons. A retrospective review of 199 shoulder sonographic examinations performed by 2 musculoskeletal radiologists trained in musculoskeletal sonography with knowledge of the typical sonographic findings of muscle atrophy was performed. Reports were reviewed for the presence of muscle atrophy. If atrophy was present, the reports from those examinations were rereviewed for concomitant rotator cuff abnormalities. Forty-five examinations (23%) showed atrophy in at least 1 muscle on the basis of the criteria of increased echogenicity and decreased bulk. There were a total of 81 individual muscles that showed atrophy, with the following distribution: 16% supraspinatus (n = 13), 31% infraspinatus (n = 25), 36% teres minor (n = 29), 2% subscapularis (n = 2), and 6% biceps brachii (n = 5). In 34 of the 45 examinations with muscle atrophy, there were 57 concomitant full-thickness tendon tears: 64% supraspinatus (n = 29), 38% infraspinatus (n = 17), 7% subscapularis (n = 3), 0% teres minor (n = 0), 16% long head of biceps (n = 7), and 2% deltoid (n = 1). Although primary sonographic evaluation of the painful shoulder concentrates on the tendons of the rotator cuff, we suggest that examination of the muscles should become a standard component of the comprehensive shoulder sonographic examination, particularly given the potential clinical implications of muscle atrophy on the outcome of rotator cuff surgery."}
{"id": "15274266", "title": "Genetic influences in the aetiology of tears of the rotator cuff. Sibling risk of a full-thickness tear.", "content": "Genetic influences in the aetiology of tears of the rotator cuff. Sibling risk of a full-thickness tear. From a retrospective, cohort study of 205 patients diagnosed with full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff, we determined, using ultrasound, the prevalence of such tears in their 129 siblings. Using 150 spouses as controls, the relative risk of full-thickness tears in siblings versus controls was 2.42 (95% CI 1.77 to 3.31). The relative risk of symptomatic full-thickness tears in siblings versus controls was 4.65 (95% CI 2.42 to 8.63). The significantly increased risk for tears in siblings implies that genetic factors play a major role in the development of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "15273173", "title": "Shoulder pathoanatomy in marathon kayakers.", "content": "Shoulder pathoanatomy in marathon kayakers. To determine the prevalence of soft and hard tissue abnormalities and their interrelations in the shoulders of marathon kayakers and to examine the pathoanatomical factors that predispose these athletes to injury. Fifty two long distance kayakers completed a questionnaire. Their shoulders were examined for range of motion, pain, and stability using a standard set of 10 clinical tests. The shoulder was subsequently scanned by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in three planes and evaluated for evidence of injury or other abnormality. The relation of clinical symptoms and MRI findings was investigated with respect to kayaker's age, number of years kayaking, and number of marathon races completed. Thirty subjects were asymptomatic at the time of scanning, and twenty two showed symptoms of pain and/or instability. MRI showed acromioclavicular hypertrophy, acromial or clavicular spur, supraspinatus tendinitis, and partial tear of the supraspinatus as the most common abnormalities. Kayaker's age, number of years kayaking, and number of races completed did not relate significantly to symptoms or to the presence of an abnormality on MRI scan. Of all the pathoanatomical findings that are reported to predispose to rotator cuff injury, only acromial and clavicular spurs were found to correlate highly with supraspinatus muscle pathology. Rotator cuff injuries make up a large portion of the injuries seen in marathon kayakers, about twice the number reported for sprint kayakers. These injuries are the result of secondary impingement factors associated with overuse, possibly specific to kayakers, and not the result of bony restrictions around the shoulder joint. Acromioclavicular hypertrophy is a common finding in marathon kayakers, but is possibly the result of portaging or a previous injury."}
{"id": "15252087", "title": "Atrophy of the deltoid muscle following rotator cuff surgery.", "content": "Atrophy of the deltoid muscle following rotator cuff surgery. Less invasive procedures have recently been introduced to facilitate an earlier return to sports or work activities after rotator cuff repair. Few reports, however, have verified whether such procedures are really less invasive than conventional open repair. The purpose of this study was to compare the postoperative thickness of the deltoid muscle in patients treated with either conventional or mini-open rotator cuff repair. Conventional open repair was performed from 1994 through 1997 in forty-three patients with rotator cuff tears. The mini-open deltoid-splitting approach was introduced in 1997, and the cases of thirty-five patients who underwent that procedure were reviewed. The two groups were compared with respect to the thickness of the anterior fibers of the deltoid muscle measured on the transverse magnetic resonance images, the degree of active forward flexion, and the times required for return to work and sports activities. The thickness of the anterior deltoid fibers did not change significantly after surgery in the mini-open repair group, whereas it was significantly decreased in the open repair group at six months as well as at twelve months postoperatively (p < 0.05). At three months postoperatively, the mean University of California at Los Angeles score for active forward flexion in the patients treated with the mini-open repair (4.9 points) was significantly greater than that in the patients in the conventional open repair group (4.6 points) (p < 0.05). In addition, the mean time-period required for return to work in the mini-open repair group (2.4 months) was significantly shorter than that required in the control group (3.4 months) (p < 0.05). The mini-open repair appeared to cause less postoperative atrophy of the deltoid muscle than did the conventional open rotator cuff repair, and patients treated with the mini-open repair recovered more quickly."}
{"id": "15246482", "title": "MR imaging of infiltrative muscle involvement with Langerhans cell histiocytosis.", "content": "MR imaging of infiltrative muscle involvement with Langerhans cell histiocytosis. Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) consists of three clinical syndromes of varying severity resulting from basic cellular defect leading to lipid deposition within histiocytes. Radiologically, bone lesions are similar in all three forms of LCH and are due to bone destruction. An eosinophilic granuloma of the bone can involve skeletal muscle by direct extension from the bone. However, skeletal muscle involvement is rare and is not reported on MR imaging previously in the English literature. Our case not only shows biopsy-proven muscle involvement by LCH but also reports the first diffuse nodular pattern of muscle involvement by LCH."}
{"id": "15244320", "title": "Power Doppler analysis of tendon vascularization.", "content": "Power Doppler analysis of tendon vascularization. Forty-nine patients with tendonitis (patellar in 16, quadriceps in two, Achilles in 12, rotator cuff disease in 19) and 47 patients with tenosynovitis (acute tenosynovitis in 25, stenosing tenosynovitis in 22) underwent ultrasound (US) and Power Doppler (PD)-US examination. Spectral analysis of flow signals was performed in all patients. Ten patients (six with tendonitis, four with tenosynovitis) were rewired after medical therapy. Six healthy volunteers were also examined for control purposes. Three different patterns of flow distribution were found in patients with tendonitis and active tenosynovitis. The vessels of tendons without tendon sheaths began with great peduncles at the level of the peritendinous soft tissues and were then distributed inside the tendon (pattern I). A clear peritendinous hypervascular pattern was found in all active tenosynovitis, but no vessels were found inside the tendons (pattern II). In some cases of intratendinous or partial lesions PD-US revealed some vessels located near or inside the lesion (pattern II). On spectral analysis these vessels corresponded to arteries with a low resistance index or small venules. PD-US revealed a significant reduction of flow signals in patients rewired after medical therapy. No pathological flow signals were found either in patients with stenosing tenosynovitis or in the control group. PD-US gives us an in vivo confirmation of tendon vascularity. Spectral analysis adds further information to gray-scale US."}
{"id": "15243429", "title": "Pseudoaneurysm after interscalene block for a rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Pseudoaneurysm after interscalene block for a rotator cuff repair. We present a case of a 68-year-old female patient who had an interscalene nerve block (ISB) complicated by compression of her brachial plexus by a pseudoaneurysm. The complication occurred after the patient received an ISB as anesthesia for an outpatient shoulder procedure. Review of this complication should alert surgeons to consider this diagnosis as a possibility in patients with postoperative pain and/or neurologic compromise after receiving an ISB."}
{"id": "15221220", "title": "Teres minor denervation on routine magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder.", "content": "Teres minor denervation on routine magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder. To try to define an association between clinical history and the finding of isolated teres minor denervation on routine magnetic resonance (MR) examination of the shoulder. A retrospective review of all shoulder MR examinations performed at our institution over a 2-year period ( n=2,563) All patients and MR examinations demonstrating isolated denervation of the teres minor muscle as determined by review of this subset of patients ( n=61) A 3% incidence of isolated teres minor denervation was found. No patient had a clinical history concerning the classic quadrilateral space syndrome, and no patient had a structural lesion in the quadrilateral space. Isolated teres minor denervation is not an uncommon finding on routine shoulder MR imaging and may be associated with pathology other than a structural lesion in and about the axillary neurovascular structures, such as rotator cuff injuries and traction injury on the axillary nerve sustained during a glenohumeral joint translational event."}
{"id": "15208069", "title": "Simultaneous muscle strain at the point of attachment to the scapula of the rotator cuff muscles: MRI findings.", "content": "Simultaneous muscle strain at the point of attachment to the scapula of the rotator cuff muscles: MRI findings."}
{"id": "15168082", "title": "Massive tears of the rotator cuff treated with a deltoid flap.", "content": "Massive tears of the rotator cuff treated with a deltoid flap. We retrospectively reviewed the charts of 29 patients younger than 65 years at surgery treated with deltoid flap reconstruction for massive postero-superior rotator cuff tears. All tears involved supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons and were associated with tendon stump retraction to the glenoid rim, a preservable long biceps tendon, and an intact subscapularis tendon. Mean follow-up was 10.5 years. Patient satisfaction rate was 89%. Mean global Constant score improved from 43 to 71.5 points, mean pain score from 6.3 to 13.2, mean anterior flexion from 100 to 157 degrees, and force in elevation from 2.3 to 3 kg. Two thirds of patients had no humeral head migration. Of the 18 patients whose flap was examined by magnetic resonance imaging, 15 had no tear and 12 had a flap signal of muscle intensity; mean flap thickness was 5 mm. Pre-operative factors associated with poorer outcomes were upwards humeral head migration with a subacromial space smaller than 6 mm, presence of glenohumeral osteoarthritis, and supraspinatus amyotrophy greater than 40%. Deltoid flap reconstruction is a valid option in this patient population."}
{"id": "15160255", "title": "Calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff with cortical bone erosion.", "content": "Calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff with cortical bone erosion. Calcifying tendinitis occurs most commonly in the rotator cuff tendons, particularly involving the supraspinatus tendon insertion, and is often asymptomatic. Cortical erosion secondary to calcifying tendinitis has been reported in multiple locations, including in the rotator cuff tendons. We present a pathologically proven case of symptomatic calcifying tendinitis involving the infraspinatus tendon with cortical erosion with correlative radiographic, CT, and MR findings. The importance of considering this diagnosis when evaluating lytic lesions of the humerus and the imaging differential diagnosis of calcifying tendinitis and cortical erosion are discussed."}
{"id": "15156285", "title": "[New developments for the surgical treatment of shoulder problems].", "content": "[New developments for the surgical treatment of shoulder problems]. Tremendous advancement has been made in the surgical treatment of the shoulder within the last years. Arthroscopic techniques for treatment of rotator cuff lesions, instability problems and biceps tendon lesions are today established because of significant improvement of instruments, suture materials and anchor techniques. The 4th generation of shoulder prosthesis systems guarantee today anatomical and biomechanical advantages with significant functional improvement for the patient."}
{"id": "15150645", "title": "[Shoulder instability].", "content": "[Shoulder instability]. Shoulder instability is a common clinical feature leading to recurrent pain and limited range of motion within the glenohumeral joint. Instability can be due a single traumatic event, general joint laxity or repeated episodes of microtrauma. Differentiation between traumatic and atraumatic forms of shoulder instability requires careful history and a systemic clinical examination. Shoulder laxity has to be differentiated from true instability followed by the clinical assessment of direction and degree of glenohumeral translation. Conventional radiography and CT are used for the diagnosis of bony lesions. MR imaging and MR arthrography help in the detection of soft tissue affection, especially of the glenoid labrum and the capsuloligamentous complex. The most common lesion involving the labrum is the anterior labral tear, associated with capsuloperiostal stripping (Bankart lesion). A number of variants of the Bankart lesion have been described, such as ALPSA, SLAP or HAGL lesions. The purpose of this review is to highlight different forms of shoulder instability and its associated radiological findings with a focus on MR imaging."}
{"id": "15150644", "title": "[Conservative treatment and rehabilitation of shoulder problems].", "content": "[Conservative treatment and rehabilitation of shoulder problems]. The shoulder joint has an important influence on arm- and hand function. Therefore, activities of daily living, working and leisure time can be negatively influenced by diseases of the shoulder joint. Problems of the shoulder joint can be induced by muscular dysbalance and poor body posture. There is a strong relationship between shoulder function and body posture. Conservative treatment and rehabilitation of the shoulder joint aims at improving the local dysfunction of the shoulder joint as well as at improving function and social participation. Antiinflammatory and pain medication, exercise, occupational, electro-, ultrasound and shock wave therapy, massage, thermotherapy and pulsed electromagnetic fields are used as conservative treatments. Exercise therapy aims at improving muscular performance, joint mobility and body posture. Occupational therapy aims at improving functional movements for daily living and work. Electrotherapy is primarily used to relieve pain. Shock wave and ultrasound therapy proved to be an effective treatment for patients with calcific tendinitis. The subacromial impingement syndrome can be effectively treated by conservative therapy."}
{"id": "15125393", "title": "[Ultrasonography methods in the diagnosis of renal osteodystrophy].", "content": "[Ultrasonography methods in the diagnosis of renal osteodystrophy]. Bone disease, i.e. renal osteodystrophy, is commonly seen in patients with chronic renal failure. It encompasses all the disorders of mineral and bone metabolism associated with chronic renal insufficiency, i.e. secondary hyperparathyroidism, retention and accumulation of beta 2 microglobulin and aluminum. The most frequent cause of renal osteodystrophy is secondary hyperthyroidism, with a consequence of high turnover bone disease. Secondary hyperparathyroidism, i.e. increased parathyroid hormone (PTH) secretion and parathyroid gland hyperplasia, develops early in the course of chronic renal insufficiency. Hypocalcemia, phosphate retention and deficiency of calcitriol stimulate PTH synthesis and secretion and parathyroid cell proliferation, i.e. hyperplasia. Parathyroid cell proliferation is initially polyclonal (diffuse hyperplasia), and later it is monoclonal or multiclonal (nodular hyperplasia). Calcitriol receptors as well as calcium-sensing receptors are significantly reduced in parathyroid glands in nodular hyperplasia. Patients with such parathyroid gland hyperplasia are often resistant to vitamin D therapy. A specific form of bone disease is beta 2 amyloidosis. Destructive arthropathy, cystic changes and carpal tunnel syndrome are clinical manifestations of dialysis-related amyloidosis, which is one of the major complications in patients on longterm hemodialysis. Aluminum intoxication leads to the low turnover bone disease and consequential osteomalacia or aplastic bone lesions, the cause of which has not yet been fully clarified. Ultrasound can be a useful, economical and noninvasive method in the evaluation of renal osteodystrophy. Ultrasound waves are very important for noninvasive imaging of soft tissue, especially parathyroid glands, pathologic changes of the joints, and for detection of metastatic calcifications. They are also useful in the evaluation of skeletal status in dialysis patients. Ultrasound waves of a frequency above the limit of human hearing are used in the morphological diagnosis of parathyroid gland. Today, because of its simplicity and non-invasiveness, it is a generally accepted method for the detection of enlarged parathyroid gland in patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism, for the monitoring of pathologic changes, and for making decisions on the method of treatment based on the size and number of parathyroid glands. Ultrasound can distinguish nodal from diffuse parathyroid hyperplasia. Under ultrasound guidance it is possible to perform fine needle aspiration biopsy, to confirm ultrasound findings, and percutaneous inactivation of parathyroid gland (PEI) with alcohol. Ultrasound is useful in the diagnosis of pathologic changes of the musculoskeletal system in patients with beta 2 amyloidosis, to assess the process of its spread, especially in the shoulder joint where the changes are most pronounced (rotator cuff thickness, amyloid deposits as hyperechogenic pads, and detection of fluid in the joint), but it can also be used to examine other joints as well as soft tissue in which metastatic calcifications may occur. Standard ultrasound equipment (pulse-echo) and linear probe of 5-13 MHz are used, also serving for ultrasound examination of the neck, joints and soft tissue. Quantitative bone ultrasonometry is based on different physical characteristics of the ultrasound including: transmission, Speed Of Sound (SOS) in meters/sec and Broad Band Attenuation (BUA) in dB/MHz, and different concepts of the apparatus. These parameters depend on the strength and architecture of the bones and describe better the changes in bone structure in dialysis patients by calculation of the Stiffness Index (QUI), better than the standard bone densitometry by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry, which only measures bone density. Combined ultrasound measurement of the bone in several locations may be successful in monitoring dialysis patients."}
{"id": "15112313", "title": "Assessment of the rotator cuff and glenoid labrum using an extremity MR system: MR results compared to surgical findings from a multi-center study.", "content": "Assessment of the rotator cuff and glenoid labrum using an extremity MR system: MR results compared to surgical findings from a multi-center study. To conduct a multi-center assessment of the use of a 0.2-T, extremity MR system (E-scan; General Electric Lunar Corp. and Esaote, Genoa, Italy) for identifying tears of the rotator cuff and glenoid labrum. A retrospective study was performed involving 160 patients (age range, 15-84 years old) from five facilities in the United States, comparing shoulder MR imaging to surgical findings. MR imaging of the shoulder was conducted as follows: shoulder coil; T1-weighted spin echo, coronal-oblique and axial images; short Tau inversion recovery (STIR), coronal-oblique images and axial images; and T2-weighted spin echo, coronal-oblique and sagittal-oblique images. The MR examinations were interpreted in an independent, prospective manner by two radiologists with extensive musculoskeletal MRI experience. Arthroscopic (N = 103) or open surgical (N = 57) procedures were performed within a mean of 53 days after MR imaging. Surgical findings demonstrated rotator cuff tears in 131 patients and labral tears in 60 patients. For the rotator cuff, the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value were 90%, 93%, 98%, and 68%, respectively. For the labrum, the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value were 55%, 100%, 100%, and 82%, respectively. There was good agreement when MR results obtained using the extremity MR system were compared to surgical findings for identifying rotator cuff tears, while the sensitivity of MR imaging for determining labral tears was relatively poor. Nevertheless, these findings were comparable to those reported in the peer-reviewed literature for MR systems operating at mid-, and high-field-strengths."}
{"id": "15111910", "title": "Anterior dislocation of the shoulder with rotator cuff injury and brachial plexus palsy: a case report.", "content": "Anterior dislocation of the shoulder with rotator cuff injury and brachial plexus palsy: a case report."}
{"id": "15111899", "title": "The use of in-office, orthopaedist-performed ultrasound of the shoulder to evaluate and manage rotator cuff disorders.", "content": "The use of in-office, orthopaedist-performed ultrasound of the shoulder to evaluate and manage rotator cuff disorders. This study presents the use of in-office ultrasound, performed by an attending orthopaedic surgeon, as a means of evaluating the integrity of the rotator cuff. The results of 282 shoulder sonograms in patients ultimately treated surgically were included. Findings at surgery were recorded and compared with those documented during the ultrasound examination. Ultrasound findings included 118 full-thickness and 143 partial-thickness rotator cuff tears and 6 intact cuffs confirmed at surgery. One patient with a partial supraspinatus tear on ultrasound was intact at surgery, nine with complete supraspinatus tears had partial-thickness tears at surgery, one with an intact supraspinatus had a full-thickness tear at surgery, and four with partial-thickness supraspinatus tears had full-thickness tears at surgery. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value were 94.1%, 96.1%, 96.6%, and 93.2%, respectively, for partial-thickness tears; 95.9%, 94.3%, 92.9%, and 96.8%, respectively, for full-thickness tears; and 99.6%, 85.7%, 99.6%, and 85.7%, respectively, when the rotator cuff was evaluated for damage (either partial- or full-thickness tears). This series documents the ability of an orthopaedic surgeon to image the rotator cuff effectively using portable ultrasound in the clinic setting, allowing for a more efficient implementation of the management plan."}
{"id": "15111894", "title": "A prospective, double-blind comparison of magnetic resonance imaging and arthroscopy in the evaluation of patients presenting with shoulder pain.", "content": "A prospective, double-blind comparison of magnetic resonance imaging and arthroscopy in the evaluation of patients presenting with shoulder pain. The purpose of this study was to determine the diagnostic ability of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) compared with a reference standard, arthroscopy, in patients presenting with shoulder pain consistent with the signs and symptoms of shoulder impingement. Fifty-eight patients in whom conservative management failed underwent standardized MRI with intravenous gadolinium enhancement and arthroscopic evaluation. The prevalence of supraspinatus tendon, long head of the biceps tendon, and acromioclavicular joint pathology in this population was high: 79.3%, 66%, and 56%, respectively. MRI was highly accurate in detecting full-thickness supraspinatus tears and acromioclavicular joint pathology. However, it had poor concordance with arthroscopy in diagnosing pathology in the biceps tendon and in classifying the curvature of the acromion. A smaller number of other abnormal structures were identified in this population of patients, including labral abnormalities (superior labral anterior-posterior and Bankart tears), Hill-Sachs lesions, and articular surface damage. Concordance between MRI and arthroscopy would increase with improved radiologist-surgeon communication, a more reliable classification of pathology, and possibly the use of intraarticular contrast. This study demonstrates that patients presenting with the clinical findings of shoulder impingement syndrome represent a heterogeneous population. Overall, MRI is a useful tool in the identification of shoulder pathology; however, the clinical correlation of this information and the assessment of outcomes remains unknown."}
{"id": "15106069", "title": "[Long-term results (5 - 13 years) after surgical local repair and deltoid muscle flap for massive rotator cuff tears].", "content": "[Long-term results (5 - 13 years) after surgical local repair and deltoid muscle flap for massive rotator cuff tears]. The functional long-term results of reconstructions of massive rotator cuff tears (Bateman IV) were evaluated and analyzed. 38 patients (6 female/32 male) had a clinical and sonographical assessment and an evaluation of the Constant score after a follow-up of 81 (60 - 160) months. Operative procedures were direct transosseous refixation in 16, local tendon shifts in 17 and deltoid flaps in 5 patients. The average age and sex related Constant score was 77 %. The 5 patients with the deltoid flap achieved a Constant score of 60 %, all had a sonographically detected re-tear and 4 of them rated their result as only moderate. 25/33 patients with reconstruction (76 %) rated their result as good or excellent, 5 (15 %) as satisfactory, 1 (3 %) as moderate and 2 (6 %) as poor. 12 (36 %) of the 33 patients met the sonographic criteria of a re-tear. These patients had a Constant score of 71 %, whereas 21 (64 %) patients with intact reconstruction achieved a score of 85 %. The reconstruction of massive rotator cuff tears achieves good clinical long-term results if the tendons remain intact. But even with a recurrent defect, the results have been better than in patients treated with a deltoid flap. In massive rotator cuff tears a thorough selection of the operative procedure regarding atrophy and fatty infiltration of the rotator cuff muscles as well as the tendon retraction and quality is mandatory."}
{"id": "15104040", "title": "[Usefulness of ultrasonographic and MR imaging in diagnosis of shoulder impairment].", "content": "[Usefulness of ultrasonographic and MR imaging in diagnosis of shoulder impairment]. The aim of our study is to determine the value of ultrasonography (US) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in diagnostics of shoulders pain and dysfunction. 25 patients were examined both with US and MRI. The group consisted of 16 females, ranged 33-74 yr. (mean 57) and 9 males, ranged 32-65 yr. (mean 53). The mean complaint duration was 2 years and 7 months (1 month-16 yr). US detected RCT in 12 patients, what was confirmed with MRI in all cases. In 13 patient (52%) US detected no abnormality, but MRI revealed changes in four patients. The overall sensitivity of USG in diagnosing rotator cuff tears was 80%. USG and MR imaging has been shown to be accurate in diagnosing of rotator cuff tear to a high and comparable degree. Because of high accuracy and ability to dynamic assessment, US should be a method of choice in evaluation of painful shoulder."}
{"id": "15085476", "title": "Shoulder imaging in athletes.", "content": "Shoulder imaging in athletes. Shoulder pain and injuries are common in athletes. Overhead athletes, in particular, place great demands on the shoulder and supporting structures. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is well suited to evaluation of the osseous structures and soft tissues of the shoulder and plays an important role in evaluation of shoulder pain in athletes. Primary extrinsic impingement is well evaluated on MR imaging as are the less common posterior superior glenoid impingement and subcoracoid impingement. Rotator cuff tendinosis as well as partial- and full-thickness tears are frequently encountered in the athletic shoulder. The biceps tendon and rotator interval capsular structures are important sources of shoulder pain. Glenohumeral instability that results from a traumatic event or atraumatic multidirectional recurrent instability is assessed. The biceps labral complex is a source of considerable anatomic variability and pathology."}
{"id": "15083277", "title": "[Impingement syndrome of the shoulder].", "content": "[Impingement syndrome of the shoulder]. The impingement syndrome is a clinical entity characterized by shoulder pain due to primary or secondary mechanical irritation of the rotator cuff. The primary factors for the development of impingement are a curved or hook-shaped anterior acromion as well as subacromial osteophytes, which may lead to tearing of the supraspinatus tendon. Secondary impingement is mainly caused by calcific tendinopathy, glenohumeral instability, os acromiale and degenerative changes of the acromioclavicular joint. Conventional radiographs are initially obtained, mainly for evaluation of the bony structures of the shoulder. If available, sonography can be used for detection of lesions and tears of the rotator cuff. Finally, MR-imaging provides detailed information about the relationship of the acromion and the acromioclavicular joint to the rotator cuff itself. In many cases however, no morphologic cause for impingement syndrome can be found. While patients are initially treated conservatively, chronic disease usually requires surgical intervention."}
{"id": "15069134", "title": "Detection and quantification of rotator cuff tears. Comparison of ultrasonographic, magnetic resonance imaging, and arthroscopic findings in seventy-one consecutive cases.", "content": "Detection and quantification of rotator cuff tears. Comparison of ultrasonographic, magnetic resonance imaging, and arthroscopic findings in seventy-one consecutive cases. Although many investigators have evaluated the accuracy of ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging for the detection of full and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears, few have directly compared the two tests. The purpose of our study was to compare the accuracy of the two tests for detection and measurement of the size of rotator cuff tears, with arthroscopic findings used as the standard. One hundred and twenty-four consecutive patients with shoulder pain were prospectively studied with ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging. Seventy-one had subsequent arthroscopy, and they formed the study group. The arthroscopic diagnosis was a full-thickness tear in forty-six patients, a partial-thickness tear in nineteen, and no tear in six. The presence or absence of a full or partial-thickness tear and the tear size as demonstrated by each imaging test and at the time of arthroscopy were recorded. The findings of the imaging tests and arthroscopy were then compared for each parameter. Ultrasonography correctly identified forty-five of the forty-six full-thickness tears and magnetic resonance imaging, all forty-six. Ultrasonography correctly identified thirteen of the nineteen partial-thickness rotator cuff tears and magnetic resonance imaging, twelve of the nineteen. The overall accuracy for both imaging tests was 87%. Ultrasonography correctly predicted the degree of retraction of 73% of the full-thickness tears and the length of 85% of the partial-thickness tears, and magnetic resonance imaging correctly predicted the retraction and length of 63% and 75%, respectively. Ultrasonography correctly predicted the width of 87% of the full-thickness tears and 54% of the partial-thickness tears, and magnetic resonance imaging correctly predicted the width of 80% and 75%, respectively. No significant differences between ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging were demonstrated (p > 0.05). Ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging had comparable accuracy for identifying and measuring the size of full-thickness and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. When an investigator has comparable experience with both imaging tests, the decision regarding which test to perform for rotator cuff assessment does not need to be based on accuracy concerns. The choice can be based on other factors, such as the importance of ancillary clinical information (regarding lesions of the glenoid labrum, joint capsule, or surrounding muscle or bone), the presence of an implanted device, patient tolerance, and cost."}
{"id": "15066593", "title": "MR imaging of the rotator cuff interval.", "content": "MR imaging of the rotator cuff interval."}
{"id": "15066592", "title": "MR imaging of the rotator cuff.", "content": "MR imaging of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "15057423", "title": "[Postoperative imaging of the shoulder].", "content": "[Postoperative imaging of the shoulder]. Correct interpretation of imaging findings in the postoperative shoulder is impaired by surgical distortion of normal anatomy and possible artifacts. Advanced postoperative imaging of the shoulder in addition to the selection of the best suited modality necessitates familiarity with the surgical procedure that has been performed and its consecutive morphological changes. This article reviews the most common arthroscopic and open techniques used for treatment of shoulder instability, lesions of the superior labral-bicipital complex, primary impingement, and rotator cuff tears, their typical postoperative imaging findings, as well as the diagnostic performance of cross sectional imaging techniques in the detection of recurrent lesions and complications."}
{"id": "15054981", "title": "Shoulder stiffness: management.", "content": "Shoulder stiffness: management. There are several causes of painful, stiff shoulders--each with a different method of treatment. This article summarises the methods available to treat the various causes of stiff shoulders. Impingement and partial thickness rotator cuff tears can be treated by the general practitioner with a subacromial steroid injection. Calcific tendinitis can be aspirated under ultrasound guidance when the deposit is immature. Acute full thickness tears are best managed surgically. We recommend arthroscopic capsular release with appropriate postoperative rehabilitation program for frozen shoulder. With a well functioning rotator cuff, good results can be expected with shoulder replacement in advanced arthritis."}
{"id": "15054980", "title": "Shoulder stiffness: diagnosis.", "content": "Shoulder stiffness: diagnosis. Pain and stiffness of the shoulder is a common complaint, particularly in the 40-80 years age group. There are several causes of painful, stiff shoulders, but the most common cause in the fifth decade of life is idiopathic capsulitis ('frozen shoulder'). This article summarises the functional anatomy of the shoulder joint, the pathology of the conditions that lead to shoulder stiffness, and methods to differentiate them. Clinical history and examination is effective in differentiating rotator cuff tears, impingement and frozen shoulder. Restriction of glenohumeral joint motion, particularly in external rotation, with no abnormality on X-ray is strongly suggestive of the diagnosis of frozen shoulder. Plain true anteroposterior X-rays are important to identify glenohumeral joint arthritis. Ultrasound is often helpful for confirming or denying rotator cuff tears when there is doubt on the clinical examination."}
{"id": "15050222", "title": "Intramuscular ganglion arising from the acromioclavicular joint.", "content": "Intramuscular ganglion arising from the acromioclavicular joint. We report a case of a 80-year-old White woman presenting with a localized painless swelling in the upper parascapular region of the right shoulder. Ultrasound (US) showed a ganglion arising from the acromioclavicular joint (ACJ) and extending inside the trapezius muscle, together with a massive tear of the rotator cuff (RC). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) confirmed the US findings. Ganglia arising from the ACJ are rare and usually associated with massive RC tears. Their intramuscular extension, to the best of our knowledge, has never been reported in the radiological literature and can mimic a tumor."}
{"id": "15037909", "title": "Isolated ruptures of the supraspinatus muscle.", "content": "Isolated ruptures of the supraspinatus muscle. We rarely encounter isolated ruptures of the supraspinatus muscle. At the Clinic of Orthopedics at the Faculty Hospital in Olomouc, we encountered only 21 cases out of 385 arthroscopic operation cases from October 1998 to October 2003. The patients were examined by USG, 5 patients were examined arthrographically and 3 patients underwent MRI examination. Of these 21 patients, only 3 were operated for acute post-injury haemarthrosis of the shoulder joint. During arthroscopic operation, an isolated rupture of the supraspinatus muscle was discovered in all these patients. The remaining 40 patients were only treated at our clinic for problems associated with impingement syndrome after an interval of 3-11 months and were indicated for operational therapy for the rupture of the supraspinatus muscle, verified sonographically and by MRI. Surgically we performed end to end sutures in 12 patients, in 9 cases we performed refixation using 1-2 titanium MITEK anchors. We supplemented the work by a detailed anatomical study of the supraspinatus muscle on 27 cadaverous anatomical preparations. It was noted that the supraspinatus muscle may be divided into three parts, with a superficial and deep layer of muscle fascicles. An aponeurotic insertion tendon runs through the center, to which part of the superficial muscle fascicles are attached. The muscle fascicles, including the central attachment tendon, run across the superior margin of the shoulder joint and by broad tendon are attached to the superior surface of the greater tubercle of the humerus. Together with the long head of the biceps muscle, they act as a significant shoulder stabiliser. The authors believe that due to the course of the muscle fascicles, this muscle acts as a significant shoulder stabiliser and a powerful abductor and elevator in the shoulder joint. The inferior portion of the muscle fascicles acts as an external rotator of the shoulder."}
{"id": "15034655", "title": "[Biceps tendon disorders: ultrasound, MR imaging and MR arthrography].", "content": "[Biceps tendon disorders: ultrasound, MR imaging and MR arthrography]. Ultrasound and MR imaging are competitive imaging modalities for the diagnosis of pathologic conditions of the biceps tendon. MR imaging has substantial advantages over ultrasound because biceps tendon lesions are most commonly located in the proximal part where lesions are hidden under the acromion for ultrasound assessment. The value of MR arthrography is substantiated by the capability to assess associated diagnoses which are otherwise difficult to assess. Associated diagnoses include full- and partial thickness tears of supraspinatus and subscapularis tendons, pulley lesions, and adhesive capsulitis (frozen shoulder). Moreover, MR arthrography is the method of choice for the assessment of superior labral anterior posterior (SLAP) lesions."}
{"id": "15024500", "title": "Proximal humeral fractures with minimal displacement treated conservatively.", "content": "Proximal humeral fractures with minimal displacement treated conservatively. We reviewed 27 patients with a minimally displaced proximal humeral fracture treated conservatively after a mean follow-up of 25 (12-34) months. All fractures had united. Patients were evaluated using the Constant-Murley scoring system, and isokinetic muscle strength was tested using a Cybex dynamometer. Finally, all shoulders were examined ultrasonographically. The mean Constant score for all patients were 81 (54-100). Twenty-three patients had no or only mild pain, while three had moderate and one severe pain necessitating regular use of oral analgesics. Twenty patients were able to perform all activities of daily living, but seven had mild trouble in overhead activities and weight carrying. Only in one patient, the abduction peak torque equalled the one of the opposite shoulder. In all other patients, the peak torque was lower than, and in 14 patients below, 50%. In nine patients, rotator cuff tears were seen at ultrasonography."}
{"id": "15004884", "title": "Bilateral suprascapular nerve entrapment.", "content": "Bilateral suprascapular nerve entrapment. Bilateral suprascapular nerve entrapment syndrome is very rare. It presents with shoulder pain, weakness and atrophy of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles. We present a twenty-year old man having a history of bilateral shoulder pain associated with weakness. Electromyographic studies revealed signs of a lesion that caused a neupraxic state of the left suprascapular nerve, moderate axonal loss of the right suprascapular nerve and denervation of the right suprascapular muscle. The patient was treated with physical and medical therapy. Due to worsening of the symptoms, a surgical operation was performed by the excision of the transverse scapular ligaments bilaterally. His pain, weakness and atrophy had diminished on examination six weeks later. Suprascapular nerve entrapment should be considered in patients with shoulder pain, particularly those with weakness and atrophy of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles."}
{"id": "14996453", "title": "Six surgery-correlated sonographic signs for rotator cuff tears: emphasis on partial-thickness tear.", "content": "Six surgery-correlated sonographic signs for rotator cuff tears: emphasis on partial-thickness tear. The purpose of the study is to correlate the sonographic signs of rotator cuff tears (RCTs) with surgical findings, with emphasis on partial-thickness tear. We prospectively performed ultrasonography (US) on 50 patients with suspected RCTs and comparison with operative findings. Six US signs, which included \"nonvisualization\", \"focal depression\", \"focal thinning\", \"focal hypoechoic cleft\", \"floating bright spots\" and \"focal heterogeneous hypoechogenicity\" in rotator cuffs (RCs), were emphasized, but only \"focal heterogeneous hypoechogenicity\" favored partial-thickness tear (10/14, 71%). All the other five signs, including \"floating bright spots\" (not pointed out in literatures), were suggestive of full-thickness tear. The overall sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value and accuracy for US to detect RCTs were 95%, 90%, 97%, 82% and 94%, respectively. US is effective to detect RCTs and differentiate full- from partial-thickness tear."}
{"id": "14984190", "title": "Arthroscopic evaluation and management of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Arthroscopic evaluation and management of rotator cuff tears. The development of arthroscopic techniques has provided the shoulder surgeon with new opportunities to improve the chances of salvaging these difficult rotator cuff tears while generally avoiding the potential disastrous consequences attendant to the open procedures. The arthroscope can be used to review and document the status of the joint and cuff, assess the tear pattern, debride damaged tissues, and smooth the acromion. In addition, a trained shoulder arthroscopist can mobilize the available tissues and repair any viable tendon to bone, without damage to the overlying muscles, through small cosmetic incisions in an outpatient surgery setting. If there proves to be an irreparable injury, debridement and bone smoothing can be readily performed, avoiding iatrogenic injury to the remaining healthy tissues, especially the deltoid muscle. The patient and the surgeon must accept that the arthroscope is merely a helpful surgical tool, a convenient method to visualize the anatomy without damaging other tissues. When one attempts to repair a massive cuff tear, even with the aid of the arthroscope, there are no miracles or magic involved and often the results are less than perfect. Fortunately, once one can see the relevant anatomy, the opportunities to safely repair the tissues are then unprecedented."}
{"id": "14984188", "title": "Subscapularis tears: arthroscopic repair techniques.", "content": "Subscapularis tears: arthroscopic repair techniques. The subscapularis is an essential component of normal shoulder function. An intact subscapularis muscle provides the anterior moment for the transverse plane force couple. Any disruption of the subscapularis disrupts normal glenohumeral biomechanics. If this occurs the shoulder functions abnormally, leading to pain and disability. A thorough history and physical examination lead the surgeon to the diagnosis of a torn subscapularis. Radiographs and MRI are helpful in delineating the rotator cuff tear pattern and other intra-articular lesions and in determining subcoracoid stenosis. Advancements with arthroscopic techniques have enabled surgeons to deal with subscapularis tears arthroscopically. There are seven key points to arthroscopic subscapularis repair: (1) portal placement (posterior portal, anterior portal, anterolateral portal, and accessory anterolateral portal), (2) visualization of the pathology by using a 30 degree and a 70 degree arthroscope, (3) manipulating the arm into maximal internal rotation to assist in assessing the tendon's relationship to its footprint, (4) appropriate anchor placement, (5) suture passage through the tendon, (6) tying secure arthroscopic knots, and (7) appropriate rehabilitation that minimizes stress on the repair. With these principles in mind, the shoulder surgeon can address disruptions of the anterior rotator cuff by repairing the subscapularis, thus alleviating the disability associated with this overlooked and under-appreciated pathology."}
{"id": "14961423", "title": "[Value of sonography after rotator cuff repair: a comparison with MRI and clinical results].", "content": "[Value of sonography after rotator cuff repair: a comparison with MRI and clinical results]. How well do ultrasound- and MRI-results after rotator cuff reconstruction correlate with postoperative clinical findings? Ultrasound- and MR-imaging of the afflicted shoulder on 40 patients who were surgically managed for isolated tear of the tendon of supraspinatus was performed at least 24 months after intervention. Patients were also clinically assessed. Based on the clinical result, sensitivity and specificity for the two imaging procedures was determined. Only 11 (27.5%) patients had a completely inconspicuous ultrasonography. By ignoring the sonographic parameter \"echogenicity\" this number was raised to 29 (72.5%) patients. Without the above mentioned parameter ultrasonography demonstrated a good specificity (90.3%) yet a poor sensitivity (33.3%). Incorporation of \"echogenicity\" markedly weakened both values. MR-imaging showed an intact cuff in 32 (80%) patients, 5 (12.5%) had signs for a partial tear and in 3 (7.5%) a recurrent tear was diagnosed. Based on the clinical result, MR-imaging showed sufficient specificity (87.1%), yet also a poor sensitivity (44.4%). After rotator cuff repair MRI- and ultrasound-findings frequently stand in distinct discrepancy to clinical results. Based on clinical findings, postoperative MR-imaging shows a slightly higher sensitivity than ultrasonography. Despite this, both radiographic methods do not allow deductions concerning the clinical outcome. The postoperative shoulder-scan and MRI should therefore be interpreted with utmost care. Symptoms and functional results are of high clinical relevance in the assessment of the postoperative shoulder."}
{"id": "14960664", "title": "The outcome and repair integrity of completely arthroscopically repaired large and massive rotator cuff tears.", "content": "The outcome and repair integrity of completely arthroscopically repaired large and massive rotator cuff tears. The impact of a recurrent defect on the outcome after rotator cuff repair has been controversial. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the functional and anatomic results after arthroscopic repair of large and massive rotator cuff tears with use of ultrasound as an imaging modality to determine the postoperative integrity of the repair. Eighteen patients who had complete arthroscopic repair of a tear measuring >2 cm in the transverse dimension were evaluated at a minimum of twelve months after surgery and again at two years after surgery. The evaluation consisted of a standardized history and physical examination as well as calculation of the preoperative and postoperative shoulder scores according to the system of the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons. The strength of both shoulders was quantitated postoperatively with use of a portable dynamometer. Ultrasound studies were performed with use of an established and validated protocol at a minimum of twelve months after surgery. Recurrent tears were seen in seventeen of the eighteen patients. Despite the absence of healing at twelve months after surgery, thirteen patients had an American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score of >/=90 points. Sixteen patients had an improvement in the functional outcome score, which increased from an average of 48.3 to 84.6 points. Sixteen patients had a decrease in pain, and twelve had no pain. Although eight patients had preoperative forward elevation to <95 degrees, all eighteen regained motion above shoulder level and had an average of 152 degrees of elevation. At the second evaluation, a minimum of twenty-four months after surgery, the average score, according to the system of the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons, had decreased to 79.9 points; only nine patients had a score of >/=90 points, and six patients had a score of </=79 points. The average forward elevation decreased to 142 degrees. Arthroscopic repair of large and massive rotator cuff tears led to a high percentage of recurrent defects. The minimum twelve-month evaluation showed excellent pain relief and improvement in the ability to perform activities of daily living despite the high rate of recurrent defects; however, at a minimum follow-up of two years, the results deteriorated with only twelve patients who had an American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score of >/=80."}
{"id": "14767411", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the rotator cuff muscles after baseball pitching.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the rotator cuff muscles after baseball pitching. The purposes of present study were to investigate quantitatively using functional MR imaging the effect of a series of throwing activities on rotator cuff muscles and to compare the effect of pitching with that of all-out shoulder external rotator exercise as the targeted external rotator muscle group (the infraspinatus and the teres minor). MRI measurements after 135 baseball pitches or all-out shoulder external rotator exercise (concentric mode) in each subject's nondominant shoulder. 6 amateur baseball pitchers. serial T2-weighted images of rotator cuff muscles were obtained before pitching (or shoulder exercise) and immediately, 30, 60 min, 24, 48, 96 hrs after pitching (or shoulder exercise). T2 relaxation times (T2) at each measurement time were calculated for the rotator cuff muscles. Both the supraspinatus and the external rotator muscle group showed significant T2 elevations until 96 hrs after pitching. The subscapularis also showed significantly increased T2 until postpitching 48 hrs. On the other hand, a significant T2 elevation continued until 60 min after shoulder exercise, but thereafter returned towards the value at rest over the next 24 hrs. Long lasting T2 elevations in rotator cuff muscles would be associated with an increase in each intramuscular water content, and may be attributed to the muscle damage that resulted from eccentric contraction during pitching. This information should serve as a useful complement to shoulder injury prevention for baseball pitchers."}
{"id": "14754752", "title": "An avulsion of the subscapularis in a skeletally immature patient.", "content": "An avulsion of the subscapularis in a skeletally immature patient."}
{"id": "14753792", "title": "Rotator cuff ultrasonography: diagnostic capabilities.", "content": "Rotator cuff ultrasonography: diagnostic capabilities. Dynamic shoulder ultrasonography is a noninvasive, accurate method used to assess the rotator cuff tendons. It can be incorporated into the in-office physical examination of patients at risk for rotator cuff problems. The low cost, convenience, and lack of risk make dynamic ultrasonography an excellent imaging tool for evaluating the biceps, subscapularis, infraspinatus, teres minor, and supraspinatus tendons. In-office ultrasound also provides an opportunity for patient education and explanation of management options."}
{"id": "14743231", "title": "[Ultrasound examination of the shoulder--a method description].", "content": "[Ultrasound examination of the shoulder--a method description]. Ultrasound examination of the shoulder in orthopaedics is not much used in Norway, but it is an established method in many institutions abroad. According to the literature, good results have been obtained with diagnostic ultrasound for demonstration of rotator cuff ruptures and abnormalities of the long tendon of the biceps muscle. In order to increase the knowledge of this diagnostic modality in Norway, we present the general principles and techniques of shoulder ultrasonography. Examples of normal and pathological ultrasound findings in the rotator cuff and long tendon of the biceps muscle are given."}
{"id": "14735086", "title": "Bilateral shoulder bursal osteochondromatosis associated with complete rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Bilateral shoulder bursal osteochondromatosis associated with complete rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "14730038", "title": "MR imaging and MR arthrography of the postoperative shoulder: spectrum of normal and abnormal findings.", "content": "MR imaging and MR arthrography of the postoperative shoulder: spectrum of normal and abnormal findings. The postoperative shoulder may be evaluated with various imaging modalities, including radiography, ultrasonography, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, each of which has advantages and disadvantages. For optimal soft-tissue visualization, MR imaging and MR arthrography are widely used. Several factors, however, may decrease the accuracy of MR imaging in the evaluation of the postoperative shoulder. These factors include surgical distortions of native anatomy, changes in the signal intensity of tissues, and image degradation caused by metallic artifacts. To maximize the accuracy of MR imaging, the radiologist must select the most appropriate pulse sequences and techniques for the given anatomic structure and the suspected postoperative condition. To avoid magnetic susceptibility artifacts at MR imaging, inversion recovery may be used instead of fat saturation, and fast spin-echo sequences may be used instead of conventional spin-echo sequences or gradient-echo sequences. MR arthrography is most useful for optimal delineation of the rotator cuff, capsulolabral structures, and tendon defects. To achieve accurate image interpretation, the radiologist must be familiar with the arthroscopic and the open surgical techniques currently used to repair internal derangements of the glenohumeral joint, as well as with the typical imaging findings in each postoperative situation."}
{"id": "14705470", "title": "Strains and sprains.", "content": "Strains and sprains."}
{"id": "14695399", "title": "Full-thickness and partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears: value of US signs in diagnosis.", "content": "Full-thickness and partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears: value of US signs in diagnosis. To determine which US signs are important in the diagnosis of a surgically identifiable supraspinatus tendon tear. Fifty consecutive ultrasonographic (US) studies of the shoulder in patients who underwent arthroscopic follow-up were retrospectively reviewed by a musculoskeletal radiologist. US images of the supraspinatus tendon were evaluated for tendon nonvisualization, abnormal tendon echogenicity, tendon thinning, greater tuberosity cortical irregularity, cartilage interface sign, joint fluid, and subacromial-subdeltoid bursal fluid. US findings were compared with arthroscopic results. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and accuracy were calculated for each US sign in the diagnosis of full-thickness tendon tear and again for any type of supraspinatus tendon tear. Arthroscopy revealed 21 full-thickness tears, five bursal surface partial-thickness tears, 10 articular surface partial-thickness tears, and 14 patients without tear of the supraspinatus tendon. The presence of greater tuberosity cortical irregularity and joint fluid was most important in the diagnosis of full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tear (sensitivity, 60%; specificity, 100%; positive predictive value, 100%; negative predictive value, 78%; accuracy, 84%). For diagnosis of any type of supraspinatus tendon tear (partial or full thickness), tendon nonvisualization, greater tuberosity cortical irregularity, and cartilage interface sign are most important, although a combination of signs did not improve accuracy. Secondary US signs, such as greater tuberosity cortical irregularity and joint fluid, are most valuable in the diagnosis of supraspinatus tendon tear."}
{"id": "14673448", "title": "Combined subcoracoid and subacromial impingement in association with anterosuperior rotator cuff tears: An arthroscopic approach.", "content": "Combined subcoracoid and subacromial impingement in association with anterosuperior rotator cuff tears: An arthroscopic approach. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the surgical outcome of patients with combined subcoracoid and subacromial impingement with associated rotator cuff tears. Case series. Eight patients with a mean age of 63.6 (+/- 8.9) years were reviewed. All patients had combined subscapularis, supraspinatus, and infraspinatus tears of the rotator cuff with associated subacromial and subcoracoid impingement. All patients were treated with arthroscopic subacromial decompression, subcoracoid decompression, and rotator cuff repair. At a mean follow-up of 8.8 months (range, 6-12 months), all patients were satisfied with the procedure. The mean University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) score increased from 11.0 +/- 2.6 preoperatively to 30.9 +/- 2.9 postoperatively (P <.00001). Preoperatively, all patients were in the poor category by UCLA criteria. Postoperatively, 2 patients had excellent results, 5 patients had good results, and 1 patient had a fair result. All patients had significant reduction in pain postoperatively, with 4 patients showing complete elimination of pain during all activities. No patient complained of pain anteriorly over the coracoid or had positive impingement signs postoperatively. Active forward elevation increased from a mean of 103.1 degrees +/- 46.5 degrees preoperatively to a mean of 155 degrees +/- 18.5 degrees (P <.02). Preoperatively, 4 patients had no active overhead function with positive Napoleon tests. Postoperatively, all showed improvement of the Napoleon test and regained active overhead function. Arthroscopic treatment of combined subcoracoid and subacromial impingement can lead to good results in this patient population. A high index of suspicion for these combined lesions, along with adequate surgical decompression and rotator cuff repair, is essential in providing pain relief and improved function."}
{"id": "14671536", "title": "Isolated fractures of the greater tuberosity of the proximal humerus.", "content": "Isolated fractures of the greater tuberosity of the proximal humerus. This review addresses isolated greater tuberosity fractures of the proximal humerus. The important aspects of the epidemiology, anatomy, fracture classification, associated injuries, and treatment are discussed. Although isolated greater tuberosity fractures are well recognized, there are few studies that specifically evaluate the outcome of these injuries. Our experience and review of the recent literature suggest that more precise evaluation of diagnostic criteria, treatment selection, and outcome is required."}
{"id": "14671529", "title": "Mechanical environment of the supraspinatus tendon: a two-dimensional finite element model analysis.", "content": "Mechanical environment of the supraspinatus tendon: a two-dimensional finite element model analysis. We performed 2-dimensional finite element model analysis to estimate the mechanical environment of the supraspinatus tendon. The geometric shape of the finite element model was determined by magnetic resonance imaging of a normal human shoulder obtained at 0 degrees, 30 degrees, and 60 degrees of abduction, whereas the histologic location of noncalcified and calcified fibrocartilage was determined from a cadaveric specimen. The supraspinatus tendon was pulled proximally with the force of 10 N at 0 degrees, 53 N at 30 degrees, and 115 N at 60 degrees of abduction. The area of high principal stress maximum was observed on the articular side of the supraspinatus tendon, which shifted toward the insertion as the arm was abducted. High stress concentration on the articular side of the supraspinatus tendon near its insertion during arm elevation may explain the frequent occurrence of rotator cuff tears at this site."}
{"id": "14671517", "title": "Influence of cuff muscle fatty degeneration on anatomic and functional outcomes after simple suture of full-thickness tears.", "content": "Influence of cuff muscle fatty degeneration on anatomic and functional outcomes after simple suture of full-thickness tears. Two hundred twenty shoulders with a rotator cuff tear repaired by simple tendon-to-bone suture were analyzed to determine whether the severity of presurgical fatty degeneration had an influence on their anatomic and functional outcome. Fatty degeneration was evaluated for each muscle with the 5-stage grading system developed by Goutallier et al. A global fatty degeneration index (GFDI), the mean value of the 3 muscles, was calculated for each shoulder. Cuff integrity was evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging (116 cases) or computed arthrotomography scan (104 cases) at a mean 37 months' follow-up, and functional outcomes were evaluated with the Constant score. A recurrent tear was found in 79 cases (36%) and was more frequently encountered in posterosuperior tears. The likelihood of a recurrent tear was greater for tendons whose muscle showed fatty degeneration greater than grade 1. Fatty degeneration of the infraspinatus or subscapularis muscles had an influence on supraspinatus tendon outcome. A GFDI lower than 0.5 was necessary to yield less than 25% retears. The mean global Constant score was 75 at revision, significantly lower when a retear was present (70.5 versus 77.5). In the subgroup of watertight cuffs, it was lower when GFDI was higher. Fatty degeneration is an important prognostic factor in rotator cuff surgery."}
{"id": "14671516", "title": "Use of 2-[18F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET) imaging for the evaluation of muscle metabolic activity in ruptured rotator cuffs: Identification of shoulder muscles by fusion imaging studies involving both FDG PET and magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Use of 2-[18F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET) imaging for the evaluation of muscle metabolic activity in ruptured rotator cuffs: Identification of shoulder muscles by fusion imaging studies involving both FDG PET and magnetic resonance imaging. The uptake of 2-[(18)F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG) into shoulder muscles was studied in 11 patients with rotator cuff tears. FDG was injected under resting conditions, and cuff muscle exercises were performed followed by evaluation of the standardized uptake value (SUV) in shoulder muscles bilaterally. Analysis was performed with a subtracted SUV, obtained by subtracting the SUV of the muscle at rest from that after exercise. Fusion imaging studies involving FDG positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging would provide a novel strategy with the potential of improving on the limited resolution of PET images. In this study this relatively new strategy revealed a similar decrease in the supraspinatus SUV in cases involving both complete and partial tears. The SUV in the infraspinatus and subscapularis also decreased, regardless of whether these muscles were intact or ruptured; the SUV in the deltoid remained basically unchanged. With the use of this exercise protocol, FDG PET might prove useful for objective evaluation of rotator cuff muscle activity."}
{"id": "14656681", "title": "Glenoid version and rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Glenoid version and rotator cuff tears. The purpose of this study was to determine the relationship between rotator cuff (RC) tear and the orientation of the glenoid. Ninety-six shoulders (94 patients) that underwent open RC repair were grouped according to the type of tear. We measured on MRI the acromio-glenoid angle (AG) and the supraspinatus fossa glenoid angle on the anterior-posterior (SGAP) and axial (SGAX) views. RC patients had a smaller AG angle (76+/-7 degrees vs. 86+/-10 degrees ) and a larger SGAP angle (112+/-6 degrees vs. 102+/-7 degrees ) compared to controls (p<0.001). We also found a highly significant difference (p<0.001) in glenoid version measured by SGAX between anterior cuff tears (-5+/-4 degrees ) and posterior cuff tears (3+/-3 degrees ). Furthermore, we identified an association between RC tear and the orientation of the glenoid relative to the axis of the supraspinatus fossa. Greater retroversion is predictive of an anterior cuff injury and greater anteversion is predictive of a posterior cuff injury."}
{"id": "14652725", "title": "[Reconstruction of big rotator cuff ruptures. A new technique of tendon refixation with the corkscrew suture anchor system].", "content": "[Reconstruction of big rotator cuff ruptures. A new technique of tendon refixation with the corkscrew suture anchor system]. Tendon retraction and fatty degeneration is a major problem in repair of massive rotator cuff tears. Especially in the transosseous refixation technique, a tension-free refixation cannot be obtained in all cases. The purpose of this prospective study was to evaluate the postoperative results using a new tension-free reinsertion technique with a Corkscrew suture anchor system. Thirty patients (25 males, 5 females) with complete one and two tendon tears underwent open rotator cuff repair (rupture of one tendon: n=14, 47%). The torn tendons were mobilized and reinserted medially to reduce tension. Medialization was achieved by inserting tendon near the osteochondral border in a bony trough. The number of implanted suture anchors ranged from 2 to 6 (mean: 3.56). The mean age was 56 years (39-68 years) with a follow-up of 24 months (17-33 months). In one patient physical and sonographic examination showed a complete and in two patients a partial rerupture. A temporarily frozen shoulder occurred in two cases. No infection or rejection response was seen. In no case was revision surgery necessary. No displacement or loosening of the Corkscrew anchors was noticed. The constant score improved from 45 points preoperatively to 85 points at the time of follow-up (mean). The Corkscrew suture anchor system in combination with the new suture technique offers the possibility of a stable reinsertion even in reduced calcified bone structure. This facilitates good conditions for stable fibroblastic healing. Our midterm results show good osseous union combined with a low rerupture rate."}
{"id": "14631052", "title": "Suspected rotator cuff lesions: tissue harmonic imaging versus conventional US of the shoulder.", "content": "Suspected rotator cuff lesions: tissue harmonic imaging versus conventional US of the shoulder. To compare tissue harmonic imaging (THI) of the shoulder with conventional ultrasonography (US) in patients suspected of having rotator cuff lesions. THI and conventional US images were obtained in 50 patients suspected of having rotator cuff lesions. Images were graded for visibility of acromioclavicular (AC) joint surfaces and rotator cuff tendon contours and substances: Grade 1 meant poor; grade 2, moderate; and grade 3, good visibility. Accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of the diagnosis of AC joint osteoarthritis and accuracy of the diagnosis and rates of underestimation and overestimation of the extent of rotator cuff tears were evaluated. Visibility grade differences were evaluated with the Wilcoxon signed rank test. The McNemar test was used to assess differences in diagnoses. Magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography was the reference standard. Mean visibility grades for readers 1 and 2, respectively, were as follows: for AC joint bone surfaces, 2.1 and 2.0 with THI and 1.7 (P =.010) and 1.7 (P =.16) with conventional US; for AC joint capsule surfaces, 2.2 and 1.9 with THI and 1.8 (P =.005) and 1.8 (P =.34) with US; for supraspinatus tendon contour, 2.6 and 2.2 with THI and 2.1 (P =.001) and 1.9 (P =.055) with US; for supraspinatus tendon substance, 2.2 and 1.9 with THI and 2.0 (P =.036) and 1.7 (P =.070) with US; for subscapularis tendon contour, 2.4 and 2.1 with THI and 2.2 (P =.07) and 2.0 (P =.25) with US; and for subscapularis tendon substance, 1.8 and 1.7 with THI and 2.0 (P =.86) and 1.7 (P =.91) with US. Diagnostic accuracies for the supraspinatus tendon for readers 1 and 2, respectively, were 84% and 74% with THI and 86% and 70% with US (P >.99 for both readers). Corresponding values for the subscapularis tendon were 78% and 72% with THI and 64% (P =.27) and 52% (P =.006) with US. Joint and tendon surface visibility improves with THI, as compared with the visibility achieved with conventional US. THI is superior to conventional US for diagnosis of subscapularis tendon abnormalities."}
{"id": "14627555", "title": "Superior labral anteroposterior tear: classification and diagnosis on MRI and MR arthrography.", "content": "Superior labral anteroposterior tear: classification and diagnosis on MRI and MR arthrography."}
{"id": "14623673", "title": "Traumatic posterior dislocation of the shoulder associated with a massive rotator cuff tear: a case report.", "content": "Traumatic posterior dislocation of the shoulder associated with a massive rotator cuff tear: a case report."}
{"id": "14612636", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging in quantitative analysis of rotator cuff muscle volume.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging in quantitative analysis of rotator cuff muscle volume. Tears of the rotator cuff are accompanied by muscle atrophy, which has direct implications on patient outcome after rotator cuff surgery. However, no reliable method exists to determine muscle volumes in situ. The current authors evaluated the reliability of magnetic resonance imaging in assessing rotator cuff muscle volumes. Muscle volumes were determined in 10 shoulders from cadavers using two methods: (1). oblique sagittal shoulder scans were obtained, the contours of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus and teres minor, and subscapularis muscles were traced, and muscle volumes were calculated using image analysis software; and (2). rotator cuff muscles were dissected and muscle volumes were measured by water displacement. The average magnetic resonance imaging volume of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus and teres minor, and subscapularis muscles were 36 +/- 12, 96 +/- 41, and 99 +/- 33 mL, respectively. There was a significant correlation between magnetic resonance imaging and water displacement measurements. The intraobserver and interobserver variabilities were less than 4%. The results indicate the magnetic resonance imaging is a reliable method to determine rotator cuff muscle volumes with good intraobserver and interobserver variability. This method may prove valuable preoperative assessment of rotator cuff muscles and prediction of outcome after rotator cuff repair."}
{"id": "14610684", "title": "Ultrasonographic rotator-cuff changes in veteran tennis players: the effect of hand dominance and comparison with clinical findings.", "content": "Ultrasonographic rotator-cuff changes in veteran tennis players: the effect of hand dominance and comparison with clinical findings. The aim of this study was to correlate sonographic abnormalities of the rotator cuff with clinical findings in veteran tennis players. One hundred fifty individuals playing competition-level tennis, aged from 35 to 77 years (mean age 55 years), underwent physical and US examinations of their shoulders. The US abnormalities found in the dominant shoulder were compared with those observed in the non-dominant shoulder and in different subsets of players defined by the absence or presence of former and/or current pain. Tears of the long head of the biceps tendon were seen only in dominant shoulders ( n=8), and tears (23 complete and 20 partial) of the supraspinatus tendon were observed in 43 dominant vs 16 (3 complete and 13 partial) contralateral shoulders ( p<0.001). Subscapularis tendon calcifications were depicted in 23 dominant vs 12 contralateral shoulders ( p<0.05). Seventy players had no pain, 49 had former-but-not-current pain, and 31 had current pain. Abnormal thickening (>2 mm) and effusion of the subacromial-subdeltoid bursa and complete tear of the supraspinatus tendon were more frequent in the latter two groups ( p<0.001 and p<0.05), respectively. Although 90% of the players with a complete supraspinatus tear had experienced former pain, no relationship was found between current pain and the presence of a supraspinatus tear or tendon calcification. The rotator cuff may present important asymptomatic lesions, such as complete tears of the supraspinatus tendon or calcifications, that do not prevent the playing competitive tennis. The only US abnormality associated with pain was subacromial-subdeltoid bursa effusion."}
{"id": "14600458", "title": "Adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder: diagnosis using magnetic resonance arthrography, with arthroscopic findings as the standard.", "content": "Adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder: diagnosis using magnetic resonance arthrography, with arthroscopic findings as the standard. The purpose of this study was to assess the usefulness of magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography of the glenohumeral joint in the diagnosis of adhesive capsulitis. MR arthrography of the glenohumeral joint was performed in 16 patients with arthroscopically proven adhesive capsulitis and 11 controls. Thickness of the joint capsule and synovium, filling ratio of the fluid-distended axillary recess to the posterior joint cavity, and a width of the rotator cuff interval were measured by 2 musculoskeletal radiologists. The measurements of those parameters for the patients with adhesive capsulitis and the controls were compared. Interobserver variability for the measurements of each parameter was calculated. The mean thickness of the joint capsule and synovium was 2.97 mm in patients with adhesive capsulitis and 1.86 mm in controls (P < 0.001). The mean filling ratio of the fluid-distended axillary to the posterior joint cavity was 0.51 in patients with adhesive capsulitis and 0.82 in controls (P = 0.004). The mean width of the rotator cuff interval was 7.45 mm in patients with adhesive capsulitis and 8.48 mm in controls (P > 0.05). Intraclass correlation coefficient for interobserver variability showed good agreement (95% CI; 0.72-0.95). On MR arthrography, thickening of the joint capsule and synovium and diminished filling ratio of the axillary recess to posterior joint cavity appeared to be useful diagnostic criteria for the diagnosis of adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder."}
{"id": "14578672", "title": "[Arthroscopic capsular shrinkage for posterosuperior internal impingement of the shoulder].", "content": "[Arthroscopic capsular shrinkage for posterosuperior internal impingement of the shoulder]. We evaluated clinical and radiological findings and functional results following arthroscopic capsular shrinkage in patients with internal impingement of the shoulder. The study included four patients (2 females, 2 males; mean age 27.5 years; range 25 to 32 years) who underwent arthroscopic capsular shrinkage between 1997 and 2001. Three patients were overhead athletes (2 volleyball, 1 water polo player), the fourth was a clerk. All the patients suffered from shoulder pain upon abduction and external rotation and all received a preoperative unsuccessful rehabilitation for at least three months (range 3 to 10 months). Following arthroscopic examination of the glenohumeral joint, anterior joint capsule was shrunk using a radiofrequency probe. A specific rehabilitation program was applied postoperatively. The mean follow-up was 3.5 years (range 2 to 6 years). The Neer test was positive in all cases, and the relocation test in 3 cases, preoperatively. Magnetic resonance imaging showed contact between the glenoid rim and the greater tuberosity in three cases, degeneration in the rotator cuff in two cases, a partial tear in one patient, and a subchondral cyst in another. Arthroscopic examination revealed glenoid-rotator cuff contact in all cases and degeneration in the contact areas. Drive-through sign was positive in all cases. Kissing lesion was present in one case. No SLAP lesion was identified. The patients' complaints disappeared and the three athletes were able to resume their professional sporting activities. Arthroscopic shrinkage of the stretched anterior capsule proved successful throughout a follow-up period of at least two years."}
{"id": "14578661", "title": "[Diagnostic imaging of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[Diagnostic imaging of the rotator cuff]. The importance of imaging modalities in the evaluation of the rotator cuff has increased thanks to the development of non-invasive methods. An optimum application of the technique, appreciation of the anatomical details and imaging pitfalls, and proper interpretation of clinical findings should be incorporated in order to increase diagnostic accuracy. Ultrasonography (US) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are commonly used for rotator cuff pathologies. The former has a high diagnostic accuracy in full-thickness tears, but requires operator dependency and long-term training. Both US and MRI require sophisticated equipment and present difficulties in distinguishing between partial and small full-thickness tears. In full-thickness tears, MRI may be more appropriate if imaging findings are likely to alter the course of surgical treatment. However, it is not necessary in patients in whom US may clearly show tendinosis. Magnetic resonance imaging or MR arthrography may be required in order to evaluate partial tears or suspicious small full-thickness tears in patients unresponsive to conservative therapy. A close collaboration is essential between the radiologist and the shoulder surgeon in the interpretation of clinical findings. The diagnostic accuracy will increase if the examinations are performed by a musculoskeletal radiologist."}
{"id": "14573409", "title": "Complications of rotator cuff surgery in which bioabsorbable anchors are used.", "content": "Complications of rotator cuff surgery in which bioabsorbable anchors are used. This study assessed the utility of MRI in patients with new or persistent pain after surgery with bioabsorbable rotator cuff anchors. SUBJECTS AND METHODS. Three musculoskeletal radiologists prospectively reviewed MRIs of 30 patients with pain after rotator cuff repair with fixation by rotator cuff anchors. Each radiologist described the location of the rotator cuff anchors and whether the supraspinatus tendon was intact or not. MRI findings were correlated with second-look arthroscopy. Consensus MRI interpretations by the three radiologists were obtained retrospectively. Of the 30 patients, nine had dislodgement of the rotator cuff anchors from the humeral head along with a full-thickness supraspinatus tendon retear. The dislodged rotator cuff anchor position could be determined on coronal and sagittal MRIs, providing the orthopedic surgeon a preoperative map for tendon reattachment and retrieval of the dislodged rotator cuff anchor. Four patients had loose rotator cuff anchors but intact supraspinatus tendons. Three patients had supraspinatus tendon retears, but the rotator cuff anchors were intact. In all 16 patients, arthroscopic findings confirmed MRI findings. Fourteen patients had intact rotator cuff anchors and intact supraspinatus tendons on MRI. Of these 14 patients, five had second-look arthroscopy confirming MRI findings. MRI is useful in the assessment of patients with persistent or new-onset pain after supraspinatus tendon repair with rotator cuff anchors. MRI provides a presurgical map for second-look arthroscopy to assess retear of the supraspinatus tendon and also aids in retrieval of dislodged rotator cuff anchors."}
{"id": "14573405", "title": "Comparison of high-field-strength versus low-field-strength MRI of the shoulder.", "content": "Comparison of high-field-strength versus low-field-strength MRI of the shoulder. Previous studies have reported similar results of shoulder MRI versus arthroscopy for high-field-strength (1.5-T) and low-field-strength (0.2-T) units. We report our experience with the accuracy of high- versus low-field-strength units versus arthroscopy for detection of supraspinatus tendon tears and labral tears in the same patients. SUBJECTS AND METHODS. Three musculoskeletal radiologists prospectively interpreted shoulder MRIs from 40 patients who had a complete shoulder MRI examination on a 0.2-T system and limited imaging on a 1.5-T unit. Proton-density axial and fat-saturated T2-weighted coronal and sagittal sequences were performed. Each radiologist interpreted the open unit images first and the high-field-strength images second. Results from 28 patients who also underwent arthroscopy were also compared with the MRI interpretations. All scans were then retrospectively reinterpreted by consensus of the three reviewers, who were unaware of the patient's name, results of previous MRI, or arthroscopy report (if any). High-field-strength images altered reviewers' interpretations of low-field-strength scans for nine of 40 patients. In four patients, full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears could be diagnosed definitively on the high-field-strength unit but not on the open unit. Three labral tears and two superior labral anteroposterior lesions could be depicted definitively on the high-field-strength unit but not on the open unit. All tears were confirmed at arthroscopy. High-field-strength MRI units provide better spatial and contrast resolution and allow more accurate interpretations than low-field-strength units; these findings may affect clinical treatment."}
{"id": "14567906", "title": "The effectiveness of diagnostic tests for the assessment of shoulder pain due to soft tissue disorders: a systematic review.", "content": "The effectiveness of diagnostic tests for the assessment of shoulder pain due to soft tissue disorders: a systematic review. To evaluate the evidence for the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the newer diagnostic imaging tests as an addition to clinical examination and patient history for the diagnosis of soft tissue shoulder disorders. Literature was identified from several sources including general medical databases. Studies were identified that evaluated clinical examination, ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or magnetic resonance arthrography (MRA) in patients suspected of having soft tissue shoulder disorders. Outcomes assessed were clinical impingement syndrome or rotator cuff tear (full, partial or any). Only cohort studies were included. The methodological quality of included test accuracy studies was assessed using a formal quality assessment tool for diagnostic studies and the extraction of study findings was conducted in duplicate using a pre-designed and piloted data extraction form to avoid any errors. For each test, sensitivity, specificity and positive and negative likelihood ratios with 95% confidence intervals were calculated for each study. Where possible pooled estimates of sensitivity, specificity and likelihood ratios were calculated using random effects methods. Potential sources of heterogeneity were investigated by conducting subgroup analyses. In the included studies, the prevalence of rotator cuff disorders was generally high, partial verification of patients was common and in many cases patients who were selected retrospectively because they had undergone the reference test. Sample sizes were generally very small. Reference tests were often inappropriate with many studies using arthrography alone, despite problems with its sensitivity. For clinical assessment, 10 cohort studies were found that examined either the accuracy of individual tests or clinical examination as a whole: individual tests were either good at ruling out rotator cuff tears when negative (high sensitivity) or at ruling in such disorders when positive (high specificity), but small sample sizes meant that there was no conclusive evidence. Ultrasound was investigated in 38 cohort studies and found to be most accurate when used for the detection of full-thickness tears; sensitivity was lower for detection of partial-thickness tears. For MRI, 29 cohort studies were included. For full-thickness tears, overall pooled sensitivities and specificities were fairly high and the studies were not statistically heterogeneous; however for the detection of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears, the pooled sensitivity estimate was much lower. The results from six MRA studies suggested that it may be very accurate for detection of full-thickness rotator cuff tears, although its performance for the detection of partial-thickness tears was less consistent. Direct evidence for the performance of one test compared with another is very limited. The results suggest that clinical examination by specialists can rule out the presence of a rotator cuff tear, and that either MRI or ultrasound could equally be used for detection of full-thickness rotator cuff tears, although ultrasound may be better at picking up partial tears. Ultrasound also may be more cost-effective in a specialist hospital setting for identification of full-thickness tears. Further research suggestions include the need for large, well-designed, prospective studies of the diagnosis of shoulder pain, in particular a follow-up study of patients with shoulder pain in primary care and a prospective cohort study of clinical examination, ultrasound and MRI, alone and/or in combination."}
{"id": "14565754", "title": "Chronic massive rotator cuff tears: evaluation and management.", "content": "Chronic massive rotator cuff tears: evaluation and management. Most studies of rotator cuff repairs report high success rates. However, the majority of these studies combine the results of surgical management of rotator cuff tears of various sizes; few published reports specifically evaluate the management of chronic massive tears. Chronic massive rotator cuff tears may be acute traumatic, chronic atraumatic, or acute-on-chronic. A detailed history and thorough physical examination often are sufficient to establish the diagnosis. Radiographic evaluation can reveal osseous changes suggestive of pathology. Magnetic resonance imaging can determine the size of rotator cuff tears and status of the muscles but generally is not necessary for patients who are not candidates for surgery. Chronic massive rotator cuff tears without glenohumeral arthritis can be managed nonsurgically or with sub-acromial debridement, rotator cuff repair, or rotator cuff reconstruction. However, treatment of these patients is challenging, and results are comparatively inferior to those of treating patients with smaller rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "14563802", "title": "Outcome of pectoralis major transfer for the treatment of irreparable subscapularis tears.", "content": "Outcome of pectoralis major transfer for the treatment of irreparable subscapularis tears. Chronic tears of the subscapularis tendon with or without associated tears of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons may lead to pain and dysfunction of the shoulder. If conservative treatment fails and repair of the musculotendinous unit is impossible, transfer of the pectoralis major tendon can be attempted to substitute for lost subscapularis function. Twenty-eight patients underwent a total of thirty consecutive pectoralis major transfers at an average age of fifty-three years. There were twelve isolated subscapularis tears and eighteen subscapularis tears associated with a tear of the supraspinatus or the supraspinatus and infraspinatus. All patients were examined clinically and with standard radiographs. The mean relative Constant score increased from 47% preoperatively to 70% at an average of thirty-two months postoperatively (p < 0.0001). The mean Constant scores for pain (p = 0.0009) and activities of daily living (p < 0.0001), the range of forward flexion (p < 0.05), and abduction strength (p = 0.001) also improved. Thirteen patients (14 shoulders) were very satisfied, ten patients (eleven shoulders) were satisfied, two patients (two shoulders) were disappointed, and three patients (three shoulders) were dissatisfied with the result. The average subjective shoulder value increased from 23% preoperatively to 55% postoperatively (p = 0.0009). In patients with a massive tear, the outcome was less favorable when the torn supraspinatus tendon was irreparable, as determined preoperatively or intraoperatively, than when it was reparable (average relative Constant scores, 49% and 79%, respectively; p = 0.002). Pectoralis major transfer results in improvement for patients with an irreparable subscapularis tear with or without an associated reparable supraspinatus tear. If an irreparable subscapularis tear is associated with an irreparable supraspinatus tear, the results are less favorable, and pectoralis major transfer may not be warranted."}
{"id": "14525569", "title": "Role of community diagnostic ultrasound examination in the diagnosis of full-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Role of community diagnostic ultrasound examination in the diagnosis of full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Diagnostic ultrasound examination has become the most commonly used investigation in Australia for diagnosing rotator cuff tears. The authors felt that the results of such investigations were often inaccurate in their clinical practices. The diagnostic ultrasound findings in 336 cases were compared to arthrography, and in 225 cases findings at surgery. A very poor accuracy rate of 0.38 was found for diagnostic ultrasound examination. The sensitivity was 0.24 and specificity was 0.61. Extreme caution is recommended in the use of diagnostic ultrasound, as currently practised in a general community setting, in diagnosing full-thickness rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "14513293", "title": "MR arthrography of partial thickness tears of the undersurface of the rotator cuff: an arthroscopic correlation.", "content": "MR arthrography of partial thickness tears of the undersurface of the rotator cuff: an arthroscopic correlation. Partial thickness tears of the undersurface (articular surface) of the rotator cuff (RTC) have been recognized increasingly in recent years as a source of treatable shoulder pain in the athletic population. This study evaluated the efficacy of MR arthrography (MR-ARTH) in diagnosing these tears. The study design was a retrospective review of medical records of patients who had presented with refractory shoulder complaints and subsequently undergone MR arthrography with multiple signal MRI sequences followed by shoulder arthroscopy. Of particular interest were patients who had oblique T1 fat suppression (COT1FS), coronal oblique T2 (COT2), and coronal oblique T2 fat suppression (COT2FS) images taken. Seventy-six subjects met the study criteria. Investigators examined the MR-ARTH images from these patients' charts while blinded as to arthroscopic results, clinical signs and symptoms. Based on COT1FS images, investigators identified nine subjects as having had full thickness tears, 28 as having had partial thickness tears of the undersurface of the rotator cuff (PRTC), and 39 as having had intact RTC. These results were compared to actual findings at arthroscopy: nine full thickness tears, 26 of 28 with PRTC and 34 of 39 intact. The sensitivity of MR-ARTH was 84%, with a positive predictive value of 93%. The overall accuracy was 91% (69/76). The specificity was 96%. That is, if a PRTC was not seen on the MR-ARTH images, it was very unlikely to exist. COT2 and COT2FS sequences failed to increase sensitivity and overall efficacy of MRI. PRTC can be diagnosed accurately by MR-ARTH with gadopentatate contrast. A COT1FS sequence is recommended for evaluation when tears are suspected."}
{"id": "14500210", "title": "Usefulness of the simultaneous acquisition of spatial harmonics technique during MRI of the shoulder.", "content": "Usefulness of the simultaneous acquisition of spatial harmonics technique during MRI of the shoulder. The simultaneous acquisition of spatial harmonics (SMASH) technique is a parallel imaging technique that uses fewer echoes than conventional techniques to obtain the desired resolution. Production of images occurs more quickly with parallel imaging than with conventional imaging. This study assesses the usefulness of the SMASH technique for MRI of the shoulder. SUBJECTS AND METHODS. Five experienced musculoskeletal radiologists prospectively interpreted MRIs of the shoulder in 50 consecutive patients. All patients underwent a complete MRI examination of the shoulder on a 1.5-T commercially available scanner. Axial fat-saturated proton density-weighted, coronal T1-weighted, and coronal and sagittal fat-saturated T2-weighted sequences were performed. Patients also underwent SMASH T2-weighted imaging in the coronal and sagittal planes. Coronal and sagittal SMASH T2-weighted imaging took approximately 50% as long to complete compared with conventional T2-weighted imaging. Each radiologist interpreted MRIs of the shoulder without knowing whether the images were obtained using the SMASH or the fat-saturated T2-weighted technique. Twenty-eight of the 50 patients also underwent subsequent arthroscopy, and the results were compared with MRI interpretations based on SMASH and fat-saturated T2-weighted images. We found no intraobserver variability between the interpretations of SMASH imaging and the interpretations of fat-saturated T2-weighted imaging. Of the 28 patients who also underwent subsequent arthroscopy, 19 were found to have full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears and nine had superior labral anterior-to-posterior lesions. All arthroscopic findings correlated with prospective MRI interpretations. SMASH imaging allows significant time savings compared with fat-saturated T2-weighted MRI. We found that the use of the SMASH technique did not affect the MRI interpretation or the clinical outcome of patients."}
{"id": "12975202", "title": "Rotator cuff tear in a 13-year-old baseball player: a case report.", "content": "Rotator cuff tear in a 13-year-old baseball player: a case report."}
{"id": "12975193", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the asymptomatic shoulder of overhead athletes: a 5-year follow-up study.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the asymptomatic shoulder of overhead athletes: a 5-year follow-up study. Although several studies have described magnetic resonance imaging findings in shoulders of asymptomatic volunteers, no such investigation has been performed on asymptomatic dominant and nondominant shoulders of elite overhead athletes. Asymptomatic dominant shoulders of elite overhead athletes may have a higher incidence of magnetic resonance imaging abnormalities than either their nondominant shoulder or shoulders of asymptomatic volunteers. Prospective cohort study. Detailed magnetic resonance imaging scans of asymptomatic dominant and nondominant shoulders of elite overhead athletes were obtained. Three experienced musculoskeletal radiologists interpreted each scan for multiple variables, including rotator cuff appearance. Images from a surgical control group were intermixed to assess accuracy and control for observer bias. A 5-year follow-up interview was performed to determine whether magnetic resonance imaging abnormalities found in the initial stage of the study represented truly clinical false-positive findings or symptomatic shoulders in evolution. Eight of 20 (40%) dominant shoulders had findings consistent with partial- or full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff as compared with none (0%) of the nondominant shoulders. Five of 20 (25%) dominant shoulders had magnetic resonance imaging evidence of Bennett's lesions compared with none (0%) of the nondominant shoulders. None of the athletes interviewed 5 years later had any subjective symptoms or had required any evaluation or treatment for shoulder-related problems during the study period. Magnetic resonance imaging alone should not be used as a basis for operative intervention in this patient population."}
{"id": "12934025", "title": "Prevalence of peripheral neurologic injuries in rotator cuff tears with atrophy.", "content": "Prevalence of peripheral neurologic injuries in rotator cuff tears with atrophy. The purpose of this study is to define the prevalence of peripheral nerve injury associated with full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff presenting with shoulder muscle atrophy. Twenty-five patients with the diagnosis of full-thickness rotator cuff tear were included. Electrodiagnostic testing, including nerve conduction studies and needle examination, was performed on all patients. There were 7 abnormal electromyographic examinations. The most common diagnosis was upper trunk brachial plexopathy severely affecting the axillary nerve (4/7), followed by suprascapular neuropathy (2/7) and cervical radiculopathy (1/7). The prevalence of associated peripheral neuropathy was found to be 28%. Greater degrees of atrophy were significantly associated with the presence of neuropathy in these patients. Careful neurologic screening in all patients and electromyographic examination in clinically suspicious groups are recommended in patients with full-thickness cuff tears before surgical repair."}
{"id": "12934024", "title": "Rotator cuff repair in spinal cord injury patients.", "content": "Rotator cuff repair in spinal cord injury patients. Previous studies on the treatment of rotator cuff tears in wheelchair-bound patients have concentrated on nonsurgical management. We conducted a retrospective review to determine the effectiveness of surgical repair of rotator cuff tears in spinal cord-injured patients. Five male patients with rotator cuff tears confirmed by physical examination and magnetic resonance imaging underwent rotator cuff repair. Two of eight shoulders were revisions. The patients were evaluated postoperatively with the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons Scoring System. These results were compared with preoperative functional assessment. Patients were given a subjective questionnaire to assess their overall experience. Postoperative range of motion improved in 6 of 8 shoulders. Strength was increased in 6 of 8 shoulders. Patients reported satisfaction with the results in 7 of 8 shoulders, and all 5 patients would recommend the procedure to other spinal cord injury patients. At recent follow-up, 7 of 8 shoulders returned to their preinjury level of function. Surgery for spinal cord injury patients with rotator cuff tears can improve their functional capability and autonomy while reducing their pain. Compliance with the demanding postoperative rehabilitation is essential; therefore proper patient selection is crucial for optimal results."}
{"id": "12916887", "title": "MR imaging of sports injuries to the rotator cuff.", "content": "MR imaging of sports injuries to the rotator cuff. Impingement pain and rotator cuff injury are common in athletes, particularly in overhead throwers. The cuff can be injured in these patients in the typical location in the anterior supraspinatus tendon and near the junction of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons. The cuff tears in athletes are usually small, articular surface partial-thickness tears. The posterior cuff tears in overhead throwers are seen best at MR arthrography with the arm in abduction and external rotation. Other abnormalities, such as instability lesions or labral fraying, can be associated with rotator cuff tears in athletes."}
{"id": "12856160", "title": "Dynamic enhanced MRI of the subacromial bursa: correlation with arthroscopic and histological findings.", "content": "Dynamic enhanced MRI of the subacromial bursa: correlation with arthroscopic and histological findings. To assess dynamic MRI with Gd-DTPA enhancement for evaluating inflammatory changes in the subacromial bursa. We detected the signal intensity changes in dynamic MRI of the subacromial bursa, and confirmed these macroscopically by arthroscopy and histologically. The signal intensity was measured using built-in software, and the enhancement ratio (E ratio) was calculated from dynamic MR images. In addition, as a parameter of the rate of the increase in the signal intensity from 0 to 80 s, the mean increase per second in the E ratio was obtained as the coefficient of enhancement (CE). The correlation was studied of the E ratio and CE with the arthroscopic findings (redness, villous formation, thickening and adhesion), and of the E ratio and CE with the histological findings (capillary proliferation, papillary hyperplasia, fibrosis and inflammatory cell infiltration) of the subacromial bursa. Of patients with shoulder pain, this study included those with rotator cuff injury; patients with rheumatoid arthritis or pitching shoulder disorders were excluded. There were 27 patients (15 men, 12 women) ranging in age from 25 to 73 years (mean 49.1 years). Dynamic MRI of the shoulder was also performed on the healthy side of 10 patients and in five normal young volunteers. Changes in signal intensity on dynamic MRI were measured in the subacromial bursa. The E ratio (80 s) and CE (0-80 s) were significantly correlated with redness and villous formation as arthroscopic findings, positively correlated with capillary proliferation and papillary hyperplasia as histological findings (p < 0.05), and negatively correlated with fibrosis as a histological finding (p < 0.05) in the subacromial bursa. The patterns of dynamic curves were well correlated with the bursoscopic and histological findings of the synovium of the subacromial bursa. Dynamic MRI appears to correlate with inflammatory activity of synovium of the subacromial bursa. Clarifying the state of the synovium of the subacromial bursa may be useful in determining therapeutic strategies (e.g., indicating topical infusion of hyaluronic acid or steroids for preservative treatment and selecting the site). Furthermore, the evaluation may be useful for indicating surgery, selecting the technique, and evaluating preoperative and postoperative inflammatory changes."}
{"id": "12851572", "title": "Prediction of primary reparability of massive tears of the rotator cuff on preoperative magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Prediction of primary reparability of massive tears of the rotator cuff on preoperative magnetic resonance imaging. We studied magnetic resonance images of rotator cuff tears to determine whether it was possible to establish preoperatively the feasibility or infeasibility of primary repair. The study comprised 27 shoulders in 26 patients who underwent magnetic resonance imaging before surgery because of complete tears of the rotator cuff and who were treated with primary repair or by the patch graft technique because primary repair was not feasible. The length and width of each tear, the thickness of the supraspinatus muscle at the superior margin of the glenoid, and the presence or absence of a high signal intensity in the infraspinatus muscle were statistically analyzed. Primary repair was often not feasible when both the length and width of the tear exceeded 40 mm on a preoperative magnetic resonance image, when the supraspinatus muscle was thin at the superior margin of the glenoid, and when a high signal intensity was observed in the infraspinatus muscle."}
{"id": "12847646", "title": "[Accuracy of routine MRI in lesions of the supraspinatus tendon--comparison with surgical findings].", "content": "[Accuracy of routine MRI in lesions of the supraspinatus tendon--comparison with surgical findings]. To determine the correlation of the extent of lesions of the supraspinatus tendon in MRI's of the shoulder with surgical or arthroscopic findings using the classification of Snyders and Batemann, respectively. The preoperative MRI's of 80 patients (age: 16 - 76/47.4 +/- 14.0 years) which were performed due to various complaints of the shoulder were analyzed retrospectively by two experienced and blinded radiologists. We evaluated the incidence and the extent of partial or complete ruptures of the supraspinatus tendon. After MRI, an arthroscopic or open surgical intervention was performed (= gold standard). Various MR-scanners were used with a field strength of 1.0 T (17 cases), or 1.5 T (63 cases) and flexible or inflexible arthro coils. Additionally to plain MRI, 38 of 80 patients underwent contrast enhanced MRI. The MR and the surgical or arthroscopic findings were compared and statistically analyzed. Neglecting the localization and the extent of discontinuity of the supraspinatus tendon, the sensitivity of the 80 MRI's was 0.93, the specificity 0.69, and the accuracy 0.85. The sensitivity increased to 0.96 with constant specificity and an accuracy of 0.83 excluding the lesions with an extent below 1 cm. Compared with non-enhanced examinations, the contrast enhanced MRI revealed higher sensitivity (+ 7 %, 0.89 vs. 0.96), higher specificity (+ 11 %, 0.64 vs. 0.75), and higher accuracy (+ 8 %, 0.81 vs. 0.89) in depicting lesions of the supraspinatus tendon at all. On T 1 -weighted images, the detection of lesions at all and the differentiation between partial and complete ruptures were improved significantly by contrast enhancement, especially in lesions with an extent below 1 cm. Diagnostic failures were seen in examinations without intravenous contrast application, artifacts, extent of the lesion below 1 cm, differentiating between degeneration and partial rupture of the tendon, differentiating between severely degenerated tendons with partial rupture and complete rupture, and covered ruptures. The performance and consecutively the analysis of the widely used MRI of the shoulder is often not sufficiently reliable in its present routine form. To be able to compete with other imaging modalities such as sonography, standardized MR protocol, contrast enhancement as needed, avoiding the described source of failure, and an exact analysis should be applied."}
{"id": "12835639", "title": "Capsulo-labro-ligamentous lesions of the shoulder: evaluation with MR arthrography.", "content": "Capsulo-labro-ligamentous lesions of the shoulder: evaluation with MR arthrography. The aim of the study was to analyse the accuracy of MR arthrography in the evaluation of capsulo-labro-ligamentous lesions of the shoulder in patients with glenohumeral joint instability. From 1999 to 2001 fifty-eight patients with glenohumeral joint instability were studied by MR arthrography. Twenty-seven patients underwent surgical repair: 11 by arthroscopic and 16 by arthrotomic approach. All shoulder evaluations were performed with T1 and T2 weighted axial, coronal and sagittal oblique images, before and after intra-articular injection of gadolinium contrast. Forty capsulo-ligamentous lesions (including 14 capsular ruptures with extravasation of the contrast medium) were detected by MR arthrography. Fifty-two labral tears (36 of the anterior, 13 of the superior and 3 of the posterior glenoid labrum) were identified: 11 out of 52 were not recognized before gadolinium contrast injection. Five rotator cuff tears were identified, one of which was not shown in the pre-injection examination. Surgical results confirmed the MR arthrographic findings in 25/27 patients. In one case MR arthrography did not recognize a SLAP lesion; in another case it identified a tear of the capsule but not of the glenoid labrum. In many cases of subacute glenohumeral joint lesions with intracapsular fluid, MR may accurately evaluate capsulo-labral-ligamentous lesions. Indeed, the examination of lesions is limited by the absence of the natural contrast determined by fluid; in such cases, intra-articular injection of gadolinium contrast is necessary. MR arthrography evaluates the degree of capsulo-labro-ligamentous tears and may guide the surgical approach."}
{"id": "12835624", "title": "Real-time compound sonography of the rotator-cuff: evaluation of artefact reduction and image definition.", "content": "Real-time compound sonography of the rotator-cuff: evaluation of artefact reduction and image definition. The aim of this study was to compare real time compound sonography with conventional sonography in the evaluation of rotator cuff tears. A prospective study was performed on 50 supraspinatus tendons in 101 patients treated by surgical acromioplasty. The surgeon described 33 (66%) full-thickness tears and 17 (34%) partial-thickness tears. All tendons were examined by conventional sonography and real time compound sonography on the day before surgery. The techniques were compared by evaluating the images for freedom from artefacts, contrast resolution and overall image definition. Real time compound sonography proved to be superior to conventional sonography as regards freedom from artefacts in 50 cases out of 50 (100%). It was superior to conventional sonography in evaluating the image contrast resolution in 45 cases out of 50 (90%), and superior to conventional sonography in overall image definition in 45 out of 50 cases (90%). Real-time compound sonography reduces the intrinsic artefacts of conventional sonography and allows better overall image definition. In particular, the digital technique allowed us to study the rotator cuff with better contrast resolution and sharper and more detailed images than did conventional sonography."}
{"id": "12827299", "title": "Surgical treatment for large and massive tears of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Surgical treatment for large and massive tears of the rotator cuff. Patients with a large or massive tear of the rotator cuff were, when possible, treated with the McLaughlin procedure. A patch graft was used when it was impossible to perform this procedure. The patch group (group P) consisted of nine patients with nine shoulders (six men, three women) with a mean age of 62.8+/-6.9 years. The McLaughlin group (group M) consisted of 12 patients with 12 shoulders (ten men, two women) with a mean age of 52.3+/-8.6 years. Mean follow-up was 2 years 11 months in group P and 4 years 2 months in group M. Using the shoulder scoring system of the Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA score), the total score improved post-operatively in both groups. In group P, the post-operative score was 91.7 (pre-operative score 47.9) and in group M 92.0 (pre-operative score 54.2). Tears recurred in three shoulders within 2 months of the McLaughlin procedure, and these patients were excluded from the study. The rate of 're-tearing' was lower with a patch graft (0/13) than with the McLaughlin procedure (3/17)."}
{"id": "12822240", "title": "[Surgical management of traumatic lesions of the axillary nerve: 83 cases].", "content": "[Surgical management of traumatic lesions of the axillary nerve: 83 cases]. Axillary nerve injuries still go undiagnosed far too often despite their frequency. However the quality of the outcome depends on expert management and prompt surgery. To optimise the latter, we re-examined 83 operated cases of traumatic lesions of the axillary nerve. We analysed the neurological and functional recovery of these patients by means of a follow-up evaluation at 6 years postop. The results were classified by age, mechanism of injury, delay to surgery and the presence or otherwise of associated neurological or osteo-articular lesions. We highlighted that a high index of suspicion ought to exist in all cases of trauma to the shoulder in a patient aged more than 40, any injury associated with palsy of the long head of triceps and in the case of an osteo-articular lesion due to high-velocity trauma. A complete lack of shoulder abduction must always prompt a search for a lesion of the axillary nerve as well as a suprascapular nerve palsy or rotator cuff lesion. There are few literature reports of surgical management of this particular nerve injury. An early MRI scan as part of the management should improve results by a reduction in the delay before surgery. As a result of our investigation we conclude that a lesion of the axillary nerve without signs of recovery at 3 months should be referred to a centre specialized in peripheral nerve surgery."}
{"id": "12817312", "title": "Ultrasonographic appearance of os acromiale.", "content": "Ultrasonographic appearance of os acromiale. Ossa acromiale are rare anatomical conditions and have been evaluated with plain radiographs, CT- and MRI-scans, but not with ultrasound. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the appearance and the characteristics of os acromiale with ultrasound. 25 patients with unilateral radiologically prediagnosed os acromiale had bilateral examination with ultrasound. Recorded details were bilateral appearance, the width of the non-ossified space and the shape of the bony margins of the os acromiale. As a control group 25 patients without radiological appearance of os acromiale had identical ultrasound examination. The os acromiale could be identified in all 25 patients (100%) with radiologically confirmed os acromiale. In 12 patients an os acromiale could be identified on the contralateral side (48%). The average width of the non ossified space was 4.3 mm (2.5 to 7.6 mm). Three different sonographic types of bony margins of the os acromiale and the acromion exist: Type I with flat bony margins; Type II with marginal osteophytes and Type III with inverted bony margins. In the control group no os acromiale could be identified. With ultrasonographic assessment, os acromiale can be accurately identified in each case. Three differently shaped bony margins exist. Ultrasound can give additional information about the os acromiale if radiological assessment is unclear because of superimposing bones."}
{"id": "12811424", "title": "MR imaging of lipoma arborescens and the associated lesions.", "content": "MR imaging of lipoma arborescens and the associated lesions. To describe the typical features of lipoma arborescens on MR imaging with pathologic correlation and to evaluate the associated lesions within the joints. The MR imaging findings of 32 patients with the diagnosis of lipoma arborescens of the knee (n=32) and shoulder (n=1) were reviewed. The diagnosis of lipoma arborescens was confirmed by the histologic findings in 12 cases and the other 21 cases were diagnosed by the characteristic MR imaging features. One patient had bilateral lipoma arborescens of the knee joint. MR imaging showed a typical pattern of villous lipomatous proliferation of the synovium in all cases, as a diffuse pattern in 79% (26/33) of cases and as a dominant mass-like lesion in 21% (7/33) of cases. The associated MR pathology in the knee was (n=32): joint effusion (100%), degenerative changes (87%), meniscal tear (72%), synovial cysts (38%), bone erosions (25%), chondromatosis (13%), patellar subluxation (6%) and discoid meniscus (3%). In all cases except two there was associated pathology of the knee. MR imaging showed an associated rotator cuff tear in the lipoma arborescens of the shoulder. The characteristic MR features of lipoma arborescens allows an accurate diagnosis of this rare lesion, which is almost always associated with other chronic pathology of the joint in the elderly."}
{"id": "12792208", "title": "Agreement between magnetic resonance imaging and arthroscopic evaluation of the shoulder joint in primary anterior dislocation of the shoulder.", "content": "Agreement between magnetic resonance imaging and arthroscopic evaluation of the shoulder joint in primary anterior dislocation of the shoulder. To determine the effectiveness of magnetic resonance imaging in identifying shoulder pathology in patients with primary traumatic dislocation of the shoulder and to compare these findings with findings at the time of arthroscopic surgery. Correlation between arthroscopy and magnetic resonance imaging. Sixteen patients, aged 18 to 30 years, who were randomized to the surgical arm of a study comparing the effectiveness of immediate arthroscopic surgery with immobilization and rehabilitation for primary traumatic anterior dislocation of the shoulder, were included in this study. Each patient underwent magnetic resonance imaging and a videotaped \"tour\" of the shoulder prior to any surgical intervention. Magnetic resonance scans and videotapes were reviewed for the presence or absence of abnormalities in 8 features of the shoulder, and concordant and discordant findings were evaluated. There was moderate correlation for superior labral lesions (kappa = 0.60) and fair agreement for rotator cuff tear (kappa = 0.355). When the joint capsule was assessed, there was only fair agreement for both the presence of an abnormality (kappa = 0.310) and redundancy and tear (kappa = 0.394). Both methods were sensitive for the detection of Hill-Sachs lesions (kappa = 1.0), although there was only moderate agreement (kappa = 0.44) on estimation of size. There was perfect agreement for the detection of Bankart lesions or equivalent capsulolabral disruption (kappa = 1.0). Magnetic resonance imaging can be considered a valuable tool for the detection of Hill-Sachs and Bankart lesions associated with primary traumatic anterior dislocations of the shoulder. Its ability to detect other pathologic lesions, however, is limited."}
{"id": "12784007", "title": "Accuracy of ultrasound imaging of the rotator cuff in shoulders that are painful postoperatively.", "content": "Accuracy of ultrasound imaging of the rotator cuff in shoulders that are painful postoperatively. Evaluation of the rotator cuff in a shoulder that has been persistently painful postoperatively could be challenging. Magnetic resonance imaging has been the preferred imaging method, but accuracy rates have been lower for those shoulders than for shoulders that have not been operated on; also, magnetic resonance imaging is susceptible to suture anchor artifact. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound for evaluating the rotator cuff in shoulders that are painful postoperatively. The records of forty-four consecutive patients who had undergone both a high-resolution ultrasound examination and subsequent shoulder arthroscopy were retrospectively reviewed. Thirty-four patients underwent rotator cuff repair at the time of the arthroscopy, and ten had subacromial decompression or another procedure without cuff repair. The results of the ultrasound examination were compared with the intraoperative findings of the arthroscopic examination (the \"gold standard\"). Ultrasound led to a correct diagnosis for forty of the forty-four patients. Twenty-two recurrent rotator cuff tears and twenty-two intact rotator cuffs were found at surgery. Ultrasound correctly identified twenty of the twenty-two rotator cuff tears (true-positive results) and twenty of the twenty-two intact rotator cuffs (true-negative results). Two intact cuffs were identified as having a full-thickness tear (false-positive results), and two cuffs with a full-thickness rotator cuff tear were identified as being intact (false-negative results). The sensitivity and specificity of ultrasound for identifying rotator cuff integrity postoperatively were 91% and 86%, respectively. The accuracy was 89%. Ultrasound is a highly accurate imaging study for evaluating the integrity of the rotator cuff in shoulders that have undergone an operation. Its accuracy for operatively treated shoulders appears to be comparable with that previously reported for shoulders that had not been operated on."}
{"id": "12782867", "title": "Suprascapular nerve entrapment secondary to a lipoma.", "content": "Suprascapular nerve entrapment secondary to a lipoma. Many causes of suprascapular nerve entrapment have been described including a small spinoglenoid notch, a tight ligament, boney spurs, and ganglion cysts. In the current patient, suprascapular nerve entrapment was caused by a lipoma in the suprascapular notch. The patient presented with painful shoulder motion that could have been attributed to rotator cuff and acromioclavicular joint disease. However, magnetic resonance imaging and electromyography were consistent with suprascapular nerve entrapment. Treatment of the rotator cuff disease and excision of the lipoma led to resolution of the patient's symptoms. This case is presented as an unusual cause of suprascapular nerve entrapment with a review of its course and anatomy."}
{"id": "12771841", "title": "Prospective randomized surgical treatments for calcifying tendinopathy.", "content": "Prospective randomized surgical treatments for calcifying tendinopathy. Thirty-eight patients with chronic calcifying tendinopathy of the shoulder were randomized prospectively into two groups: 19 patients had endoscopic decompression and 19 had open decompression. Thirty-three patients (19 with open and 14 with endoscopic decompression) were available for followup. Clinical and ultrasonographic investigations were done at followup. The purpose of the current study was to evaluate prospectively the clinical and sonographic results after open decompression and after endoscopic decompression. Apportionment of age and gender was similar in both groups. The followup was 15.7 months for patients after open decompression and 17.1 months for patients after endoscopic decompression. The average Patte score was 84.5 points (84.4 for patients who had endoscopic decompression and 84.6 for patients who had open decompression). Corresponding results were found with a Constant and Murley score of 96.6 points (97.6 for patients who had endoscopic decompression and 95.8 for patients who had open decompression). In the endoscopic group physiotherapy was recommended for 5 weeks more than in the open surgery group. Similar results were seen for the incapacity to work in both groups with 4.6 weeks for the patients who had endoscopic surgery and 5 weeks for the patients who had open surgery. No nerve injuries, wound infections, or other postoperative complications were found. Comparison of both surgical methods showed good clinical and score results. Endoscopic and open surgery are equally effective in the treatment of chronic calcifying tendinopathy."}
{"id": "12735621", "title": "Correlation of age, acromial morphology, and rotator cuff tear pathology diagnosed by ultrasound in asymptomatic patients.", "content": "Correlation of age, acromial morphology, and rotator cuff tear pathology diagnosed by ultrasound in asymptomatic patients. The importance of acromial morphology in the pathogenesis of rotator cuff tears remains controversial. Some surgeons place great emphasis on acromial morphology and others feel that acromial shape is a result of cuff tear pathology rather than the cause. The purpose of this study was to determine if there was an association between acromial morphology, age, and rotator cuff tears found by ultrasound in asymptomatic volunteer subjects with no past history of shoulder symptoms. One hundred eighteen outlet x-rays and ultrasound scans were performed in 59 asymptomatic patients in various age groups. Acromial morphology and the age of the patients were then correlated with the ultrasound findings. Older patients were noted to have a high incidence of type II and type III acromions (93% of those over 70). Full- and partial-thickness tears were more commonly seen in patients with type II or type III acromions compared with type I. Patients over 50 years had a high incidence of full-thickness tears (40%), but the incidence did not increase with increasing age past 50. These findings lend credence to the multifactorial etiology of rotator cuff tears. The patient's age (degeneration) and acromial morphology (impingement) are two of the factors involved in causing rotator cuff tears. The incidence of cuff tears and type III acromions was high in this group of entirely asymptomatic volunteer subjects. Surgeons should interpret radiologically hooked or curved acromions as well as rotator cuff tears diagnosed with ultrasound or other modalities with caution. It may well be that both of these findings should be regarded as part of the natural ageing process."}
{"id": "12728041", "title": "Comparison of arthroscopic findings with magnetic resonance imaging and arthrography in children with glenohumeral deformities secondary to brachial plexus birth palsy.", "content": "Comparison of arthroscopic findings with magnetic resonance imaging and arthrography in children with glenohumeral deformities secondary to brachial plexus birth palsy. Characterization of glenohumeral deformities secondary to brachial plexus birth palsy with plain radiography is difficult because the glenohumeral joint does not completely ossify until puberty. The purpose of this study was to compare the findings on magnetic resonance imaging and arthrography with those on arthroscopy to better understand the roles of these methods in the evaluation of glenohumeral development in this condition. Eighty-four children who ranged in age from seven months to thirteen years and six months had glenohumeral arthrography while they were under general anesthesia for operative treatment of an internal rotation contracture. Thirty-six children also received magnetic resonance imaging with use of cartilage-sensitive axial gradient-echo sequences. Thirty-seven children were evaluated arthroscopically. Arthrography showed a concentric glenohumeral joint in thirty-three children, a flat glenoid in eight, a biconcave glenoid in seventeen, and a pseudoglenoid in twenty-six. Thus, 61% (fifty-one) of the eighty-four children with an internal rotation contracture had a substantial deformity. The severity of the contracture was associated with the existence and the type of the deformity (p = 0.001). Magnetic resonance imaging showed greater detail than arthrography did in defining the severity of the deformity in both the glenoid and the humeral head. The thirty-seven children who were examined arthroscopically showed a progression from those who had a concentric, conforming joint to those who had a markedly deformed joint with a bifurcated glenoid and a flattened, oval-shaped humeral head that articulated with the posterior aspect of the glenoid. Irregularities and cavitation of the anterior aspect of the glenoid were common. The subscapularis and rotator interval tissue were the primary sites of contracture. Profound glenohumeral deformities secondary to brachial plexus birth palsy are commonly seen within the first two years of life. The information provided by imaging studies is helpful in defining the natural history of this condition and in determining the success of surgical intervention."}
{"id": "12720009", "title": "The significance of subacromial arthrography to verify partial bursal-side rotator cuff ruptures.", "content": "The significance of subacromial arthrography to verify partial bursal-side rotator cuff ruptures. The purpose of this study was to verify a partial bursa-side rupture of the rotator cuff (RC) using different imaging techniques with special emphasis on the validity of a specific method of subacromial arthrography (SAA). Patients (n=92, mean age 53.8 years) with a subacromial impingement syndrome underwent sonography, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and SAA. All diagnostic results were checked by subsequent arthroscopic surgery. Of 31 surgically verified ruptures, 17 showed a partial rupture located towards the bursa. These had been detected by MRI and ultrasound with a sensitivity of 64% and 41%, respectively, while SAA as a diagnostic tool yielded a sensitivity of 82%. In 14 cases of complete RC ruptures, all imaging techniques had a similar sensitivity of 86-93%. It appears that SAA is an adequate and valid diagnostic tool for the detection of partial bursa-sided RC ruptures. Ultrasound and MRI showed a comparably lower sensitivity. It is therefore concluded that SAA has clear advantages in the diagnosis of this defect with the consequence that open surgical techniques can be avoided."}
{"id": "12718323", "title": "More tests needed for evaluation of shoulder pain?", "content": "More tests needed for evaluation of shoulder pain?"}
{"id": "12700561", "title": "Failure of polymerized lactic acid tacks in shoulder surgery.", "content": "Failure of polymerized lactic acid tacks in shoulder surgery. The purpose of this study was to evaluate 4 cases in which bioabsorbable polymerized lactic acid tacks failed after arthroscopic shoulder surgery. Four male elite athletes with recurrent shoulder pain were seen a mean of 7.5 months (range, 3-10 months) after initial arthroscopy. Three of the cases involved superior labrum anterior-to-posterior (SLAP) lesion stabilization, and the fourth case was a rotator cuff (RTC) repair. In the three labral repairs, the implant had broken and the unabsorbed fragments were visible with magnetic resonance imaging. The device used in the RTC repair showed no signs of absorption. All 4 patients underwent arthroscopic removal of the polymer tack fragments to alleviate their symptoms, 2 of whom had foreign-body reactions that required synovectomy. On the basis of clinical examination and magnetic resonance imaging, 2 of the SLAP lesions and the RTC tear had healed. The third patient with a SLAP lesion required arthroscopic debridement of a portion of the labrum. The intact RTC implant had backed out of its insertion point. In all 3 labral repairs, the polymerized lactic acid implant experienced a mechanical failure near the head-shaft junction. We theorize that the labral implants failed because of the variable rate of degradation along the shaft of the devices from the intraarticular to intraosseous regions."}
{"id": "12700560", "title": "Sonographic versus magnetic resonance arthrographic evaluation of full-thickness rotator cuff tears in millimeters.", "content": "Sonographic versus magnetic resonance arthrographic evaluation of full-thickness rotator cuff tears in millimeters. Preoperative knowledge of full-thickness rotator cuff tear size is important in counseling patients because tear size affects the choice of surgical techniques and the functional outcome of surgery. Twenty-six shoulders of twenty-five consecutive patients were included in a prospective study that compared the preoperative accuracy of magnetic resonance arthrography and ultrasonography for tear size in millimeters with intraoperative findings. No significant differences were found between intraoperative, ultrasonographic, and magnetic resonance arthrographic data for the width of tears. Adoption of a \"curved line measurement\" for ultrasonographic evaluation of large tears eliminated the tendency of ultrasonography to underestimate tears greater than or equal to 35 mm in width. No significant differences were found between intraoperative, ultrasonographic, and magnetic resonancearthrographic data for retraction of tears. However, a limitation of ultrasonography to evaluate retractions of more than 30 mm was found. Therefore, ultrasound is of equal value for tears less than 30 mm, but magnetic resonance arthrography is more accurate for tears greater than 30 mm."}
{"id": "12695954", "title": "[Tenoplasty of the long head of the biceps in massive rotator cuff tear].", "content": "[Tenoplasty of the long head of the biceps in massive rotator cuff tear]. It was the aim of this study to investigate the success of biceps tenoplasty in massive interval rotator cuff tears. Fifteen patients, who had a massive rotator cuff tear in the area of the interval and a pathology of the long head of the biceps tendon, were examined clinically and by MRI. A primary reconstruction of the rotator cuff tear was possible in none of the patients. All patients had a secondary reconstruction with a biceps tenoplasty. The Constant Score was determined postoperatively and the satisfaction of the patients was explored. The mean age at the time of the operation was 55 years. The examination was 23 months postoperatively. A simultaneous rupture of the supraspinatus- and subscapularis tendon was seen in 12 patients, an additional rupture of the infraspinatus tendon in 3 patients intraoperatively. The long head of the biceps was dislocated in 10 patients and subluxated in 5 patients. The postoperative determined Constant Score was 82.7 points. The personal satisfaction was investigated by asking for the German schoolmarks, which extend from 1 (excellent) to 6 (not satisfactory). The preoperative schoolmark was 5.2 and the postoperative schoolmark 1.4. In the MRI examination one rerupture could be seen, an atrophy of the supraspinatus tendon was evaluated in four patients. Knowing the postoperative result, all patients would have repeated the operation. The biceps tenoplasty is a suitable operative method to achieve a better function and relief of pain in massive interval rotator cuff tears with simultaneous pathology of the long head of the biceps tendon. A high degree of personal satisfaction for the patient can be achieved."}
{"id": "12659820", "title": "Regional musculoskeletal conditions: shoulder pain.", "content": "Regional musculoskeletal conditions: shoulder pain. About half the population has at least one episode of shoulder pain yearly. History and clinical examination are cornerstones in the evaluation of the patient. Shoulder pain at the work place is associated with job strain: lack of control and work with elevated arms and hand tools. Clinical skills and knowledge about red and yellow flags and biomechanics are essential to perform a systematic and reliable evaluation. The diagnostic validity of clinical tests for rotator cuff tear, impingement syndrome and superior labral tears is equal or better than ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and cortico-steroidal injections have documented short-term pain relief. Additionally, the physician should attempt to give the patient simple advice and reinforce active coping strategies. One randomized study suggests that a proper physiotherapy regimen and surgery are equally effective for the impingement syndrome. Further research should address the cost-effectiveness of diagnostic methods and treatments."}
{"id": "12646465", "title": "Original report. Sonographic evaluation of shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Original report. Sonographic evaluation of shoulder arthroplasty. The objective of our study was to review our experience using sonography to evaluate the rotator cuff after arthroplasty. Diagnostic reliability, with respect to surgical findings, as well as subjective assessment of the examinations, including the usefulness of applications such as extended field-of-view imaging, photopic imaging, and tissue harmonic imaging, were reviewed. We found sonography to be a useful method of imaging the rotator cuff after arthroplasty. Extended field-of-view imaging and tissue harmonic imaging aided in diagnosis by improving visualization of regional anatomic landmarks and increasing conspicuity of small tendon tears."}
{"id": "12640155", "title": "US of the shoulder: non-rotator cuff disorders.", "content": "US of the shoulder: non-rotator cuff disorders. The most common indication for shoulder ultrasonography (US) is the diagnosis of rotator cuff disease. However, there is a spectrum of non-rotator cuff abnormalities that are amenable to US examination, including instability of the biceps tendon, glenohumeral joint, and acromioclavicular joint; arthropathies and bursites (inflammatory diseases, degenerative and infiltrative disorders, infections); nerve entrapment syndromes; and space-occupying lesions. Many of these conditions may be overlooked clinically or can even mimic rotator cuff tears, and US can help redirect the diagnosis if a complete shoulder examination rather than a simple rotator cuff assessment is performed. In addition, US can be remarkably helpful in guiding either needle aspiration procedures or local injection therapy in patients with synovial processes. Although radiography, magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, and computed tomographic and MR arthrography are effective modalities for the evaluation of non-rotator cuff disorders, US is both less costly and less invasive and will likely be used more frequently in this setting as experience increases. Once adequate radiographs have been obtained to exclude apparent bone disorders, high-resolution US should be the first-line imaging modality in the assessment of non-rotator cuff disorders of the shoulder, assuming the study is performed with high-end equipment by an experienced examiner."}
{"id": "12627148", "title": "Arthroscopic repair of full-thickness supraspinatus tears (small-to-medium): A prospective study with 2- to 4-year follow-up.", "content": "Arthroscopic repair of full-thickness supraspinatus tears (small-to-medium): A prospective study with 2- to 4-year follow-up. The objective of this study is to report on the complete arthroscopic repair of full-thickness tears of the supraspinatus. Prospective cohort study. Between 1995 and 1999, 139 full arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs were performed; 37 were repairs of full-thickness supraspinatus tears. Between 1997 and 1999, there were 24 patients who had a complete arthroscopic repair of supraspinatus tears. The preoperative and postoperative status of these patients was analyzed using the Constant score, American Shoulder and Elbow Society Index (ASES Index), a Visual Analog Pain Scale (VAS), a single question of percent function compared with the opposite unaffected extremity, and a single question reflecting satisfaction, \"Would you undergo the surgery and the postoperative rehabilitation to achieve the result you have today?\" There were 37 patients who had preoperative to postoperative VAS, percent function, postoperative acromiohumeral interval, and clinical rerupture incidences evaluated. The null hypothesis was tested and there was no difference between the preoperative to postoperative outcomes. Two groups were evaluated, those who had concomitant decompression and those who did not. The null hypothesis was not supported. The 4 scoring systems used for evaluation showed statistically significant improvement from preoperative to postoperative. There were no differences in outcome based upon sex or age as a variable. All patients would have surgery again to achieve their postoperative state. The arthroscopic repair of supraspinatus tears is effective for improving the functional status of the shoulder."}
{"id": "12620544", "title": "MRI-negative rotator cuff tears.", "content": "MRI-negative rotator cuff tears. We report two cases of rotator cuff tear in which the T(2)-weighted MRI signal was negative at the first examination, but positive by the second examination without any changes in symptoms. Many authors have reported on correlations between the MRI and operative findings of rotator cuff tears. However, MRI findings, history of symptoms and operative findings in our patients suggest that there was a discrepancy between symptoms and MRI findings dependent on the period from the injury. Operative findings also indicate that intratendinous tears might have occurred first in these patients then progressed to partial or full thickness tears over time. We concluded that physicians should keep rotator cuff pathology in mind even in patients whose MRI findings are negative but symptoms of rotator cuff tear persist."}
{"id": "12606869", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder: rotator cuff.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder: rotator cuff. Magnetic resonance imaging has proven to be useful in the assessment of rotator cuff injuries. Improvements in magnetic resonance techniques, including fast spin-echo imaging and fat saturation, have facilitated demonstration of tendinous abnormalities of the rotator cuff. Rotator cuff disease is multifactorial. Primary impingement within the coracoacromial arch, degeneration of the rotator cuff tendons, trauma, and glenohumeral instability may be contributing factors. Shoulder pain in athletes can be related to acute myotendinous and muscle injuries, which can be easily detected using magnetic resonance imaging."}
{"id": "12606868", "title": "Shoulder: labrum and bicipital tendon.", "content": "Shoulder: labrum and bicipital tendon. Shoulder instability can be due to a single, acute traumatic event, generalized joint laxity, or repeated episodes of microtrauma. The later occurs in the throwing athlete. The most common lesion involving the labrum is the anterior inferior labral tear, associated with capsuloperiosteal stripping (classic Bankart lesion). A number of variants of the Bankart lesion have been described recently and include the ALPSA lesion, SLAP lesion, and HAGHL lesion, among others. Lesions of the long head of the biceps tendon can be seen in isolation (tears, tendinosis, dislocation) or in association with rotator cuff and labral lesions. Conventional MR and MR arthrography have been extensively used for the preoperative diagnosis of these lesions, with reportedly good accuracy. An understanding of the normal anatomy and biomechanics of the shoulder joint is essential for proper interpretation of the MRI manifestations of these conditions."}
{"id": "12598997", "title": "Low-field MR arthrography of the shoulder joint: technique, indications, and clinical results.", "content": "Low-field MR arthrography of the shoulder joint: technique, indications, and clinical results. In the age of cost containment and urgent reductions in health care expenditures, new options have to be explored to satisfy both diagnostic requirements and economic limitations. The introduction of low-field MR systems for assessment of joint disorders seemed to be an option for lower costs. The purpose of this article is to summarize available experiences with low-field MR arthrography of the glenohumeral joint with respect to image quality and diagnostic accuracy in detecting labral and rotator cuff lesions. Up to now, there has been only a limited number of studies available dealing with low-field MR arthrography of the glenohumeral joint. They reveal that, despite a minor image quality in comparison with high-field imaging, low-field MR arthrography of the shoulder allows for sufficient evaluation of intra- and extra-articular structures in the detection of major abnormalities such as glenohumeral instability or rotator cuff disease. Furthermore, open-configured MR scanners enable kinematic studies: Besides the analysis of normal motion, pathological findings in patients with instabilities and impingement syndrome can be delineated. They further offer the possibility for performing MR imaging-guided arthrography of the shoulder. This was first described using an open C-arm scanner with a vertically oriented magnetic field so that MR arthrography may be performed in one setting."}
{"id": "12591665", "title": "Association of biceps tendon tears with rotator cuff abnormalities: degree of correlation with tears of the anterior and superior portions of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Association of biceps tendon tears with rotator cuff abnormalities: degree of correlation with tears of the anterior and superior portions of the rotator cuff. This study was performed to examine the relationship and association of abnormalities seen in the long head of the biceps brachii tendon to abnormal findings in the rotator cuff. One hundred eleven patients underwent MR imaging for shoulder pain followed by arthroscopic or open shoulder surgery from January 1997 to December 2000. Patients were identified by a retrospective search, and all consecutive patients having undergone both MR imaging and surgery were included in the patient cohort. Official MR imaging interpretations were compared with operative reports, and all findings were recorded. Twenty-three patients were identified with partial- or full-thickness tears of the long head of the biceps tendon. The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of unenhanced MR imaging of the shoulder for detecting these bicipital tears were 52%, 86%, and 79%, respectively. When a tear was present in the biceps tendon, the prevalence of supraspinatous, infraspinatus, and subscapularis tendon tears was 96.2%, 34.6%, and 47.1%, respectively. Patients with biceps tendon tears were significantly more likely to also have subscapularis tendon tears (p < 0.0001) and supraspinatous tendon tears (p < 0.008) than those patients who did not have biceps tendon tears. No significant relationship was found between the presence or absence of a biceps tendon tear and the presence or absence of a infraspinatus or teres minor tendon tear (p = 0.17). Tears of the long head of the biceps tendon have a statistically significant association with tears of the anterior and superior rotator cuff and are highly correlated with tears of the supraspinatous and subscapularis tendons. When tears of these tendons are detected, specific attention directed toward the long biceps tendon is warranted to characterize the status of this structure that provides additional stability to the shoulder joint."}
{"id": "12589487", "title": "Progression from calcifying tendinitis to rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Progression from calcifying tendinitis to rotator cuff tear. This report documents the clinical, radiographic and histologic findings in a 46-year-old man with calcifying tendinitis in his left shoulder which progressed to rotator cuff tear. The patient had a 1-year history of repeated calcifying tendinitis before being referred to our hospital. On the initial visit, radiographs and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed calcium deposition localized in the supraspinatus tendon without apparent tear. Three months after the first visit, MRI revealed a partial-thickness rotator cuff tear at the site of calcium deposition. Surgical and histologic findings demonstrated that calcium deposition was the cause of cuff rupture. To our knowledge, based on a review of the English literature, this is the first case report in which the progression from calcifying tendinitis to rotator cuff tear has been serially observed."}
{"id": "12589484", "title": "Enlarged spinoglenoid notch veins causing suprascapular nerve compression.", "content": "Enlarged spinoglenoid notch veins causing suprascapular nerve compression. To report the magnetic resonance (MR) imaging findings of enlarged veins in the spinoglenoid notch as a cause of suprascapular nerve compression. Six patients presented to MR imaging for evaluation of chronic shoulder pain. Clinical information and MR imaging studies were reviewed. The spinoglenoid notch vascular structures were compared with measurements made in 10 age-matched controls. Spinoglenoid notch vascular structures measured in 10 asymptomatic age-matched control patients ranged from 1 to 4 mm in diameter with an average of 2.2 mm. The six study patients had vascular structures that ranged from 6 to 10 mm in diameter with an average of 8.4 mm. Atrophy and fatty infiltration of the infraspinatus muscle was noted as an associated finding at MR imaging in all six patients. Surgery was performed in three of the six patients, at which time a venous varix was identified in the spinoglenoid notch in all three patients. We describe distended veins in the spinoglenoid notch. These may be readily apparent at MR imaging and should be distinguished from paralabral ganglion cysts compressing the suprascapular nerve in the absence of labral tears, especially if percutaneous aspiration of a ganglion cyst is entertained."}
{"id": "12585570", "title": "The management of partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff.", "content": "The management of partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "12579145", "title": "Arthroscopic repair of isolated subscapularis tears: A prospective cohort with 2- to 4-year follow-up.", "content": "Arthroscopic repair of isolated subscapularis tears: A prospective cohort with 2- to 4-year follow-up. The goal of this study was to evaluate the outcomes of the arthroscopic repair of isolated subscapularis tears. Additionally, this study explores details of the clinical diagnosis, magnetic resonance arthrography findings, and surgical repair techniques. A prospective cohort. The preoperative and postoperative status of patients with isolated subscapularis tears were analyzed using the Constant Score, American Shoulder and Elbow Society Index (ASES Index), a visual analog pain scale (VAS), a single question of percent function compared with the opposite unaffected extremity, and a single question reflecting satisfaction: \"Would you undergo the surgery and the postoperative rehabilitation to achieve the result you have today.\" There was a statistically significant difference for all outcome measures from preoperative to postoperative follow-up at 2 to 4 years, except for the objective Constant Score. There were no differences based on gender. Preoperative magnetic resonance arthrography aids in the confirmation of the subscapularis tear. The arthroscopic repair of the isolated subscapularis tear provides for reliable expectations of improvement in function, particularly the use of the arm behind the back, decreases in pain, decreases in biceps subluxation or instability, and the return of active normal internal rotation. Subjectively, magnetic resonance arthrography is better than magnetic resonance imaging for visualizing the subscapularis tear."}
{"id": "12571381", "title": "Magnetic resonance arthrography in recurrent anterior shoulder instability as compared to arthroscopy: a prospective comparative study.", "content": "Magnetic resonance arthrography in recurrent anterior shoulder instability as compared to arthroscopy: a prospective comparative study. To evaluate the accuracy of magnetic resonance (MR) arthrographic imaging in the diagnosis of glenoid labral and ligament tears in recurrent shoulder instability. Prospective, comparative study at a tertiary care centre. Patients with three or more episodes of anterior shoulder dislocation were enrolled in the study. They were subjected to magnetic resonance arthrography (MRA) for delineation of abnormalities. The findings obtained at MRA were compared with those found at arthroscopy and surgical exploration. MRA detected glenoid tears in all 22 patients with 20 (90%) patients having antero-inferior tears, 3 (14%) patients had superior labral involvement and 2 (10%) patients had posterior labral abnormality. On arthroscopy, antero-inferior, superior and posterior labral tear were found in 21 (95%), 5 (22%) and 7 (32%) patients respectively. MRA showed a sensitivity of 95%, and a specificity of 100% for the detection of the antero-inferior labral tears. The sensitivity of MRA for the detection of superior, middle and inferior glenohumeral ligament tear was 83%, 80% and 86% with a specificity of 100%, 71% and 93% respectively. MRA was 100% sensitive for the detection of rotator cuff injuries and detection of bony lesions like Hill-Sach's and bony Bankart's lesion. MRA is a sensitive and specific modality for evaluation of anterior shoulder instability."}
{"id": "12569317", "title": "OS acromiale producing rotator cuff impingement and rupture. A case report.", "content": "OS acromiale producing rotator cuff impingement and rupture. A case report."}
{"id": "12567134", "title": "Milwaukee shoulder: correlating possible etiologic variables.", "content": "Milwaukee shoulder: correlating possible etiologic variables. The current study evaluated the relative correlation of apatite crystal-induced inflammation and rotator cuff deficiency in the development of cuff tear arthropathy. Thirty-seven patients with full thickness rotator cuff tears were evaluated by history, physical examination, and plain radiographs. Thirty patients had surgical intervention for their rotator cuff defects, and calipers were used intraoperatively to quantify the size of the tear in its largest diameter. The remaining seven patients were treated nonoperatively and the size of the tear was quantified using magnetic resonance imaging. Synovial fluid was obtained from all patients and analyzed for crystal content using an alizarin red stain. Synovial fluid also was analyzed for leukocyte count and differential, prostaglandin E, and matrix metalloproteinase. An unpaired Student's t test revealed that significantly higher levels of prostaglandin E were found in the synovial fluid of patients with apatite crystals, shown by alizarin red stain. Chi squared analysis showed that patients with elevated crystal levels were significantly more likely to have large rotator cuff tears or glenohumeral arthritis. Establishing such relations potentially can elucidate the etiology and treatment of this complex disorder.(2) (2)"}
{"id": "12563364", "title": "[Surgical treatment of the impingement syndrome and of the rotator cuff tears: personal experience in 134 cases].", "content": "[Surgical treatment of the impingement syndrome and of the rotator cuff tears: personal experience in 134 cases]. The time-course covered by the original definition of scapulo-humeral periarthritis suggested by Duplay through the more recent term of subacromial impingement syndrome coined by Neer, follows the identification of the pathogenetic mechanisms leading to chronic subacromial impingement and degenerative tears of the rotator cuff. The Authors recall the functional-anatomic development evolution of the shoulder and the disequilibrium between the depressor and the elevator muscles which may promote the chronic friction against the acromion. However, the actual pathogenesis of the impingement still remains controversial. We evaluated 134 patients (81F, 53M, mean age 56.4 years) with chronic subacromial impingement syndrome. In 92 cases (69%) non traumatic tears of the rotator cuff were also present as confirmed by ultrasonography in 94 cases, CT in18 cases and magnetic resonance in 102 cases. The different tear patterns of the rotator cuff were classified as suggested by Ellman (L shaped, L reverse, triangular, trapezoidal and massive with retraction) and clinical results were analyzed following Sahlstrand clinical criteria and Costant numerical scale. According to the anatomical damage, patients were divided into those with impingement without severe cuff tendinopathy (42 cases), those with rotator cuff tears without loss of motion of the shoulder (32 cases) and those with cuff tears and loss of active motion (60 cases). The different surgical techniques and rehabilitation procedures after surgery are also reported. After a mean follow-up of 1.3 years (range 8 months - 2 years), good or excellent results were obtained in 91% of the patients without rotator cuff tears, in 87% of the patients with tears but without loss of motion and in 75% of the cases with loss of active motion. Our data demonstrate that in the majority of patients with chronic impingement syndrome and rotator cuff tears, surgical treatment shows high success rates. When surgery is associated with a careful rehabilitation programme it may frequently allow patients to return to their baseline function."}
{"id": "12562120", "title": "Association of shoulder sonographic findings with subsequent surgical treatment for rotator cuff injury.", "content": "Association of shoulder sonographic findings with subsequent surgical treatment for rotator cuff injury. To identify any clinical and radiologic findings of rotator cuff injury that predict whether patients will undergo shoulder surgery. We retrospectively studied all shoulder sonograms obtained at a single institution over 12 months. Possible predictors of surgical treatment were documented, including patient age and sex, duration and types of symptoms, and the location and severity of tendon damage on sonography. One hundred twenty-eight patients underwent shoulder sonography; 34 patients eventually underwent shoulder surgery. Multivariate logistic regression was performed to identify clinical and sonographic factors associated with the use of surgical therapy. The only statistically significant predictor of surgical intervention was the finding of full-thickness tears (with or without tendon retraction) on sonography (P = .03). Patients with full-thickness tears were 4.3 times more likely to undergo surgery than those with no tears (odds ratio, 4.3). The sonographic diagnosis of full-thickness rotator cuff tears is the only finding statistically associated with the use of surgical treatment. No single clinical variable was consistently associated with subsequent surgery. Partial-thickness tears on sonography also do not show any statistical association with the eventual use of surgery for rotator cuff symptoms."}
{"id": "12525938", "title": "MR arthrography: pharmacology, efficacy and safety in clinical trials.", "content": "MR arthrography: pharmacology, efficacy and safety in clinical trials. A meta-analysis was carried out of clinical trials published between 1987 and 2001 in respect of the clinical pharmacology and safety as well as the diagnostic efficacy of gadolinium-DTPA (Gd-DTPA) for direct intra-articular injection before MRI examination. Scientific papers (clinical, postmortem and experimental studies) and information from the manufacturer regarding intra-articular injection of Gd-DTPA that addressed questions of mode of action, optimal concentration and dose, elimination and safety were reviewed. Clinical studies were classified according to their study design. The sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of MR arthrography (MRA) were compared with a \"gold standard\" (arthroscopy, arthrotomy) and other radiological evidence for different joints. Fifty-two clinical studies of the overall 112 studies addressed aspects of diagnostic efficacy of MRA in patients or in healthy volunteers. The shoulder was the most assessed joint (29 of 52 studies). Good (>80%) or even excellent (90-100%) sensitivity, specificity and accuracy were found for MRA in most indications, especially for the shoulder and knee joints and induced extension of rotator cuff lesions, labrum abnormalities and postoperative meniscal tears. Two millimoles per liter has proven to be the best concentration for intra-articular administration of Gd-DTPA. After passive complete diffusion from the joint within 6-24 h, complete and rapid renal elimination takes place after intra-articular injection. Local safety proved to be excellent after intra-articular administration of Gd-DTPA. Regarding systemic tolerance almost no side effects have been reported, but the same safety considerations apply for intra-articular administration of Gd-DTPA as for intravenous injection. The diagnostic efficacy of intra-articular MRA in most clinical conditions affecting major joints is greater than that of plain MRI. In some diagnostic problems MRA achieves almost the same sensitivity and specificity as the surgical gold standard. Given a sterile application, the intra-articular administration of Gd-DTPA in a concentration of 2 mmol/l prior to MRI is a safe procedure."}
{"id": "12511685", "title": "Infraspinatus muscle atrophy: implications?", "content": "Infraspinatus muscle atrophy: implications? To evaluate associated findings in patients who exhibited atrophy of infraspinatus muscle at magnetic resonance (MR) examination of their shoulders to clarify implications of this abnormality. With an electronic database search, cases of advanced infraspinatus muscle atrophy in patients who underwent MR imaging during a 1-year period for evaluation of shoulder pain or dysfunction were identified. The analysis was restricted to cases interpreted by one reader who applied a standardized method of reporting. Associated MR imaging findings in these cases were tabulated. Advanced infraspinatus muscle atrophy was encountered in 51 (4.3%) of 1,191 MR examinations of the shoulder. Tears of the infraspinatus tendon were present in only 27 (53%) of 51 cases. In 46 (90%) of 51 cases, a full-thickness tear was present in the anterior portion of the rotator cuff. In 10 (20%) of 51 cases with infraspinatus muscle atrophy, cuff muscle atrophy was confined to the infraspinatus muscle. Cuff muscle atrophy was isolated to the infraspinatus muscle in four (17%) of 24 cases in which atrophy of the infraspinatus muscle was present despite an intact tendon. In none of the 51 cases was there a mass in the suprascapular or sphenoglenoid notch. Infraspinatus muscle atrophy typically occurs with tendon tears in the anterior aspect of the rotator cuff. Concomitant atrophy in the supraspinatus muscle often is present, but infraspinatus muscle atrophy can occur in isolation, and this finding does not imply that the infraspinatus tendon is ruptured."}
{"id": "12510117", "title": "[Suprascapular nerve entrapment at the spinoglenoid notch secondary to a ganglion cyst].", "content": "[Suprascapular nerve entrapment at the spinoglenoid notch secondary to a ganglion cyst]. Suprascapular neuropathy may occur as a result of traction, direct trauma, repetitive microtraumas, and extrinsic compression. A thirty-one-year-old man presented with non-traumatic complaints of right shoulder pain and stiffness. After exclusion of other causes associated with shoulder pain, a diagnosis of suprascapular nerve entrapment was considered. Electromyographic activity of the right shoulder was compared with that of the left side and involvement of the infraspinatus muscle was detected, with the supraspinatus muscle appearing normal. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed a ganglion cyst around the spinoglenoid notch. The patient underwent arthroscopic examination and open cyst excision. Arthroscopy did not show any labral tears. Pathological diagnosis was made as a cystic ganglion. On follow-up examinations, the patient's complaints disappeared and only minimal infraspinatus muscle atrophy was observed. Suprascapular nerve entrapment should be considered in the differential diagnosis of posterior shoulder pain."}
{"id": "12486539", "title": "[Differential therapy for the rheumatoid shoulder].", "content": "[Differential therapy for the rheumatoid shoulder]. Despite frequent involvement, the rheumatoid shoulder is neglected in operative treatment of the upper extremities. The slow course of omarthritis, the compensation mechanism of scapulothoracic motion and neighbouring joints as well as dominating disabilities of the lower extremities and the rheumatoid hand are possible explanations. The pattern of destruction of the rheumatoid shoulder is characterized by progressive joint and soft tissue deterioration. Soft tissue involvement determines the course of the shoulder joint. The subacromial space is a common and early site for rheumatoid involvement, often leading to bursitis, tenosynovitis of the biceps tendon and rotator cuff rupture. Sonography and MRI enable the early detection of subacromial and glenohumeral pathology before deterioration is visible radiologically. Surgical intervention in patients with rheumatoid arthritis of the shoulder is based on the degree of radiological destruction according to Larsen, the natural course of the shoulder joint and the soft-tissue condition. The goals of surgery are to relieve pain, increase motion and restore shoulder function. Surgery should be carried out early in the course of the disease, thus determining the long-term prognosis and the remaining surgical options. Depending on the pattern of destruction of the rheumatoid shoulder, the options for treatment can be divided into early and late procedures.Joint-preserving surgery is indicated in the early stages of radiological destruction according to Larsen classification O-III, whereas the late stages of destruction (Larsen IV-V) require reconstructive surgery. The introduction of arthroscopic and semiarthroscopic techniques has improved the acceptance of early synovectomy for the rheumatoid shoulder, but there is still a place for open synovectomy in patients with extensive soft-tissue repair and bone-remodelling procedures. Arthroscopic and open synovectomy are supplementary and noncompetitive surgical procedures for the rheumatoid shoulder. With proceeding bone and soft-tissue destruction corresponding to Larsen stage IV and V, synovectomy is not successful and reconstructive surgery is necessary. Resection-interposition-arthroplasty (RAIP) remains a controversial alternative to arthroplasty in young patients with sufficient bone stock and a reconstructable rotator cuff. The success of cup-replacement will additionally restrict the indications for RAIP. RIAP remains a possible salvage procedure after aseptic and septic loosening of shoulder arthroplasty. Glenohumeral replacement arthroplasty has become the procedure of choice in reconstructive surgery of the shoulder. The severity of soft-tissue and bone destruction determines the choice of shoulder prosthesis. Current modular shoulder systems with increased numbers of humeral-head stem combinations are calculated to achieve a better adjustment of the soft-tissue tension and to optimize the adaptation between head geometry and the natural shape of the glenoid.The surrounding soft-tissue structure, especially the condition of the rotator cuff, is very important for the functional recovery after shoulder arthroplasty. We prefer a hemiarthroplasty of the rheumatoid shoulder joint to avoid critical glenoid fixation. Patients with irreparable rotator cuff tears and severe glenohumeral arthritis remain a difficult challenge in shoulder surgery and the ideal procedure has not yet been found.Pain relief and a modest increase in active motion are the main goals in operative treatment. Bipolar shoulder arthroplasty represents an adequate alternative to currently favoured hemiarthroplasty in patients with cuff-deficient shoulders."}
{"id": "12483430", "title": "The value of ultrasound after shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "The value of ultrasound after shoulder arthroplasty. This study was undertaken to evaluate whether sonography is a useful tool in the diagnosis of soft tissue disorders as a possible cause for discomfort and/or pain after shoulder arthroplasty. Static and dynamic ultrasound examinations were performed in the standard sectional planes on 22 patients with 25 hemiprostheses and the results were correlated with the clinical outcome. The stability was determined in the transverse and frontal planes and the clinical results were evaluated according to the Constant and Swanson scores. Several pathological changes were detected: rotator cuff lesions, subdeltoid bursitis, changes around the long biceps tendon as well as an increase in intra-articular volume due to effusion and/or synovitis. The correlation of sonographic and clinical results demonstrated that patients with an excellent clinical result showed no or only a few pathological findings on sonography compared with those with a moderate or poor result. Pathological changes of the periarticular tissue in the direct neighbourhood of the implant can be detected by sonography, which can be recommended as a valuable examination technique to evaluate the soft tissue in patients after shoulder arthroplasty."}
{"id": "12474728", "title": "[Usefulness of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears].", "content": "[Usefulness of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears]. The purpose of this study was to determine the diagnostic performance of high-resolution ultrasonography compared with arthroscopy examination for the detection and characterization of rotator cuff tears. 31 patients with shoulder pain who had undergone preoperative ultrasonography and subsequent arthroscopy were identified. Ultrasonography for full-thickness rotator cuff tears has sensitivity of 80%, specificity of 100%, PPV of 100%, NPV of 82%. Ultrasonography for partial-thickness rotator cuff tears has sensitivity of 78.5%, specificity of 82%, PPV of 85%, NPV of 75%. Ultrasonography was highly accurate for detecting full-thickness rotator cuff tears; it was less sensitive and specific for detecting partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. Because of its low cost ultrasonography could be the first diagnostic tool for the rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "12469086", "title": "Clinical evaluation and treatment of spinoglenoid notch ganglion cysts.", "content": "Clinical evaluation and treatment of spinoglenoid notch ganglion cysts. Spinoglenoid notch cysts were identified by magnetic resonance imaging in 73 patients. Posterosuperior labral tears were identified in 65 patients who had spinoglenoid notch cysts. Patient follow-up was available on 88% of patients at a mean of 20.5 months after treatment. There were 52 men and 11 women, with a mean age of 39 years (range, 19-76 years). All patients reported shoulder pain. Infraspinatus atrophy occurred in 25 patients, weakness with external rotation in 43, and posterior shoulder tenderness in 30. Nineteen patients underwent nonoperative management of the cyst (group I). Eleven underwent attempted needle aspiration of the cyst (group II). Six had isolated arthroscopic treatment of a labral defect with no cyst excision (group III). Twenty-seven were treated with surgical cyst excision with the cyst and superior labral tear fixed arthroscopically or with an open approach in various combinations (group IV). Of the patients, 53% were satisfied in group I, 64% in group II, 67% in group III, and 97% in group IV."}
{"id": "12469082", "title": "Acromial shapes and extension of rotator cuff tears: magnetic resonance imaging evaluation.", "content": "Acromial shapes and extension of rotator cuff tears: magnetic resonance imaging evaluation. Magnetic resonance imaging makes it possible to inspect the status of the rotator cuff and the shape of the acromion. To clarify the relationship between acromial shapes and rotator cuff tears, we evaluated magnetic resonance images obtained in 192 shoulders. We classified the acromial shapes into 3 types: type I (flat), type II (curved), and type III (hooked). Among a group of 91 shoulders with rotator cuff tears, 33 (36.3%) were type I, 22 (24.2%) type II, and 36 (39.6%) type III. The size of rotator cuff tears in type III acromions was significantly larger than in type I or II acromions. Comparison of the incidence of each acromial shape between groups of specimens with and without rotator cuff tears revealed no significant differences. We suggest that whereas acromial shapes have a bearing on the extent of rotator cuff tears, the correlation between rotator cuff tears and a type III acromion is not as strong as has been suggested in the literature."}
{"id": "12469080", "title": "Intratendinous strain fields of the supraspinatus tendon: effect of a surgically created articular-surface rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Intratendinous strain fields of the supraspinatus tendon: effect of a surgically created articular-surface rotator cuff tear. Articular-surface partial-thickness rotator cuff tears play a significant role in shoulder pathology, but the role of the articular-surface tissue is poorly understood. This investigation assessed the effect of an articular-surface partial-thickness rotator cuff tear on intratendinous strain fields. A magnetic resonance imaging-based technique quantified intratendinous strains in healthy cadaveric shoulders at 15 degrees, 30 degrees, 45 degrees, and 60 degrees of glenohumeral abduction. A second set of magnetic resonance images was acquired after an articular-surface partial-thickness tear was created arthroscopically. Measures of strain were grouped into 3 tendon regions. A 3-factor analysis of variance assessed the effects of joint position, tendon region, and tendon tear. Intratendinous strains were influenced significantly by joint position, but few differences existed between tendon regions. The articular-surface partial-thickness tear increased intratendinous strain for all joint positions except 15 degrees. The results lend insight into the mechanical behavior of the normal and pathologic rotator cuff."}
{"id": "12462070", "title": "[Findings of the subcoracoid bursa on MR arthrography and their clinical significance].", "content": "[Findings of the subcoracoid bursa on MR arthrography and their clinical significance]. We studied visualization of the subcoracoid bursa by conducting a retrospective analysis of the MR arthrograms of 101 shoulders with surgical confirmation. MR arthrography showed the subcoracoid bursa in 28 shoulders, among which the bursa was revealed by inadvertent direct injection of contrast material into the bursa in 10 shoulders. Of the remaining 18 shoulders, 16 shoulders had rotator cuff tears, one had shoulder instability, and one had dislocation of the long head of the biceps tendon. Both the subcoracoid and subscapularis bursae are located in the subcoracoid space. The subcoracoid bursa does not communicate with the subscapularis bursa, but occasionally communicates with the subacromial-subdeltoid bursa. On MR arthrography, contrast material in the subcoracoid bursa indicates a pathologic condition such as rotator cuff tear. Careful examination of the subcoracoid bursa on MR arthrography helps to achieve better assessment of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "12435645", "title": "The crank test, the O'Brien test, and routine magnetic resonance imaging scans in the diagnosis of labral tears.", "content": "The crank test, the O'Brien test, and routine magnetic resonance imaging scans in the diagnosis of labral tears. Tears of the superior labrum of the shoulder, anterior to posterior, are difficult to diagnose clinically. We examined whether the crank or O'Brien tests were reliable tools for detecting glenoid labral tears. Nonrandomized prospective study. Results of diagnostic shoulder arthroscopy were compared with those of the preoperative tests and magnetic resonance imaging for 65 patients who had symptoms of shoulder pain. The crank test result was positive in 29 patients (45%), and the O'Brien test was positive in 41 patients (63%). The crank test had a positive predictive value of 41%, was 56% specific, 46% sensitive, and had a negative predictive value of 61%. The O'Brien test had a positive predictive value of 34%, was 31% specific, 54% sensitive, and had a negative predictive value of 50%. Magnetic resonance imaging had a positive predictive value of 63%, was 92% specific, 42% sensitive, and had a negative predictive value of 83%. The O'Brien and crank tests were not sensitive clinical indicators for detecting glenoid labral tears and other tears of the anterior and posterior labrum. Results were often falsely positive for patients with other shoulder conditions, including impingement or rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "12399886", "title": "[Technique and diagnostic value of musculoskelatal ultrasonography in rheumatology. Part 5: Ultrasonography of the shoulder].", "content": "[Technique and diagnostic value of musculoskelatal ultrasonography in rheumatology. Part 5: Ultrasonography of the shoulder]. Shoulder-related symptoms are very common in rheumatic diseases. For the evaluation of the diagnosis as well as for therapy and prognosis, an anatomic assignment is essential. Clinical investigations alone are often not capable to do this. Ultrasonography is a method to delineate bony surfaces as well as the soft tissues around the shoulder joints statically and even dynamically. For the purpose of rheumatic diseases, ultrasound standard scans help to detect the lesions at the biceps tendon, the bursae, the rotator cuff, the humeral head as well as in the acromial and sternoclavicular joints. Considering the limitations of the method (obesity, frozen shoulder, no findings under bony structures) and knowing the pitfalls and errors of the method, ultrasonography is a reliable, quick and low cost method for the diagnosis of rheumatic shoulder joint pathology. Compared to computer tomography and magnetic resonance imaging, ultrasonography should be used as a screening method. The following standard scans are suggested for sonographic evaluation of the shoulder: 1) anterior transverse scan and 2) anterior longitudinal scan at the bicipal groove to detect synovitis and tenosynovitis, 3) anterior transverse scan at the coracoacromiale window in the neutral position, 4) at maximal external rotation and 5) at maximal internal rotation to evaluate the rotator cuff, bursitis, synovitis and erosions, 6) anterior longitudinal scan at 90 degrees to the coracoacomiale window at maximal internal rotation to describe these findings in an additional dimension, 7) anterior-lateral longitudinal scan at the anterior lateral acromion to tuberculum majus to evaluate the distal part of the supraspinatus muscle, 8) posterior transverse scan at the fossa infraspinata lateral under the spina scapulae, 9) axillary longitudinal scan to evaluate synovitis, synovial proliferation, erosions at the humeral head, lesions at the glenoidale labrum, 10) anterior transverse scan at the acromioclavicular joint and 11) anterior oblique scan at the sternoclavicular joint to detect synovitis, synovial proliferation, erosion, osteophytes."}
{"id": "12395913", "title": "Changes in size of periarthritis calcifications in patients with painful shoulder treated with injectable disodium-clodronate.", "content": "Changes in size of periarthritis calcifications in patients with painful shoulder treated with injectable disodium-clodronate. Calcific periarticular disease is characterized by the deposition of calcium phosphate crystals in many tendons and particularly in the rotator cuff tendons. Calcifications of any size may be accompanied by painful shoulder syndrome and tendon tears. Ecographic assessment of changes in the size of calcifications may be a marker of tissue changes in evolving shoulder periarthropathies. The aim of this study was to compare variations in pain and ultrasound dimensions in the calcifications in the tendons of the rotator cuff in patients treated with disodium-clodronate compared with those treated with paracetamol and nimesulide. In all groups, pain reduction occurred over a 6-month period, but was significantly greater in patients administered disodium-clodronate than in those administered nimesulide or paracetamol. A significant reduction in the size of calcifications was also observed in all three groups, but this reduction was more marked in the disodium-clodronate group."}
{"id": "12379388", "title": "Rotator cuff alterations resulting from humeral head fractures.", "content": "Rotator cuff alterations resulting from humeral head fractures. Most complex humeral head fractures are associated with a longitudinal tear of the rotator cuff. Reconstruction of this tear is frequently omitted from surgical reduction and fixation procedures. In 48 patients treated by surgery or by conservative means, we investigated the relationship between rotator cuff integrity and the functional results. The rotator cuff was assessed by ultrasonography, the functional results by the Constant Score. Common signs of rotator cuff alterations were partial or complete atrophy. In all patients affected, a longitudinal defect located at the rotator interval was detected. A classification of rotator cuff alterations resulting from humeral head fractures was introduced, yielding three categories: none, moderate, or severe. In three patients, sonographic results were confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Rotator cuff alterations were often associated with displaced consolidation results. Furthermore, the integrity of the rotator cuff significantly correlated with the function achieved. The results support the need for a careful rotator cuff repair in order to optimise treatment results."}
{"id": "12378176", "title": "Surgical management of the symptomatic os acromiale.", "content": "Surgical management of the symptomatic os acromiale. Os acromiale is an uncommon cause of shoulder pain with symptoms often resulting from an unstable meso-acromion. The associated pain may be due to impingement from the unfused fragment, a concomitant rotator cuff tear, or gross motion at the os acromiale site. Currently, initial treatment includes physical therapy, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, and subacromial corticosteroid injections. Surgical intervention is reserved for patients who do not respond to nonoperative treatment. Treatment options include open fragment excision, open reduction and internal fixation, and arthroscopic decompression. Open fragment excision can lead to persistent deltoid dysfunction and should be reserved for small fragments or after failed internal fixation. Open reduction and internal fixation allows for both preservation of large fragments and anterior deltoid function. Internal fixation is technically difficult, has led to frequent nonunion rates and often requires hardware removal as a result of postoperative irritation. Arthroscopic subacromial decompression with complete or nearly complete resection of the unstable meso-acromion can be performed without the aforementioned complications. The surgical technique requires no special instrumentation and may be performed reproducibly by those familiar with arthroscopic techniques of the shoulder. Advantages include more rapid rehabilitation, better range of motion, and shorter surgical times. Satisfactory short-term results have shown this to be an effective treatment option for the unstable meso-acromion."}
{"id": "12368799", "title": "Articular impingement in malunited fracture of the humeral head.", "content": "Articular impingement in malunited fracture of the humeral head. We report on the case of a fracture of the humeral metaepiphysis, surgical neck, and greater tuberosity treated conservatively. Malunion of a fracture of the greater tuberosity developed an impingement on the glenoid surface, causing an articular locking in internal rotation that resolved with slight pressure and a painful \"click.\" The impinging bone was removed arthroscopically. Its extreme posterior position required opening a second, novel portal close to the posterior edge of the acromion for instrument access. Complete removal of the impinging bone restored free internal rotation without signs of impingement on the glenoid surface. Passive motion was initiated immediately postoperatively, and active motion in a water pool was initiated after 2 weeks. After 1 year, the patient has no pain, has maintained complete range of motion, and experiences no limitations in daily or sports activities. The peculiar features of this case are the absence of soft tissue scar stiffness and deficiency of the rotator cuff, because malunion of the bone fragment to the posterior edge of the humeral head produced a mechanical block of internal rotation, and the arthroscopic treatment of the impingement through an atypical superoposterior portal, which has not been described in the literature before."}
{"id": "12360013", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging for supraspinatus muscle atrophy after cuff repair.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging for supraspinatus muscle atrophy after cuff repair. Between 1998 to 2000, the shoulders of 17 patients with rotator cuff tears were examined using magnetic resonance imaging preoperatively, and 6 and 12 months after open surgical repair. To assess the course of the supraspinatus muscle atrophy, the easily reproducible magnetic resonance imaging parameters occupation ratio and tangent sign in the Y-shaped view of the supraspinous fossa were evaluated and compared with the clinical examination. Occupation ratio is a quantitative parameter that reflects the area ratio, expressed as a percentage of the supraspinatus muscle belly to the supraspinous fossa. The tangent sign is a qualitative parameter that represents a line connecting the coracoid process and the apex of the scapular spine. Occupation ratio and tangent sign are reliable diagnostic tools in magnetic resonance imaging assessment of supraspinatus muscle atrophy. The sensitivity of the magnetic resonance imaging parameter occupation ratio is 75% and the specificity is 85%. The imaging parameter tangent sign has a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 85%. There is a significant relationship between occupation ratio, tangent sign, and improvement of strength and mobility registered in the score of Constant and Murley 12 months after surgery."}
{"id": "12235350", "title": "Special focus session. MR arthrography.", "content": "Special focus session. MR arthrography. Direct magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography with injection of saline solution or diluted gadolinium can be useful for evaluating certain pathologic conditions in the joints. It is most helpful for outlining labral-ligamentous abnormalities in the shoulder and distinguishing partial-thickness from full-thickness tears in the rotator cuff, demonstrating labral tears in the hip, showing partial- and full-thickness tears of the collateral ligament of the elbow and delineating bands in the elbow, identifying residual or recurrent tears in the knee following meniscectomy, increasing the certainty of perforations of the ligaments and triangular fibrocartilage in the wrist, correctly identifying ligament tears in the ankle and increasing the sensitivity for ankle impingement syndromes, assessing the stability of osteochondral lesions in the articular surface of joints, and delineating loose bodies in joints. Indirect MR arthrography with intravenous administration of diluted gadolinium may be performed when direct arthrography is inconvenient or not logistically feasible. Although indirect MR arthrography has some disadvantages vis-\u00e0-vis direct MR arthrography, it does not require fluoroscopic guidance or joint injection and it is superior to conventional MR imaging in delineating structures when there is minimal joint fluid. In addition, vascularized or inflamed tissue will enhance with this method. Indirect MR arthrography can be used to rule in or diagnose abnormalities and to exclude abnormalities."}
{"id": "12214351", "title": "Comparison of autopsy, X-ray, and M.R.I. findings following a low speed impact to the shoulder.", "content": "Comparison of autopsy, X-ray, and M.R.I. findings following a low speed impact to the shoulder. The objectives of the study was to generate data useful to engineers improving crash test dummies and to physicians in anticipating low speed lateral impact injuries to the shoulder. Constant impact mass, distance and variable speeds were used to generate impact forces. Twelve unembalmed human cadavers were studied within 48 hours of death. Pre-test and Post-test physical, X-Ray, and Magnetic Resonance examinations were completed. X-Ray best identified bone injury, Magnetic Resonance intratendinous and intramuscular pathology and autopsy joint instability. Low speed (3.5-7.0 m/sec) impacts under these testing conditions frequently produce soft tissue and bone injuries. Sternoclavicular and acromioclavicular joint instabilities were found in 83% of the cadavers. The most frequent bone fractures were in the distal clavicle of 42% and labral or rotator cuff tears in 13% of the cadavers."}
{"id": "12202690", "title": "The impact of MR imaging in sports medicine.", "content": "The impact of MR imaging in sports medicine. Sports medicine is one of the most rapidly growing subspecialties in orthopedics. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in sports medicine includes depiction of normal anatomy and pathologic conditions in almost every joint in the body, but the MR examinations most frequently requested are of the knee and shoulder. The reported high accuracy of MR imaging in the knee has resulted in MR imaging being preferred to diagnostic arthroscopy by most leading orthopedic surgeons. MR imaging is particularly helpful for sports medicine surgeons in evaluating menisci to determine if they are repairable, in posterolateral corner syndrome, and in evaluating the hyaline articular cartilage. In evaluating the shoulder, MR arthrography is becoming the preoperative imaging procedure of choice for many sports medicine surgeons. Shoulder MR imaging is particularly important in helping identify abnormalities that may mimic rotator cuff or labral abnormalities at clinical examination, thus preventing unnecessary surgery in some patients. These abnormalities include Parsonage-Turner syndrome and quadrilateral space syndrome, each of which has a distinctive MR imaging appearance. As the field of sports medicine expands, radiologists will continue to see increased requests for MR imaging, because sports medicine and high-quality imaging are inextricably linked."}
{"id": "12195505", "title": "Trabecular microstructure and surface changes in the greater tuberosity in rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Trabecular microstructure and surface changes in the greater tuberosity in rotator cuff tears. When planning surgery in patients with rotator cuff tear, strength of bone at the tendon insertion and trabecular bone structure in the greater tuberosity are usually taken into consideration. We investigated radiographic changes in bone structure of the greater tuberosity in rotator cuff tears. Twenty-two human cadaveric shoulders from subjects ranging from 55 to 75 years of age were obtained. The integrity of the rotator cuff was examined by sonography to determine if it is intact without any tear, or torn partially or completely. The humeral head was sectioned in 3 mm thick coronal slab sections and microradiographed. After digitization of the microradiographs and imaging processing with in-house semi-automated image processing software tools developed using software interfaces on a Sun workstation, the trabecular histomorphometrical structural parameters and connectivity in the greater tuberosity were quantified. The degenerative changes on the surface of the greater tuberosity were interpreted blindly by 2 independent readers. Among the 22 shoulder specimens, the rotator cuff was found intact in 10 shoulders, partially in 7 and fully torn in 5. Statistically significant loss in apparent trabecular bone volume fraction, number of trabecular nodes, and number of trabecular branches, and a statistically significant increase in apparent trabecular separation and number of trabecular free ends were found in the greater tuberosity of the shoulders with tears. The loss was greater in association with full tear than in partial tear. Thickening of the cortical margin of the enthesis, irregularity of its surface, and calcification beyond the tidemark were observed in 2 (20%) shoulders with intact rotator cuff, in 6 (86%) shoulders with partial tear, and in 5 (100%) shoulders with full tear. Rotator cuff tears are associated with degenerative changes on the bone surface and with disuse osteopenia of the greater tuberosity. Aging, degenerative enthesopathy of the supraspinatus tendon, and rotator cuff tears appear closely related."}
{"id": "12195504", "title": "Relationship between MRI and clinical findings in the acromioclavicular joint.", "content": "Relationship between MRI and clinical findings in the acromioclavicular joint. To determine the relationship between the magnetic resonance (MR) appearance of the acromioclavicular (AC) joint and the physical findings. A total of 116 consecutive patients underwent routine MR imaging (MRI) of the shoulder over an 18-month period. All MR studies were interpreted by a blinded, experienced musculoskeletal radiologist. Eleven variables were studied: the presence of osteophytes; fluid in the joint; fluid outside the joint; high signal in the clavicle or in the acromion; fluid in the subacromial bursa; irregularity of the joint margins; bulging of the capsule; widening of the joint; the age of the patient; and the presence of a rotator cuff tear. The clinical information was supplied by an experienced shoulder surgeon blinded to the MRI findings. A control group of 23 normal volunteers was also studied. The only statistically significant correlation ( P=0.0249) was between high signal in the distal clavicle and degenerative changes found clinically. A weaker relationship existed between fluid in the joint and the clinical examination and between increasing degenerative changes and advancing age. Otherwise, no material relationship was found between any of the other MR abnormalities and the clinical picture. There appears to be no real correlation between the MR appearances and the clinical findings in the AC joint."}
{"id": "12195247", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of painful shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of painful shoulder arthroplasty. Specialized magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed in 42 painful shoulder arthroplasties, 22 of which underwent subsequent revision surgery, allowing surgical confirmation of the pathology identified on MRI. One hemiarthroplasty was excluded because of motion artifact, leaving 21 studies (19 patients) to be correlated retrospectively to the surgical findings. At the time of revision surgery, there were full-thickness rotator cuff tears in 11 of 21 shoulders; MRI correctly predicted these in 10 of 11 shoulders. Full-thickness subscapularis tears were the most common finding (8/11 shoulders). Of the 21 shoulders, 10 did not have a rotator cuff tear, and MRI correctly predicted the absence of a tear in 8 of 10. MRI also correctly predicted glenoid cartilage wear in 8 of 9 shoulders. With limited pulse-sequence parameter modification, the data from this preliminary study suggest that MRI may be a useful technique with which to determine the integrity of the rotator cuff and residual cartilage and, thus, is potentially a tool in the management of painful shoulder arthroplasty."}
{"id": "12185037", "title": "Humeral avulsions of the glenohumeral ligament: imaging features and a review of the literature.", "content": "Humeral avulsions of the glenohumeral ligament: imaging features and a review of the literature. We describe the radiologic findings of the humeral avulsion of the glenohumeral ligament (HAGL lesion) and its commonly associated injuries. A retrospective review of six cases of HAGL lesion diagnosed at our institution from October 1996 to February 2001 was performed. We reviewed the radiology reports, radiologic examinations, medical records, and operative notes. All patients had undergone radiography, and four patients had undergone MR imaging of the shoulder before diagnostic arthroscopy. All the patients were men who ranged in age from 19 to 41 years (mean, 26 years). Four patients (67%) had an anterior shoulder dislocation. Three of the HAGL lesions (50%) were detected on radiologic examinations, either by radiography or MR imaging. One patient had a bony HAGL. All patients had associated injuries. The most common associated abnormalities were osteochondral injury of the humeral head (n = 3), rotator cuff tear (n = 3), Bankart lesion (n = 3), Hill-Sachs lesion (n = 2), avulsion of the middle glenohumeral ligament (n = 1), partial tear of the biceps brachii tendon (n = 1), and comminuted fracture of the clavicle (n = 1). With an incidence of 7.5% and 9.4% in two large series of patients, the HAGL lesion is an important cause of anterior instability of the glenohumeral joint. The majority (68%) of patients with an HAGL lesion have associated injuries."}
{"id": "12183790", "title": "[Primary synovial chondromatosis of the shoulder].", "content": "[Primary synovial chondromatosis of the shoulder]. To demonstrate the various patterns of primary synovial chondromatosis (PSC) around the shoulder and to discuss a therapeutic algorithm. In this retrospective study, 6 patients with histologically proven PSC were operated on. The diagnosis was based on clinical examination, plain X-rays, ultrasonography and MRI in 5/6 patients. Also, a histological examination was done in all cases. According to the localisation of the disease, surgery was done by endoscopy alone, endoscopy together with open surgery or direct open surgery. In one case each, we saw an isolated disease of the subacromial bursa or the gleno-humeral joint. In two cases, we found an intraarticular affection together with the biceps tendon sheath. The other two patients showed a massive periarticular deposition of loose bodies together with a defect of the rotator cuff. All patients with intraarticular disease (5/6) showed different stages of chondromalacia. In 5 of 6 patients all bodies could be removed at surgery. At follow-up after 36 months the patients subjectively rated the result as satisfactory to excellent. In the patients with total removal of the bodies, no recurrences were seen on plain X-ray or ultrasonography. PSC around the shoulder appears with a variable pattern. According to the possible late complications described in the literature (i. e., secondary osteoarthritis, involvement of the rotator cuff and secondary malignant transformation), we find operative treatment justified. Surgery addressing removal of loose bodies and partial synovectomy allows good results. The operative approach (endoscopy or open surgery) is related to the localisation and severity of the condition."}
{"id": "12168680", "title": "Intratendinous strain fields of the intact supraspinatus tendon: the effect of glenohumeral joint position and tendon region.", "content": "Intratendinous strain fields of the intact supraspinatus tendon: the effect of glenohumeral joint position and tendon region. Rotator cuff tears are a common shoulder pathology and are hypothesized to relate to excessive tissue deformation. Few data exist, however, describing deformation of the rotator cuff as an intact, functional unit. Our purpose was to determine regional variations of intratendinous rotator cuff strain over a range of clinically relevant joint positions. A novel, MRI-based technique was utilized to quantify intratendinous strains in cadaveric shoulder specimens at 15 degrees, 30 degrees, 45 degrees, and 60 degrees of glenohumeral abduction in the scapular plane. The strain data were grouped into superior, middle, and inferior locations across the region where most rotator cuff tears occur clinically. A repeated measures ANOVA assessed the effects of joint position and tendon region on intratendinous strain. Few differences in intratendinous strain existed across tendon regions, but joint position had a pronounced effect. Specifically, intratendinous strain increased with increasing joint angle, and the 60 degrees strain was significantly greater than the 15 degrees strain across all tendon regions. These data suggest that joint position plays a larger role in rotator cuff mechanics than previously believed. Future studies will utilize this technique for quantifying intratendinous strain to assess the effects of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "12151902", "title": "Review article: diagnostic ultrasonography: applications in orthopaedic surgery.", "content": "Review article: diagnostic ultrasonography: applications in orthopaedic surgery. Diagnostic ultrasonography of musculoskeletal diseases in the United States has been used most often for detection of rotator cuff tears or developmental dysplasia of the hip. Diagnostic ultrasonography also is useful in imaging the periarticular soft tissues about the knee, hip, ankle, occult pediatric fractures, muscle injury, bone healing, and foreign bodies. Recent technologic improvements have made this imaging modality increasingly more accurate while providing significant benefits over traditional modalities such as magnetic resonance imaging, particularly regarding cost, patient satisfaction, and ease of usage. Increasing use in the future of diagnostic ultrasonography for musculoskeletal conditions is likely as acceptance grows. This review focuses on recent, practical applications of diagnostic ultrasonography of the musculoskeletal system."}
{"id": "12150464", "title": "Isolated traumatic rupture of the subscapularis tendon.", "content": "Isolated traumatic rupture of the subscapularis tendon. Although rotator cuff tears are well documented in the literature, there have been relatively few reported cases of isolated subscapularis tears. To our knowledge, no case has been reported that describes an isolated subscapularis tear in a woman without anterior shoulder dislocation or bony avulsion. This report outlines the case of a healthy 46-year-old woman with no history of shoulder problems who sustained injury to her right shoulder while hanging a light fixture. We highlight several key points to early diagnosis and underscore operative management for a successful outcome. Isolated subscapularis tendon ruptures are uncommon in women. Increased vigilance during the history and physical examination is necessary to detect these injuries. Subscapularis tendon ruptures are commonly mistaken for degenerative rotator cuff tears or subacromial impingement syndrome. The lift-off test can isolate a subscapularis injury. Pertinent radiographic and magnetic resonance imaging findings are described."}
{"id": "12147844", "title": "Horizontal component of partial-thickness tears of rotator cuff: imaging characteristics and comparison of ABER view with oblique coronal view at MR arthrography initial results.", "content": "Horizontal component of partial-thickness tears of rotator cuff: imaging characteristics and comparison of ABER view with oblique coronal view at MR arthrography initial results. To determine the characteristics of horizontal components of partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff at magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography and to determine whether use of the abduction and external rotation (ABER) position improved detection of a horizontal component in partial-thickness tears. MR studies in 16 patients (mean age, 32 years) who had partial-thickness tear with a horizontal component were retrospectively evaluated. All 16 patients had undergone arthroscopic surgery. The depth and extent of the horizontal component were measured on MR images, and the presence or absence of articular surface tear was recorded. The characteristics of the horizontal component on ABER views were compared with those on oblique coronal views. A horizontal component (24 lesions; one tendon involved in eight patients and two tendons involved in eight patients) was observed in 100% of the lesions on ABER views and in 21% of the lesions (n = 5) on oblique coronal images. The mean length of the horizontal components, measured on ABER views, was 1.9 cm (range, 0.6-4.5 cm). Thirteen (54%) of the 24 lesions were classified as grade I (<3 mm) in depth, four (17%) were classified as grade II (3-6 mm), and seven (29%) were classified as grade III (>6 mm). Articular separation sites with a flap lesion were visualized in 15 (62%) of 24 lesions on ABER views. MR arthrography of the shoulder with patients in the ABER position may provide additional information in cases of partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff with a horizontal component."}
{"id": "12142976", "title": "[2D-SPLASH spectroscopy to determine the fat/water ratio in the muscle of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[2D-SPLASH spectroscopy to determine the fat/water ratio in the muscle of the rotator cuff]. The degree of fatty infiltration of the rotator cuff is an important factor for the prognosis of an operative reconstruction afterrotator cuff tear. The aim of this work was to develop a method using a clinical MR scanner that allows the quantification of the fat/water ratio with the necessary spatial resolution. A SPLASH sequence consisting of 19 complex 2D-FLASH images was implemented on a clinical 1.5 T MR scanner. The echo time was gradually increased from 5.0 ms to 50.0 ms. A spatial in plane resolution of 1.17 mm, a spectral resolution of 0.33 ppm and a spectral width of 6.25 ppm were achieved in a total acquisition time of about 3 min. The quantitative evaluation of the spectra in arbitrarily shaped regions of interest (ROIs) was obtained using a home-built reconstruction program and the time domain fit program AMARES. Phantom studies show a linear relation of the concentration determined by SPLASH spectroscopy (r = 0.997). Because of the high spatial resolution and the possibility to evaluate arbitrarily shaped ROIs, the determination of the fat/water ratio in single muscles in the shoulder has been possible. By the use of the 2D-SPLASH sequence the degree of fatty infiltration in the rotator cuff can now be determined quantitatively for the first time."}
{"id": "12136330", "title": "Adhesive capsulitis: role of MR imaging in differential diagnosis.", "content": "Adhesive capsulitis: role of MR imaging in differential diagnosis. The purpose of this study was to describe and characterize the MR imaging findings in a group of patients who underwent surgery for adhesive capsulitis. Twenty-four MR imaging studies in 24 consecutive patients with clinical evidence of adhesive capsulitis were performed prior to arthroscopic capsulotomy. There were 17 women and 7 men with a mean age of 53.5 years. Images were scrutinised for changes in the synovium particularly in the rotator interval, around the biceps anchor and axillary pouch. Intravenous gadolinium was given routinely. We also examined a control group of 22 patients who underwent the same MR imaging protocol after referral for rotator cuff pathology. Soft tissue density showing variable enhancement after gadolinium administration was visible in the rotator interval in 22 of 24 studies on MR imaging. Seventeen patients showed soft tissue density partially encasing the biceps anchor. Ten patients showed thickening and gadolinium enhancement of the axillary pouch. Three patients from the study cohort had partial tears of the supraspinatus tendon. All the patients subsequently had surgery which confirmed fibrovascular scar tissue in the rotator interval, around the biceps anchor and a variable degree of synovial inflammation of the glenohumeral capsule. Two patients from a control group with suspected rotator cuff pathology showed abnormal intensity in the rotator interval on MR imaging. Magnetic resonance imaging can identify changes in the shoulder joint that correspond to abnormalities seen at surgery. This may be useful for discriminating adhesive capsulitis from other causes of shoulder pain."}
{"id": "12132213", "title": "[Ruptures of the subscapular tendon. A diagnostic problem?].", "content": "[Ruptures of the subscapular tendon. A diagnostic problem?]. Isolated ruptures of the subscapularis tendon are rare injuries which are often missed initially. After recent treatment of 3 patients treated in our clinic typical courses and pitfalls are demonstrated. Due to the traumatic genesis of subscapularis tendon ruptures, lesions of the rotator cuff must be excluded generally by an adequate diagnostic concept. Conventional x-rays of the shoulder in 2 views to exclude a bony lesion, clinical and ultrasound examination are seen as a standard because these methods will allow the correct diagnosis in most cases. Typical clinical signs for a subscapularis lesion are the \"lift-off-test\" and the \"napoleon sign.\" The ultrasound examination should be done statically and dynamically by comparing the injured with the uninjured shoulder. The typical view in case of a subscapularis tendon rupture is a thinned tendon overlying the humeral head. In our opinion nuclear magnetic resonance imaging should not be the first diagnostic procedure. It should be reserved for such cases with unclear clinical and ultrasound results."}
{"id": "12132196", "title": "[Isolated traumatic rupture of the subscapular muscle tendon as an adolescent injury].", "content": "[Isolated traumatic rupture of the subscapular muscle tendon as an adolescent injury]. Until now no case of a traumatic tear of the subascapularis muscle in children was described in the German speaking literature. Using the example of 2 cases of a 12 and 14 year boys youth history, clinic, diagnostics and therapy will be presented. The accident happened in extension and external rotation of the arm without dislocation. Beside the complete tear of the SCP-tendon in one case an accompanying expanded humeral flake fracture at the minor tuberosity was found. Under protection of the epiphysis line the refixation was performed using suture anchors. The post-operative control after 12 months showed a complete tendon healing, no arthritis or delayed bony ingrowth with return to full activity. Isolated traumatic SCP-tears can be occur also in young patients. As major consequence, it is necessary to perform a thorough clinical examination with additional apparative diagnostics (Sonography, MRI). This way, this rare but important lesion can be detected early and lead to adequate surgery without any delay."}
{"id": "12124536", "title": "[Deltoid muscle flap for massive rotator cuff tears: 41 cases with a mean 7-year (minimum 5 year) follow-up].", "content": "[Deltoid muscle flap for massive rotator cuff tears: 41 cases with a mean 7-year (minimum 5 year) follow-up]. The aim of this study was to assess outcome after deltoid muscle flap repair of massive rotator cuff tears. We examined functional and radiological results at least five years after surgery. We reviewed 41 shoulders operated by three senior surgeons (MC, DK, HT). None of the patients were lost to follow-up. The global Constant score was used for pre- and postoperative functional assessment. Three groups were distinguished by preoperative active flexion (group I<90 degrees, group II 90 degrees -120 degrees, group III > 120 degrees ). AP, double oblique (3 rotation views to measure the subacromial space), and Lamy lateral radiographs were obtained in all patients. Shoulder anatomy was evaluated at last follow-up in eight patients: magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) because of persistent pain in one patient and ultrasonography performed by one radiologist (NC) in seven patients. The study population included 26 men and 15 women, mean age at surgery 59 years (42-78, 8). Mean follow-up was 7 years (5-8.5, 0.9). In the coronal plane, there were no distal tears, the stump was in an intermediate position in 7 cases (17%) and retracted to the glenoid in 34 (83%). In the sagittal plane, the supraspinatus exhibited a full thickness tear in all cases. The tear extended anteriorly or posteriorly in all cases. Thirty-eight patients (92%) were satisfied at last follow-up; their global Constant score had improved from 37 to 62 points. Mean anterior flexion improved from 113 degrees to 148 degrees and flexion force from 1.3 kg to 2.9 kg. When preoperative flexion was less than 90 degrees (11 cases), mean gain was + 89 degrees. Inversely, 7 of the 18 patients with flexion > 120 degrees lost a mean 40 degrees at last follow-up. Twenty-seven patient were reviewed at 12 and 89 months: pain relief and force were maintained. The subacromial space, measured in 88% of the cases, was 7.3 mm preoperatively and 5.5 mm at last follow-up. The subacromial space narrowed in 20 patients (56%); none of the patients exhibited an improvement. The flap was explored by ultrasonography in seven patients and by MRI in one: the flap was continuous in 50% and measured more than 4 mm in thickness. Reviews at 12 then 89 months demonstrated good maintenance of pain relief and progression of active flexion and force. This long-term study confirms the usefulness of the deltoid flap for the treatment of full thickness massive tears of the rotator cuff. The flap provides persistent pain relief and good function and force. This technique should be discussed for young patients in good physical condition when preoperative imaging demonstrates and irreparable alteration of the tendinomuscular structures (supraspinatus retraction, fatty degeneration, severe amyotrophy). The technique is particularly useful when preoperative flexion is less than 90 degrees. Although the population size is too small for statistical analysis, indications for deltoid flap repair should probably be limited to tears involving at most two tendons and sparing the subscapularis."}
{"id": "12118822", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of sports-related injuries to the shoulder: impingement and rotator cuff.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of sports-related injuries to the shoulder: impingement and rotator cuff. MR imaging provides clinically useful information in detecting and characterizing sports-related pathology of the rotator cuff and other shoulder disorders in a non-invasive fashion. Complete and partial tears of the rotator cuff, as well as factors contributing to impingement, can be detected and characterized with MR imaging. The size and location of complete tears of the rotator cuff can be accurately determined with MR imaging."}
{"id": "12113782", "title": "Distinction between supraspinatus, infraspinatus and subscapularis tendon tears with ultrasound in 332 surgically confirmed cases.", "content": "Distinction between supraspinatus, infraspinatus and subscapularis tendon tears with ultrasound in 332 surgically confirmed cases. The aim of this retrospective study was to determine the diagnostic value of preoperative ultrasonography for the characterisation of size and location of the involved tendons. in 332 consecutive patients who underwent surgery, all preoperative ultrasonographic reports were reviewed and ultrasound (US) and surgical findings were compared. Ultrasound criteria for cuff tears were complete nonvisualisation of the cuff tendons or localised absence and focal discontinuity. In all but 12 cases, US diagnoses corresponded with intraoperative findings (sensitivity 98%, confidence interval 95.1-99.3; specificity 93%, CI 85.7-97.1; accuracy 97%, CI 93.8-98.1). Size and location of the tear were correctly predicted in 69 of 96 cases (accuracy 87%, sensitivity 89%, specificity 87%). US demonstrated less extensive tears than observed at surgery in 18%. Ultrasonography was highly accurate and sensitive for detecting rotator cuff tears, but seems to be a method of limited value for evaluation of the size of cuff tears, in particular, for the detection of small tears."}
{"id": "12107570", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder: a review of potential sources of diagnostic errors.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder: a review of potential sources of diagnostic errors. Shoulder magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and MR arthrography are frequently utilized in the evaluation of shoulder pain and instability. The clinical scenario and imaging findings may be confusing to clinicians and radiologists and may present diagnostic challenges for those involved in evaluating and treating shoulder pathology. Often rotator cuff and labral abnormalities may be coexistent, clinical manifestations of denervation syndromes may be confusing to clinicians, and normal anatomic variations, imaging pitfalls, and various artifacts may cause dilemmas for the radiologist. This article will review the most frequently encountered mimickers and pitfalls of MR imaging of the shoulder."}
{"id": "12105806", "title": "Abnormal uptake in the shoulder joint area on bone scan.", "content": "Abnormal uptake in the shoulder joint area on bone scan."}
{"id": "12083586", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging analysis of coracoid morphology and its relation to rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging analysis of coracoid morphology and its relation to rotator cuff tears. The purpose of this study was to define the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) anatomy of the subcoracoid space and to determine its relation to rotator cuff tears. Routine clinical MRI sequences of 100 shoulders were reviewed, and standardized measurements of the subcoracoid space were taken and compared with previously published computed tomographic (CT) data. MRI and CT values were very similar. There were no significant differences between the coracoid morphology of patients with normal findings and patients with varying degrees of rotator cuff disease involving the supraspinatus tendon. The excellent agreement between MRI and CT measurements indicates that different investigators may use either imaging modality to obtain reproducible results. The role of coracoid anatomy in the development of lesions of the subscapularis tendon and the long head of the biceps remains to be defined."}
{"id": "12079911", "title": "Diagnosing patients with longstanding shoulder joint pain.", "content": "Diagnosing patients with longstanding shoulder joint pain. To examine the interobserver agreement of commonly used clinical tests and diagnoses in patients with shoulder pain, and the accuracy of these tests and ultrasonographic findings in comparison with arthroscopic findings. Eighty six patients with longstanding shoulder joint pain were \"blindly\" examined by two trained doctors using several clinical tests. In all patients an ultrasonographic examination was performed, and in 42 (49%) an arthroscopy. Tests for impingement showed poor to moderate agreement. Tenderness of muscles, muscle weakness, and tests for labral lesion also showed poor agreement. Pain during muscle contraction showed moderate agreement. The agreement of clinical diagnoses was poor and the accuracy was low in comparison with arthroscopy. Ultrasonography was accurate in full thickness supraspinatus tendon tears, but inaccurate for partial tears and labral lesions. Most clinical tests showed poor agreement. Clinical and ultrasonographic diagnoses had low accuracy in comparison with arthroscopy."}
{"id": "12070492", "title": "A comparison of clinical estimation, ultrasonography, magnetic resonance imaging, and arthroscopy in determining the size of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "A comparison of clinical estimation, ultrasonography, magnetic resonance imaging, and arthroscopy in determining the size of rotator cuff tears. This prospective study was undertaken to compare the ability of clinical estimation, diagnostic ultrasonography, magnetic resonance imaging, and arthroscopy to estimate the size of rotator cuff tears. Estimates of rotator cuff tear size were compared with the findings at open operation in 33 consecutive patients with a presumptive diagnosis of rotator cuff tear. Arthroscopy estimates of rotator cuff tear size correlated best with actual tear size (Pearson correlation coefficient r = 0.92; P <.001). Magnetic resonance imaging (r = 0.74; P <.001) was similar to ultrasonography (r = 0.73; P <.001). Estimates of rotator cuff tear size after clinical assessment alone had weaker correlation coefficients (r = 0.41; P =.02) than the other methods. Each method underestimated rotator cuff tear size by 12%, 30%, 33%, and 38%, respectively. No method was able to determine the size of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears (r < 0.02)."}
{"id": "12068399", "title": "Instability after arthroplasty: the shoulder.", "content": "Instability after arthroplasty: the shoulder. Shoulder instability after total shoulder arthroplasty may be classified as posterior, anterior, superior, or inferior. Basic causes include malposition of the components, incorrect version of the glenoid or humeral cuts, soft tissue contractures or laxity, and cuff deficiency. These may be present as isolated or as combined deficiencies. As always, avoidance is best, but instability is the commonest complication of shoulder arthroplasty and must be dealt with correctly. Recognition of the anatomic cause is crucial. Proper evaluation with radiographs, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging is crucial to the treatment algorithm. Normally the glenoid is nearly perpendicular to the scapular spine, whereas the humeral head is retroverted about 30 degrees with respect to the transepicondylar axis. After defining the anatomic problem, proper component positioning, elimination of contractures, plication of capsular laxity, and establishing cuff integrity ensure the best opportunity for a stable shoulder."}
{"id": "12056171", "title": "Ultrasonographic findings in hemiplegic shoulders of stroke patients.", "content": "Ultrasonographic findings in hemiplegic shoulders of stroke patients. Shoulder problems are frequently noted in hemiplegic shoulders and compromise rehabilitation. Many tools were used to evaluate the etiology of shoulder problems but most of them are either nonspecific to the evaluation of soft tissue or not convenient. In order to evaluate soft tissue and joint change in hemiplegic shoulders, 82 patients with hemiplegic shoulders caused by cerebral vascular accident (CVA) were collected and evaluated by ultrasonography with 5-12 MHz high-resolution electronic linear scanner (ATL ultrasound HDI 1500, USA). The non-hemiplegic shoulders were also studied as control group. The results showed that ultrasonographic changes were noted in 51 (62.2%) hemiplegic shoulders while changes only occurred in 17 (20.7%) non-hemiplegic shoulders. Effusion and tendinitis were the major changes showing statistical difference compared with non-hemiplegic shoulders, but there was no significant difference in the incidence of supraspinatus tendon tear between hemiplegic and non-hemiplegic shoulders. Further, the interval from the onset of CVA was not significantly correlated with the presence of positive ultrasonographic findings in hemiplegic shoulders. The results demonstrated that ultrasonography is a potential method in the evaluation of hemiplegic shoulder."}
{"id": "12041523", "title": "The thrower's shoulder Part I: diagnosis and early treatment.", "content": "The thrower's shoulder Part I: diagnosis and early treatment."}
{"id": "12025101", "title": "Anterior shoulder dislocation and injuries of the rotator cuff in patients aged over 40 years. Clinical and sonographic study.", "content": "Anterior shoulder dislocation and injuries of the rotator cuff in patients aged over 40 years. Clinical and sonographic study. A total of 39 patients with a mean age of 64 years (41 to 88) who had had anterior shoulder dislocation were followed-up an average of 2 years after trauma in order to evaluate the conditions of the rotator cuff. All of the patients were evaluated clinically, radiographically, and sonographically. Clinical evaluation revealed significant differences between the dislocated shoulders and the contralateral ones: the mean Constant score was 67 in the group with dislocated shoulders and 87 in the contralateral group. Ultrasound revealed partial injury of the cuff in 31% of cases and complete injury in 28%. Mean score was 81.4 in the group with a normal ultrasound, 67.1 in that with partial injury of the cuff, and 46.5 in that with complete injury of one or more tendons. These data confirm the high frequency of partial or complete injuries of the rotator cuff in patients aged over 40 years that have undergone anterior shoulder dislocation. Ultrasound confirms it is an excellent diagnostic method in the pathology of the rotator cuff, demonstrating good correlation with the clinical evaluation."}
{"id": "12025099", "title": "Ultrasound and MRI for the long-term evaluation of surgical repair of the rotator cuffs.", "content": "Ultrasound and MRI for the long-term evaluation of surgical repair of the rotator cuffs. About 1 year after surgery to repair the rotator cuff, a total of 20 patients (80% monotendinous injuries, 20% bitendinous injuries) were submitted to ultrasound and MRI to evaluate repair, quality of residual tissue, and to reveal any discrepancies between the two instrumental tests. The results showed that there was normal tendinous integrity in 16 cases (group A), while there were partial injuries, without evidence of complete lesion, in 4 cases (group B); tendinous thinning was evident in 10 patients (50%), while there were areas of intratendinous degeneration in 40% of the cases. The authors observed agreement between the data obtained by the two methods in 75% of cases, and emphasize the effectiveness of the two methods in postoperative evaluation of the cuff; they also confirm the tendinous dishomogeneousness observed in the patients in group B, not associated with poor clinical results, considering the absence of significant differences in the functional results between the two groups."}
{"id": "12017847", "title": "[Ultrasound diagnosis of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[Ultrasound diagnosis of the rotator cuff]. Shoulder sonography is a well-established and standardized method to evaluate the status of the rotator cuff, the long head of the biceps, and the subacromial and subdeltoid bursae. Using high-frequency linear probes, the sensitivity in detecting total tears sized 0.5 cm and greater is > 90% and in detecting partial thickness tears of at least one-third of the cuff substance > 75% when using the dual-criteria standard. Ultrasound achieves comparable or better results than native magnetic resonance tomography at far less cost. False results can be excluded in the majority of cases by strict adherence to a dual-criteria model. The ability to display the joint's soft tissue structures in real time is unique up to now. The limits of sonography are (1) in the estimation of tear size in global tears as retraction of tendon stumps under the acromion cannot be visualized and (2) in the evaluation of status of rotator cuff muscles since volumetric information about atrophy can be gained by ultrasonography, but a differentiation between simple atrophy and fatty degeneration is not possible."}
{"id": "11987054", "title": "Arthroscopic subscapularis tendon repair: Technique and preliminary results.", "content": "Arthroscopic subscapularis tendon repair: Technique and preliminary results. Our objective was to evaluate the preliminary results of 25 consecutive arthroscopic subscapularis tendon repairs. Case series. All 25 shoulders had longer than 3 months follow-up, with an average of 10.7 months (range, 3 to 48 months). The average age was 60.7 years (range, 41 to 78 years). The average time from onset of symptoms to surgery was 18.9 months (range, 1 to 72 months). The shoulders were evaluated using a modified UCLA score, Napoleon test, lift-off test, radiographs, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Indications for surgery included clinical and/or MRI evidence of a rotator cuff tear. An arthroscopic suture anchor technique devised by the senior author (S.S.B.) was used for repair. UCLA scores increased from a preoperative average of 10.7 to a postoperative average of 30.5 (P <.0001). By UCLA criteria, excellent and good results were obtained in 92% of patients, with 1 fair and 1 poor result. Forward flexion increased from an average 96.3 degrees preoperatively to an average 146.1 degrees postoperatively (P =.0016). Eight of 9 patients with a positive Napoleon test had complete tears of the subscapularis. All 7 patients with a negative Napoleon test had a tear of the upper half only. The lift-off test could not be performed reliably due to pain or restricted motion in 19 of the 25 patients. Eight patients had isolated tears of the subscapularis. The remaining 17 patients had associated rotator cuff tears with an average total tear size of 5 x 8 cm. Ten patients had proximal migration of the humerus preoperatively. Eight of these 10 patients had durable reversal of proximal humeral migration following surgery. These 8 patients improved their overhead function from a preoperative \"shoulder shrug\" with attempted elevation of the arm to functional overhead use of the arm postoperatively. (1) The senior author has been able to consistently perform arthroscopic repair of torn subscapularis tendons, with good and excellent results, in 92% of patients. (2) The Napoleon test is useful in predicting not only the presence of a subscapularis tear, but also its general size. (3) Combined tears of the subscapularis, supraspinatus, and infraspinatus tendons are frequently associated with proximal humeral migration and loss of overhead function. Arthroscopic repair of these massive tears can produce durable reversal of proximal humeral migration and restoration of overhead function."}
{"id": "11976869", "title": "Supraspinatus tendon tears: comparison of US and MR arthrography with surgical correlation.", "content": "Supraspinatus tendon tears: comparison of US and MR arthrography with surgical correlation. The aim of this study was to compare the diagnostic reliability of US with MR arthrography in diagnosing supraspinatus tendon tears. Surgical findings were used as the gold standard in detecting tears. A total of 44 patients were assessed with transverse and longitudinal US scans with respect to the long axis of the rotator cuff tendons and then examined with MR arthrography. This technique involved free-hand injection of contrast medium into the shoulder joint. At surgery 20 incomplete and 24 complete tears were observed. Ultrasound offered good results for the large tears, but its sensitivity decreased proportionally with the size of the tears. Magnetic resonance arthrography correctly diagnosed 43 tears, whereas only one false-negative diagnosis of tendinosis was made for a partial tear on the bursal side. Since it improves the diagnosis of small tears, MR arthrography must be performed on all patients for whom surgical repair is necessary in order to restore normal functions."}
{"id": "11935481", "title": "[Etiology of rotator-cuff-tears and consequences for legal assessment].", "content": "[Etiology of rotator-cuff-tears and consequences for legal assessment]. Traumatic or degenerative etiology of rotator-cuff-tears is a matter of controversial discussion in legal proceedings. This article presents a review on the literature about current knowledge of anatomy, biomechanics and pathogenesis of rotator-cuff pathology. According to this a catalogue of potentially adequate and inadequate trauma mechanisms is proposed. Furthermore clinical history and examination as well as sonographic and radiologic findings and intraoperative pathology may help to distinguish between traumatic and degenerative changes of rotator-cuff lesions. The keypoints for and against traumatic etiology of rotator-cuff-tears are mentioned that could help the expert in the preparation of an adequate expert opinion."}
{"id": "11928909", "title": "Atrophy of the rotator cuff muscles and site of cuff tears.", "content": "Atrophy of the rotator cuff muscles and site of cuff tears. We determined the relationship between the site of rotator cuff tears and atrophy of the cuff muscles. 28 shoulders (28 patients) had rotator cuff tears: 19 isolated tears of the supraspinatus tendon (isolated-tear group) and 9 combined tears of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons (combined-tear group). The cross-sectional area of the subscapularis, supraspinatus, the infraspinatus and teres minor muscles in the coronal oblique MR images were measured before and after surgery. Although we found no difference in tear size, the cross-sectional areas of the muscles were smaller in the combined-tear group than in the isolated-tear group. We conclude that atrophy of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles also depends on the site of the tear."}
{"id": "11922195", "title": "Abnormal sonographic findings in the asymptomatic arthritic shoulder.", "content": "Abnormal sonographic findings in the asymptomatic arthritic shoulder. To assess the diagnostic value of ultrasonography (US) in the evaluation of arthritic shoulder joints, especially in painless shoulders. US examinations were performed in 57 consecutive patients with rheumatoid arthritis (114 shoulders) and in 32 controls (32 shoulders), using a 7.5 MHz linear probe and a standardized study protocol. US findings were compared with clinical, laboratory, and radiological data to find any relationship. Abnormal sonographic findings were found in 80 shoulders (70%); the most common were lesions in the supraspinatus tendon (38%), subacromial-subdeltoid bursitis (29%), bone erosions of the humeral head (20%), glenohumeral joint ellusion (19%), and biceps tendinitis (13%). Although US abnormalities were most frequent in patients with painful shoulders or abnormal findings on physical examination or radiography, a high rate of alterations was found in asymptomatic shoulders (51%), in normal shoulders on physical examination (44%) and in normal shoulders on radiographic assessment (61%). Differences of US findings in relation to time of evolution of rheumatoid arthritis, patient's age, and radiographic stage in hand and/or wrist joints were not found. US abnormalities in the shoulder joint are frequent in rheumatoid arthritis, both in patients with and without shoulder complaints as well as in patients with normal findings on physical examination."}
{"id": "11912093", "title": "Results of arthroscopic treatment of posterosuperior glenoid impingement in tennis players.", "content": "Results of arthroscopic treatment of posterosuperior glenoid impingement in tennis players. Twenty-eight tennis players with symptomatic posterosuperior glenoid impingement limiting their participation underwent arthroscopic debridement of the supraspinatus tendon and glenoid lesions associated with this diagnosis after nonoperative treatment had failed. The dominant extremity was affected in all patients; the patients' average age was 26.9 years. Eighteen patients participated at the highest level of competition for their age, and the remaining patients participated at the intermediate level. Patients were evaluated at an average of 45.7 months after surgery by physical examination, an activities questionnaire, a subjective result questionnaire, and a questionnaire regarding their return to activity. Postoperatively, the patients averaged 26.9 of 30 possible points on the activities questionnaire. Twenty-three of the patients were subjectively satisfied with the surgical result. Twenty-two patients had returned to tennis. Despite their return, 20 of the 22 patients reported some persistent pain with participation. To our knowledge, this is the first report detailing the results of operative treatment for posterosuperior glenoid impingement in a population limited to tennis players. Even though the results are encouraging in terms of the high number of patients returning to tennis, the effects of this persistent pain with activity, although diminished in severity, on long-term participation is unknown."}
{"id": "11903172", "title": "Intramuscular fluid collections and their association with longitudinal rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Intramuscular fluid collections and their association with longitudinal rotator cuff tears. This study draws attention to the association between intramuscular fluid collections occurring at the myo-tendinous junction of the rotator cuff secondary to longitudinal tears of their tendons."}
{"id": "11888144", "title": "Technique for repair of the subscapularis tendon.", "content": "Technique for repair of the subscapularis tendon. Patients with sudden loss of active motion after an external rotation or hyperextension injury should be viewed with a high index of suspicion for a subscapularis tear. Exaggerated external rotation and the presence of a positive lift off or belly press test on physical examination combined with appropriate imaging studies will lead to an early diagnosis. Careful surgical repair combined with a thoughtful rehabilitation program will lessen both the length and degree of disability from this clinical entity."}
{"id": "11888140", "title": "Anterior superior instability with rotator cuff tearing: SLAC lesion.", "content": "Anterior superior instability with rotator cuff tearing: SLAC lesion. Anterosuperior instability of the shoulder may occur from a variety of pathologic lesions. We describe a specific entity, the SLAC (superior labrum, anterior cuff) lesion that involves an association of anterior-superior labral tear with a partial supraspinatus tear. We retrospectively isolated a group of 40 patients with this lesion. The presenting complaints, physical examination findings, surgical findings, and results were isolated. Overhead activities were the most common etiology; load and shift instability testing and whipple rotator cuff testing were the most common physical examination findings. Surgical repair was successful in 37 of the 40 patients. The SLAC lesion is a definable clinical entity with predictable history, examination, surgical pathology, and satisfactory results from surgery."}
{"id": "11888139", "title": "Arthroscopic repair of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears and SLAP lesions in professional baseball players.", "content": "Arthroscopic repair of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears and SLAP lesions in professional baseball players. Internal impingement is a primary cause of shoulder pain in throwers; however, instability, internal rotation deficit, scapula muscle dysfunction, and core muscle dysfunction are also important elements of the internal impingement process. Articular surface rotator cuff tears, posterior superior labrum tears, SLAP lesions, anterior capsular ligament attenuation, and posterior capsular ligament contracture are commonly seen in throwers. Each of these conditions must be recognized and appropriately treated to ensure the best possible outcome. There is little potential for spontaneous healing of rotator cuff tears and SLAP lesions after debridement."}
{"id": "11877614", "title": "LactoSorb plates for rotator cuff repair.", "content": "LactoSorb plates for rotator cuff repair. We present our preliminary studies using LactoSorb plates (Lorenz/Biomet, Warsaw, IN) for rotator cuff repair in humans. The use and application of this plate are described as an adjunct to prevent hole migration in trough-tunnel repairs of rotator cuff tears. Fifty patients with rotator cuff tears documented by magnetic resonance imaging underwent arthroscopic subacromial decompression followed by a mini-open repair of the rotator cuff. Tears were repaired using a trough and tunnel technique, horizontal mattress sutures, and a standard LactoSorb plate. Follow-up was obtained on 45 patients, 26 male and 19 female, with an average age of 61.6 years. The patients were followed-up and evaluated at 5 days, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, and a minimum of 1 year postoperatively. All surgeries were performed by the same surgeon and followed a similar rehabilitation protocol. There were 89% excellent results, 9% good results, and 2% fair results. There were no poor results. No significant swelling, tenderness, or erythema was noted at the operative site, and there were no infections. Postoperative radiographs at 3, 6, and 12 months did not show any bone erosion. No repeat surgical procedures were necessary. The results of our study support the use of LactoSorb bioabsorbable plates in the repair of rotator cuff tears to prevent hole migration and potentially poor results or failures of repairs. The LactoSorb plate appears to maintain its strength during the healing period of the repair and does not elicit any clinically noticeable inflammatory process."}
{"id": "11870482", "title": "Fluid collections and juxta-articular cystic lesions of the shoulder: spectrum of MRI findings.", "content": "Fluid collections and juxta-articular cystic lesions of the shoulder: spectrum of MRI findings. The MR imaging features of fluid collections and juxta-articular cystic lesions of the shoulder are discussed, with special focus on those related to subacromial impingement and rotator cuff tears. Other more unusual fluid collections and cystic lesions are described, including rice-bodies bursitis, idiopathic synovial osteochondromatosis, dialysis-related amyloid arthropathy, hemophilic arthropathy, infectious conditions, non-infectious inflammatory arthritis, and paralabral cysts."}
{"id": "11845142", "title": "Accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging in determining the presence and size of recurrent rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging in determining the presence and size of recurrent rotator cuff tears. We attempted to assess the accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in determining the size of recurrent cuff tears in correlation with size measured at surgery. Thirty-seven shoulders in 33 patients who had reoperation for a presumed failed rotator cuff repair were retrospectively evaluated. All patients had preoperative MRI, the results of which were read by a musculoskeletal radiologist to determine the presence of a tear and to estimate its size. All tears were measured intraoperatively in sagittal and coronal planes. Thirty-three shoulders had recurrent tears of the rotator cuff, and MRI correctly identified the presence of 30 of them. MRI correctly identified only 1 of the 4 patients without a recurrent tear of the cuff. The correlation coefficient for MRI accurately defining the size of cuff tears was 0.46. The sensitivity of MRI for the diagnosis of retear was 91%, and the specificity was 25%. MRI is accurate in diagnosing a recurrent full-thickness cuff tear in postsurgical shoulders. However, it is relatively inaccurate in correctly defining the size of the tear. MRI also has a tendency to overdiagnose cuff tears in postsurgical patients with continued pain and symptoms."}
{"id": "11832042", "title": "[Diagnostic value of arthrography and MRI in rotator cuff tears].", "content": "[Diagnostic value of arthrography and MRI in rotator cuff tears]. To prospectively compare arthrography with MRI to determine the sensitivity and specificity in detecting rotator cuff tear. 53 shoulders were studied. All patients underwent both arthrography and MRI. The results were compared with the findings of arthroscopy or open surgery. The sensitivity in demonstrating partial-thickness tears was 70% for arthrography and 80% for MRI; the specificity was 75% for arthrography or MRI. The sensitivity in detecting full-thickness tears was 87% for arthrography and 90% for MRI, and the specificity was 100% for arthrography and 75% for MRI. The sensitivity of arthrography and MRI in detecting rotator cuff tears was identical. The specificity of arthrography in detecting full-thickness tears was higher that of MRI."}
{"id": "11832041", "title": "[Normal anatomy and related pathological changes of shoulder on MRI].", "content": "[Normal anatomy and related pathological changes of shoulder on MRI]. To describe the normal anatomy and common abnormal changes of rotator cuff impingement and tears and recurrent anterior instability of shoulder joint in MRI pictures. MRI was compared in 285 patients with shoulder diseases and 20 patients with symptomatic shoulder diseases. On oblique coronal image, the supraspinatus presented moderate signal intensity and low signal intensity in its tendon-muscle conjunction ranging from the humeral head to the greater tuberosity. The MRI manifestations of impingement lesion of the rotator cuff were as follows: high signal intensity of tendons, changes of their shapes, retraction of tendon-muscle conjunction, and muscle atrophy with high signal intensity. On T1-weighted axial image, the anterior and posterior glenohumeral labrum, the long head biceps tendon were displayed in low signal intensity. The anterior labrum manifested a sharp triangle contour and the posterior labrum a round one. The whole four muscles of the rotator cuff manifested on oblique sagital image. However, it was of less value in detecting the abnormalities of the rotator cuff and the glenohumeral labrum on sagittal imaging. The sensitivity in demonstrating rotator cuff complete tear was 95% for MRI and 91% for arthrography; the specificity was 88% for MRI and 100% for arthrography. The sensitivity and specificity of MRI were 96% and 75% for detecting glenoid labrum abnormalities, and 78% and 88% for detecting labrum tear in anterior recurrent dislocation of the shoulder. Magnetic resonance imaging with its excellent contrast resolution in multiple anatomic planes allows noninvasive visualization of bone and soft tissues in the rotator cuff and labrum."}
{"id": "11828349", "title": "Complications associated with arthroscopic shoulder surgery.", "content": "Complications associated with arthroscopic shoulder surgery. We review the literature on complication of arthroscopic shoulder surgery and their management. Computer data based searches were used to identify articles regarding complications of shoulder arthroscopy, as well as hand searches of Arthroscopy and Journal of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery over the last decade. Arthroscopic shoulder surgery has become a popular therapeutic and diagnostic procedure during the past two decades. As with all interventions complications can occur which require recognition and management by the orthopedic surgeon. While the literature is helpful with identifying types of complications, establishing the rate of these complications remains elusive. These complications can be divided into general complications, complications generic to all shoulder procedures, and complications specific to the type of procedure performed. General complications such as infection and anesthesia problems continue to show low incidences. Shoulder arthroscopy presents increased risk of complications over knee arthroscopy in regard to vascular and neurologic injury, fluid extravasation, stiffness, iatrogenic tendon injury, and equipment failure. New techniques of increased complexity for subacromial surgery, rotator cuff repair, and arthroscopic instability present new problems related to implant failure, nerve injury, iatrogenic fracture, and capsular necrosis. While the rate of complications especially with newer procedures remain elusive, most studies suggest that the rate is low, 5.8-9.5% in all recent review studies published. Underreporting complications makes assessment of incidence rates of complication difficult. Proper patient selection, attention to operative detail, and careful post-operative monitoring can minimize the morbidity associated with these complications."}
{"id": "11828347", "title": "Controversial topics in shoulder arthroscopy.", "content": "Controversial topics in shoulder arthroscopy. This is a review of the symposium entitled Controversial Topics in Shoulder Arthroscopy 2001, presented at the Arthroscopy Association of North America 20th Annual Meeting in Seattle, Washington in April of 2001. The covered topics include micro-instability, partial thickness rotator cuff tears, pathology of the biceps tendon, and thermal capsulorrhaphy."}
{"id": "11828327", "title": "MRI of the postoperative shoulder.", "content": "MRI of the postoperative shoulder. Performing and interpreting MRI of the shoulder in patients after surgery is a difficult task. The normal anatomic features are distorted by the surgical alterations as well as the artifacts that result from metal and other materials used in the surgical procedures. This article reviews the common surgical procedures undertaken in patients with rotator cuff disease and shoulder instability, and how they affect the appearance of the relevant anatomic structures on MRI examination. It also reviews the more common causes for residual and recurrent abnormalities seen in such patients and how MRI can be used to diagnose such lesions, thus aiding the orthopedic surgeon in treating these difficult clinical problems."}
{"id": "11814754", "title": "Comparison of shoulder ultrasound and MR imaging in diagnosing full-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Comparison of shoulder ultrasound and MR imaging in diagnosing full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Ultrasound (US) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of 422 cases were evaluated to compare the feasibility in diagnosing full-thickness rotator cuff tears (FTRCTs). On the basis of different US performers, they were divided into two groups: Group 1 performed by a 5-year experience technician and Group 2 performed by a 10-year experience radiologist. Sensitivity, negative predictive value (NPV), accuracy of US, and correlation between the two modalities were better in Group 2. When an expert is available, US can be used for diagnosing FTRCTs; otherwise, MRI should be performed."}
{"id": "11813956", "title": "Case report: Concurrent anterior shoulder dislocation and rotator cuff tear in a young athlete.", "content": "Case report: Concurrent anterior shoulder dislocation and rotator cuff tear in a young athlete."}
{"id": "11810162", "title": "Humeral avulsion of the anterior band of the inferior glenohumeral ligament with associated subscapularis bony avulsion in skeletally immature patients.", "content": "Humeral avulsion of the anterior band of the inferior glenohumeral ligament with associated subscapularis bony avulsion in skeletally immature patients. We describe the imaging appearances of an injury complex occurring in the skeletally immature patient consisting of an avulsion fracture of the subscapularis attachment to the lesser tuberosity and avulsion of the inferior glenohumeral ligament (HAGL) which in two cases was associated with a bony fragment (BHAGL). MR imaging was able to diagnose correctly this atypical injury complex which had not been suspected clinically or on the radiographs."}
{"id": "11807851", "title": "Sonography of the shoulder after arthrography (arthrosonography): preliminary results.", "content": "Sonography of the shoulder after arthrography (arthrosonography): preliminary results. The purpose of this study was to verify whether arthrosonography improves diagnostic accuracy in diseases of the shoulder and provides additional information for therapeutic planning, compared with conventional sonography. We prospectively studied 113 consecutive patients with chronic shoulder pain. Sonography was performed before and after arthrography, with the radiologist blinded to the results of arthrography. When a rotator cuff tear was detected sonographically, its type, location, and size were recorded; we also evaluated any changes in the subacromial-subdeltoid bursa and any abnormalities in the biceps tendon sheath. The diagnostic accuracy of conventional sonography and arthrosonography was compared with that of arthrography for rotator cuff tear. Changes in the subacromial-subdeltoid bursa and biceps tendon sheath seen on conventional sonography were also compared with those seen on arthrosonography. The sensitivity and specificity of conventional sonography in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tear were 86% (25/29) and 95% (80/84), respectively; for arthrosonography, the values were 97% (28/29) and 95% (80/84), respectively. The differences in sensitivity and specificity for the 2 sonographic techniques were not statistically significant (p > 0.05). The accuracy in localizing the tear was also not significantly different between the 2 sonographic techniques. Synovial proliferation was more easily detected with arthrosonography than it was with conventional sonography in the subacromial-subdeltoid bursa (p < 0.01) and in the biceps tendon sheath (p < 0.0001). Our preliminary results suggest that although arthrosonography was not superior to conventional sonography in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears, it may provide a better assessment of the size of tears and additional information about synovial proliferation in the subacromial-subdeltoid bursa and the biceps tendon sheath."}
{"id": "11799011", "title": "Partial detachment of the deltoid muscle. A case report.", "content": "Partial detachment of the deltoid muscle. A case report."}
{"id": "11798999", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder in asymptomatic professional baseball pitchers.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder in asymptomatic professional baseball pitchers. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the magnetic resonance imaging findings in both shoulders of asymptomatic professional baseball pitchers. Fourteen pitchers who were without significant prior injury underwent a blinded clinical assessment and magnetic resonance imaging of both shoulders. All images were interpreted by two experienced musculoskeletal radiologists. The appearance of the rotator cuff tendons was graded, with additional evaluation of the biceps, labrum, and osseous structures. Ten athletes were found to have stable shoulders and painless full range of motion. Clinically, four athletes had at least a 40 degrees loss in internal rotation as compared with the nonthrowing arm. There were no significant differences in magnetic resonance imaging findings of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons between the throwing and nonthrowing shoulders. The labrum was abnormal in 79% of the 28 shoulders. Enthesopathic changes of the posterior glenoid labrum were identified in the four pitchers who had loss of internal rotation. We conclude that unenhanced magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder in asymptomatic high performance throwing athletes reveals abnormalities that may encompass a spectrum of \"nonclinical\" findings. These data can be useful in separating symptomatic pathologic findings from these variants. Enthesopathic changes of the posterior glenoid labrum in the throwing arm may represent an early Bennett-type lesion. The cause may be excessive traction on the posterior capsule during the pitching motion, with subclinical injury to this area."}
{"id": "11774134", "title": "Anterior internal impingement: An arthroscopic observation.", "content": "Anterior internal impingement: An arthroscopic observation. The source of pain in patients with a stable shoulder and clinical signs of impingement is traditionally thought to be subacromial or outlet impingement, as popularized by Neer. This report introduces the concept of anterior internal impingement in patients with signs and symptoms of classic impingement syndrome and arthroscopic evidence of articular-side partial rotator cuff tear. Contact that occurs between the fragmented undersurface of the rotator cuff and the anterosuperior labrum is the apparent source of pain in these patients. Case series. Ten patients with a primary symptom of pain and an arthroscopic finding of a partial rotator cuff tear were reviewed. Arthroscopic visualization of the subacromial space revealed no evidence of subacromial impingement or bursitis in any patient. All patients had clinical signs and symptoms of classic impingement. The initial part of the surgical procedure consisted of a complete diagnostic arthroscopy in a low-volume gas medium using a single posterior portal. While performing the Hawkins test, the locations of any areas of abnormal soft-tissue contact and impingement were observed directly. There was anterior internal impingement in all 10 patients with partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. The abnormal and fragmented rotator cuff tissue made contact with the anterior superior labrum when the shoulder was visualized from the posterior portal while performing the Hawkins test. Preoperative magnetic resonance imaging correctly showed a partial-thickness rotator cuff tear in 20% of the cases. Recognition of anterior internal impingement as a clinical entity is important because magnetic resonance imaging results are often misleading. This is of particular importance in young patients with isolated lesions in whom arthroscopic acromioplasty and capsular reefing procedures would be unnecessary. When anterior internal impingement is recognized as the source of unresolved shoulder pain, patient selection for surgery and procedure selection can be improved."}
{"id": "11756726", "title": "Shoulder instability: accuracy of MR imaging performed after surgery in depicting recurrent injury--initial findings.", "content": "Shoulder instability: accuracy of MR imaging performed after surgery in depicting recurrent injury--initial findings. To analyze a series of postoperative magnetic resonance (MR) images obtained in patients with recurrent signs or symptoms of instability in whom subsequent surgical correlation was performed to determine the accuracy in diagnosing recurrent injury. The authors identified 24 patients who underwent MR imaging after shoulder instability surgery and had recurrent instability requiring repeat surgery. Twelve nonenhanced MR images and six indirect and six direct MR arthrograms were retrospectively reviewed with consensus to determine the presence or absence of recurrent labral or rotator cuff tear. Operative reports were reviewed to confirm the presence or absence of labral or rotator cuff tear. The mean interval between initial surgery and MR imaging was 10 months. The mean interval until repeat surgery was 2 months. Overall, the accuracy of postoperative MR imaging was 79% in depicting recurrent labral tear and 88% in depicting recurrent rotator cuff tear. Indirect MR arthrography had 100% accuracy for recurrent labral tear detection, whereas direct MR arthrography and nonenhanced MR imaging had accuracies of 67% and 75%, respectively. Direct MR arthrography was more sensitive, 100% versus 71%, but less specific, 60% versus 80%, than nonenhanced MR imaging in depicting recurrent labral tears. Direct MR arthrography had 100% accuracy in depicting rotator cuff tear, whereas both indirect MR arthrography and nonenhanced MR imaging had 83% accuracy. MR imaging, indirect MR arthrography in particular, appears to be an accurate means of evaluating the shoulder following instability surgery."}
{"id": "11747034", "title": "Evaluation of the rotator cuff and glenoid labrum using a 0.2-Tesla extremity magnetic resonance (MR) system: MR results compared to surgical findings.", "content": "Evaluation of the rotator cuff and glenoid labrum using a 0.2-Tesla extremity magnetic resonance (MR) system: MR results compared to surgical findings. The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the diagnostic capabilities of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) performed using a dedicated-extremity MR system in detecting lesions of the rotator cuff and glenoid labrum. This retrospective study compared the MR results obtained in 47 patients that underwent MRI using a 0.2-Tesla extremity MR system (E-scan) to the surgical findings. MR images of the shoulder were obtained as follows: shoulder coil, T1-weighted, coronal-oblique and axial images; short Tau inversion recovery (STIR), coronal-oblique images; and T2-weighted, coronal-oblique, sagittal-oblique, and axial images. The MR examinations were interpreted by three highly experienced, musculoskeletal radiologists. Open surgical (N = 26) or arthroscopic (N = 21) procedures were performed within a mean time of 33 days after MRI. The surgical findings revealed rotator cuff tears in 28 patients and labral lesions in 9 patients. For the rotator cuff tears, the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value were 89%, 100%, 100%, and 90%, respectively. For the labral lesions, the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value were 89%, 95%, 80%, and 97%, respectively. The findings indicated that there was good agreement comparing the MR results obtained using the low-field extremity MR system to the surgical findings for determination of lesions of the rotator cuff and glenoid labrum. Notably, the statistical values determined for the use of this MR system were comparable to those reported in the peer-reviewed literature for the use of whole-body, mid- and high-field-strength MR systems."}
{"id": "11743528", "title": "Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer: a comparative analysis of primary and salvage reconstruction of massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer: a comparative analysis of primary and salvage reconstruction of massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears. On the basis of a modified Constant scoring system, we compared outcomes for 16 patients who underwent latissimus dorsi transfer as a salvage reconstruction for a failed prior rotator cuff repair with outcomes for 6 patients who underwent a primary reconstruction for an irreparable cuff defect. There was a statistically significant difference in Constant score between groups, which measured 55% for the salvage group compared with 70% for the primary group (P <.05). Poor tendon quality, stage 4 muscle fatty degeneration, and detachment of the deltoid insertion each had a statistically significant effect on the Constant score (P <.05). Late rupture of the tendon transfer occurred in 44% of patients in the salvage group compared with 17% in the primary group at a mean of 19 months postoperatively. Rupture had a statistically significant effect on the Constant score, which declined by a mean of 14% (P <.05). We conclude that salvage reconstruction of failed prior rotator cuff repairs yields more limited gains in satisfaction and function than primary latissimus dorsi transfer."}
{"id": "11702350", "title": "Critically appraised topic sample: accuracy of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Critically appraised topic sample: accuracy of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "11688948", "title": "Comparative studies of MRI and operative findings in rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Comparative studies of MRI and operative findings in rotator cuff tear. A prospective study was performed to determine the accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) compared with operative findings in the evaluation of patients associated with rotator cuff tears. Fifty-four of 60 shoulders (58 patients) examined by MRI were confirmed as full-thickness tears and 6 as partial-thickness tears at the time of surgery. The oblique coronal, oblique sagittal, and axial planes of T2-weighted images with the 0.5 tesla MRI system were obtained preoperatively and compared with operative findings. MRI correctly identified 46 of 54 full-thickness rotator cuff tears and 5 of 6 partial-thickness tears. A comparison of MRI and operative findings in full-thickness cuff tears showed a sensitivity of 85%, a specificity of 83%, and a positive prospective value (PPV) of 99%. A comparison of partial-thickness tears showed a sensitivity of 83%, a specificity of 85%, and PPV of 39%. Linear regression analysis showed an excellent correlation between the MRI assessment and measurement at the time of surgery (r = 0.90, P < 0.01). MRI was useful in evaluating large and medium-sized rotator cuff tears, but less useful in distinguishing small full-thickness tears from partial-thickness tears."}
{"id": "11641696", "title": "Ultrasonographic and magnetic resonance images of rotator cuff lesions compared with arthroscopy or open surgery findings.", "content": "Ultrasonographic and magnetic resonance images of rotator cuff lesions compared with arthroscopy or open surgery findings. Our purpose was to compare the accuracy of ultrasonography (US) and magnetic resonance (MR) in the diagnosis of rotator cuff injuries (focusing on supraspinatus tears) using arthroscopy or open surgery findings. Using US and MR, we studied all painful shoulders seen during 1998 in our orthopaedic unit. Diagnosis was confirmed in 61 cases. The diagnosis of full thickness rotator cuff tear was highly specific on both imaging techniques (100% for US and 97.1% for MR) but was not as sensitive on US (57.7%) as on MR (80.8%). The diagnosis of partial tear was acceptably specific (67.9% for US and 75.5% for MR) but was not sensitive (overall, 12.5% for US vs 50% for MR). The specificity of a US diagnosis of a tear allows us to recommend surgery, thus making it a good imaging technique for the initial study of painful shoulders. The low sensitivity makes it necessary to undertake an additional MR study. If the MR also discovers no pathology, the sensitivity based on the US and MR images (92.7%) can be sufficient to avoid a false-negative diagnosis."}
{"id": "11572003", "title": "[Diagnosis of rotator cuff injury].", "content": "[Diagnosis of rotator cuff injury]."}
{"id": "11567850", "title": "Ultrasound of the shoulder joint: non \"rotator cuff\" lesions.", "content": "Ultrasound of the shoulder joint: non \"rotator cuff\" lesions. Most of the papers in the literature are on rotator cuff lesions. This paper will deal with a somewhat forgotten part of the shoulder, the joint and the nontendinous structures around the joint. Since 1985, we have performed ultrasound examinations of the shoulder. We have collected many cases and some of them will be performed. The shoulder joint can be partly examined by ultrasound. We can get some information about joint effusions, humeral head cartilage, some part of the labrum, loose bodies, ganglions and fractures around the joint. The acromio-clavicular joint is also part of the examination, leading to diagnosis of sprains, osteoarthritis and dislocations. Non rotator cuff examination of the shoulder must be a routine part of the ultrasound examination of the shoulder."}
{"id": "11567849", "title": "Ultrasound of the shoulder.", "content": "Ultrasound of the shoulder. Ultrasound of the shoulder is a powerful and accurate method for the examination of the rotator cuff, biceps mechanism and the synovium. This article describes the anatomy, standard examination technique, indications, pitfalls and potential errors. It lists suggested imaging algorithms for a range of shoulder pathology."}
{"id": "11563493", "title": "Shoulder imaging abnormalities in individuals with paraplegia.", "content": "Shoulder imaging abnormalities in individuals with paraplegia. Shoulder pain and rotator cuff tears are highly prevalent in individuals with paraplegia (PP). The purpose of this study was to use magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), plain radiographs, questionnaires, and physical examination to gain insight into the prevalence of shoulder disorders in individuals with PP. A total of 28 individuals with PP was recruited (mean age=35; mean year from injury=11.5). Each subject completed a questionnaire designed to identify arm pain, had a standard physical examination focusing on the shoulder, and underwent imaging studies (radiographic and MRI). Nine of the thirty-two subjects (36 percent) experienced shoulder pain in the month prior to testing. The MRI studies documented only one rotator cuff tear. Five subjects showed osteolysis of the distal clavicle by plain radiographic study. In two subjects this was seen bilaterally. Although no relationship was seen between pain and imaging abnormalities, stepwise linear regressions found a statistically significant positive relationship between imaging abnormalities and body mass index (BMI) (radiographic: beta= 0.56, p<0.01; MRI: beta=0.52, p<0.01). This study found a low prevalence of rotator cuff tears and a high prevalence of distal clavicle osteolysis in a sample of relatively young individuals with PP. Although there was only one tear identified by MRI, a number of subclinical abnormalities were seen and found to correlate with BMI."}
{"id": "11552389", "title": "[MRI of the shoulder. Degenerative changes and rotator cuff tears].", "content": "[MRI of the shoulder. Degenerative changes and rotator cuff tears]. MRI currently offers the best imaging information for the diagnosis of subacromial pain syndrome, rotator cuff tears and osteoarthritis of the shoulder. The excellent anatomical and tissue specific imaging allows a detailed evaluation of the rotator cuff as well as the adjacent bony structures. If the cause of subacromial pain can not be determined despite extensive clinical, sonographical and radiological examination, MRI is indicated if there is a suspected pathology of the bony structures or the glenohumeral joint that could influence the further therapeutic procedures. In addition, MRI evaluation of muscular atrophy has become an important factor for determining appropriate therapy, particularly in cases of massive rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "11516533", "title": "Three-dimensional ultrasonography in the diagnosis of rotator cuff lesions.", "content": "Three-dimensional ultrasonography in the diagnosis of rotator cuff lesions. Two-dimensional (2-D) ultrasound (US) of rotator cuff lesions is a well-established tool. The aim of this study was to elucidate if the use of 3-D sonography can increase the diagnostic yield of US. A total of 40 patients were preoperatively evaluated using 2-D and 3-D sonography, and these results were compared to intraoperative findings. Ultrasound was performed on a 530D US machine (Kretztechnik, Zipf, Austria) with a 10-MHz transducer. We found an increased validity of 3-D imaging, mainly based on the higher reliability in the diagnosis of partial-thickness cuff lesions. Sensitivity and specificity were found to be 91% and 82% for 3-D sonography and 74% and 82% for 2-D sonography, respectively. With 3-D US partial-tear rotator cuff lesions can be predicted more accurately."}
{"id": "11513161", "title": "Shoulder MRI refinements: differentiation of rotator cuff tear from artifacts and tendonosis, and reassessment of normal findings.", "content": "Shoulder MRI refinements: differentiation of rotator cuff tear from artifacts and tendonosis, and reassessment of normal findings. One of the difficulties with rotator cuff imaging lies in the normal variability of the tendon's signal. There may be intermediate signal present within the tendon because of magic-angle phenomenon, muscle and tendon fiber interdigitation, or tendinopathy related to degenerative changes or overuse injury. Partial and complete rotator cuff tears should be distinguishable from these causes of intermediate signal if water signal is reliably identified. This article reviews the important issue of distinguishing between rotator cuff tear and other causes of high signal in the rotator cuff, including artifacts and tendonosis. We include a review of the literature and a brief report of a study we conducted on 20 shoulders of 14 asymptomatic, young volunteers. In this study, the rotator cuff tendons were evaluated for abnormal signal at different TE values to determine at what TE the interpreters were able to confidently distinguish the high-signal intensity of a tear (water) from the intermediate signal intensity associated with artifact and tendinopathy. Readers were able to distinguish water and tendon signal in 70% to 100% of fast-spin echo (FSE) fat-saturated images with TE of 66, but there was interobserver variability at this TE, suggesting that it is less reliable than 88 ms in the identification of rotator cuff tears. By using FSE fat-saturated sequences with TE of 88 and fast spin echo inversion recovery (FSEIR) sequences, readers at all levels of experience were able to differentiate water signal intensity from tendon signal intensity in 100% of cases. Therefore, we suggest that either FSEIR images or FSE fat-saturated images with TE greater than 66 be used to facilitate the differentiation of fluid signal from intermediate increased signal intensity in rotator cuff imaging. Additionally, this article reviews the normal findings of shoulder magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as revealed by the asymptomatic subjects included in our study, and assesses these findings in respect to previous publications. The normal features reviewed include the subacromion-subdeltoid (SA/SD) bursa, the biceps tendon sheath, the acromioclavicular (AC) joint, and the greater tuberosity of the humerus. A small amount of fluid was commonly seen in the SA/SD bursa, as well as the biceps tendon sheath. Subjective down-sloping of the acromion in the coronal plane, mild degenerative change of the AC joint, and undersurface spurring of the AC joint were uncommon in our normal subjects. Cystic change limited to the posterior aspect of the greater tuberosity was identified in 15% to 45% of shoulders."}
{"id": "11471403", "title": "[Injury pattern in shoulder dislocation in the elderly patient].", "content": "[Injury pattern in shoulder dislocation in the elderly patient]. Recurrent shoulder dislocation is reported to be rare in older patients. While injuries of the glenoid labrum and the anterior capsule following primary dislocation in younger patients seem to determine the rate of instability, the pattern of damages in the elderly has rarely been studied. 91 patients with an age older than 40 years with the diagnosis of primary (group A, n = 50) or recurrent (group B, n = 41) anterior shoulder dislocation were included in a prospective study. By analysis of the findings in x-rays, MRI, CT-scans and in 36 patients of diagnostic arthroscopy the pattern of intra- and periarticular pathology was evaluated. While the incidence of bony Bankart- and Hill-Sachs lesions was constantly spread over the age groups the pattern of soft tissue damages was different. Up to the age of 60 years lesions of the glenoid labrum were leading while in older patients the prevalence of rotator cuff tears became about 70 percent. The development of secondary osteoarthritis and persisting symptoms in older patients with rotator cuff tears after traumatic shoulder dislocation requires early diagnosis and appropriate treatment."}
{"id": "11465773", "title": "Utility of MR arthrography in the diagnosis of adhesive capsulitis.", "content": "Utility of MR arthrography in the diagnosis of adhesive capsulitis. Arthrographically, adhesive capsulitis is characterized by decreased joint volume; histologically, the capsule and synovium are thickened. We therefore compared using MR arthrography the joint volumes and capsule/synovial thickness of patients with and without adhesive capsulitis in order to assess the utility of MR arthrography in diagnosing adhesive capsulitis. The 1.5 T MR arthrography images of 28 subjects with (n=9) and without (n=19) adhesive capsulitis were compared. Adhesive capsulitis was diagnosed when there was an injected glenohumeral joint volume of less than 10 ml. Two masked observers working in consensus assessed the images for the relative amount of fluid in the biceps tendon sheath and axillary recess, corrugation at the margin of the capsule, capsule/synovial thickness, abnormalities of the rotator interval capsule, and for the presence of a cuff tear. There was a trend towards differences in capsular and synovial thickness (P>0.07) between the subjects with and without adhesive capsulitis; however, the controls had thicker synovium/capsules. Surprisingly, the amount of fluid in the axillary recess and biceps tendon sheath was not significantly different between the groups (P>0.25). There were more tears of the rotator cuff in controls than in patients with adhesive capsulitis (6, 3 vs 1, 1: complete, partial). Also, both corrugation (7 vs 0) and interval abnormalities (7 vs 0) were more common in the controls. There appear to be no useful MR arthrographic signs of adhesive capsulitis. Capsular/synovial thickness, static fluid volume, and the presence of corrugation are inconclusive as MR arthrographic signs for distinguishing shoulders with adhesive capsulitis from those without."}
{"id": "11450128", "title": "[Shoulder diseases in throwing athletes: radiologic assessment and surgical correlation].", "content": "[Shoulder diseases in throwing athletes: radiologic assessment and surgical correlation]. Lesions of the shoulder, especially rotator cuff tears and glenoid labrum (SLAP) lesions, are commonly caused by traumatic episodes in athletes such as repeated trauma from throwing. The available radiological methods are MRI, CT and MR arthrography. Twelve athletes suffering from shoulder pain or instability have been studied and then underwent successful treatment in arthroscopy. On the basis of our results and experience, we think that MR, especially with intra-articular injection of contrast medium, is the best examination because it offers an accurate evaluation of both rotator cuff and glenoid labrum. Nevertheless difficulties are often encountered and definitive diagnosis sometime rests on arthroscopic exploration."}
{"id": "11450127", "title": "[Shoulder instability: diagnostic imaging].", "content": "[Shoulder instability: diagnostic imaging]. Shoulder instability is often diagnosed among athletes; two clinical forms are distinguished: anatomical instability, with recurrent luxation of the shoulder, and functional instability, with pain, articular \"click\" and sensation of instability. Lesions of periarticular soft tissues (capsula, fibrocartilaginous labrum, gleno-humeral ligaments and rotator cuff) are common in both forms, while lesions of bone structures (humeral head and glenoid of scapula) are typical of shoulder with previous dislocation. Purpose of our retrospective study was to verify the value of magnetic resonance (MRI) and computed arthrography (arthro-CT) in diagnosing these lesions in 57 patients suffering from shoulder instability. On the basis of our results and experience we think that in a preoperative evaluation of an unstable shoulder, arthro-CT and arthro-MRI are more accurate because the intra-articular injection of a contrast medium better identifies lesions of capsula, gleno-humeral ligaments and fibrocartilaginous labrum. In other circumstances, such as the study of the shoulder for legal purposes, MRI is preferable because it offers an accurate and global evaluation of periarticular structures."}
{"id": "11450126", "title": "[Rotator cuff rupture. Diagnostic imaging].", "content": "[Rotator cuff rupture. Diagnostic imaging]. Conventional radiography, ultrasound, Magnetic Resonance (MR), Arthrography Computed Tomography (Arthro-CT) and Arthrography Magnetic Resonance (Arthro-MR) are available for diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. Our purpose is to assess the specificity and sensitivity of these examinations and if they could give to the surgeon all the informations to select the more accurate treatment. We have evaluated retrospectively the images of 68 patients, 43 male and 25 female (average age 51 years), which then have been surgically treated for rotator cuff pathology. On the basis of our findings, we think that conventional radiography and ultrasound are excellent in a first evaluation. MR images, particularly in the coronal and sagittal oblique planes, are able to demonstrate partial or complete rotator cuff tears. The use of intra-articular contrast medium (arthro-CT, arthro-MR) should be reserved for partial lesions on specific cases."}
{"id": "11426001", "title": "MR arthrography of the glenohumeral joint: two concentrations of gadoteridol versus Ringer solution as the intraarticular contrast material.", "content": "MR arthrography of the glenohumeral joint: two concentrations of gadoteridol versus Ringer solution as the intraarticular contrast material. To compare two concentrations of gadoteridol with Ringer solution as the contrast material for magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography of the glenohumeral joint. One hundred fifty-six consecutive MR arthrograms were randomly obtained with either 2 mmol/L gadoteridol (n = 52), 4 mmol/L gadoteridol (n = 52), or Ringer solution (n = 52). MR arthrograms were assessed quantitatively (for contrast-to-noise ratio [CNR]) and qualitatively (for overall image quality, image contrast, degree of joint distention, and motion artifacts). MR diagnoses were compared with arthroscopic or surgical reports in 88 patients. The mean CNR at imaging was 40.4 with 2 mmol/L gadoteridol, 45.6 with 4 mmol/L gadoteridol, and 48.7 with Ringer solution. The CNR with 2 mmol/L gadoteridol was significantly lower than that with 4 mmol/L gadoteridol (P =.025) and Ringer solution (P =.012). Qualitative differences between the two gadoteridol concentrations were not significant. Ringer solution was significantly worse with regard to overall quality, motion artifacts, image contrast, and joint distention compared with both gadoteridol concentrations. Ringer solution was slightly more sensitive and less specific than the gadoteridol solutions in the detection of supraspinatus tears and less sensitive and more specific in enabling diagnosis of superior labrum anteroposterior lesions. MR arthrograms of the shoulder obtained with gadoteridol and those obtained with Ringer solution provided equivalent diagnostic accuracy. The authors, however, preferred the image quality of the gadoteridol-enhanced arthrograms."}
{"id": "11414670", "title": "Long term changes of the throwing arm of former elite javelin throwers.", "content": "Long term changes of the throwing arm of former elite javelin throwers. The aim of this study was to determine long term changes in shoulder and elbow joints of former elite javelin throwers. Twenty-one elite javelin throwers were examined at an average of 19 years after the end of their high performance phase. Mean age at examination was 50 years. Functional assessment of both shoulders was determined by the Constant-score. The shoulder of the throwing arm was examined by magnetic resonance imaging. Both elbow joints were examined clinically and radiographically. Five athletes complained about transient shoulder pain in their throwing arm affecting activities of daily living, fourteen athletes had a deficit of internal rotation of at least ten degrees. Constant-scores of throwing arms were six points lower than those of non-throwing arms (P < 0.05). Complete ruptures and partial tears of the rotator cuff were frequent. Three athletes complained about transient elbow pain in their throwing arm affecting activities of daily living; ten athletes had a deficit of extension of more than five degrees. All dominant elbows had advanced arthrotic alterations (osteophytes, sclerosis) compared to the non-dominant side. Athletes who trained with weights of more than 3 kg had a significantly higher risk of degenerative changes than athletes who did not (P < 0.01). We therefore recommend to avoid throwing training with weights of more than 3 kg."}
{"id": "11408898", "title": "Natural history of asymptomatic rotator cuff tears: a longitudinal analysis of asymptomatic tears detected sonographically.", "content": "Natural history of asymptomatic rotator cuff tears: a longitudinal analysis of asymptomatic tears detected sonographically. The purpose of this study was to examine longitudinally the natural history of asymptomatic rotator cuff tears over a 5-year period and to assess the risk for development of symptoms and tear progression. Since 1985 through the present, bilateral sonograms were done on all patients. A review of consecutive sonograms done from 1989 to 1994 revealed 58 potential patients with unilateral symptoms who had contralateral asymptomatic rotator cuff tears. Of these 58 patients, 45 (22 men, 23 women) responded to a comprehensive questionnaire and 23 additionally returned for examination and repeat sonographic evaluation. The questionnaire was based on the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score and included several outcome-based questions. A physical examination was performed in a standardized fashion along American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons guidelines. Repeat high-resolution sonograms were performed by a single experienced radiologist. Primary and repeat sonograms were then reassessed for tear size and location by two independent experienced radiologists blinded to the clinical data results. Twenty-three (51%) of the previously asymptomatic patients became symptomatic over a mean of 2.8 years. The average Activities of Daily Living score for those remaining asymptomatic was 28.5 of 30 and for those becoming newly symptomatic, 22.9 of 30 (P <.5). The mean visual analog pain score (1 = no pain) for those remaining asymptomatic was 1.1 and for the newly symptomatic patients, 4.0. Of the 23 patients who returned for ultrasound, 9 were asymptomatic and 14 symptomatic. Only 2 of the 9 patients remaining asymptomatic had progression of their tears. Overall, 9 of 23 patients had tear progression. No patient had a decrease in the size of the tear. Our results demonstrate that symptoms can develop in patients with previously asymptomatic rotator cuff tears when seen in the context of a contralateral symptomatic tear. Development of symptoms was associated with a significant increase in pain and decrease in the ability to perform activities of daily living (P <.05). There appears to be a risk for tear size progression over time."}
{"id": "11407717", "title": "Angled oblique sagittal MR imaging of rotator cuff tears: comparison with standard oblique sagittal images.", "content": "Angled oblique sagittal MR imaging of rotator cuff tears: comparison with standard oblique sagittal images. To compare the accuracy for diagnosing rotator cuff tears of oblique coronal images supplemented with standard oblique sagittal images versus thinner-section angled oblique sagittal images. The study included 75 consecutive patients who had a shoulder MR scan followed by arthroscopy. MR images included oblique coronal, oblique sagittal (4 mm thick, 1 mm interslice gap), and angled oblique sagittal (3 mm/0.2 mm) images perpendicular to the lateral cuff. A musculoskeletal staff radiologist and fellow separately evaluated the cuff for tears on the oblique coronal images supplemented with either the oblique sagittal or the angled sagittal images. For distinguishing a cuff tear from no tear, the staff radiologist had an accuracy of 0.76 (95% confidence interval: 0.67, 0.85) with the standard sagittal set, and 0.88 (0.80, 0.95) with the angled set (P=0.04). There was a nonsignificant improvement in accuracy for the fellow, calculated as 0.73 (0.63, 0.83) on the standard sagittal set and 0.76 (0.67, 0.85) on the angled set. Both readers also improved their diagnostic accuracy for partial-thickness tears with the angled set, although the improvement was statistically significant only for the staff radiologist. There is a slight improvement in accuracy for diagnosing rotator cuff tears, particularly partial-thickness tears, for the more experienced radiologist using thinner-section angled oblique sagittal images. These images may be useful as a supplemental sequence in patients where it is important to identify partial-thickness tears accurately."}
{"id": "11398056", "title": "[Normal anatomy and pathological conditions of subscapular muscle: US findings compared with surgery].", "content": "[Normal anatomy and pathological conditions of subscapular muscle: US findings compared with surgery]. To compare US results with those of surgery in the assessment of the subscapularis tendon. From January 1995 to December 1998 1500 patients underwent US of the shoulder. 12 of these patients had an injured subscapularis tendon. US results of these patients were evaluated retrospectively and compared with those of surgery. US examinations of the subscapularis tendon were performed with two US units (AU4 Idea and HDI 3000), using linear arrays 10-13 MHz transducers. The following features of the tendon were evaluated: morphology, thickness and echotexture. A) US findings. US showed: - chronic degenerative tendon changes with diffusely inhomogeneous echotexture (5 cases); - focal tears with small hypoechoic ill-defined areas or gross hypo-anechoic areas involving the full thickness of the tendon (4 cases); - complete tendon tear with disappearance on US of the subscapularis tendon or with severe thickening of the tendon (2 cases); - in 1 case of recent anterior dislocation of the shoulder a bulky hematoma was seen with coexisting thickening and subtotal tear of the tendon. B) Surgical findings. US findings were confirmerd at surgery in 10 of the 12 patients. In the patient with anterior dislocation of shoulder the diagnosis hematoma was confirmed, but the subscapularis tendon was undamaged. Moreover, in 1 out of the 5 patients with US diagnosis of chronic degenerative tendon changes, a small focal tear of the tendon was found at surgery. US is a first level investigation which is able to demonstrate early changes of the subscapularis tendon and nearby structures. Awareness of pitfalls might decrease the use of second level investigations such as CT arthrography and MR imaging, which on the other hand allow a better definition and assessment of the extent of the injury."}
{"id": "11392293", "title": "Assessment of instability of the long head of the biceps tendon by MRI.", "content": "Assessment of instability of the long head of the biceps tendon by MRI. To determine whether MRI can identify instability of the long head of the biceps tendon (LBT) in the rotator interval. A retrospective review was carried out of 19 patients, all arthroscopically examined, nine of whom had surgically confirmed instability of the LBT. A LBT perched on the lesser tuberosity correctly indicated all nine cases of instability with one false positive. In six of seven cases where the LBT was oval in shape, no instability of the biceps tendon existed, whereas LBT instability was present in eight of 12 patients with a flat long head of the biceps tendon. In seven of eight acutely angled intertubercular sulci there was no instability of the LBT while eight of 11 obtusely angled sulci were associated with LBT instability. By consensus impression, instability of the LBT could be determined with 67% sensitivity, 90% specificity, 86% positive predictive value, and 75% negative predictive value. A flat LBT perched on the lesser tuberosity with an obtusely angled intertubercular sulcus suggests the diagnosis of instability of the LBT in the correct clinical setting."}
{"id": "11387116", "title": "Gadolinium MR Arthrography of the Rotator Cuff.", "content": "Gadolinium MR Arthrography of the Rotator Cuff. Conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the rotator cuff has not done well in distinguishing partial-thickness tears from tendonitis or small, full-thickness tears. However, these are important distinctions for orthopedic surgeons who are deciding whether to operate and what type of surgery to perform on a patient with suspect rotator cuff pathology. Gadolinium magnetic resonance arthrography (MRA) involves injecting dilute gadolinium into the shoulder under fluoroscopy. Subsequent multiplanar T1-weighted fat-suppressed fast spin echo combined with T2-weighted fast spin echo and short tau inversion recovery (STIR) produces images that can accurately differentiate absence of tear from partial-thickness tear and from small, full-thickness tear; as a fringe benefit, this combination of sequences can identify the inflammation associated with tendonitis. Furthermore, the technique differentiates articular from bursal surface partial-thickness tears, and it accurately quantitates the size of full-thickness tears to help surgeons choose between arthroscopic versus open surgery."}
{"id": "11387103", "title": "Sonography of the Shoulder.", "content": "Sonography of the Shoulder. A great amount of work in musculoskeletal sonography has focused on evaluation of the shoulder and rotator cuff. This is primarily due to the fact that the shoulder is a common site of symptomatology and clinical evaluation is difficult. Even though sonography of the rotator cuff is more difficult than other large tendons, there has been constant incentive to develop and refine shoulder sonography. In the past five years there have been dramatic improvements in high resolution transducers, as well as advances in our understanding of the technique of shoulder sonography and more widespread agreement of the findings seen with rotator cuff tears. All of these factors have contributed to making the exam easier to perform and interpret than in the past. Ultrasound has now evolved into a mature modality for evaluating rotator cuff tears with expected sensitivities of better than 90%."}
{"id": "11372266", "title": "[Ultrasound study of the shoulder].", "content": "[Ultrasound study of the shoulder]. The sonographic examination of the shoulder joint is nowadays a matter of the daily routine. A standardized way of examination permits to evaluate all sonographic visible regions of the shoulder joint statically and dynamically as well. Pathologic findings in the shape of the humeral head, the joint (except of the joint pan and parts of the labrum), the rotator cuff, the long biceps tendon, the bursa subacromialis and the acromio-clavicular joint can be seen and assessed. A qualified examinator with excellent knowledge of the anatomy and the current diseases and injuries, and an adequate apparative condition as well, is of eminent importance. In comparison with MRI the advantage of the sonography is a higher resolution, the possibility of dynamic examination and an easy comparison with the opposite side. Availability is better and the price is lower. A disadvantage is the impossibility to judge the subacromial space and parts of the glenoid rim. Furthermore the skill of the sonographer limits the evidence of the examination. Sonographic examination should belong, together with the conventional x-ray to the first imaging procedures in shoulder diagnostics."}
{"id": "11354747", "title": "MR arthrographic variability of the arthroscopically normal glenoid labrum: qualitative and quantitative assessment.", "content": "MR arthrographic variability of the arthroscopically normal glenoid labrum: qualitative and quantitative assessment. The purpose of this study was to assess qualitatively and quantitatively the MR arthrographic variability of the arthroscopically normal glenoid labrum. Form and signal abnormalities of arthroscopically normal labral parts were analyzed on axial and coronal MR arthrograms of 55 consecutive patients (mean age 43.8 years, age range 21-76 years) referred mainly for suspected rotator cuff lesions. Length and width of the labrum were measured. One hundred twenty-one of 241 (50%) arthroscopically normal labral parts demonstrated normal (low) signal intensity and normal form on MR arthrograms. Increased linear or globular signal intensity was present in 74 of 241 (31%) normal labral parts, deformed or fragmented labra in 28 (12%), complete separation of the labrum from the glenoid in 4 (2%), a cleft in 5 (2%), attenuation in 4 (2%), and complete absence in 5 (2%), respectively. The mean size of the normal labrum varied between 3.8 x 3.3 mm at the subscapularis bursa level (anteriorly) and 6.1 x 5.6 mm at the inferior portion of the glenoid (anteriorly). The size was not significantly different between arthroscopically normal and abnormal labral parts (p = 0.13-0.83). Since the MR appearance of the arthroscopically normal glenoid labrum varies considerably concerning signal intensity, form, and size, only major tears or detachments of the labrum should be diagnosed."}
{"id": "11351193", "title": "Subscapularis tendon tear: primary and associated signs on MRI.", "content": "Subscapularis tendon tear: primary and associated signs on MRI. The purpose of this work was to investigate signs of subscapularis tendon tear on MRI. Preoperative written interpretations of high field (n = 9) and low field (n = 7) MRI of 16 patients with tears confirmed at surgery or arthroscopy were reviewed, followed by retrospective review of these studies. A preoperative diagnosis of subscapularis tear was made in five (31%) cases. On retrospective review, primary signs of tear were present in 15 (94%) cases and in two-thirds were limited to the cranial third of the tendon. Supraspinatus tears were present in 69% of cases. Associated findings included medial dislocation (n = 4) or subluxation (n = 3) of biceps tendon, biceps tendinopathy (n = 2), superior labral tear (n = 5), and effusions of superior subscapularis recess (n = 6), subcoracoid bursa (n = 2), or both (n = 5). One or more associated signs were present in 94% of cases. Subscapularis tear is frequently missed on MRI. Recognizing that primary signs of tear may be limited to the cranial third of the subscapularis tendon and identifying associated signs should facilitate diagnosis."}
{"id": "11323778", "title": "Real-time sonography to estimate muscle thickness: comparison with MRI and CT.", "content": "Real-time sonography to estimate muscle thickness: comparison with MRI and CT. We investigated the feasibility of using real-time sonography to measure muscle thickness. Clinically, this technique would be used to measure the thickness of human muscles in which intramuscular microstimulators have been implanted to treat or prevent disuse atrophy. Porcine muscles were implanted with microstimulators and imaged with sonography, MRI, and CT to assess image artifacts created by the microstimulators and to design protocols for image alignment between methods. Sonography and MRI were then used to image the deltoid and supraspinatus muscles of 6 healthy human subjects. Microstimulators could be imaged with all 3 methods, producing only small imaging artifacts. Muscle-thickness measurements agreed well between methods, particularly when external markers were used to precisely align the imaging planes. The correlation coefficients for sonographic and MRI measurements were 0.96 for the supraspinatus and 0.97 for the deltoid muscle. Repeated sonographic measurements had a low coefficient of variation: 2.3% for the supraspinatus and 3.1% for the deltoid muscle. Real-time sonography is a relatively simple and inexpensive method of accurately measuring muscle thickness as long as the operator adheres to a strict imaging protocol and avoids excessive pressure with the transducer."}
{"id": "11300138", "title": "Rotator cuff injury.", "content": "Rotator cuff injury."}
{"id": "11289632", "title": "Radiographic diagnosis of rotator cuff tear based on the supraspinatus muscle radiodensity.", "content": "Radiographic diagnosis of rotator cuff tear based on the supraspinatus muscle radiodensity. To evaluate the supraspinatus muscle radiodensity on the outlet view as an indication of a tendon tear. Plain radiographs and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examinations were obtained on both shoulders of 40 subjects aged 23-70 years, including 13 asymptomatic volunteers and 27 patients. Two readers analyzed the superior contour and the heterogeneity of the supraspinatus muscle radiodensity and compared them with the MRI findings. Significant concordances (P < 0.001) were found between the assessments of the superior contour and the heterogeneity of the muscle radiodensity, respectively, on plain radiographs and MR images. For the diagnosis of a full-thickness tear, the analysis of the superior contour and the heterogeneity of the muscle radiodensity reached an accuracy of 85% and 80% respectively. Stepwise discriminant analyses showed low to moderate benefit of considering the contour and the heterogeneity simultaneously. The inter- and intraobserver agreement ranged from moderate to good. We conclude that on the outlet view, modifications in the superior contour and heterogeneity of the supraspinatus muscle radiodensity suggest a full-thickness tear."}
{"id": "11287863", "title": "[Shoulder imaging: what is the best modality?].", "content": "[Shoulder imaging: what is the best modality?]. Specific pathologies of the shoulder include instabilities in young patients and tendinopathies in older patients. The choice of imaging modality depends on the information expected from each technique. In case of instability, plain films demonstrate bone abnormalities such as Hill Sachs and/or Bankart lesions. Arthro-CT or arthro-MRI need not be in all cases but can provide additional information performed about the intraarticular structures and the glenoid labrum. The rotator cuff is initially evaluated by plain films which demonstrate anatomical conditions resulting in impingement syndrome as well as indirect signs of tendinopathy. Direct visualization of tendons may be achieved by US, arthro-CT, arthro-MRI. US is a dynamic, non invasive and accurate technique for evaluation of rotator cuff tear but is very operator-dependent. Arthro-CT is more reproductive and reveals accurately partial tear as well as anterior tears involving biceps or subscapularis tendons. MRI is very useful to visualize the rotator cuff and adjacent bony structures. Nevertheless, MRI is still limited by its cost, accessibility and variable quality."}
{"id": "11284566", "title": "'Fat fracture'--a physical sign mimicking tendon rupture.", "content": "'Fat fracture'--a physical sign mimicking tendon rupture. The imaging techniques available to aid the diagnosis of ruptures of tendo Achillis, the rotator cuff and the tendon of tibialis posterior in rheumatoid patients are well described. However, ruptures of tendon or muscle at other sites are uncommon and may be overlooked. Diagnosis is often made by localised tenderness, swelling and a lack of active movement associated with a palpable defect. Clinical examination may be inconclusive and can be aided by imaging studies. We report two cases in which ruptures of a tendon were suspected, and ultrasound imaging demonstrated the palpable defect to be a cleavage plane in the subcutaneous fat--a 'fat fracture'."}
{"id": "11265045", "title": "Traumatic avulsion of the bony insertion of infraspinatus tendon.", "content": "Traumatic avulsion of the bony insertion of infraspinatus tendon."}
{"id": "11253526", "title": "[Histomorphology versus three-dimensional ultrasound morphology of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[Histomorphology versus three-dimensional ultrasound morphology of the rotator cuff]. Sonographic evaluation is a reliable method for the detection of rotator cuff tears. However, the diagnostic value of the different echogenic patterns of the rotator cuff, especially in elderly patients, has led to a controversial discussion. The present study elucidates whether three-dimensional ultrasound can increase the diagnostic significance of different sonographic echogenicity patterns of tendons compared to histopathological tissue degeneration. To evaluate the sonographic appearance of tendons in elderly patients, the sonographic echogenicity of 33 rotator cuff specimens with macroscopic absence of rotator cuff lesions was classified in three groups and compared with the histopathological morphology. The sonographic appearance of the degenerated rotator cuff in elder patients correlates with a reduced sonographic echogenicity. The two-dimensional ultrasound evaluation of the rotator cuff led to a sensitivity of 84.0%, a specificity of 42.9%, a positive predictive value of 63.6%, a negative predictive value of 69.2%, and an accuracy of 65.2%. The three-dimensional ultrasound evaluation of the rotator cuff led to a sensitivity of 91.6%, a specificity of 50.0%, a positive predictive value of 66.6%, a negative predictive value of 84.6% and an accuracy of 71.%, respectively. As a high incidence of false positive results has to be taken into consideration, neither the two-dimensional, nor the three-dimensional ultrasound evaluation seems to lead to a reliable correlation."}
{"id": "11253091", "title": "[On: Indirect MR arthrography in the diagnosis rotator cuff injuries. By J. Rudolph, Berlin et. al. In: Fortsch Rontgenstr 2000; 172: 686-691].", "content": "[On: Indirect MR arthrography in the diagnosis rotator cuff injuries. By J. Rudolph, Berlin et. al. In: Fortsch Rontgenstr 2000; 172: 686-691]."}
{"id": "11242207", "title": "MR evaluation of factors predicting the development of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "MR evaluation of factors predicting the development of rotator cuff tears. The purpose of this work was to assess the incidence of various factors predicting impingement in the shoulder. MR examination was used to assess various anatomic parameters in 46 patients with clinical abnormalities of the shoulder and 40 asymptomatic volunteers. All patients had undergone surgery, showing no rotator cuff tear. A few of the parameters evaluated were significantly different in the two groups: The acromion was more frequently curved or hook-shaped in patients than in volunteers. The acromiohumeral distances differed (4.87 mm in patients and 6.05 mm in volunteers); so did the coracohumeral distances (7.9 mm in patients and 8.9 mm in volunteers). The shape of the acromioclavicular joint and the anterior covering of the humerus, defined on the coronal view, also differed (1.07 mm in patients and 1.49 mm in volunteers). Only the shapes of the acromioclavicular joint and of the acromion were linked with age. All these factors reflected a decrease in the acromiohumeral space, except for the anterior covering of the acromial arch, which could be due to anterior instability."}
{"id": "11239341", "title": "Straight anterior instability: Lesions of the middle glenohumeral ligament.", "content": "Straight anterior instability: Lesions of the middle glenohumeral ligament. PURPOSE: Thirty-three patients with avulsions of the middle glenohumeral ligament repaired using arthroscopic techniques were evaluated to determine the mechanism of injury, physical examination findings, and efficiency of repair techniques in this patient cohort. Type of Study: In a retrospective consecutive case series, 33 patients with symptomatic anterior subluxation of the glenohumeral joint were found to have a history, physical examination, and diagnostic arthroscopy consistent with isolated avulsions of a type I middle glenohumeral ligament. METHODS: The mechanism of injury was either repetitive overhead activity (17 patients) or a forced hyperextension in neutral rotations (16 patients). Physical examination was positive for a load and shift (fulcrum) testing of the middle glenohumeral ligament and \"Whipple\" testing of the anterior supraspinatus tendon. Magnetic resonance imaging with or without gadolinium was positive for anterior labral tearing in all 20 patients in which the test was performed. RESULTS: Arthroscopic repair of the detached labrum resulted in decreased pain and improved function in all patients. Thirty-one of the patients were well satisfied, 1 was improved, and 1 was dissatisfied with the repair. CONCLUSIONS: Thirty-one of 33 patients graded as excellent, 1 good, and 1 poor in this study. Surgical repair of avulsions of the middle glenohumeral ligament provides satisfactory results in a majority of patients."}
{"id": "11234944", "title": "Diagnostic capabilities of shoulder ultrasonography in the detection of complete and partial rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Diagnostic capabilities of shoulder ultrasonography in the detection of complete and partial rotator cuff tears. Our study assessed the accuracy of shoulder ultrasonography in detecting complete and partial rotator cuff tears. We performed a prospective study in 24 patients scheduled for shoulder arthroscopy for impingement, partial-thickness or full-thickness (complete) rotator cuff tears, adhesive capsulitis, or arthritis. Before surgery, all patients underwent diagnostic shoulder ultrasonography followed by a shoulder arthroscopy with examination of the rotator cuff. The arthroscopic findings of rotator cuff integrity were compared with the diagnoses made from ultrasonography. The ultrasonographer was not blinded to the history and examination findings, and the surgeon was not blinded to the results of the ultrasonography. Ultrasound had sensitivity and specificity rates of 80% and 100%, respectively (positive and negative predictive rates of 100% and 88%), in the diagnosis of full-thickness rotator cuff tears and sensitivity and specificity rates of 71% and 100%, respectively (positive and negative predictive values of 100% and 88%), for partial-thickness tears. Although the potential for bias exists in this study, the results suggest that diagnostic ultrasound is effective in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "11228032", "title": "Chronic occupational repetitive strain injury.", "content": "Chronic occupational repetitive strain injury. To review common repetitive strain injuries (RSIs) that occur in the workplace, emphasizing diagnosis, treatment, and etiology of these conditions. A MEDLINE search from January 1966 to June 1999 focused on articles published since 1990 because RSIs are relatively new diagnoses. MeSH headings that were explored using the thesaurus included \"cumulative trauma disorder,\" \"overuse injury,\" and \"repetitive strain injury.\" The search was limited to English articles only, and preference was given to randomized controlled trials. Repetitive strain injuries result from repeated stress to the body's soft tissue structures including muscles, tendons, and nerves. They often occur in patients who perform repetitive movements either in their jobs or in extracurricular activities. Common RSIs include tendon-related disorders, such as rotator cuff tendonitis, and peripheral nerve entrapment disorders, such as carpal tunnel syndrome. A careful history and physical examination often lead to the diagnosis, but newer imaging techniques, such as magnetic resonance imaging and ultrasound, can help in refractory cases. Conservative management with medication, physiotherapy, or bracing is the mainstay of treatment. Surgery is reserved for cases that do not respond to treatment. Repetitive strain injury is common; primary care physicians must establish a diagnosis and, more importantly, its relationship to occupation. Treatment can be offered by family physicians who refer to specialists for cases refractory to conservative management."}
{"id": "11223629", "title": "[Value of CT bursography in the evaluation of rotator cuff tears].", "content": "[Value of CT bursography in the evaluation of rotator cuff tears]. To describe the technique and assess the value of subacromial CT bursography in patients with partial surface tear of the rotator cuff tendon. 15 patients with shoulder pain suggestive of tendinopathy or tear of the rotator cuff were evaluated with subacromial CT bursography. Subacromial CT bursography was normal in 4 patients. Partial surface tear was detected in 7 patients [irregularities (n=2), defect (n=2), superficial tear (n=3)]. Full thickness tear was detected in 4 patients. The authors described the technique for subacromial CT bursography to visualize partial surface tears of the rotator cuff tendon. This simple and reliable technique could be an alternative to MR imaging, especially when MR evaluation is not possible."}
{"id": "11222234", "title": "Imaging of the subcoracoid bursa.", "content": "Imaging of the subcoracoid bursa."}
{"id": "11218024", "title": "Indirect MR arthrography of the shoulder in detection of rotator cuff ruptures.", "content": "Indirect MR arthrography of the shoulder in detection of rotator cuff ruptures. The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of indirect MR arthrography images obtained following intravenous contrast injection and conventional MR imaging in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. Twenty-four patients with clinically suspected rotator cuff disease were examined. Conventional MR images and post-contrast indirect MR arthrography images were obtained. All images were evaluated in a blinded fashion by two musculoskeletal radiologist. Results were than analyzed depending on surgical output. The correlation coefficient (Spearman rank correlation test) and the kappa values for agreement between surgery and imaging techniques were calculated. The correlation coefficients between indirect MR arthrography and surgery for reader 1 and reader 2 were 0.9137 and 0.9773, respectively. Whereas the agreement between conventional MR imaging and surgery was moderate (n = 0.383-0.571), the agreement between indirect MR arthrography and surgery was excellent (n = 0.873-0.936). We suggest the use of indirect MR arthrography technique when conventional MR images are equivocal in diagnosis of rotator cuff disease."}
{"id": "11210950", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the upper extremity: advances in technique and application.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the upper extremity: advances in technique and application. Vast advances in technology have taken place in the field of radiology led by the introduction of magnetic resonance imaging. The added advantages of exquisite soft tissue contrast and multiplanar imaging capabilities have revolutionized the understanding of complex anatomic relationships and diagnoses. The current authors will focus on the introduction of new advances in magnetic resonance imaging of the upper extremity that may prove helpful in the diagnosis and treatment of upper extremity abnormalities."}
{"id": "11199409", "title": "[Diagnosis of rotator cuff rupture: correlation of clinical findings and magnetic resonance tomography with intraoperative findings].", "content": "[Diagnosis of rotator cuff rupture: correlation of clinical findings and magnetic resonance tomography with intraoperative findings]. The diagnosis of rotator cuff tears may be based on clinical examination and MRI. The aim of this study was to define the relative value of these methods. Clinical and MRI diagnoses of 88 shoulders were compared with the intraoperative findings. The correct diagnosis of a posterosuperior rotator cuff rupture was made in 79% of the cases by clinical examination and in 91% of the cases by MRI. For the subscapularis tendon clinical examination corresponded to the intraoperative findings in 73% of the cases versus 59% for MRI. MRI was superior to clinical examination in diagnosing a posterosuperior rotator cuff rupture. For the evaluation of ruptures of the subscapularis tendon, clinical examination was more reliable than MRI. Diagnosis of rotator cuff rupture can most often be obtained by a simple physical examination."}
{"id": "11199405", "title": "[Diagnosis and therapeutic management following traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation according to extrinsic prognostic factors].", "content": "[Diagnosis and therapeutic management following traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation according to extrinsic prognostic factors]. We examined the importance of preoperative CT- and NMR-imaging concerning the detection of a bankart-lesion by a retrospective evaluation of 36 patients with primary traumatic or posttraumatic recurrent shoulder dislocations. Because of unfavourable extrinsic prognostic factors, we advised shoulder arthroscopy and surgical stabilization in all cases. Intraoperatively 35 of 36 patients (97%) presented a bankart-lesion. Preoperatively a bankart-lesion was detected in 32 cases (91%) by CT (n = 29) or NMR (n = 7). We could predict the probability of a bankart-lesion with a high reliability by clinical evaluation alone due to several risk-factors. All patients had at least 2 unfavourable prognostic factors. Under these circumstances we could assume a bankart-lesion with a probability of 97%. Therefore in our opinion preoperative CT or NMR is not advised as standard diagnostic procedure in patients with high-risk of recurrence according to extrinsic prognostic factors. We recommend preoperative CT or NMR when the estimation of prognostic factors concerning the risk of redislocation is doubtful and in case of difficult clinical and ultrasound examination regarding shoulder laxity or rotator cuff lesions."}
{"id": "11195119", "title": "Surgical or conservative treatment for chronic rotator cuff calcifying tendinitis--a matched-pair analysis of 100 patients.", "content": "Surgical or conservative treatment for chronic rotator cuff calcifying tendinitis--a matched-pair analysis of 100 patients. Conservative or operative treatment for rotator cuff calcifying tendinitis was investigated in 100 patients in a matched-pair analysis. They were examined clinically and ultrasonographically 35-60 months after the initial visit. The mean Patte score was 91.8 for the patients who underwent surgical treatment and 81 for the ones who received conservative therapy (p < 0.004), while the age-related Constant-score was 103.4 and 95, respectively. Ultrasonography showed 28% calcifications in the surgical group, 18% newly formed and 10% that did not resolve after surgery. In the conservatively treated group, 33% calcifications were seen, of which 67% resolved. The number of rotator cuff ruptures was significantly higher in the conservative group. In the surgical group, 2% of partial tears and in the conservative group 5% of partial and 4% of complete cuff ruptures were found. Conservative treatment for calcifying tendinitis leads to less favourable pain results in the long term than surgical treatment. Surgery shortens the painful period and may reduce the number of future rotator cuff ruptures. Finally, the subjective functional outcome is significantly better after surgery."}
{"id": "11182734", "title": "Diagnosis and treatment of anterosuperior rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Diagnosis and treatment of anterosuperior rotator cuff tears. Nineteen of 407 patients who underwent rotator cuff repair surgery over a 6-year period were found to have a tear of the subscapularis in combination with the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons. Nine of these patients had an unsuccessful prior surgery, which failed to recognize the extent of the subscapularis component. Surgical repair of the subscapularis tendon required a deltopectoral approach, and repair of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus components of the tear could only be accomplished through this approach in 4 patients. In the remaining 15, an extended superior approach was required to mobilize and repair the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons. In all cases, the biceps tendon was either torn or severely degenerated, requiring tenodesis. At a mean follow-up of 40 months (range 24 to 75 months), subjective results were excellent in 5 patients, good in 3, fair in 4, and poor in 7. The modified Constant score improved to a mean of 69% (range 23% to 130%), compared with a preoperative mean of 38% (range 23% to 100%). Physical findings positive for subscapularis insufficiency persisted in 14 of 19 patients. A significant correlation (P <.05) was found between a lower Constant score and duration of symptoms longer than 6 months as well as an appearance of severe fatty degeneration and atrophy of the subscapularis muscle on magnetic resonance imaging. We conclude that anterosuperior rotator cuff tears are an infrequent configuration that may require surgical repair through an extended approach combining deltopectoral mobilization of the subscapularis with transdeltoid mobilization of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus. Repair before 6 months of symptoms is associated with a better functional outcome and is the result of less involution of muscle and tendon tissue."}
{"id": "11172246", "title": "Repair of rotator cuff tears in golfers.", "content": "Repair of rotator cuff tears in golfers. Golfers continue to play through the years that rotator cuff disease becomes more common. We sought to establish the results of acromioplasty and rotator cuff repair in golfers, including their ability to return to the sport. Case series. Of 30 golfers who underwent 32 rotator cuff repairs, 29 were interviewed, completed a detailed questionnaire, and returned for a physical examination. All of the patients were recreational or regional tournament golfers. Fifteen had open acromioplasty and rotator cuff repair and 16 had arthroscopic acromioplasty and mini-open repair. The average age at surgery was 60 years (range, 39 to 76 years). At surgery, most were moderate size tears (2 to 6 cm(2)). At average follow-up of 37 months (range, 24 to 60 months), all but 3 patients are currently golfing. For patients who are currently golfing, there was no significant difference in handicaps or drive distances at most recent follow-up compared with presymptomatic handicaps and drive distances (P >.05). Twenty-three patients report that they are playing at their presymptomatic competitive level without pain. Three patients report playing at a lower competitive level than before. In our experience, acromioplasty and rotator cuff repair predictably allow for eventual return to pain-free golfing at a similar competitive level for most recreational-level athletes."}
{"id": "11155300", "title": "Impingement of the deep surface of the subscapularis tendon and the reflection pulley on the anterosuperior glenoid rim: a preliminary report.", "content": "Impingement of the deep surface of the subscapularis tendon and the reflection pulley on the anterosuperior glenoid rim: a preliminary report. Sixteen patients underwent detailed arthroscopic evaluation; all had moderate to severe, primarily unexplained shoulder pain provoked by anterior elevation and internal rotation, and all were nonresponsive to subacromial injection of local anesthetic. None of the patients had any symptoms or signs of instability. Partial subscapularis lesions were documented in 10 of 13 patients who had undergone preoperative arthro-magnetic resonance imaging. At arthroscopy, an isolated lesion of the common humeral insertion of the superior glenohumeral and coracohumeral ligaments (a so-called pulley lesion) was found in 3 cases, a lesion associating a pulley and an articular side partial subscapularis lesion in 10 cases, and an isolated articular side partial subscapularis tear in 3 cases. The most painful movement, which consisted of flexion and internal rotation, caused impingement of the involved ligamentous and/or capsular insertions in all patients. If the arm was elevated above 90 degrees, the zone of mechanical contact was between the long head of the biceps and the pulley region and superiormost aspect of the labrum; if elevation was decreased, impingement occurred between the tendinous insertion of the subscapularis and the anterior glenoid labrum and rim. This study suggests that in addition to the posterosuperior impingement of the supraspinatus tendon originally described by Walch, anterosuperior impingement of the deep surface of the subscapularis is a form of intraarticular impingement responsible for painful structural disease of the shoulder."}
{"id": "11154383", "title": "A rare anatomic variant of the superior glenohumeral ligament.", "content": "A rare anatomic variant of the superior glenohumeral ligament. The attachment of the superior glenohumeral ligament (SGHL) to the upper pole of the glenoid is variable and 3 types have been described. We report an anatomic variant of SGHL attachment to the upper pole of the glenoid that has not heretofore been reported in the literature. In this case, the SGHL overrode the biceps origin, continued to the superior labrum posteriorly, and had no attachment to the middle glenohumeral ligament or the anterior labrum. This variant was detected during routine arthroscopic examination undertaken before surgery on a rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "11154011", "title": "Outcome of nonoperative management of full-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Outcome of nonoperative management of full-thickness rotator cuff tears. The study documented the functional outcome in a consecutive series of 46 patients from an individual practice meeting the inclusion criteria of (1) a full-thickness rotator cuff tear seen by ultrasonography, arthrogram, or magnetic resonance imaging, (2) absence of a Workers' Compensation claim or previous surgery, (3) followup of at least 1 year, and (4) election of nonoperative management by the patient. Twenty-six of the tears involved only the supraspinatus, two involved the supraspinatus and infraspinatus, and two involved the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis (16 reports did not specify the size of the tear). Treatment consisted only of patient education and a home program of gentle stretching and strengthening. Patients completed the Simple Shoulder Test at the initial visit and sequentially at 6-month intervals thereafter. At an average followup of 2.5+/-1.6 years, 27 (59%) patients experienced improvement with nonoperative treatment, 14 (30%) patients experienced worsening, and five (11%) patients remained unchanged. The average number of Simple Shoulder Test functions the patients could perform initially was 5.6+/-3.2. At the latest followup, the average number of Simple Shoulder Test functions the patients could perform improved to 7.0 +/-3.8. The ability to sleep on the affected side and the ability to place the hand behind the head were significantly improved."}
{"id": "11148874", "title": "[Antero-posterior lesions of the superior glenoid labrum. Magnetic resonance evaluation].", "content": "[Antero-posterior lesions of the superior glenoid labrum. Magnetic resonance evaluation]. To assess MR potentials in the evaluation of superior glenoid labrum disease and possible associated conditions of the rotator cuff and of the anterior mechanism of the shoulder. We retrospectively evaluated 51 patients (age range 18 to 53 years) with a diagnosis of anteroposterior lesion of the superior glenoid labrum. MR examinations were performed with a 0.2 T permanent magnet and a dedicated coil, using T1- and T2-weighted SE sequences on mostly coronal-oblique planes. Slice thickness was 4 mm. In 8 cases, the examination was completed with intra-articular injection of contrast agent. Twenty-eight patients were submitted to surgery (arthrotomy in 7 cases; arthroscopy in 21 cases). We considered only the cases with surgical confirmation and divided them into 2 groups: 15 patients with isolated alteration of the superior glenoid labrum and 13 patients with an anteroposterior lesion of the glenoid labrum associated with disease of the rotator cuff or of the anterior mechanism of the shoulder. MRI demonstrated 5 cases of superior labrum irregularities at the level of its glenoid insertional portion (type I lesion); 6 cases of detachment of the superior portion of the labrum (type II); 9 cases of bucket handle tear of the superior labrum with involvement of the insertional portion of the long head of the biceps tendon (type III); 8 cases of superior labrum tear extending within the long head of the biceps tendon (type IV). In the patients with associated disease MRI demonstrated supraspinatus tendon tear in 5 cases, lesion of the labrum also in its anteroinferior portion in 1 case, Hill-Sachs intraspongious fracture with involvement of the inferior glenohumeral complex in 1 case, and complete tear of the rotator cuff in 7 cases. Subsequent surgery always confirmed the presence of associated lesions, while the superior labrum lesion was not confirmed in 3 patients. In 4 cases, surgical findings provided a different classification of the lesion type than MRI. In the presence of a type I anteroposterior lesion of the superior glenoid labrum, coronal MRI can depict the loss of the triangular shape of the labrum. Type II lesions show detachment of the labrum, which appears on the MR images as a high signal intensity band passing through the labrum with caudocranial orientation. A superior glenoid labrum tear with a low signal intensity area within the joint indicates a type III lesion. Complete tear of the superior glenoid labrum with involvement of the long head of the biceps tendon demonstrated on the coronal T1-weighted SE and T2-weighted GE sequences is a sign of a type IV lesion. MRI can be a valuable diagnostic technique in type III and IV lesions of the superior glenoid labrum. It often provides important information about the possible presence of associated diseases, especially of the rotator cuff, which are helpful for treatment planning."}
{"id": "11142911", "title": "[Superior labrum pathology in the athlete].", "content": "[Superior labrum pathology in the athlete]. Since their first description several years ago, superior glenoid labral lesions have increasingly been blamed for shoulder problems associated with sports. Originally merely describing arthroscopically visible upper labral/biceps abnormalities, the current understanding is that often clinical problems such as impingement pain or even rotator cuff disease can be secondary to these lesions, especially in overhead athletes. Impingement in these cases is caused by superior shoulder instability originating from an unstable biceps insertion that is present for example in SLAP (superior labrum from anterior to posterior) lesions. Additional problems such as internal or posterosuperior impingement that are often found simultaneously in these patients are pathomorphologically located in the same anatomical region and therefore make exact diagnosis and thus treatment more complex. Magnetic resonance imaging with intra-articular contrast enhancement and particularly arthroscopy are the primary tools for exact diagnosis and classification of superior labral/biceps pathology. Therapeutically, lesions with unstable biceps origin (SLAP types 2 and 4) require operative refixation, as we have seen in our 50 cases in the last 4 years, in order to reestablish the stabilising effect of the biceps tendon for the shoulder joint. The arthroscopic technique for repair of these lesions using different devices of implantable suture anchors is presented. Long-term pain-free shoulder function in competitive athletes, throwers in particular, thus requires anatomical reconstruction of the originally unstable biceps, which is the causal therapy for these lesions."}
{"id": "11142907", "title": "[Traumatic development of rotator cuff lesion. Scientific principles and consequences for expert assessment].", "content": "[Traumatic development of rotator cuff lesion. Scientific principles and consequences for expert assessment]. The traumatic etiology of rotator cuff lesions is a matter of controversial discussed in legal assessments. Because of the relatively high prevalence of degenerative changes with increasing age, including partial and complete rotator cuff tears, it may be difficult to demonstrate the cause of an acute traumatic rotator cuff tear. This article presents a review of the literature concerning current knowledge of the anatomy, biomechanics and pathogenesis of rotator cuff pathology. According to this, a catalogue of potentially adequate and inadequate trauma mechanisms is proposed. Another focus of this work is in the post-traumatic diagnostic steps following persistent rotator cuff-deficient shoulder function. X-ray, ultrasound, MRI and operative findings in rotator cuff tears underline the criteria for distinguishing between traumatic and degenerative lesions. From a legal point of view (e.g., private accident insurance, workers compensation claims), various minor and major arguments are defined, which could help the expert in judging the cause of post-traumatic rotator cuff deficiency."}
{"id": "11142906", "title": "[Shoulder impingement].", "content": "[Shoulder impingement]. The impingement syndrome is a common disorder of the shoulder girdle. The causes for this syndrome may be anatomic changes in the coracoacromial arch, also within the ultrastructural regions, on the one hand, or changes in the biomechanics which have developed for various reasons, on the other. Diagnosis is based on roentgenograms using the appropriate technique. In large-scale-studies, sonography has proved to be an extremely sensitive screening method for differential diagnosis of rupture of the rotator cuff. Magnetic resonance imaging might gain in value in the diagnosis of impingement as regards differential diagnosis of rupture of the rotator cuff because this technique--when employed appropriately--allows exact viewing of the soft tissue and the anterior part of the acromion. In the majority of cases conservative treatment is the method of choice. Methods of treatment are sonography, galvanization, and application of heat. Physiotherapy should not be initiated until pain relief has been achieved by other measures. Infiltration therapy is of considerable value in the management of pain due to impingement. Application of cortisone into the subacromial space must also be considered critically. As regards conservative therapy, only few evidence-based publications provide information on the effectiveness of different treatment regimens. Surgical therapy is only indicated in cases of pain resistant to the conservative therapy for a certain period. Furthermore, only an outlet impingement can be treated successfully by surgical decompression. The surgeon decides on the surgical method--open surgery or arthroscopy. Of course, arthroscopic methods are less invasive; however, up to now the superiority of one of the surgical methods over the other could not yet be proven by mid-term clinical results. Other surgical methods such as wedge osteotomy in the region of the spina scapulae are still in the experimental stage. By surgical and conservatives methods, good and even excellent results can be achieved in about 80% of the cases. The question remains as to why 20% of the patients show unsatisfactory results. One explanation might be that factors such as pathologic changes of the muscular balance and an altered microstructure of the tendons of the rotator cuff are rarely taken into consideration and Neer's concept of decompression is overestimated. Further research will be required in the field of biomechanics but clinical research on treatment concepts should also be undertaken to develop more differentiated strategies of treatment."}
{"id": "11142882", "title": "[Prevalence of rotator cuff defects in dislocated fractures of the humerus head in elderly patients].", "content": "[Prevalence of rotator cuff defects in dislocated fractures of the humerus head in elderly patients]. Humeral head fractures are commonly found in elderly patients. A high rate of spontaneous rotator cuff tears in this patient group may endanger good results following surgical treatment. 70 patients > 65 years with dislocated humeral head fractures were prospectively studied and treated surgically following a standardised treatment protocol. In all cases the rotator cuff was examined intraoperatively. A tear of the rotator cuff was documented in 4 cases (5%). The prevalence of rotator cuff tears in elderly patients with dislocated humeral head fractures is significantly smaller than expected referring to magnetic resonance-, sonographic and cadaveric studies of same-age patients without fracture. Therefore the rotator cuff may serve as retention anchor for the surgical treatment of dislocated humeral head fractures in elderly patients."}
{"id": "11129754", "title": "Returning to the bedside: using the history and physical examination to identify rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Returning to the bedside: using the history and physical examination to identify rotator cuff tears. To determine the value of elements of the bedside history and physical examination in predicting arthrography results in older patients with suspected rotator cuff tear (RCT). Retrospective chart review Orthopedic practice limited to disorders of the shoulder 448 consecutive patients with suspected RCT referred for arthrography over a 4-year period Presence of partial or complete RCT on arthrogram 301 patients (67.2%) had evidence of complete or partial RCT. Clinical findings in the univariate analysis most closely associated with rotator cuff tear included infra- and supraspinatus atrophy (P < .001), weakness with either elevation (P < .001) or external rotation (P < .001), arc of pain (P = .004), and impingement sign (P = .01). Stepwise logistic regression based on a derivation dataset (n = 191) showed that weakness with external rotation (Adjusted Odds Ratio (AOR) 6.96 (3.09, 13.03)), age > or = 65 (AOR 4.05(2.47, 16.07)), and night pain (AOR 2.61 (1.004, 7.39)) best predicted the presence of RCT. A five-point scoring system developed from this model was applied in the remaining patient sample (n = 216) to test validity. No significant differences in performance were noted using ROC curve comparison. Using likelihood ratios, a clinical score = 4 was superior in predicting RCT to the diagnostic prediction of an expert clinician. This score had specificity equivalent to magnetic resonance imaging or ultrasonography in diagnosis of RCT. The presence of three simple features in the history and physical examination of the shoulder can identify RCT efficiently. This approach offers a valuable strategy to diagnosis at the bedside without compromising sensitivity or specificity."}
{"id": "11121701", "title": "Bone marrow edema in the greater tuberosity of the humerus at MR imaging: association with rotator cuff tears and traumatic injury.", "content": "Bone marrow edema in the greater tuberosity of the humerus at MR imaging: association with rotator cuff tears and traumatic injury. The purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence of bone marrow edema in the greater tuberosity of the humerus on MR imaging, the association with other findings at MR imaging and the injury mechanism which can lead to this finding. MR reports from 863 patients referred for shoulder MRI over 74 months were reviewed to identify patients with marrow edema in the greater tuberosity. The MR images from patients with greater tuberosity marrow edema were reviewed by consensus of two radiologists for the extent of marrow edema and for associated injuries. Marrow edema in the greater tuberosity was seen in 11 of 863 patients (1.3%). Nine patients (82%) had associated rotator cuff tear by MR imaging (four full thickness and five partial thickness), one patient had avulsion of the greater tuberosity from the humerus, and one had no rotator cuff abnormality. History of trauma was reported by eight patients including fall without direct blow to the shoulder (6), car accident (1) and direct blow to the top of the shoulder (1). Marrow edema in the greater tuberosity is an infrequent finding. Marrow edema most often is associated with a history of trauma and with rotator cuff abnormalities including full thickness tears. The history of trauma without direct blow to the shoulder and the location of the edema indicates that marrow edema often results from avulsion injury by the supraspinatus tendon."}
{"id": "11116842", "title": "[In Process Citation]", "content": "[In Process Citation] Since their first description several years ago, superior||| glenoid labral lesions have increasingly been blamed for shoulder problems||| associated with sports. Originally merely describing arthroscopically visible||| upper labral/biceps abnormalities, the current understanding is that often||| clinical problems such as impingement pain or even rotator cuff disease can be||| secondary to these lesions, especially in overhead athletes. Impingement in||| these cases is caused by superior shoulder instability originating from an||| unstable biceps insertion that is present for example in SLAP (superior labrum||| from anterior to posterior) lesions. Additional problems such as internal or||| posterosuperior impingement that are often found simultaneously in these||| patients are pathomorphologically located in the same anatomical region and||| therefore make exact diagnosis and thus treatment more complex. Magnetic||| resonance imaging with intra-articular contrast enhancement and particularly||| arthroscopy are the primary tools for exact diagnosis and classification of||| superior labral/biceps pathology. Therapeutically, lesions with unstable biceps||| origin (SLAP types 2 and 4) require operative refixation, as we have seen in||| our 50 cases in the last 4 years, in order to reestablish the stabilising||| effect of the biceps tendon for the shoulder joint. The arthroscopic technique||| for repair of these lesions using different devices of implantable suture||| anchors is presented. Long-term pain-free shoulder function in competitive||| athletes, throwers in particular, thus requires anatomical reconstruction of||| the originally unstable biceps, which is the causal therapy for these||| lesions."}
{"id": "11116838", "title": "[In Process Citation]", "content": "[In Process Citation] The traumatic etiology of rotator cuff lesions is a||| matter of controversial discussed in legal assessments. Because of the||| relatively high prevalence of degenerative changes with increasing age,||| including partial and complete rotator cuff tears, it may be difficult to||| demonstrate the cause of an acute traumatic rotator cuff tear. This article||| presents a review of the literature concerning current knowledge of the||| anatomy, biomechanics and pathogenesis of rotator cuff pathology. According to||| this, a catalogue of potentially adequate and inadequate trauma mechanisms is||| proposed. Another focus of this work is in the post-traumatic diagnostic steps||| following persistent rotator cuff-deficient shoulder function. X-ray,||| ultrasound, MRI and operative findings in rotator cuff tears underline the||| criteria for distinguishing between traumatic and degenerative lesions. From a||| legal point of view (e.g., private accident insurance, workers compensation||| claims), various minor and major arguments are defined, which could help the||| expert in judging the cause of post-traumatic rotator cuff||| deficiency."}
{"id": "11116837", "title": "[In Process Citation]", "content": "[In Process Citation] The impingement syndrome is a common disorder of the||| shoulder girdle. The causes for this syndrome may be anatomic changes in the||| coracoacromial arch, also within the ultrastructural regions, on the one hand,||| or changes in the biomechanics which have developed for various reasons, on the||| other. Diagnosis is based on roentgenograms using the appropriate technique. In||| large-scale-studies, sonography has proved to be an extremely sensitive||| screening method for differential diagnosis of rupture of the rotator cuff.||| Magnetic resonance imaging might gain in value in the diagnosis of impingement||| as regards differential diagnosis of rupture of the rotator cuff because this||| technique--when employed appropriately--allows exact viewing of the soft tissue||| and the anterior part of the acromion. In the majority of cases conservative||| treatment is the method of choice. Methods of treatment are sonography,||| galvanization, and application of heat. Physiotherapy should not be initiated||| until pain relief has been achieved by other measures. Infiltration therapy is||| of considerable value in the management of pain due to impingement. Application||| of cortisone into the subacromial space must also be considered critically. As||| regards conservative therapy, only few evidence-based publications provide||| information on the effectiveness of different treatment regimens. Surgical||| therapy is only indicated in cases of pain resistant to the conservative||| therapy for a certain period. Furthermore, only an outlet impingement can be||| treated successfully by surgical decompression. The surgeon decides on the||| surgical method--open surgery or arthroscopy. Of course, arthroscopic methods||| are less invasive; however, up to now the superiority of one of the surgical||| methods over the other could not yet be proven by mid-term clinical results.||| Other surgical methods such as wedge osteotomy in the region of the spina||| scapulae are still in the experimental stage. By surgical and conservatives||| methods, good and even excellent results can be achieved in about 80% of the||| cases. The question remains as to why 20% of the patients show unsatisfactory||| results. One explanation might be that factors such as pathologic changes of||| the muscular balance and an altered microstructure of the tendons of the||| rotator cuff are rarely taken into consideration and Neer's concept of||| decompression is overestimated. Further research will be required in the field||| of biomechanics but clinical research on treatment concepts should also be||| undertaken to develop more differentiated strategies of||| treatment."}
{"id": "11103957", "title": "Radiologic case study. Subscapularis tendon tear.", "content": "Radiologic case study. Subscapularis tendon tear."}
{"id": "11065265", "title": "Sonographic features of dialysis-related amyloidosis of the shoulder.", "content": "Sonographic features of dialysis-related amyloidosis of the shoulder. This study evaluated the diagnostic role of ultrasonography in dialysis-related amyloidosis in shoulders of chronically hemodialyzed patients. Fourteen shoulders of 12 long-term hemodialysis patients were examined. All patients had been on dialysis for at least 10 years. All patients had varying degrees of pain and limitations of movement in the studied shoulders. Dialysis-related amyloidosis was the presumed diagnosis in all patients. Any patient with a history of any disease, other than dialysis-related amyloidosis, capable of producing a pathologic shoulder condition was excluded. The following parameters were studied: supraspinatus and biceps tendon thickness, tendon tears, synovial thickening, and the presence of hypoechoic material around tendons and within bursae. All shoulders had a nonhomogeneous thickening, greater than 7 mm, of the supraspinatus tendon. Seven shoulders (50%) had abnormal thickening of the biceps tendon (4 mm or greater), and two shoulders had abnormal thickening of the subscapularis tendon. Hypoechoic deposits were seen in the subdeltoid bursae and biceps sheaths in five and six shoulders, respectively. Three shoulders showed partial tears of the supraspinatus tendon, one shoulder showed a tear in the biceps tendon, and one shoulder had a tear in the subscapularis tendon. Ultrasonography is an excellent imaging modality in diagnosing the presence of dialysis-related amyloidosis in symptomatic shoulders of long-term hemodialysis patients, without having to resort to invasive procedures. The results of previous studies have been confirmed and new ultrasonographic findings described. Of particular interest is the involvement of the subscapularis tendon in dialysis-related amyloidosis. Repeat ultrasonography can become an important way to follow-up progression of shoulder dialysis-related amyloidosis in hemodialyzed patients."}
{"id": "11058657", "title": "Shoulder appearances at MR imaging in long-term dialysis recipients.", "content": "Shoulder appearances at MR imaging in long-term dialysis recipients. To examine shoulder appearances at magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in long-term dialysis recipients. Twenty-two chronic dialysis recipients underwent 1.0-T MR imaging with a combination of T1-, T2-, and T2*-weighted sequences. Rotator cuff tendon thickening was graded as present or absent by a musculoskeletal radiologist, who also measured the supraspinatus and subscapularis tendon thicknesses with electronic calipers. The long-axis dimension and location of focal osseous lesions, in addition to their T1, T2, and T2* signal intensities, were noted. Supraspinatus (n = 9) and subscapularis (n = 10) tendon thickening was frequently observed. Six (27%) of the 22 patients had combined thickening of the supraspinatus and subscapularis tendons without substantial involvement of the infraspinatus or teres minor tendons. These patients had undergone dialysis longer (median, 19.2 years; range, 16.3-22.8 years) than had the other patients (median, 11.7 years; range, 5.8-19.3 years; P: =.004). The 29 intraosseous lesions had high, intermediate, and low T2 signal intensity in six (21%), nine (31%), and 14 (48%) instances, respectively. Supraspinatus and/or subscapularis tendon thickening is common in chronic dialysis recipients. Bone lesions in such patients are of variable T2 signal intensity and usually subchondral or adjacent to the greater tuberosity."}
{"id": "11051013", "title": "[Complete rotator cuff rupture--differential surgical techniques and intermediate-term results].", "content": "[Complete rotator cuff rupture--differential surgical techniques and intermediate-term results]. What is the mid term result of open rotator cuff repair? What are the criteria for a good surgical result? Between February 1988 and December 1993 130 patients (135 shoulders) underwent surgery for rotator cuff repair. All surgical techniques were combined with a acromioplasty--transosseous refixation, transtendinous suture, isolated or combined transfers of tendons. The retrospective analysis consisted of clinical examination including the Constant score, X-rays and sonograms of the shoulder before and after surgery. 95 patients (98 shoulders) were controlled 4 years and 8 months after surgery by clinical, radiological and sonographical examination. 80% of all cases showed good or very good long term results by chiefly transosseous refixation alone or in combination with tendon transfer. Analysis of all data made it possible to create simple prognostic criteria. These criteria can help preoperatively to give an idea of the expected outcome. The best preoperative criteria for a prognostic good surgical result were an acromion-humeral head distance in the native true a.p.-X-ray of more than 7 mm, a rotator cuff defect of less than 2 x 3 cm and a passive free range of motion."}
{"id": "11046178", "title": "Nonseptic monoarthritis: imaging features with clinical and histopathologic correlation.", "content": "Nonseptic monoarthritis: imaging features with clinical and histopathologic correlation. Diagnosis of septic arthritis requires aspiration and analysis of joint fluid. However, nonseptic articular disorders are fairly common and represent a significant diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. Such disorders include gout, Milwaukee shoulder, rapidly destructive articular disease, amyloid arthropathy, hemophilic arthropathy, primary synovial osteochondromatosis, pigmented villonodular synovitis, neuropathic arthropathy, and foreign-body synovitis. The clinical signs of articular disease, which include pain, swelling, and limitation of motion, are often nonspecific and can overlap with those of osseous or extraarticular disorders. Many articular processes have characteristic radiologic appearances that allow definitive diagnosis. Radiography is an important part of the evaluation of patients with articular disease. However, magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is the method of choice for characterizing the various disorders and assessing the full extent of osseous, chondral, and soft-tissue involvement. MR imaging can exquisitely demonstrate joint effusions, synovial proliferation, articular cartilage abnormalities, subchondral bone, ligaments, muscles, and juxtaarticular soft tissues. Although a wide spectrum of noninfectious processes may involve the joints, careful analysis of the imaging findings and correlation of these findings with the patient's clinical history can suggest a more specific diagnosis in most cases. Awareness and understanding of the underlying histopathologic findings aids in interpretation of MR images."}
{"id": "11046163", "title": "CT and MR arthrography of the normal and pathologic anterosuperior labrum and labral-bicipital complex.", "content": "CT and MR arthrography of the normal and pathologic anterosuperior labrum and labral-bicipital complex. Interpretation of computed tomographic and magnetic resonance arthrograms of the shoulder is complicated by normal variants of the labrum and glenohumeral ligaments. A superior sublabral recess is located at the 12 o'clock position and represents a normal recess between the superior labrum and the cartilage of the glenoid cavity. A sublabral foramen is located at the 2 o'clock position and represents localized detachment of the labrum from the glenoid rim. Buford complex is characterized by absence of the anterosuperior labrum and cordlike thickening of the middle glenohumeral ligament. Imaging features of damage to the anterior labrum include absence or detachment of the labrum and an irregular frayed appearance. Superior labrum anterior-to-posterior (SLAP) lesions are classified as type I (tear confined to the superior labrum), type II (labrum and biceps tendon detached from the superior glenoid), type III (bucket handle tear of the superior labrum), or type IV (bucket handle tear of the superior labrum with lateral extension into the biceps tendon). Increased distance between the labrum and the glenoid, an irregular appearance of the labral margin, or lateral extension of the separation may suggest a SLAP lesion rather than a normal anatomic variant. However, differentiation between normal variants and pathologic conditions and between various types of SLAP lesions remains difficult."}
{"id": "11043966", "title": "Osteochondroma of the distal clavicle: an unusual cause of rotator cuff impingement.", "content": "Osteochondroma of the distal clavicle: an unusual cause of rotator cuff impingement. Rotator cuff impingement symptoms may arise from intrinsic pathologic shoulder lesions related to instability or from extrinsic factors, primarily involving the coracoacromial arch. This report describes 2 unusual cases in which extrinsic impingement resulted from a distal clavicular osteochondroma. In both cases symptoms resolved after resection of the osteochondroma."}
{"id": "11033903", "title": "[Traumatic rupture of the rotator cuff in an adolescent--case report].", "content": "[Traumatic rupture of the rotator cuff in an adolescent--case report]. A traumatic rotator cuff tear is a very rare condition, especially in the adolescent. We report about a 14-year-old boy who fell onto the right arm while riding his bicycle. Immediately after the accident he described some kind of click in his right shoulder. he was referred to our institution 3 days after the trauma. The MRI showed a huge defect of the labrumligament complex including the rotator interval. Intraoperatively, we found a complete disruption of the subscapularis and supraspinatus tendons as well as of the anterior stabilizers. We performed a modified Bankart repair and a reconstruction of the ruptured rotator cuff. The patient returned to his former sports as cyclist 3 months after surgery. This case is of clinical relevance because of the traumatic disruption of an intact rotator cuff in a young patient. Not the bone but rather the tendons and ligaments were the weakest link in this situation. In cases of primary traumatic shoulder dislocation, we have to look for bony and soft-tissue damage including the rotator cuff. With the present high standards in ultrasound and MR imaging we have to keep these techniques in mind in order not to overlook this type of accompanying injury."}
{"id": "11027752", "title": "Arthroscopic treatment of symptomatic shoulders with minimally displaced greater tuberosity fracture.", "content": "Arthroscopic treatment of symptomatic shoulders with minimally displaced greater tuberosity fracture. The purpose of this study is to describe arthroscopic findings and the results of arthroscopic treatment of patients with chronic shoulder pain caused by a minimally displaced fracture of the greater tuberosity. This is a retrospective case series in a consecutive sample of 23 patients with a minimally displaced or nondisplaced fracture of the greater tuberosity who underwent outcome analysis after arthroscopic treatment. Twenty-three patients with chronic shoulder pain beyond 6 months after fracture of the greater tuberosity underwent arthroscopic treatment and were retrospectively assessed after an average of 29 months (range, 22 to 40 months). There were 18 men and 5 women with the average age of 39 years (range, 24 to 61 years). Fourteen fractures were isolated and 9 were related to acute anterior instability episode. The average displacement of the fracture was 2.3 mm (range, 0 to 4 mm) as shown on anteroposterior view plain radiographs. At the time of arthroscopy, all patients had partial-thickness rotator cuff tears on the articular surface. The cuff tears were located on the tuberosity fracture area and were an Ellman grade I to II in depth. After arthroscopic debridement or repair of the tear, depending on the condition of the tear itself, as well as subacromial decompression, the UCLA score results were good to excellent in 20 and fair in 3 patients. Nineteen of the patients had returned to the previous level of activities. However, the patients engaged in overhead sports activity had a lower level of return to activity (P =.034). A partial-thickness rotator cuff tear on the articular surface should be considered in patients with chronic shoulder pain after a minimally displaced fracture of the greater tuberosity. Arthroscopic debridement or repair is an appropriate procedure."}
{"id": "11013610", "title": "[Indirect MR arthrography in the diagnosis of rotator cuff lesions].", "content": "[Indirect MR arthrography in the diagnosis of rotator cuff lesions]. To determine the value of indirect MR arthrography in lesions of the rotator cuff, prospectively versus arthroscopy. 63 patients with suspected shoulder pathology were examined: oblique-coronary and axial T1w sequences, axial FLASH-2D sequences, furthermore oblique-coronary T2- and PD-weighted sequences were taken. After intravenous administration of 0.1 mmol Gd-DTPA/kilogram body weight and active motion of the shoulder T1w sequences were repeated. Signal intensities (SI) inside the tendon were quantitatively measured by the ROI technique (region-of-interest) and the percentual contrast-enhancement CE was calculated. In 32 patients the results were confirmed by surgical follow-up. The mean SI measured in the supraspinous tendon were higher in lesions (degeneration, impingement, partial and total rupture), before as well as after contrast medium, compared to intact findings (p < 0.05). Similarly the percentual CE (p < 0.05) was higher. We detected 9 total ruptures and three impingements (for both sensitivity before/after Gd-DTPA 100%), furthermore 6 partial ruptures. Of the latter three were false positive and one false negative, leading to a sensitivity of 75% and a specificity of 50%. The visualization of rotator cuff lesions can be optimized with indirect MR arthrography. The detection of partial ruptures remains faulty, because the exact demarcation of degenerative change and partial rupture is still difficult."}
{"id": "11008318", "title": "[Three-dimensional ultrasound evaluation of the rotator cuff. Preliminary results of clinical application].", "content": "[Three-dimensional ultrasound evaluation of the rotator cuff. Preliminary results of clinical application]. Accurate sonographic diagnosis of rotator cuff lesions mainly depends on image quality and on the experience of the examiner. The present study was performed to determine whether the use of three dimensional (3D) sonography further increases the diagnostic yield of ultrasound examinations. In a prospective study 25 patients who later underwent shoulder surgery of the rotator cuff were examined pre-operatively by ultrasound with two and three dimensional ultrasound. With three dimensional ultrasound rotator cuff lesions were more often correctly diagnosed (sensitivity of 100%) than with conventional 2D sonography (sensitivity of 91.7%). Specificity with both methods was 84.6% predictive value 92% and 88% respectively. In partial thickness tears, false-negative results were twice as common with 2D imaging. Although our results are preliminary and have to be verified in a larger study, three dimensional ultrasound appears to facilitate diagnosing of rotator cuff lesions and partial thickness tears, in particular."}
{"id": "11001394", "title": "Secondary impingement in the shoulder. An improved terminology in impingement.", "content": "Secondary impingement in the shoulder. An improved terminology in impingement. Non-traumatic shoulder pain in the overhead athlete is a diagnostic challenge. In the last decade shoulder arthroscopy and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques have extended our knowledge. Previously unknown pathologic changes in the glenohumeral joint have been demonstrated and it is recognized that impingement symptoms and instability are often related. Shoulder dysfunction in overhead athletes may be caused by shoulder instability. However, a possible instability in the shoulder is often \"silent\" and difficult to demonstrate by ordinary tests and has therefore by some been termed \"functional instability\". It is now thought that functional instability in the shoulder may lead to a vicious cycle involving microtraumata and attenuation of the capsular complex, and may eventually lead to shoulder pain. Changes in shoulder proprioception, measured by testing kinaesthetic sense and position sense, can be related to different pathologic changes in the shoulder, and sensory motor control may be an important factor for functional stability in the shoulder. MRI and arthroscopical findings in athletes with shoulder pain are changes in the glenoid labrum, the humeral head, the rotator cuff, biceps tendon and the capsular complex. However, these findings often present other clinical entities than impingement and are not always associated with instability. Clinically, there are tests that can objectively distinguish some of the pathological findings. However, we need more exact methods to further improve our clinical diagnoses of the painful shoulder. One of the keys could be an extended knowledge about the pathophysiology behind functional instability. This review focuses on an improved terminology in impingement based on the current knowledge of impingement and instability in the shoulder."}
{"id": "11000168", "title": "An illustrated tutorial of musculoskeletal sonography: part 2, upper extremity.", "content": "An illustrated tutorial of musculoskeletal sonography: part 2, upper extremity."}
{"id": "10994687", "title": "Ultrasonography of the shoulder.", "content": "Ultrasonography of the shoulder. Musculoskeletal ultrasound (MSUS) is an important modality in evaluating shoulder disease. Following a baseline shoulder conventional radiographic examination, MSUS can be used to screen the painful shoulder. It is accurate in diagnosing full- and partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff. Both types of tears can be further characterized by size, location, and extension. Postoperatively, the rotator cuff can also be evaluated for recurrent full-thickness tears. MSUS is the only modality that can visualize and characterize synovial disease, without radiographic contrast, and when necessary, US-guided aspiration and biopsy can be performed. Real-time scanning shows the actual motion of the shoulder and its parts. Multiple attempts can be made to achieve optimal images for accurate documentation. Accessibility to MSUS facilitates the rapid turnaround of patients. US imagers and bone radiologists would do well to use MSUS to help their referring physicians establish a quick and accurate diagnosis of shoulder disorders. This article presents a comprehensive, pictorial review of the technical aspects of shoulder sonography as well as major types of pathology that can be diagnosed with US."}
{"id": "10992091", "title": "[MR arthrography].", "content": "[MR arthrography]. Review article on MR arthrography: technique and main indications. Intra-articular injection of diluted Gadolinium provides good distension and better appreciation of intra-articular structures than standard MRI. It is useful for partial tears of the rotator cuff, in cases of gleno-humeral instability, lesions of the acetabular labrum and hyaline articular cartilage and also for elbow, wrist and ankle ligamentous ruptures."}
{"id": "10968686", "title": "Hemodialysis-related subacromial lesion: diagnostic imaging and minimally invasive treatment.", "content": "Hemodialysis-related subacromial lesion: diagnostic imaging and minimally invasive treatment. In an attempt to refine the diagnosis and surgical treatment system for spontaneous shoulder pain in supine position (SPSP) in long-term hemodialysis (LTHD) patients we reviewed shoulders of patients during a 4-year period. Clinical findings, imaging findings and operative results (average duration of follow-up was 39 months) on both shoulders of 110 patients (Shigei Hospital, Okayama, Japan) were analyzed to identify the cause of SPSP in order to accurately differentiate it from other shoulder pains, and to select the proper treatment method. As the hemodialysis period lengthened, increase in the incidence and severity of bone and soft tissue changes (radiolucency, joint destruction, increase of thickness of subacromial bursa and rotator cuff, and synovial proliferation) in the shoulder induced by dialysis-related amyloidosis were noted in roentgenography, ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging. SPSP occurred in the LTHD patients. An increase in subacromial bursa and rotator cuff thickness correlated with SPSP. A decrease in subacromial space correlated with change in position and SPSP. An increase of subacromial pressure was judged to be the cause of SPSP, and subacromial decompression by coraco-acromial ligament release was effective for relieving SPSP. When massive synovial proliferation or invasion of granulation tissues was observed in the glenohumeral joint, arthroscopic debridement was necessary. SPSP is a sensitive indicator of a distinct subacromial lesion frequently found in LTHD patients. These lesions can be treated by minimally invasive endoscopic coraco-acromial ligament release, resulting in marked pain relief."}
{"id": "10966192", "title": "Isolated tear of the teres major: a waterskiing injury.", "content": "Isolated tear of the teres major: a waterskiing injury."}
{"id": "10963918", "title": "MR and MR arthrography to identify degenerative and posttraumatic diseases in the shoulder joint.", "content": "MR and MR arthrography to identify degenerative and posttraumatic diseases in the shoulder joint. MR imaging provides a comprehensive evaluation of a wide spectrum of both intraarticular and extraarticular pathology of the shoulder. MR imaging enables the detection or exclusion of degenerative and posttraumatic diseases of the shoulder with a reasonable accuracy. MR arthrography is useful in the visualization of subtle anatomic details and further improves the differentiation. In this article, findings of MR imaging and MR arthrography of degenerative and posttraumatic shoulder diseases (impingement syndrome, rotator cuff tears, and glenohumeral instability) has been reviewed."}
{"id": "10963917", "title": "Imaging of degenerative and posttraumatic disease in the shoulder joint with ultrasound.", "content": "Imaging of degenerative and posttraumatic disease in the shoulder joint with ultrasound. This article reviews the examination technique of shoulder ultrasound, normal and abnormal ultrasound findings in acute (posttraumatic) and chronic (degenerative) lesions. Moreover, it reviews the effectiveness of ultrasound in relation to magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. Most authors report that full-thickness tears of the supraspinatus can reliably be diagnosed by ultrasound. However, the simple diagnosis of a full-thickness rotator cuff tear is no longer sufficient for surgical management. The precise localization and size of rotator cuff tears as well as the extent of muscle degeneration is important for surgical planning. For this aspect and for partial-thickness tears of the supraspinatus, for subscapularis lesions as well as for lesions of the long biceps tendons there is no consensus regarding the diagnostic value of ultrasound. To the present, ultrasound (contrary to MR imaging) has failed to demonstrate that it consistently influences the clinician's degree of confidence in the clinical diagnosis or the treatment plan. Therefore, some orthopedic surgeons prefer MR imaging to ultrasound in the evaluation of rotator cuff tears and other abnormalities of the glenohumeral joint. Moreover, MR imaging, especially when combined with arthrography, represents a one-step investigation, which not only allows for assessment of rotator cuff lesion but also of lesions of the labrum (Bankart lesions, SLAP lesions), the joint capsule and the biceps tendon. It also demonstrates muscle atrophy, which represents an important predictor of surgical outcome in rotator cuff repair."}
{"id": "10963425", "title": "Comparison of supraspinatus tendon and glenohumeral joint axes in MR imaging of the shoulder.", "content": "Comparison of supraspinatus tendon and glenohumeral joint axes in MR imaging of the shoulder. In magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of the shoulder, oblique coronal images are used for evaluating the supraspinatus tendon (SST) of patients with suspected rotator cuff tear or impingement. This study aimed to compare orientation of the SST long axis with planes perpendicular to the glenohumeral joint (GHJ). The axial scans of 100 consecutive patients referred for MR imaging or MR arthrography of the shoulder were reviewed. Using the electronic cursors of a computer workstation, the angle of the SST long axis was measured and compared with the angle obtained through the GHJ utilizing three different landmarks: perpendicular to the joint (GHJ-90), joint-humeral head center axis (GHJ-H) and joint-scapular body axis (GHJ-S). Differences in angulation between axes of the SST and the three GHJ axes averaged only about 5 degree [range of means 4.5-5.3 degrees, range of standard deviation (SD) 3.8-4.6 degrees]. In the majority of shoulders, angular differences measured 4 or less for all SST/GHJ comparisons. Similarly, small angular differences in the three GHJ axes were found: 4.5 degrees (SD 3.3 degrees) for GHJ-90/GHJ-S, 5.0 degree (SD 4.0 degrees) for GHJ-S/GHJ-H and 2.9 degrees (SD 3.0 degrees) for GHJ-90/GHJ-H. Correlation between the GHJ-90 and GHJ-H axes was particularly good, with differences of 4 degree or less in 84% of shoulders. The orientations of the GHJ axes and that of the SST long axis are comparable. The GHJ may potentially be used as a landmark for obtaining oblique coronal images of the SST."}
{"id": "10963079", "title": "Ultrasound investigation of the rotator cuff after computed arthrotomography coupled to bursography.", "content": "Ultrasound investigation of the rotator cuff after computed arthrotomography coupled to bursography. To evaluate the diagnostic performance of ultrasound rotator cuff imaging after injection of contrast medium into the glenohumeral joint and subacromial bursa. Twenty-eight patients underwent ultrasonography before and after injection into the glenohumeral joint and subacromial bursa of a mixture of iodinated contrast medium and lidocaine solution. Findings were compared with those from computed tomography of the joint and bursa. Sixteen 16 (16/28, 57%) post-contrast ultrasound scans revealed or confirmed rotator cuff lesions. For supraspinatus and infraspinatus lesions, there were three false-negatives and no false-positives. Three false-negatives were recorded for subscapularis lesions. All false-negatives occurred both before and after the contrast medium injections. Injecting contrast medium into the glenohumeral joint and subacromial bursa improves the diagnostic yield of rotator cuff ultrasonography. We suggest that ultrasonography be performed after injections of drugs into the shoulder structures, particularly the subacromial bursa."}
{"id": "10955352", "title": "Acromioclavicular joint cyst: a presenting feature of full thickness rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Acromioclavicular joint cyst: a presenting feature of full thickness rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "10952040", "title": "Radiologic case study. Rupture of the long head of the biceps tendon.", "content": "Radiologic case study. Rupture of the long head of the biceps tendon. Rupture of the long head of the biceps tendon frequently is encountered in the setting of coexisting rotator cuff pathology and chronic impingement, but traumatic rupture is occasionally seen, as in this case. Signs and symptoms are not always diagnostic, and MRI or MR arthrography can be a useful tool for evaluation of the tendon in difficult cases. Ideally, an empty bicipital groove is seen, indicating absence of the tendon and rupture. Scar tissue within the groove can be problematic, and correlation with oblique coronal and sagittal images is always recommended. The superior labrum at the attachment of the bicipital anchor should always be inspected carefully, as this is the most common site of rupture, and there may be an associated tear of the superior labrum. Magnetic resonance arthrography is not necessary for diagnosis in most cases, but will provide better visualization of the tendon and bicipital-labral complex."}
{"id": "10930877", "title": "[Osteo-articular ultrasonography of the shoulder].", "content": "[Osteo-articular ultrasonography of the shoulder]. The objective of this course is to present the normal and pathological aspects of the various periarticular structures of the shoulder, and the practical modalities of their analysis. The anatomy and pitfalls of tendon imaging is recalled, as well as the interest to detect intra and peri articular effusions. The semiological aspects of complete and partial tears of the rotator cuff and the various impingement syndromes, well demonstrated with dynamic sonography, are then studied. The examination requires time and knowledge but the diagnostic and therapeutic impact is very important regarding the low cost of this technique. The standardisation of the procedure and the production of normal reference images seems to guarantee a global increase in quality of the sonographic examinations."}
{"id": "10929412", "title": "MR imaging after rotator cuff repair: full-thickness defects and bursitis-like subacromial abnormalities in asymptomatic subjects.", "content": "MR imaging after rotator cuff repair: full-thickness defects and bursitis-like subacromial abnormalities in asymptomatic subjects. To determine the prevalence and extent of residual defects or retears and bursitis-like subacromial abnormalities on MR images after rotator cuff repair in asymptomatic subjects, and to define the clinical relevance of these findings. Fourteen completely asymptomatic patients and 32 patients with residual symptoms were investigated 27-53 months (mean 39 months) after open transosseous reinsertion of the rotator cuff. Coronal T2-weighted turbo spin-echo and turbo STIR or T2-weighted fat-suppressed MR images were obtained. The prevalence and extent of residual defects or retears of the rotator cuff and bursitis-like subacromial abnormalities were determined. Residual defects or retears were detected in three (21%) and bursitis-like abnormalities in 14 (100%) of the 14 asymptomatic patients. Fifteen (47%) residual defects or retears and 31 (97%) bursitis-like abnormalities were diagnosed in the 32 patients with residual symptoms. The size of the residual defects/retears was significantly smaller in the asymptomatic group (mean 8 mm, range 6-11 mm) than in the symptomatic group (mean 32 mm, range 7-50 mm) (t-test, P = 0.001). The extent of the bursitis-like subacromial abnormalities did not significantly differ (t-test, P > 0.05) between asymptomatic (mean 28 x 3 mm) and symptomatic patients (mean 32 x 3 mm). Small residual defects or retears (< 1 cm) of the rotator cuff are not necessarily associated with clinical symptoms. Subacromial bursitis-like MR abnormalities are almost always seen after rotator cuff repair even in patients without residual complaints. They may persist for several years after rotator cuff repair and appear to be clinically irrelevant."}
{"id": "10890456", "title": "Internal impingement in the shoulder of the overhand athlete: pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment.", "content": "Internal impingement in the shoulder of the overhand athlete: pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment. The etiology of rotator cuff disease is multifactorial in nature. The process by which the articular surface of the rotator cuff can become diseased secondary to direct abutment against the glenoid rim and labrum has been termed internal impingement. Damage to the undersurface of the rotator cuff can occur from contact at the extremes of shoulder motion and can increase secondary to adaptive changes in bone and soft tissue. Diagnosis is achieved in most instances by a thorough physical examination. Adjunctive tests, particularly magnetic resonance imaging, can increase the accuracy of the diagnosis. If this disease is recognized early, nonoperative intervention may be successful. When nonoperative treatment fails, the use of arthroscopy for the treatment of torn rotator cuff and labral tissue and capsular laxity may be indicated to resolve symptoms and restore the premorbid level of function."}
{"id": "10883604", "title": "[Recommendations for diagnosis and expert assessment of traumatic rotator cuff lesions].", "content": "[Recommendations for diagnosis and expert assessment of traumatic rotator cuff lesions]. Traumatic rotator cuff lesions are a very rare condition. However, this article represents a comprehensive survey according to current knowledge on anatomy, biomechanics, and pathogenesis of rotator cuff pathology. Because of the relatively high prevalence of degenerative changes with increasing age, including partial and complete rotator cuff tears, it may be difficult to demonstrate the causality of an acute traumatic rotator cuff tear. Therefore, a catalogue of potential adequate and inadequate trauma mechanisms is proposed. Emphasis is also placed on posttraumatic diagnostic steps following persistent rotator cuff deficient shoulder function (e.g., ultrasound, MRI). From a legal aspect (e.g., private accident insurance, workers compensation claim), different minor and major criteria are defined, which could help experts to judge the causality of posttraumatic rotator cuff deficiency. These criteria mainly refer to distinct details concerning patients' history, trauma mechanism, primary clinical appearance, and diagnostic findings."}
{"id": "10883593", "title": "[Unreamed antegrade humeral interlocking nailing].", "content": "[Unreamed antegrade humeral interlocking nailing]. In a prospective clinical study 111 fractures of the humerus in 109 consecutive patients were stabilized with unreamed antegrade interlocking nailing. 97 patients were evaluated with individual follow-up, in the mean at 24.2 months postoperatively. Mean fracture consolidation time was 12.3 weeks (9-16 weeks). Five patients presented a non union. At follow-up 19 patients had a limitation in motion of the shoulder, in the mean with 20% compared to the opposite side. Eight patients had permanent shoulder pain, in nine patients shoulder pain occurred during manual strain of the upper limb. Neither limitation of motion nor pain at the elbow region was present in all cases at follow-up. Ultrasound examination revealed in six cases a lesion of the rotator cuff, which was linked in these cases with permanent pain at the shoulder joint. In five patients a prominent nail tip at the entrance point caused a lesion of the rotator cuff with impingement syndrome. Eight out of nine preoperative palsies of the radial nerve recovered within a mean period of 4.3 months without operative measurements. Unreamed antegrade interlocking nailing of humeral fractures is a safe technique regarding consolidation rate with advantages regarding early mobilization of the upper limb. Careful suturing of the rotator cuff and countersinking of the proximal nail tip at the entrance point is a prerequisite in avoiding permanent lesions of the rotator cuff and shoulder pain."}
{"id": "10879716", "title": "MR arthrography of the shoulder: comparison of low-field (0.2 T) vs high-field (1.5 T) imaging.", "content": "MR arthrography of the shoulder: comparison of low-field (0.2 T) vs high-field (1.5 T) imaging. The objective of this study was to compare the image quality, sensitivity, specificity, and diagnostic accuracy of an open low-field MR system (0.2 T) with a standard high-field MR system (1.5 T) after arthrography of the shoulder. Thirty-eight patients either with suspected chronic instability (n = 12) or rotator cuff abnormalities (n = 26) were examined. Intra-articular injection of diluted Gd-DTPA was followed in randomized order either first by imaging on an open 0.2-T system or on a 1.5-T system. The image material was evaluated independently by two radiologists in a blinded fashion with respect to overall image quality and the detection of rotator cuff as well as capsular and labral abnormalities. Surgical correlation was available in 27 (71%) of 38 patients. For both systems, sensitivity and specificity for rotator cuff tears were 100% each, and for labrum pathologies, these values were 100 and 93%, respectively. The agreement for detection of labral pathologies between low-field and high-field examinations was good (kappa = 0.69, kappa = 0.61). For the detection of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff, the agreement between the low-field and high-field MR examinations was very good and significant (kappa = 0.94, kappa = 1, p < 0.001). Overall image quality was rated good in 17 (45%) and fair in 21 (55%) of 38 cases on the 0.2-T MR system, and good in 32 (84%) and fair in 6 (16%) of 38 cases on the 1.5-T system. Motion artifacts were considered low in 24 (63%) and moderate in 14 (37%) of 38 cases for the 0.2-T system and low in 34 (89%) and moderate in 4 (11%) for 1.5-T system. Based on our results, low-field MR compares favorably to high-field MR in the detection of major abnormalities of the glenohumeral joint, at least when MR arthrography is used. Disadvantages are the duration of the examination and thus the risk of reduced image quality caused by motion artifacts."}
{"id": "10875420", "title": "Bankart operation for recurrent anterior dislocation of the shoulder using suture anchor.", "content": "Bankart operation for recurrent anterior dislocation of the shoulder using suture anchor. Between June 1989 and December 1994, a total of 19 patients (20 shoulders) underwent open repair of Bankart lesions using suture anchors. Subscapularis muscle and anterior capsule were cut as one layer and sutured end to end without overlap. Coracoid osteotomy was not necessary. Average follow-up was 53.6 months (range: 24-90 months). Clinical evaluation using the Rowe functional grading system showed 15 shoulders had excellent results, 3 shoulders had good results, and 1 patient was lost to follow-up. There were no complications and no failures with recurrence of dislocation."}
{"id": "10874191", "title": "Comparison of muscle sizes and moment arms of two rotator cuff muscles measured by ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Comparison of muscle sizes and moment arms of two rotator cuff muscles measured by ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging. The purpose was to investigate ultrasound (US) and anthropometry (AN) as valid alternatives to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) regarding muscle size characteristics of two rotator cuff muscles. Eight healthy females (age 27-54 yrs.) went through MRI and US scannings and AN measurements, where muscle thickness, cross-section area (CSA), moment arm, muscle length and width were measured on supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscle. The agreement between the methods was very satisfactory for CSA, and satisfactory for muscle thickness, moment arm, muscle length and width, with a mean difference below 2 mm in thickness and below 5 mm in muscle length and width. Volume could be estimated satisfactory in supraspinatus muscle, but not in infraspinatus muscle, where volume had to be calculated from thickness, length and width. As a significant relation was found in the MRI measurements between thickness and CSA, thickness measurements may replace CSA in inaccessible muscles. US was a valid method in measuring CSA, muscle thickness and moment arm. Combined with anthropometric measures of muscle length and width, volume can be calculated, which is important when defining the physiological cross-sectional area and muscle function. Further development and validation of the method is needed, however."}
{"id": "10872357", "title": "Entrapment of the suprascapular nerve.", "content": "Entrapment of the suprascapular nerve. Operative release for entrapment of the suprascapular nerve was carried out in 35 patients. They were assessed at an average of 30 months (12 to 98) after operation using the functional shoulder score devised by Constant and Murley. The average age at the time of surgery was 40 years (17 to 67). Entrapment was due to injury in ten patients and no cause was found in three; 34 had diffuse posterolateral shoulder pain. The strength of abduction was reduced in all the patients. The average Constant score, unadjusted for age or gender, before operative release was 47% (28 to 53). In 25 of the patients both the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles were atrophied and seven had isolated atrophy of the infraspinatus muscle. The average conduction time from Erb's point to the supraspinatus muscle and to the infraspinatus muscle was 5.7 ms (2.8 to 12.8) and 7.4 ms (3.4 to 13.4), respectively. In two patients MRI revealed a ganglion in the infraspinatus fossa and, in another, a complete rupture of the rotator cuff. The average time from the onset of symptoms to operation was ten months (3 to 36). A posterior approach was advocated. The average Constant score, after operative release, unadjusted for age or gender was 77% (35 to 91). The overall result was excellent in ten of the patients, very good in seven, good in 14, fair in two, and poor in two. The symptomatic and functional outcome in our series confirmed the usefulness and safety of operative decompression for entrapment of the suprascapular nerve."}
{"id": "10856614", "title": "Three-dimensional ultrasound imaging of the rotator cuff: spatial compounding and tendon thickness measurement.", "content": "Three-dimensional ultrasound imaging of the rotator cuff: spatial compounding and tendon thickness measurement. Three-dimensional (3-D) volume reconstructions of the shoulder rotator cuff were generated from freehand ultrasound (US) scans acquired with a magnetic tracking system. Image stacks acquired with lateral overlap from multiple acoustic windows were spatially compounded to provide an extended representation of the rotator cuff tendons. A semiautomated technique was developed for measuring rotator cuff thickness from the 3-D compound volumes. Scans of phantoms and volunteer subjects were used to evaluate the accuracy and repeatability of the thickness measurements. For an in vitro phantom with known thickness, the mean difference between the true value and the automatic measurements was 0.05 +/- 0.28 mm. Thickness measurements made manually from 2-D images and automatically from 3-D volumes were different by 0.03 +/- 0.44 mm in vitro and -0.06 +/- 0.36 in vivo. Repeated thickness measurements in vivo differed by 0.06 +/- 0.36 mm. The 3-D measurement technique offers a promising method for evaluating rotator cuff tendons."}
{"id": "10841058", "title": "Sonographic differences in the appearance of acute and chronic full-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Sonographic differences in the appearance of acute and chronic full-thickness rotator cuff tears. This study was undertaken to identify differences in the sonographic appearance of acute and chronic full-thickness rotator cuff tears. The ultrasonograms of 24 patients with an acute rotator cuff tear and 20 with a chronic tear were reviewed for tear size (width), location, and the presence and distribution of fluid. Among these 24 patients, 75% with a midsubstance tear location had an acute tear; 64% of patients with joint or bursal fluid had an acute tear; 80% of patients with a nonvisualized rotator cuff due to a massive tear had a chronic tear; and 73% of patients with no sonographic evidence of bursal or joint fluid had a chronic tear. In conclusion, a midsubstance location and the presence of joint or bursal fluid were more commonly associated with an acute tear. A nonvisualized cuff and the absence of joint and bursal fluid were more commonly observed with a chronic tear."}
{"id": "10813181", "title": "The depressor function of biceps on the head of the humerus in shoulders with tears of the rotator cuff.", "content": "The depressor function of biceps on the head of the humerus in shoulders with tears of the rotator cuff. We investigated the function of biceps in 18 patients (19 shoulders) with lesions of the rotator cuff. Their mean age was 59 years. Another series of 18 patients (19 shoulders) with normal rotator cuffs as seen on MRI acted as a control group. Their mean age was 55 years. A brace was used to maintain contraction of biceps during elevation. Anteroposterior radiographs were obtained with the arm elevated at 0 degrees , 45 degrees and 90 degrees with and without contraction of biceps. The distance between the centre of the head of the humerus and the glenoid was compared in the two groups. We found that in the group with tears there was significantly greater proximal migration of the head of the humerus at 0 degrees and 45 degrees of elevation without contraction of biceps but depression of the head of the humerus at 0 degrees, 45 degrees and 90 degrees when biceps was functioning. We conclude that biceps is an active depressor of the head of the humerus in shoulders with lesions of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "10810697", "title": "Acute compartment syndrome of the supraspinatus: a case report.", "content": "Acute compartment syndrome of the supraspinatus: a case report."}
{"id": "10810686", "title": "Open surgical treatment for dialysis-related arthropathy in the shoulder.", "content": "Open surgical treatment for dialysis-related arthropathy in the shoulder. The clinical results of open surgical treatment for hemodialysis-related arthropathy in the shoulder were evaluated, and the pathology was investigated. Fifteen shoulders of 11 patients (6 female and 5 male) were treated during the past 6 years. The average age was 56.7 years. The duration of hemodialysis averaged 17.5 years. Simple curettage was performed in 7 shoulders, and curettage and bone graft were performed in 5 shoulders. Repair of the rotator cuff was performed in 3 shoulders. Pathologic foci always existed in the intertubercular sulcus and the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Marked proliferations of the bursa and multiple cystic bone lesions were found, and amyloid depositions were observed on histologic evaluation in all cases. Open surgical treatment was quite effective, and relief from the clinical symptoms was maintained for a satisfactory period of time. Enthesopathy induced by the amyloid deposition is considered the main pathology."}
{"id": "10798229", "title": "[Rotator cuff tears: diagnosis and therapy].", "content": "[Rotator cuff tears: diagnosis and therapy]. Since the life span of our society is increasing and the expectation of high functional demands is growing more and more older people take part in sports activities emphasises the necessity of early diagnosis of rotator cuff lesions and their correct treatment. The goal of any diagnostic means should be a proper treatment of rotator cuff lesions according to the detected pathology. New arthroscopic techniques to surgically reconstruct rotator cuff tears have brought the operative repair techniques another step further. In cases of large and complex cuff tears the surgeon can individually select an adequate reconstruction procedure which includes anatomical-, partial-, tendon-transfer and muscle-transfer repairs. In cases of irreparable tears with cuff-tear arthropathy and consecutive superior migration of the humeral head hemiarthroplasty or the inverse deltoid prosthesis have to be considered. Based on clinical, radiological and arthroscopic findings we developed algorithms that will lead to the best suited procedure for a given lesion."}
{"id": "10796930", "title": "Direct MR arthrography of the shoulder: is exercise prior to imaging beneficial or detrimental?", "content": "Direct MR arthrography of the shoulder: is exercise prior to imaging beneficial or detrimental? To define the beneficial and detrimental effects of adding exercise to direct magnetic resonance (MR) shoulder arthrography. Direct, intraarticular, gadolinium arthrography of the shoulder was performed in 41 patients, who underwent 1.5-T MR imaging before and after 1 minute of arm swinging. Fourteen milliliters of dilute gadolinium solution was injected. Two readers blinded to exercise independently graded the randomly distributed images with a five-point scale for capsular contrast material resorption; extraarticular contrast material leakage; rotator cuff, glenoid labrum, and anterior capsule conspicuity; and partial-thickness or full-thickness rotator cuff tear and labral tear detectability. The sign test was performed to evaluate the significance of differences between preexercise and postexercise grading for each reader. A second review was performed, with direct side-by-side comparison of preexercise and postexercise images. There was evidence of increased capsular resorption after exercise but no alteration in the depiction of the rotator cuff tendons or glenoid labrum. There was no significant extraarticular contrast material leakage after exercise and no alteration in depiction of the anterior capsule. There was no difference in the detectability of rotator cuff or labral tears. Exercise with direct shoulder MR arthrography has no beneficial or detrimental effect on image quality or on the depiction of rotator cuff or labral tears."}
{"id": "10791582", "title": "Rotator cuff tears and associated nerve injuries.", "content": "Rotator cuff tears and associated nerve injuries. A series of 15 patients with concomitant rotator cuff tears and infraclavicular brachial plexus injuries treated between 1980 and 1989 were reviewed. There were 6 men and 9 women with a mean age of 65 years. Seventeen nerve injuries were identified, including 12 axillary nerves, 4 suprascapular nerves, and 1 musculocutaneous nerve. One patient had an injury to all three nerves. Thirteen patients underwent operative repair of the torn rotator cuff, and 2 patients who refused surgery were treated conservatively. The average time from injury to surgery was 7.7 months. Follow-up averaged 5.5 years (range: 2-10 years). Clinical results were graded according to pain, range of motion, and strength. Postoperatively, mean active forward elevation was 137 degrees and mean active external rotation was 40 degrees. Clinically, 8 patients achieved complete nerve recovery and 7 had an incomplete recovery. Satisfactory pain relief was achieved in 87% of patients with 60% having excellent or good function. Overall, the results of rotator cuff repair with concurrent nerve injury are less favorable than those of isolated cuff repairs. Careful preoperative assessment of concomitant nerve injury should be performed to better predict outcome."}
{"id": "10789798", "title": "MR anatomy of the subcoracoid bursa and the association of subcoracoid effusion with tears of the anterior rotator cuff and the rotator interval.", "content": "MR anatomy of the subcoracoid bursa and the association of subcoracoid effusion with tears of the anterior rotator cuff and the rotator interval. We describe the MR anatomy of the subcoracoid bursa and findings associated with subcoracoid effusion. Fluid in the subcoracoid space, revealed on MR imaging of the shoulder, may lie in the subcoracoid bursa or the subscapularis recess (both structures can be distinguished with MR imaging). In our patients, subcoracoid effusions were often associated with anterior rotator cuff tears, including tears of the rotator interval."}
{"id": "10781662", "title": "The three-dimensional ultrasound evaluation of the rotator cuff--an experimental study.", "content": "The three-dimensional ultrasound evaluation of the rotator cuff--an experimental study. An accurate sonographic diagnosis of rotator cuff lesions significantly depends on image quality and on the experience of the operator. The present study was performed to determine whether the use of three dimensional (3D) sonography further increases the diagnostic yield of ultrasound. In an experimental study 22 artificial rotator cuff lesions (seven full thickness and 15 partial thickness tears) of cadaveric shoulder joints were evaluated by ultrasound with two and three dimensional imaging in a water basin. With 3D ultrasound, rotator cuff lesions were more often correctly diagnosed (sensitivity of 77%) than with conventional 2D sonography (sensitivity of 64%). Specificity was 85 and 69%, respectively. In partial thickness tears in particular, 3D imaging was the superior method reaching a sensitivity and specificity of 73 and 77%, respectively, compared to 53 and 61%, respectively, with 2D ultrasound. With 2D and 3D ultrasound eight and 11 out of 13 tendons, respectively, were correctly diagnosed as intact confirmed by histopathological examination. Although the results of an experimental study may not reflect the clinical situation, 3D ultrasound appears to facilitate diagnosis of partial thickness rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "10780220", "title": "[Echo-guided percutaneous treatment of chronic calcific tendinitis of the shoulder].", "content": "[Echo-guided percutaneous treatment of chronic calcific tendinitis of the shoulder]. We report on our personal technique and the results of US-guided percutaneous treatment of chronic calcific tendinitis. January 1997 to March 1999, seventy patients with known chronic calcific supraspinatus tendinitis were submitted to the US-guided treatment. All patients had undergone plain radiography, US, and physical and psychiatric examination. Plain radiography and aspiration biopsy demonstrated hard and radiopaque calcification in 59 patients and soft and faintly milky calcification in 11 cases; calcification diameter ranged 6-30 mm. US showed tendon thickening, with bulging of the outer tendon surface; 10 patients also had moderate dilatation of the subacromial bursa. Psychiatric examination revealed chronic pain exacerbated at night, which was always associated with motion impairment. The selection criteria for treatment were calcification diameter > 6 mm, integrity of the tendon, and chronic pain. After superficial planes were anesthetized, a 16 G needle was positioned inside the calcification under US guidance and the calcific deposits were fragmented and aspirated. Then, 0.5-1 mL triamcinolone acetonide (40 mg) was injected in the soft tissues or subacromial bursa. Pain resolution and recovery of the full range of motion were seen in 42 patients (60%), and mild functional impairment was seen in 7 cases (10%), while 2 patients (2%) were unchanged. Post-treatment plain radiography showed calcification disappearance in 41 patients (58.5%) and debulking in 29 (41.5%); the calcifications were significantly debulked (> 60%) in 27 patients (38.5%). However, calcification diameter was substantially unchanged in 2 patients (3%) and there remained tendon bulging; in these patients clinical symptoms did not improve. No rotator cuff tears or new tendon calcifications were found in any of our patients even at 19-28 months' follow-up. The US-guided technique always allowed easy location of calcific deposits and complete aspiration of all soft calcifications. Splintering of hard calcifications helped migration of residual deposits to vascularized soft tissues, which accelerated the--frequently complete--resorption process. We privileged extensive and prolonged fragmentation of the calcifications using a single needle, versus the technique using a second needle, saline lavage and aspiration of residual deposits. US-guided percutaneous treatment with aspiration and splintering of chronic calcific supraspinatus tendinitis is a conservative, simple, well-tolerated procedure which can be considered the method of choice after the failure of medical treatment."}
{"id": "10778457", "title": "[Arthrography, ultrasound and MRI in rotator cuff lesions: a comparison of methods in partial lesions and small complete ruptures].", "content": "[Arthrography, ultrasound and MRI in rotator cuff lesions: a comparison of methods in partial lesions and small complete ruptures]. To evaluate the accuracy of arthrography, ultrasound and MR imaging in rotator cuff disease. 40 patients suffering from subacromial impingement syndrome for at least three months and who were selected for surgery, underwent ultrasound, double-contrast arthrography and MR imaging. Patient preselection focused on partial and small complete tears. 13/26 surgically confirmed tears were partial tears (articular surface: 10, bursal surface: 2, intra-substance tearing: 1). Arthrography, ultrasound and MR imaging yield a sensitivity for complete tears of 91%, 69% and 92% with a specificity of 100%, 93% and 93%. For partial tears sensitivity was 50%, 69% and 69% with a specificity of 100%, 79% and 86%. Concerning evaluation of localisation, extent and correct classification ultrasound was correct in 17/26 cases, MR in 21/26 cases. Arthrography is not helpful in detecting partial tears. Ultrasound and MR imaging yield comparable accuracy. MR imaging has advantages concerning better evaluation of extent, location and classification as well as for the detection of associated pathologies."}
{"id": "10761941", "title": "The results of repair of massive tears of the rotator cuff.", "content": "The results of repair of massive tears of the rotator cuff. Massive tears of the tendons of the rotator cuff cause atrophy and fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff muscles and painful loss of function of the shoulder. Repair of massive rotator cuff tears is often followed by retears of the tendons, additional muscular degeneration, and a poor clinical outcome. The purposes of this study were to determine whether a new method of repair of rotator cuff tendons can yield a lower retear rate and a better clinical outcome than previously reported methods, to assess the muscular changes following repair of massive tears of the musculotendinous units, and to correlate findings on magnetic resonance imaging with the clinical results. Twenty-nine massive rotator cuff tears involving complete detachment of at least two tendons were repaired operatively with use of a new laboratory-tested technique in a prospective study. At least two years (average, thirty-seven months; range, twenty-four to sixty-one months) postoperatively, twenty-seven patients were evaluated clinically and with magnetic resonance imaging to determine the clinical outcome, the integrity of the repair, and the condition of the rotator cuff muscles. The age and gender-adjusted Constant score improved from an average of 49 percent preoperatively to an average of 85 percent postoperatively, corresponding to a subjective shoulder value of 78 percent of that of a normal shoulder. Pain-free flexion improved from an average of 92 degrees to an average of 142 degrees, and abduction improved from an average of 82 degrees to an average of 137 degrees. Pain decreased and performance of activities of daily living improved significantly (p < 0.05). The seventeen patients who had a structurally successful repair all had an excellent clinical outcome. Muscle atrophy could not be reversed except in successfully repaired supraspinatus musculotendinous units. Fatty degeneration increased in all muscles. The method of repair of massive rotator cuff tears that was used in this study yielded a comparatively low retear rate and good-to-excellent clinical results; however, the repair did not result in substantial reversal of muscular atrophy and fatty degeneration. Retears occurred more often in patients who had had a shorter interval between the onset of the symptoms and the operation (p < 0.05). Patients who had a retear had improvement of the shoulder compared with the preoperative state, but they had less improvement than did those who had a successful repair."}
{"id": "10761940", "title": "Ultrasonography of the rotator cuff. A comparison of ultrasonographic and arthroscopic findings in one hundred consecutive cases.", "content": "Ultrasonography of the rotator cuff. A comparison of ultrasonographic and arthroscopic findings in one hundred consecutive cases. There has been limited acceptance of shoulder ultrasonography by orthopaedic surgeons in the United States. The purpose of this retrospective study was to determine the diagnostic performance of high-resolution ultrasonography compared with arthroscopic examination for the detection and characterization of rotator cuff tears. One hundred consecutive shoulders in ninety-eight patients with shoulder pain who had undergone preoperative ultrasonography and subsequent arthroscopy were identified. The arthroscopic diagnosis was a full-thickness rotator cuff tear in sixty-five shoulders, a partial-thickness tear in fifteen, rotator cuff tendinitis in twelve, frozen shoulder in four, arthrosis of the acromioclavicular joint in two, and a superior labral tear and calcific bursitis in one shoulder each. All ultrasonographic reports were reviewed for the presence or absence of a rotator cuff tear and a biceps tendon rupture or dislocation. All arthroscopic examinations were performed according to a standardized operative procedure. The size and extent of the tear and the status of the biceps tendon were recorded for all shoulders. The findings on ultrasonography and arthroscopy then were compared for each parameter. Ultrasonography correctly identified all sixty-five full-thickness rotator cuff tears (a sensitivity of 100 percent). There were seventeen true-negative and three false-positive ultrasonograms (a specificity of 85 percent). The overall accuracy was 96 percent. The size of the tear on transverse measurement was correctly predicted in 86 percent of the shoulders with a full-thickness tear. Ultrasonography detected a tear in ten of fifteen shoulders with a partial-thickness tear that was diagnosed on arthroscopy. Five of six dislocations and seven of eleven ruptures of the biceps tendon were identified correctly. Ultrasonography was highly accurate for detecting full-thickness rotator cuff tears, characterizing their extent, and visualizing dislocations of the biceps tendon. It was less sensitive for detecting partial-thickness rotator cuff tears and ruptures of the biceps tendon."}
{"id": "10750001", "title": "Association of intramuscular cysts of the rotator cuff with tears of the rotator cuff: magnetic resonance imaging findings and clinical significance.", "content": "Association of intramuscular cysts of the rotator cuff with tears of the rotator cuff: magnetic resonance imaging findings and clinical significance. Cystic lesions that arise adjacent to the shoulder have been reported in association with labral tears or as an unusual manifestation of massive rotator cuff tears. The purpose of this study was to define the relationship between intramuscular cysts of the rotator cuff and tears of the rotator cuff. Thirteen cases of intramuscular cysts of the rotator cuff were identified on magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder and analyzed retrospectively along with the clinical data. Surgical findings were retrospectively reviewed in 5 patients who underwent follow-up arthroscopy. This series shows that intramuscular cysts of the rotator cuff are associated with small, full-thickness tears or partial undersurface tears of the rotator cuff. These cysts are easily identified on T2-weighted sequences and, when present, should always prompt a thorough search for associated rotator cuff pathology."}
{"id": "10749261", "title": "High-field and low-field MR imaging of superior glenoid labral tears and associated tendon injuries.", "content": "High-field and low-field MR imaging of superior glenoid labral tears and associated tendon injuries. The purpose of this study was to determine the performance characteristics of high-field and low-field MR imaging for the diagnosis of a glenoid superior labral anteroposterior (SLAP) tear. High-field (n = 46) or low-field (n = 21) MR imaging was performed on 41 patients with SLAP tears and 26 patients with normal superior labra. The superior labrum was classified into one of four types on the basis of patterns of intralabral signal intensity. The relative frequency of rotator cuff tears and long head of the biceps tendinopathy was also assessed. For the diagnosis of SLAP tear, the sensitivity of high-field MR imaging was 90% (95% confidence interval = 74%, 98%), specificity was 63% (35%, 85%), and accuracy was 80% (66%, 91%). The sensitivity of low-field MR imaging was 64% (31%, 89%), specificity was 70% (35%, 93%), and accuracy was 67% (43%, 85%). A branched linear or stellate focus of abnormal intralabral signal intensity was associated with a SLAP tear in 86% of patients. Conversely, two other labral patterns correlated with a normal superior labrum in 71% of patients. Abnormal signal intensity in the biceps tendon was seen in 15% of patients with a SLAP tear. Full-thickness (37%) and partial-thickness (31%) rotator cuff tears were often seen. The performance characteristics of high-field MR imaging are superior to those of low-field MR imaging for the diagnosis of a superior labral tear. Rotator cuff tears can be seen in many patients with superior labral tears, but abnormal signal intensity in the biceps tendon is uncommon."}
{"id": "10724229", "title": "Transfer of the pectoralis major muscle for the treatment of irreparable rupture of the subscapularis tendon.", "content": "Transfer of the pectoralis major muscle for the treatment of irreparable rupture of the subscapularis tendon. The clinical diagnosis of a tear of the subscapularis tendon is difficult, and the resulting delays frequently cause a major time-lapse before repair is attempted. Diagnostic delay often means that surgical repair is no longer possible. In twelve patients who had an irreparable tear of the subscapularis tendon, the superior one-half to two-thirds of the tendon of the pectoralis major muscle was used as a substitute for the subscapularis tendon. In order to adapt the orientation of the transferred muscle to that of the subscapularis, it was routed behind the conjoined tendon of the coracobrachialis muscle and the short head of the biceps to the lesser tuberosity. The operations were performed between May 1993 and June 1997. The average age of the twelve patients was sixty-five years old (range, forty-nine to eighty-one years old). Eight patients had an isolated rupture of the subscapularis tendon, and four had a concomitant lesion in the form of either a partial or a complete rupture of the supraspinatus tendon. The dominant symptoms were anterior shoulder pain and weakness that had responded poorly to nonoperative therapy. Four patients also had signs of recurrent anterior instability. After an average follow-up interval of twenty-eight months (range, twenty-four to fifty-four months), nine of the twelve patients assessed the final result as excellent or good; three, as fair; and none, as poor. Pain was reduced, with the score improving from an average of 1.7 points (of a maximum of 15 points) preoperatively to an average of 9.6 points postoperatively. The patients' subjective functional evaluation improved from an average score of 20 points preoperatively to an average of 63 points postoperatively. The average functional rating with use of the Constant and Murley score increased from 26.9 to 67.1 percent of normal. All four preoperatively unstable shoulders were stable at the time of the latest follow-up. This repair technique can be recommended as a reconstructive procedure for elderly patients who have an irreparable tear of the subscapularis tendon."}
{"id": "10724223", "title": "Clinical outcome after structural failure of rotator cuff repairs.", "content": "Clinical outcome after structural failure of rotator cuff repairs. The clinical outcome for patients with documented rerupture after open repair of one or more rotator cuff tendons is not well known. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical outcomes of a consecutive series of rotator cuff reruptures after repair and to provide information concerning the advisability of rotator cuff repair in situations in which there may be a high probability of rerupture. During prospective follow-up after rotator cuff repairs, we detected, with magnetic resonance imaging, structural failure of the repair in twenty patients, who had a mean age of fifty-nine years at the time of the rotator cuff repair. All patients were clinically examined for the purpose of this report at a mean of thirty-eight months. The reruptures invariably involved the originally torn tendon but were smaller than the original tear in sixteen of the twenty patients. Fatty degeneration of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles, atrophy of the supraspinatus muscle, and glenohumeral osteoarthritis progressed significantly from the preoperative state (p < 0.05). At the time of the most recent follow-up, the subjective shoulder value averaged 75 percent of the value for a normal shoulder. Eleven patients were very satisfied with the result, six were satisfied, two were disappointed, and one was dissatisfied. The mean relative score according to the system of Constant and Murley had increased from 49 percent of the score for a normal shoulder preoperatively to 83 percent postoperatively (p = 0.0001). Pain had decreased significantly, and the ranges of active, pain-free forward elevation and abduction as well as the abduction strength had improved significantly (p < 0.05). The clinical outcome was significantly correlated with the size of the postoperative tear, the stage of postoperative fatty muscle degeneration of the infraspinatus and subscapularis, the postoperative acromiohumeral distance, and the degree of postoperative glenohumeral osteoarthritis (p < 0.05). This study documents that an attempt at rotator cuff repair significantly decreases pain (p = 0.0026) and significantly improves function (p = 0.0005) and strength (p = 0.0137) even if magnetic resonance imaging documents that the repair has failed. This finding suggests that the potential for rerupture should not be considered a formal contraindication to an attempt at repair if optimal functional recovery is the goal of treatment."}
{"id": "10717855", "title": "Glenohumeral motion in patients with rotator cuff tears: a comparison of asymptomatic and symptomatic shoulders.", "content": "Glenohumeral motion in patients with rotator cuff tears: a comparison of asymptomatic and symptomatic shoulders. The purpose of this study was to determine whether there was a relationship between altered scapular plane glenohumeral kinematics end shoulder pain. Subjects were divided into 3 groups: normal volunteers (n = 10), patients with symptomatic rotator cuff tears severe enough to warrant surgery (n = 10), and subjects with no symptoms who had tears documented on magnetic resonance imaging and normal examination (n = 10). Humeral kinematics were observed with a computer-enhanced modification of the Poppen and Walker technique. Scapular plane x-ray films were obtained at 0 degree, 30 degrees, 60 degrees, 90 degrees, 120 degrees, and 150 degrees of elevation. Measurements were made by 3 independent observers blinded to the diagnosis, and data interpretation was performed based on mean values for independent observers. Results showed a high degree of interobserver and intraobserver reliability (coefficients = 0.96 and 0.95, respectively). The symptomatic and asymptomatic groups showed progressive superior translation of the humeral head on the glenoid with increasing arm elevation. The normal group, in contrast, maintained a constant center of rotation along the geometric center of the glenoid. Symptomatic and asymptomatic rotator cuff tear groups showed superior head migration from 30 degrees to 150 degrees, which was significantly different from those seen in the normal group. No significant difference between the symptomatic and asymptomatic groups was demonstrated with the small numbers used in this study. The presence of a rotator cuff tear was associated in a disruption of normal glenohumeral kinematics in the scapular plane. Because significant superior migration of the humeral head was seen in both the asymptomatic and symptomatic rotator cuff groups, painless and normal shoulder motion is possible in the presence of abnormal glenohumeral kinematics. Abnormal glenohumeral kinematics alone was not an independent factor, which could explain the occurrence of symptoms."}
{"id": "10705336", "title": "The pitcher's mound: a late sequela of posterior type II SLAP lesions.", "content": "The pitcher's mound: a late sequela of posterior type II SLAP lesions. Three patients with long-standing disabling shoulder pain underwent arthroscopic examination. Two of the 3 had preoperative magnetic resonance imaging scans showing complete rotator cuff tears confirmed at surgery. The third patient was found to have a partial-thickness bursal surface cuff tear. In addition, each patient was found to have a quite prominent posterior superior glenoid osteophyte located beneath an unstable type II SLAP lesion."}
{"id": "10676014", "title": "[Ultrasonographic evaluation of the rotator cuff after its surgical reconstruction].", "content": "[Ultrasonographic evaluation of the rotator cuff after its surgical reconstruction]. The aim of this paper was to evaluate ultrasonographic picture of rotator cuff integrity after surgical reconstruction performed in 34 patients with mean follow-up 17.2 months (range 6-45 months). The lack of rotator cuff echo or hypoechogenic area were the criteria for diagnosis of re-tear. This occurred in 16% of shoulders with isolated supraspinatus tear and in 33.3% of shoulder with 2 tendons involved. Hyperechogenic changes were noted in 35.3% of shoulders, some thinning of the rotator cuff in 23.5%, while both of these changes in 14.7%. The thinning of the rotator cuff was classified as pathologic if there was difference between diameter of rotator cuff measured in 6th to 8th postoperative week and diameter measured at the time of follow-up. Ultrasonographic examination offers critical evaluation of both surgical result and postoperative physical therapy protocol."}
{"id": "10668512", "title": "[The quantification of the magnetization transfer contrast (MTC) effect by calculating MT quotients: does it yield additional information for the differentiation of benign and malignant diseases of the locomotor apparatus?].", "content": "[The quantification of the magnetization transfer contrast (MTC) effect by calculating MT quotients: does it yield additional information for the differentiation of benign and malignant diseases of the locomotor apparatus?]. To investigate the potential information of the amount of magnetization-transfer effect in musculoskeletal lesions and to compare MT ratios from benign and malignant musculoskeletal lesions. 49 patients with malignant tumors (3 osteosarcoma, 3 malignant fibrous histiocytoma, 4 chondrosarcoma, 2 Ewing sarcomas) and benign lesions (8 chondroma, 2 fibrous dysplasia, 3 osteoid-osteoma, 6 ganglion cyst, 3 cyst, 3 osteomyelitis, 4 tendinitis, 3 rotator cuff tear, 5 scar tissue) were scanned using routine MRI protocols including T1- and T2-weighted spin echo as well as T2*-weighted gradient echo (FFE) sequences at 1.5 Tesla (ACS II, Philips Medical). Additionally MTC images were generated by combining the FFE sequence and the off-resonance MT technique (-1500 Hz off-resonance frequency, 1770 degrees flip angle and 50 ms pulse duration). MT ratios were calculated as Slo-Slm/Slo. The MT ratio of benign lesions was 26 +/- 15%, that of malignant lesions was 22 +/- 6%. The difference was statistically not significant. As expected muscle showed a high MT ratio of 50 +/- 8%. Scar tissue demonstrated an MT ratio of 39 +/- 16% which was significantly higher than the tumor MT ratios. MTC (MT ratios) failed to show significant differences between benign and malignant lesions as was expected due to basic differences in cellularity, rate of mitosis and chromatin content. MTC might however gain more importance in separating scar tissue from recurrent tumor in the future."}
{"id": "10663753", "title": "MRI of the shoulder.", "content": "MRI of the shoulder. Shoulder imaging is one of the major applications in musculoskeletal MRI. In order to analyze the images it is important to keep informed about anatomical and pathological findings and publications. In this article MRI technique, anatomy and pathology is reviewed. Technical considerations about MR sequences and examination strategy are only shortly discussed with emphasis on turbo spin echo and short T1 inversion recovery imaging. Basic anatomy as well as recent findings, including macroscopic aspects of the supraspinatus fat pad, composition of the supraspinatus muscle belly, and variability of the glenohumeral ligaments or coracoid ligament, are presented. Basic pathological conditions are described in detail, e. g. instability particularly problems in differentiating the various subtypes of labral pathology. Rotator cuff diseases are elucidated with emphasis on some rarer entities such as subscapularis calcifying tendinitis, coracoid impingement, chronic bursitis producing the double-line sign, prominent coraco-acromial ligament and the impingement due to an inflamed os acromiale."}
{"id": "10653361", "title": "Internal derangements of the shoulder: decision tree and cost-effectiveness analysis of conventional arthrography, conventional MRI, and MR arthrography.", "content": "Internal derangements of the shoulder: decision tree and cost-effectiveness analysis of conventional arthrography, conventional MRI, and MR arthrography. In a patient with internal derangement of the shoulder, the diagnostic method of choice is controversial. Conventional arthrography can diagnose most rotator cuff tears accurately; however, in many institutions MR arthrography is usually necessary to diagnose labral tears. We utilized decision tree methodology to compare the cost-effectiveness of conventional arthrography and conventional MRI with a hypothetical algorithm in which a patient underwent arthrography, performed with admixed gadolinium, which if negative, was followed by MRI. The use of double-contrast arthrography alone, conventional MRI alone, and gadolinium-enhanced MRI used as an adjunct to conventional arthrography were modeled for the diagnosis of full-thickness rotator cuff tears (RCT), partial RCTs, labral tears, and the absence of cuff/labral tears using decision analysis methodology. English language medical publications were searched to determine the base probabilities for the accuracy of the diagnostic tests. The outcome utilities ranged from -1 to +1 to reflect the value of correct diagnostic evaluation. Charges for diagnostic tests and appropriate surgical treatments were based on 1997 Medicare reimbursement rates for professional fees and hospital charges in an outpatient setting. Sensitivity analyses were performed to evaluate the effects of uncertainty regarding the prevalence of each disease state and the accuracy of several diagnostic tests. In the base-case analysis, the average effectiveness of double-contrast arthrography alone, MRI alone and arthrography selectively followed by MRI were 0.6610, 0.6715, and 0.7204, respectively. The average costs for each of these strategies were $1090, $2033, and $2339, respectively. Arthrography performed with admixed diluted gadolinium, which if negative is immediately followed by MRI, was somewhat more expensive than conventional MRI. However, because of much greater effectiveness, cost-effectiveness was significantly higher for our proposed algorithm. Conventional arthrography without gadolinium, although less expensive, had severely limited effectiveness."}
{"id": "10652663", "title": "Arthroscopic versus open Bankart repair for traumatic anterior shoulder instability.", "content": "Arthroscopic versus open Bankart repair for traumatic anterior shoulder instability. After more than 15 years of experience, arthroscopic shoulder stabilization is becoming less controversial. Historically, recurrence rates following arthroscopic stabilization have been higher than with open stabilization. Although a negligible advantage may exist in terms of expedited postoperative rehabilitation and improved postoperative recovery of motion, critics suggest that its use in contact athletes be limited. The indications for arthroscopic stabilization are expanding, in part, because of improved understanding of the pathophysiology of shoulder instability. Understanding the mechanism of recurrent instability following arthroscopic stabilization offers clues to how physicians can prevent unsatisfactory results in the future. With newer instrumentation and the ability to thermally treat capsular tissue, coexisting pathology, such as capsular plastic deformation, rotator interval lesions, and unrecognized intra-articular pathology, can now be addressed arthroscopically. The judicious use of these techniques is warranted until long-term study results become available. Ideal patients for arthroscopic Bankart repair have a discrete Bankart lesion; a robust, well-developed IGHL; no significant capsular laxity or intraligamentous injury; and an absence of concomitant intra-articular pathology. Additional findings on MR imaging or CT evidence of a discrete labral lesion and pure unidirectional anterior instability during EUA are also good prognostic indicators for arthroscopic Bankart repair. Arthroscopic criteria that render patients less appropriate for an arthroscopic repair include capsular injury, capsular laxity, a bony Bankart lesion, glenohumeral arthritis, and a rotator cuff tear. The authors' believe that either absent or patulous, poorly developed glenohumeral ligaments represent a poor prognostic indicator for a successful outcome following standard arthroscopic Bankart repair. Individuals with poor-quality tissue are more predictably managed using open capsulorrhaphy. Patients with pathologic ligamentous laxity in the absence of a Bankart lesion or any apparent intraligamentous injury to the IGHL are also good candidates for treatment with an open capsulorrhaphy. Findings determined from a thorough physical examination, EUA, and the pathology appreciated during diagnostic arthroscopy help to appropriately choose the surgical procedure that effectively addresses pathology in patients who present with recurrent traumatic anterior instability. Patient preferences and surgical experience are important determinants of procedure selection, and current arthroscopic techniques lack the versatility to uniformly address the entire spectrum of pathology that may be associated with traumatic anterior shoulder instability. Surgeons should always be prepared to convert to an open-stabilization technique if the arthroscopic technique is deficient in addressing all pathology identified at the time of surgery."}
{"id": "10644135", "title": "Superior labrum anterior-posterior lesions: diagnosis with MR arthrography of the shoulder.", "content": "Superior labrum anterior-posterior lesions: diagnosis with MR arthrography of the shoulder. To determine the accuracy of magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography in the diagnosis of superior labrum anterior-posterior (SLAP) lesions of the shoulder. From January 1995 to June 1998, MR arthrography of the shoulder was performed in 159 patients with a history of chronic shoulder pain or instability. Fifty-two patients underwent arthroscopy or open surgery 12 days to 5 months after MR arthrography. Diagnostic criteria for SLAP lesion included marked fraying of the articular aspect of the labrum, biceps anchor avulsion, inferiorly displaced bucket handle fragment, and extension of the tear into the biceps tendon fibers. Surgical findings were correlated with those from MR arthrography. SLAP injuries were diagnosed at surgery in 19 of the 52 patients (37%). Six of the 19 lesions (32%) were classified as type I, nine (47%) as type II, one (5%) as type III, and three (16%) as type IV. MR arthrography had a sensitivity of 89% (17 of 19 patients), a specificity of 91% (30 of 33 patients), and an accuracy of 90% (47 of 52 patients). The MR arthrographic classification showed correlation with the arthroscopic or surgical classification in 13 of 17 patients (76%) in whom SLAP lesions were diagnosed at MR arthrography. MR arthrography is a useful and accurate technique in the diagnosis of SLAP lesions of the shoulder. MR arthrography provides pertinent preoperative information with regard to the exact location of tears and grade of involvement of the biceps tendon."}
{"id": "10633896", "title": "Fatty degeneration of the muscles of the rotator cuff: assessment by computed tomography versus magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Fatty degeneration of the muscles of the rotator cuff: assessment by computed tomography versus magnetic resonance imaging. Forty-one patients scheduled for shoulder surgery underwent computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examination of their affected shoulder to verify whether fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff muscles could reproducibly be assessed by CT or by MRI and whether the grading with the 2 methods was comparable. In addition, rotator cuff muscle cross-sectional areas were measured on parasagittal MRI scans to establish a possible correlation between rotator cuff muscle atrophy and fatty degeneration. Interobserver reproducibility for grading fatty degeneration was good to excellent for CT and for MRI. The correlation between MRI and CT was fair to moderate and remained unsatisfactory, even if the classification system was simplified with only a 3- rather than a 5-grade scale as originally proposed. The degree of fatty degeneration was significantly related to the amount of atrophy of the respective muscles."}
{"id": "10633889", "title": "Is supraspinatus pathology as defined by magnetic resonance imaging associated with clinical sign of shoulder impingement?", "content": "Is supraspinatus pathology as defined by magnetic resonance imaging associated with clinical sign of shoulder impingement? To examine the association between supraspinatus pathology and clinical sign of impingement, 42 workers with and 31 age-matched workers without signs of subacromial impingement had their shoulder examined by magnetic resonance imaging. All subjects were selected from an epidemiologic study evaluating the risk of shoulder impingement syndrome in relation to ergonomic exposure. Physical examination was conducted according to the same protocol and included assessment of shoulder function. Magnetic resonance images were evaluated in a blinded manner with regard to clinical status and age. Twenty-two (55%) subjects in the impingement group and 16 (52%) subjects in the control group had a pathologic supraspinatus tendon (odds ratio 1.13 [95% confidence interval 0.45 to 2.88]). The prevalence of supraspinatus pathology increased from 32% in the youngest to 48% in the middle and 72% in the oldest age group. The results of this study indicate that supraspinatus pathology is related to age rather than to clinical sign of impingement."}
{"id": "10631903", "title": "MR imaging of rotator cuff tears: is there a diagnostic benefit of shoulder exercise prior to imaging.", "content": "MR imaging of rotator cuff tears: is there a diagnostic benefit of shoulder exercise prior to imaging. The purpose of this study was to determine if shoulder exercise prior to MR imaging accentuates findings related to rotator cuff tears. In 32 consecutive patients undergoing MR imaging to evaluate the rotator cuff, after routine MR examination, the joint was moved by active or passive exercise (circumduction, including abduction, if possible) in an attempt to redistribute any joint fluid. The exercise was performed according to pain tolerance and for no longer than 4 minutes. The coronal oblique fast spin-echo T2-weighted images of these patients performed before exercise were reviewed by consensus agreement of two musculoskeletal radiologists who were blinded to clinical information. The appearance of the rotator cuff tendons and the distribution of fluid in the glenohumeral joint were determined. The identical postexercise MR images then were placed alongside the corresponding preexercise MR images, and a direct comparison of findings was made with regard to any change in the appearance of the rotator cuff or joint fluid by consensus opinion of the same two radiologists. Five patients (five shoulders) could not perform exercise because of pain. In the remaining 27 patients (27 shoulders), changes in the location of joint fluid were seen when the preexercise and postexercise images were reviewed together, the diagnosis of partial rotator cuff tear (n = 8) was changed to normal in two cases, and the diagnosis of partial tear was made with more confidence in one case. The diagnoses of normal rotator cuff (n = 16) and complete rotator cuff tear (n = 3) were unchanged. Eight patients had arthroscopy; in each of these, the preexercise and postexercise images showed similar results, and proved to be correct surgically (six normal, one partial rotator cuff tear, and one complete rotator cuff tear). Although postexercise MR images show changes in the distribution of joint fluid when compared to preexercise images, the diagnostic benefits of the postexercise images in the analysis of the rotator cuff appear to be limited."}
{"id": "10616812", "title": "The postoperative shoulder.", "content": "The postoperative shoulder. Because disability and pain may persist or recur after shoulder surgery, visualization of the postoperative shoulder before further treatment is of great interest. Postoperative status is reevaluated most frequently after rotator cuff repair, capsulorrhaphy in patients with chronic instability, and acromioplasty, where postoperative symptoms are clinically difficult to distinguish from rerupture or inadequate surgical results. Postoperative evaluation or follow-up after surgical treatment of tumors or surgical repair of shoulder injuries are other potential indications. Whereas surgical procedures for osseous components primarily will be evaluated by plain film radiographs, magnetic resonance imaging is a valuable tool for other sites of surgical treatment, such as soft-tissue components, with further potential indication for magnetic resonance arthrography. This article focuses on normal and abnormal postoperative findings in the shoulder, with emphasis of magnetic resonance imaging, and discusses specific findings based on magnetic resonance arthrography."}
{"id": "20478225", "title": "[Ultrasonographic Examination of the Rotator Cuff of the Shoulder: Our Eight-year Experience.].", "content": "[Ultrasonographic Examination of the Rotator Cuff of the Shoulder: Our Eight-year Experience.]. The authors evaluate their experience with ultrasonographic (USG) examinations of the shoulder they performed in the period between 1992 and 1999. They concentrate mainly on the diagnosis of the lesion of the rotator cuff. They describe methodology of the examination, the used examination positions, instruments and present some pathological findings. They also present possibilities of these diagnostic methods and the indications where the efficiency of its use is limited or zero.They emphasize the necessity of a perfect mastering of the examination technique, a simultaneous clinical examination, x-ray examination and special x-ray projections, if need be. In total they performed 1000 examinations and processed the total number of 762 examinations. Of this number they performed 499 examinations for a suspected rupture of the rotator cuff. They compare the results with per-operative arthroscopic and open revision findings. In this way they processed a group of 78 patients operated on shoulders with preoperative USG. Key words: ultrasonography of shoulder, examination technique, normal and pathological findins."}
{"id": "10613161", "title": "Rotator cuff tears of the hip.", "content": "Rotator cuff tears of the hip. Pain over the lateral aspect of the hip commonly is attributed to trochanteric bursitis. Typical findings include local tenderness and weakness of hip abduction. When conservative measures fail to relieve symptoms, surgical release of the iliotibial band over the greater trochanter has been recommended. In the management of seven such patients, an unusual finding was encountered: partial tear of the gluteus medius tendon at its attachment to the greater trochanter. Each patient presented with increasing hip pain of duration of months to years. There were no diagnostic findings on physical examination. Magnetic resonance imaging showed an abnormal signal within the tendon of gluteus medius and fluid within the trochanteric bursa. The disrupted tendons were reattached to bone with heavy nonabsorbable suture. At a median followup of 45 months (range, 21-60 months), all patients were free of pain."}
{"id": "10608963", "title": "The painful shoulder. Zeroing in on the most common causes.", "content": "The painful shoulder. Zeroing in on the most common causes. Most shoulder problems seen by the primary care physician involve impingement syndrome or problems at the acromioclavicular joint. Despite the complexity of the structures involved, most of these conditions can be diagnosed and treated without difficulty. MRI or other imaging studies are seldom needed but can be used to confirm a questionable diagnosis. Referral to an orthopedic surgeon is appropriate if shoulder problems persist for 3 to 6 months or if there is evidence of a medium or large rotator cuff tear, severe shoulder stiffness, or a complicated fracture."}
{"id": "10591925", "title": "MR imaging after therapeutic injection of the subacromial bursa.", "content": "MR imaging after therapeutic injection of the subacromial bursa. As a therapeutic injection into the subacromial bursa (SAB) is commonly performed for impingement syndrome, it is important to know whether this fluid can be retained for a period of time and cause confusion with a pathologic collection of fluid. This study identifies and describes the appearance of recent subacromial injection using MR imaging, and the appearance of a potential complication. Fourteen asymptomatic shoulders were studied with MR imaging using fast spin echo T2-weighted imaging (1.5 T) prior to injection with 7 cm(3) of xylocaine. Four shoulders had subacromial fluid and were eliminated from the study. The remaining 10 (9 men, 1 woman; age range 27-36 years, average age 33 years) were then re-imaged immediately, and at 6, 12 and 24 h after the injection or until fluid resolved. Each set of images was reviewed for the presence of fluid in the SAB and for additional abnormalities. Fluid was identified in all subjects in the SAB in the immediate, 6 and 12 h post-injection images. At 24 h, fluid was not identified within the SAB in eight of 10 patients. In one patient fluid resolved in 48 h. The other continued to demonstrate fluid in the SAB and in the joint as well as abnormal signal in the infraspinatus muscle from a presumed myositis. Imaging was performed up to 10 days after the injection in this patient. It is known that fluid identified in the SAB without evidence of a cuff tear may be due to bursitis. However, if MR imaging is performed within 24 h of injection, the presence of the fluid may be iatrogenic. In addition, the history of recent therapeutic injection is very important as complications such as myositis can occur as a result of the injection. Knowledge of injection prior to imaging is vital for accurate interpretation of MR shoulder examinations."}
{"id": "10580943", "title": "Subscapularis tendon tears: detection and grading at MR arthrography.", "content": "Subscapularis tendon tears: detection and grading at MR arthrography. To assess diagnostic accuracy in the detection and grading of subscapularis tendon lesions at magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography. MR arthrograms in 50 consecutive patients (29 with normal subscapularis tendons, 11 with a lesion in the cranial quarter, seven with a major tear but not complete detachment, three with complete detachment) with arthroscopic or surgical confirmation were evaluated independently by two radiologists. Diagnosis was established on findings from transverse and/or parasagittal images. With transverse images alone, sensitivity was 95%/100% (reader 1/reader 2); specificity was 55%/62%. With parasagittal images alone, sensitivity was 91%/91%; specificity was 76%/90%. With combined images, sensitivity was 91%/91%; specificity was 86%/79%. Interobserver agreement was substantial (kappa = 0.67). Forty-one of 50 (82%) grades for subscapularis abnormalities matched at MR imaging and surgery; nine mismatches differed by only one degree. Several signs were specific (90%-100%) but insensitive (29%-62%); these included leakage of contrast material onto the lesser tuberosity, fatty degeneration of the subscapularis muscle, and abnormality in the course of the long biceps tendon (luxation, subluxation). MR arthrography is accurate in the detection and grading of subscapularis tendon lesions. Specificity of findings on transverse images for this diagnosis can be improved by including indirect signs and findings on parasagittal images."}
{"id": "10580942", "title": "Shoulder after rotator cuff repair: MR imaging findings in asymptomatic individuals--initial experience.", "content": "Shoulder after rotator cuff repair: MR imaging findings in asymptomatic individuals--initial experience. To assess the magnetic resonance (MR) imaging appearance of the successfully repaired rotator cuff in an asymptomatic population. Fifteen subjects who had undergone clinically successful rotator cuff repair were included in the study. All underwent functional testing of the affected shoulder and had good to excellent scores on the Constant scale. Standard MR imaging sequences were performed at 1.5 T, including oblique coronal fast spin-echo T2-weighted MR imaging with fat saturation. Three (10%) of 30 supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons had normal signal intensity, and 16 (53%) had mildly increased signal intensity on fast spin-echo T2-weighted fat-saturated images, compatible with tendonitis or tendinosis. Three partial and four complete tears of the supraspinatus tendon and two partial and two complete tears of the infraspinatus tendon were seen. Other findings included subacromial-subdeltoid effusion (10 subjects), joint effusions (five subjects), and bone marrow edema (six subjects). Postoperative signal intensity changes consistent with tendonitis or tendinosis were common, and clinically \"silent\" partial and complete rotator cuff tears were seen. Such postoperative MR imaging findings should be interpreted with caution, and meticulous correlation with symptoms and clinical results is recommended."}
{"id": "10579166", "title": "Imaging of the rotator cuff and biceps tendon.", "content": "Imaging of the rotator cuff and biceps tendon. Several different imaging techniques are available for evaluating the rotator cuff and biceps tendon. The common disorders of impingement, rotator cuff tears and biceps tendonitis are discussed along with the role which the various imaging modalities can play in establishing their diagnosis. Plain radiographs can be helpful particularly with a history of trauma but give limited information on the soft tissues. Ultrasound is a useful and inexpensive means of assessing the rotator cuff and biceps tendon but has a number of limitations and varying reports on its accuracy. Computed tomography (CT) is most helpful in the evaluation of shoulder trauma but gives limited information on the soft tissues. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is an accurate imaging modality for evaluating the rotator cuff and biceps tendon, allowing visualisation of the soft tissues and the adjacent bony structures."}
{"id": "10575798", "title": "[The value of radiological examination in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tear].", "content": "[The value of radiological examination in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tear]. The aim of this paper was to evaluate the correlation between radiological changes on a-p radiograph of the shoulder and rotator cuff tear on the ground of analysis of 328 patients (360 shoulders) aged between 11 and 73 years suffering from different forms of periarthritis humeroscapularis. Sonographic examination revealed rotator cuff tear in 54 shoulders; 38 confirmed at surgery and 16 at arthrography. There was very strong correlation between rotator cuff tear and irregularities of greater tubercle, narrowing of the distance between humeral head and acromion to 5 mm or less, greater tubercle recession, osteophytes and reverse shape of acromion. Last 3 changes were very strongly correlated with medium and large size rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "10543593", "title": "The role of the bicipital groove in tendopathy of the long biceps tendon.", "content": "The role of the bicipital groove in tendopathy of the long biceps tendon. Long biceps tendon disease is often underrated but plays an important role in anterior shoulder pain. We studied prospectively the anatomy of the bicipital groove and its relationship to clinical symptoms. Sixty-seven consecutive patients were investigated by mutual ultrasonography and radiographs of the intertubercular groove. All images were scrutinized for biceps tendon status (ultrasonography) and groove anatomy (radiography). Thirty-seven patients (21 male, 16 female, average age 48 years) had chronic anterior shoulder pain, and 30 patients (16 male, 14 female, average age 46 years) served as a control group. In 28 shoulders we found sonographic signs of tendovaginitis, and in 14 we found degenerative changes. The mean age of patients with pathologic conditions of the long biceps tendon was 40 years, significantly lower than that of the complete study group. The x-ray films revealed a great variation in the medial and total opening angle of the groove, whereas width, depth, and humeral head diameter showed sex-related differences. Radiologic signs of groove degeneration correlated in 43.6% with biceps tendon disease on the sonogram. Our study revealed statistically significant correlations between groove anatomy and long biceps tendon disease, which should be considered more while shoulder problems are evaluated."}
{"id": "10526487", "title": "[Pathology of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[Pathology of the rotator cuff]. In daily practice painful shoulder is frequent. Rotator cuff pathology (traumatic, microtraumatic or both) is frequently involved. Treatment is closely related to diagnosis, which directly depends on features given by the triad \"questioning, clinical exam, standard X-rays\". In some very precise cases this triad will be completed by more complex exams (arthro CT, MRI). Rotator cuff pathology is diversified: either tendinopathies (calcifying or not) or tears (partial or transfixiant). Rotator cuff tear's natural evolution is a slow aggravation to a final subacromial arthrosis or an excentrated omarthrosis in a certain term which tolerance may vary."}
{"id": "10526486", "title": "[Imaging of the shoulder].", "content": "[Imaging of the shoulder]. Except for instability, a variety of causes has been described in the painful shoulder. A thorough clinical examination may help establish the cause of shoulder pain. Even if modern imaging modalities (ultrasonography, computed tomography, MR imaging) allowed a precise diagnostic and therapeutic approach, plain radiographs are still necessary. Performed by an experienced radiologist, ultrasonography may be useful for the assessment of rotator cuff tears which are a common problem. CT arthrography and MR imaging are only recommended in preoperative assessment. In calcific tendinitis plain radiographs provide evidence of calcifications. It is not difficult to establish clinically the diagnosis of adhesive capsulitis and arthrography is the only technique to reveal the articular capacity limitation reliably. In degenerative osteoarthritis of the glenohumeral joint, CT arthrography is necessary to assess the rotator cuff changes and lenoid osseus findings before undergoing shoulder arthroplasty."}
{"id": "10524853", "title": "MR evaluation of subscapularis tears.", "content": "MR evaluation of subscapularis tears. The purpose of this work was to describe the MR appearance of tears of the subscapularis tendon and compare the usefulness of different imaging planes as well as note the association of subscapularis tears with other rotator cuff tears and biceps tendon dislocations. MR studies at 1.5 T over an 8 year interval were retrospectively assessed for the presence of a rotator cuff tear and/or tear of the subscapularis tendon. Images that showed a subscapularis tear were reviewed for the presence of a visible tear separately on the axial, coronal, and sagittal images. The MR studies were also evaluated for associated tears of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor muscles as well as biceps tendon dislocation and the \"naked humerus sign\" on coronal images. Last, clinical records and surgical reports were reviewed. Forty-five (2%) of 2,167 rotator cuff tears involved the subscapularis; 27% were partial and 73% were complete tears. Tears were best seen in the sagittal oblique plane. Almost all subscapularis tears were an extension of typical rotator cuff tears: supraspinatus in 35 patients (79%), extending into infraspinatus tears in 25 (56%) and into teres minor tears in 2 patients (4%). Bicipital dislocations were seen in 22 patients (49%), and three complete tears of the biceps (7%) were noted as well. The naked humerus sign was demonstrated in 31 patients (69%). Surgical reports that confirmed the MR findings were available for 15 patients. About 2% of rotator cuff tears involve the subscapularis tendon. Most subscapularis tears are extensions of supraspinatus tears and frequently involve the biceps tendon."}
{"id": "10524698", "title": "Sonography and magnetic resonance imaging equivalent for the assessment of full-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Sonography and magnetic resonance imaging equivalent for the assessment of full-thickness rotator cuff tears. To investigate the diagnostic value of sonography (SG) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the assessment of full-thickness rotator cuff tears (RCTs). Twenty-one consecutive, otherwise healthy patients with noninflammatory unilateral chronic (>3 months) shoulder complaints due to a possible full-thickness RCT were studied (9 women and 12 men, mean +/- SD age 56 +/- 12). According to standardized procedures, SG was performed by both a radiologist and a rheumatologist, and MRI was evaluated by 2 radiologists. All assessors were blinded to the patient's diagnosis. Within 3 weeks after SG and MRI, arthroscopy was performed. SG, MRI, and arthroscopy results were scored as negative or positive for the presence of a full-thickness RCT. The result of surgical inspection was used as the \"gold standard.\" For full-thickness RCTs, the sensitivity was 0.81 for SG and 0.81 for MRI. The specificity was 0.94 for SG and 0.88 for MRI. The positive predictive value was 0.96 for SG and 0.91 for MRI. The negative predictive value was 0.77 for SG and 0.74 for MRI. Accuracy was 0.86 for SG and 0.83 for MRI. Full-thickness RCTs can be identified accurately by both SG and MRI. Because of its low cost and because it can be performed in the rheumatology unit, SG seems to be a promising diagnostic tool for use by the rheumatologist."}
{"id": "10506358", "title": "[Current status and perspectives of shoulder replacement].", "content": "[Current status and perspectives of shoulder replacement]. Basis of the modern shoulder implants is the Neer II-system, a non constrained total shoulder prosthesis with conforming radii of curvature and improved protection against dislocation. The second generation of shoulder prosthesis is based on the geometric shaft design of the Neer II prosthesis and offers not only a variety of modular head- and shaft-sizes but also through different radii a physiologic rotation-translation-mechanism. The third generation of humeral head prosthesis carries the concept of an anatomic reconstruction one step further and enables the surgeon to adjust the inclination and the eccentric offset of the humeral head to restore the centre of rotation. The latest development in shoulder arthroplasty are humeral head prosthesis with a fully variable 3-dimensional modularity to independently adjust the prosthetic head position regardless of the individual shaft geometry. This achieves a 3-dimensional adaptability of the prosthetic head about the stem axis in the coronary and in the sagittal plane. Besides of the humeral shaft prosthesis an alternative concept of shoulder joint replacement is established - the replacement of the humeral head articular surface. A hemispheric surface prosthesis - cup arthroplasty - is cemented onto the residual humeral head, which eliminates the obligatory humeral head resection and the reaming of the medullary canal. Bipolar shoulder prosthesis are humeral shaft prosthesis with a bi-rotational head system. Their indication is limited to pre-existing lesions of the rotator cuff and/or the glenoid surface. The inverse total shoulder prosthesis reverses the articular surface morphology of the humeral head and the glenoid. The hemispheric glenoid component serves as the centre of rotation for the concave epiphyseal proximal humerus component. This implant is especially used in cases of massive rotator cuff deficiencies. The role of shoulder prosthesis in treating acute humeral head fractures needs special consideration. A fracture prosthesis has to restore the exact length of the humerus, the centre of rotation, and the anatomical retroversion. Positioning of the tubercula and their adequate osteosynthesis is most critical and fundamental to ensure a correct healing process. A failed consolidation of the tubercula does not lead to a satisfying result. The shoulder joint replacement can be sufficiently fixated in cemented, cementless or hybrid techniques. Today several component design variations of cemented glenoid implants exist. Their main distinction is the fixation system which can be divided into two main groups - the keel - and the peg-shaped glenoid components. The peg-shaped anchorage system shall guarantee a greater stability against shear-forces. Cementless glenoid components consist of a polyethylene inlay and a surface treated metal-back with an integrated fixation system. These fixation systems are object of intensive biomechanical research and range from conventional screw fixation to specialised cone systems and self-cutting cage-screw-systems. The critical area of cementless glenoid components is the transition zone of the PE-inlay and the metal-back because of high force development. The question of implanting a hemi- or total shoulder prosthesis is answered by the morphologic changes of the glenoid articular surface, which includes the size of the subchondral defect and the underlying etiology of the shoulder joint disease, and the age of the patient. Preoperative planning must consist of an adequate radiologic work-up - X-ray, CT or MRI - to accurately assess the glenoid morphology. G. Walch categorised the different glenoid lesions and developed a very important classification of possible glenoid deformations. To compare and evaluate the operative results one must consider the different shoulder prosthesis and the discrepancies between a hemi- and a total shoulder prosthetic replacement. Looking at the loosening and survival rate of the implant the results are"}
{"id": "10495180", "title": "Paralabral cyst: an unusual cause of quadrilateral space syndrome.", "content": "Paralabral cyst: an unusual cause of quadrilateral space syndrome. A paralabral cyst arising from a detached inferior glenoid labral tear was shown by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to dissect into the quadrilateral space, resulting in a compressive neuropathy of the axillary nerve. Three consecutive MRI examinations were performed over a 5-year period in a 47-year-old man with a long history of worsening shoulder pain. The MRI examinations revealed a slowly enlarging paralabral cyst extending into the quadrilateral space with progressive atrophy of the teres minor muscle."}
{"id": "10477887", "title": "Sonography of the rotator cuff and biceps tendon: technique, normal anatomy, and pathology.", "content": "Sonography of the rotator cuff and biceps tendon: technique, normal anatomy, and pathology."}
{"id": "10472005", "title": "Self-assessment questionnaires document substantial variability in the clinical expression of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Self-assessment questionnaires document substantial variability in the clinical expression of rotator cuff tears. The goal of this investigation was to document the variability in the clinical expression of full-thickness rotator cuff tears with practical and standardized patient self-assessment tools. One-hundred twenty-three consecutive patients with full-thickness cuff tears diagnosed by standard cuff-imaging methods (sonography, arthrography, or magnetic resonance imagery) assessed their own shoulder function and health status with the Simple Shoulder Test and the Short Form 36, respectively. As a group, these patients were substantially compromised in their ability to perform the functions of the Simple Shoulder Test and in the Short Form 36 scales of physical role, physical function, and comfort. As individuals, however, their self-assessments varied widely. The standard deviations were often greater than 50% of the mean and the range of responses often covered the entire scale from the minimum possible score to the maximum possible score. These results show the importance of documenting the clinical expression of cuff tears in patients at initial evaluation and when treatment is being considered. The results also show the practicality of standardized self-assessment questionnaires in such documentation."}
{"id": "10471998", "title": "Age-related prevalence of rotator cuff tears in asymptomatic shoulders.", "content": "Age-related prevalence of rotator cuff tears in asymptomatic shoulders. To determine the prevalence of rotator cuff tears in asymptomatic shoulders we conducted a prospective clinical and ultrasonographic study of 411 volunteers. We anticipated an age-dependent outcome and divided the patients into 4 age-groups. Overall, we found evidence of a rotator cuff tear in 23% of the patients. In group 1 (aged 50 to 59 years), 13% (22 of 167) of the patients had tears; in group 2 (aged 60 to 69 years), 20% (22 of 108) of the patients had tears; in group 3 (aged 70 to 79 years), 31% (27 of 87) of the patients had tears; and in group 4 (age > 80 years), 51% (25 of 49) of the patients had tears. An astonishingly high rate of rotator cuff tears in patients with asymptomatic shoulders was thus demonstrated with increasing patient age. At this stage it remains unclear, however, which parameters convert an asymptomatic rotator cuff tear into a symptomatic tear. As a result, rotator cuff tears must to a certain extent be regarded as \"normal\" degenerative attrition, not necessarily causing pain and functional impairment."}
{"id": "10463744", "title": "Evaluation of chronic tears of the rotator cuff by ultrasound. A new index.", "content": "Evaluation of chronic tears of the rotator cuff by ultrasound. A new index. The diagnosis of chronic lesions of the rotator cuff is challenging. We have developed a new index to improve the sonographic diagnosis of chronic tears of the cuff. In a pilot study, we examined 50 asymptomatic healthy volunteers by ultrasound to establish the diameter of the rotator cuff in relation to the tendon of the long head of biceps. Subsequently, the index was calculated in 64 patients who had had shoulder pain for more than three months caused by clinically diagnosed lesions of the rotator cuff. The compensatory hypertrophy of the biceps tendon was quantified sonographically in relation to the diameter of the cuff. Comparison with the contralateral shoulder revealed a significantly higher biceps rotator-cuff ratio (p < 0.05) for patients with torn rotator cuffs. A ratio greater than 0.8 was considered pathological (index positive); the mean ratio in the control group was 0.43. The sensitivity of a positive index was 97.8%, the specificity 63.2%, the positive predictive value 86.3%, and the negative predictive value 92.4% in comparison with surgical findings. Use of the index improves sensitivity in the diagnosis of chronic tears of the cuff by ultrasound."}
{"id": "10463016", "title": "Imaging of the painful shoulder.", "content": "Imaging of the painful shoulder. A variety of imaging techniques are available for evaluating shoulder pathology. The common disorders of impingement, rotator cuff tears, biceps tenosynovitis and instability are discussed along with the role of various imaging modalities in establishing their diagnosis. Plain radiographs can provide useful information particularly with a history of trauma but give limited information on the soft tissue structures around the shoulder. Ultrasound is a useful and inexpensive means of assessing the biceps tendon and rotator cuff but has a number of limitations and varying reports on its accuracy. Computed tomography (CT) is most helpful in the evaluation of shoulder trauma but gives limited information on the soft tissues. When performed with intra-articular contrast, CT can be used to evaluate shoulder instability particularly in cases where magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is not available or contraindicated. MRI with or without intra-articular contrast is the most accurate imaging modality for evaluating shoulder pathology allowing visualization of the soft tissues that are often the source of pain."}
{"id": "10457553", "title": "[Treatment of fresh humeral diaphysis fractures by Seidel intramedullary locked nailing. A study of 23 initial cases after 2.5 years with rotator cuff evaluation].", "content": "[Treatment of fresh humeral diaphysis fractures by Seidel intramedullary locked nailing. A study of 23 initial cases after 2.5 years with rotator cuff evaluation]. The Seidel intramedullary locking nail is one of the alternative methods for operative treatment of humeral shaft fractures. Short follow-up demonstrated persistent pain and stiffness at the shoulder joint. The aims of this retrospective study were first to evaluate results with attention to operative technique, consolidation rate and postoperative complications. Second we studied rotator cuff healing in our first patients. Twenty-five acute diaphyseal fractures were treated between May 91 and Dec 94. We reviewed personally 23 patients with a mean follow-up of 33 months (range 22-66). The dominant fracture type according to AO was type A. Clinical shoulder assessment was carried out using the Constant score. Isometric strength was recorded in both shoulders with a hand-held dynamometer in abduction, external and internal rotation. Sonographic evaluation of the rotator cuff was performed using a 7.5 MHz linear array transducer in all 23 patients. All but one fracture healed at an average of two months. Impingement was observed in three patients but pain relief and normal shoulder motion have been reached after nail removal. Infection occurred in one patient but final result was good. Constant score averaged 78.7 (range 51-94.2) classifying the result in all but two patients as excellent or good. Compared with the external and internal rotations, strength was significantly reduced in abduction but reached 83.5 per cent of the opposite shoulder. No statistical differences were found in relation with age, gender and side. Compared with the contralateral shoulder, rotator cuff evaluation with sonography was considered as normal in 18 patients. Calcium deposits of the cuff were noticed in the infected patient. In three cases sonography detected hyperechoic line considered as scar in the supraspinatus tendon without any partial or full-thickness tear. A median starting point avoids the avascular area and gives a straight access to the medullary canal. This study demonstrates that using this entry portal and a reliable technique antegrade nailing of the humerus does not compromise rotator cuff healing and shoulder function. Technical errors lead to poor or fair results but despite this learning curve, Seidel nail when operative treatment is indicated, is a good choice. Attention must be paid to patients with clinical history of impingement or rotator cuff tendinopathy."}
{"id": "10447077", "title": "Alternative and effective treatment of shoulder ganglion cyst: ultrasonographically guided aspiration.", "content": "Alternative and effective treatment of shoulder ganglion cyst: ultrasonographically guided aspiration. The therapeutic effect of ultrasonographically guided aspiration of a ganglion cyst of the shoulder is evaluated. Fifteen patients (nine male, six female) with chronic shoulder pain were enrolled in this study. Each patient was referred to rule out rotator cuff lesion. The ultrasonographic examination showed an anechoic cystic lesion in the shoulder region in every patient and abnormality of the rotator cuff in only four patients. Under ultrasonographic guidance, an 18 gauge needle was inserted into the cyst to aspirate the fluid. Initial sonographic imaging showed the cyst, which appeared as a localized fluid accumulation and was located between the deltoid muscle and the subscapularis tendon in seven patients, between the deltoid muscle and the biceps tendon in one patient, below the coracoacromial ligament in five patients, and over suprascapular notch area in one patient. The ganglion cysts ranged in size from 3.5 to 30 mm. The amount of aspirated fluid in each cyst varied from 0.4 to 12 ml (mean, 2.6 ml +/- 3.1) with a clear or light yellowish color and a jelly-like appearance. No major complications occurred during or after this procedure. The symptom (pain) was improved after sonographically guided aspiration in each patient. Follow-up study showed complete relief of pain in four patients, marked improvement in nine patients, and mild improvement but still persistent shoulder pain in two patients. Duration of follow-up study ranged from 2 to 24 months (mean, 6.4 months +/- 6.9). The success rate for sonographically guided aspiration was 86% on the basis of marked symptom improvement or relief. Ultrasonographically guided aspiration of shoulder ganglion cysts is an effective procedure in the management of shoulder pain caused by ganglion cysts."}
{"id": "10442080", "title": "Shoulder sonography. State of the art.", "content": "Shoulder sonography. State of the art. Since the mid 1980s, sonography has been used to evaluate the rotator cuff. It is inexpensive, well tolerated, rapidly performed, and accurate. With the recent improvements in imaging equipment and refinements in scanning technique, an increasing number of radiologists are performing shoulder sonography. This article emphasizes the pertinent musculoskeletal anatomy, sonographic technique, normal sonographic anatomy, pathophysiology of rotator cuff and biceps tendon disease, sonographic findings of rotator cuff tears, and biceps tendon pathology. The accuracy of ultrasound in diagnosing rotator cuff tears and miscellaneous abnormalities that can be detected with ultrasound also are discussed."}
{"id": "19078384", "title": "A comparative study of ultrasonography with magnetic resonance imaging in patients with painful shoulder.", "content": "A comparative study of ultrasonography with magnetic resonance imaging in patients with painful shoulder. The recent improvement of musculoskeletal imaging achieved by high-frequency ultrasonography (US) and its important advantages as a routine dynamic imaging tool-providing results rapidly, absence of secondary effects, and low cost-make US a very useful tool in rheumatologic practice. We prospectively compared high-frequency US with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in patients with painful shoulder syndrome.Thirty-four consecutive patients (36 shoulders) with a first flare of shoulder pain were included in the study. US and MRI shoulder examination were performed within 2 weeks. US shoulder examinations were performed by a rheumatologist experienced in US, without knowledge of the MRI results. The MRI results were considered the gold standard. US showed high sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values (range 85.7%-100%) in the diagnosis of tendinitis, partial-thickness, and full-thickness tear of the rotator cuff and degenerative changes of the acromio-clavicular joint. Rotator cuff calcifications were detected only by US. We highly recommend that for many painful shoulders, appropriately trained rheumatologists can perform US examinations to establish an accurate diagnosis and, thereby, improve therapy."}
{"id": "10424336", "title": "Subacromial-subdeltoid lipoma arborescens associated with a rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Subacromial-subdeltoid lipoma arborescens associated with a rotator cuff tear. A 44-year-old man presented with lipoma arborescens of the right shoulder, associated with a rotator cuff tear. MRI revealed villous proliferations with signal intensity of fat on all pulse sequences. At surgery, this bursa was found to contain moderately yellow cloudy fluid without fat globules. Histological examination of the lesion showed subsynovial accumulation of mature fat cells."}
{"id": "10399636", "title": "Lesions of the reflection pulley of the long biceps tendon. MR arthrographic findings.", "content": "Lesions of the reflection pulley of the long biceps tendon. MR arthrographic findings. The purpose of this study was to assess the diagnostic value of MR arthrography in detecting a lesion of the common insertion of the coracohumeral and the superior glenohumeral ligaments and the superior border of the subscapularis tendon (pulley lesion), which predisposes to biceps tendon subluxation and subsequent degeneration. Parasagittal T1-weighted turbo spin-echo and axial gradient-echo (three-dimensional fast imaging with steady state-precession [FISP]) MR arthrographic images were obtained in 14 patients with surgically confirmed pulley lesions and in 10 patients with an intact pulley. Various MR arthrographic signs potentially associated with a pulley lesion were evaluated separately and independently in a blinded fashion by two radiologists. Abnormalities of the superior border of the subscapularis tendon on axial and parasagittal images, extra-articular contrast collection, and biceps tendon subluxation were the MR findings of a pulley lesion. The coracohumeral and superior glenohumeral ligaments were not readily visible in all patients and were not helpful in diagnosing pulley lesions in this study. The overall sensitivity for detecting a pulley lesion by MR arthrography was 86% and 93% for readers 1 and 2, with a specificity of 100% and 80% and an accuracy of 92% and 87% (kappa = 0.75). Based on the authors' experience, MR arthrography is valuable in detecting lesions of the reflection pulley of the long biceps tendon, although differentiation from an isolated lesion of the superior border of the subscapularis tendon may not be possible."}
{"id": "10395129", "title": "Sonographically detected subacromial/subdeltoid bursal effusion and biceps tendon sheath fluid: reliable signs of rotator cuff tear?", "content": "Sonographically detected subacromial/subdeltoid bursal effusion and biceps tendon sheath fluid: reliable signs of rotator cuff tear? Our purpose was to determine the association between sonographically detected subacromial/subdeltoid (SA/SD) bursal and biceps tendon sheath effusions and arthrographically proven rotator cuff tears. Shoulder sonography reports and sonograms of 105 shoulders in 102 patients who also underwent arthrography were retrospectively reviewed for the presence of fluid within the biceps tendon sheath and SA/SD bursa. Reports and sonograms for 151 asymptomatic shoulders were also reviewed. Biceps tendon sheath effusion and/or bursal fluid were detected in 50 (48%) of 105 shoulders. Fifty-one patients had rotator cuff tears; 28 of them had effusions at 1 or both sites. The sensitivity, specificity, and positive predictive value (PPV) of biceps tendon sheath effusions for diagnosing rotator cuff tear were 35%, 74%, and 56%, respectively. For SA/SD bursal effusions, the sensitivity, specificity, and PPV were 8%, 94%, and 57%, respectively. For combined biceps tendon sheath and bursal effusions, the sensitivity, specificity, and PPV were 12%, 91%, and 54%, respectively. There was no statistically significant association between rotator cuff tears and effusions in the biceps tendon sheath, SA/SD bursa, or both. Among the 151 asymptomatic shoulders, 12 (7.9%) had biceps tendon sheath fluid, 5 (3.3%) had SA/SD bursal effusion, and 2 (1.3%) had both biceps tendon sheath and bursal effusions. The sonographic detection of intraarticular fluid, SA/SD bursal fluid, or both has a low sensitivity and PPV in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. Isolated intra-articular and/or SA/SD bursal effusions are not reliable signs of rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "10389080", "title": "Functional and magnetic resonance imaging evaluation after single-tendon rotator cuff reconstruction.", "content": "Functional and magnetic resonance imaging evaluation after single-tendon rotator cuff reconstruction. The aim of this study was to investigate tendon integrity after surgical repair of single-tendon rotator cuff lesions. In 31 patients, 31 single-tendon repairs were evaluated. Thirty-one patients were available for clinical assessment and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at follow-up. A standard series of MR images was obtained for each. The results of functional assessment were scored according to the system of Constant. According to MRI evaluation, 21 (68%) patients had an intact or thinned rotator cuff and 10 (32%) had recurrence of a full-thickness cuff defect at follow-up. Patients with an intact or thinned rotator cuff had a median Constant score of 75.5 points; patients with a full-thickness cuff defect had a median score of 62 points. There was no correlation between tendon integrity on postoperative MR images and functional outcome. Patients with intact or thinned cuffs did not have significantly better functional results than patients with retorn cuffs. Because of the presence of metal artifacts and the difficulty in distinguishing postoperative scar tissue from partial tears or thinning, MRI is of minor diagnostic value in assessing the shoulder after cuff repair. However, full-thickness tears are readily diagnosed after operation with MRI."}
{"id": "10389076", "title": "Primary anterior shoulder dislocation and rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Primary anterior shoulder dislocation and rotator cuff tears. In a prospective controlled study 167 patients with 167 primary traumatic anterior shoulder dislocations underwent early ultrasonograpic evaluation for rotator cuff tears. We found 53 (31.7%) full-thickness cuff tears in this group. Compared with a group of 93 healthy volunteers, we found with statistical significance more cuff tears in the patients aged < 60 years. Women ruptured the cuff more often than men. If the patient is not able to elevate the affected arm more than 90 degrees in the scapular plane 2 weeks after the dislocation, there should be a high suspicion of rotator cuff tear (76.7%). For early detection of relevant rotator cuff lesions, we recommend shoulder ultrasonographic examination and measurement of active elevation after each traumatic shoulder dislocation in the above mentioned age group."}
{"id": "10367523", "title": "[The sensitivity and specificity of sonographic examination in detection of rotator cuff tear].", "content": "[The sensitivity and specificity of sonographic examination in detection of rotator cuff tear]. Sonographic examination was performed in 72 patients (74 shoulders) suffering from different shoulder diseases. The results were correlated with findings obtained during subsequent surgery in 57 patients (58 shoulders) and arthrography in 15 cases (16 shoulders). Rotator cuff tear was proved during surgical procedure in 37 patients (38 shoulders). The sensitivity and specificity of ultrasonography in detection of cuff tear was 98.2% and 90% respectively. In case of partial cuff tear ultrasonography had lower sensitivity--50% while specificity was 96.3%. In detection of supraspinatus tendon tear the ultrasound sensitivity was 100% and specificity 95.6%, in case of infraspinatus tear sensitivity was 66.7% and specificity 94% while for subscapularis tear these values were equal 75% and 98.1%. The size of sonographically estimated cuff defect correlated properly with intrasurgical measurement in 76.3% of all cases."}
{"id": "10358723", "title": "Ultrasonographic analysis of shoulder rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Ultrasonographic analysis of shoulder rotator cuff tears. Seventy-nine shoulders suspected of rotator cuff tears were examined by ultrasonography (US) and forty-three received surgery. Long and short axis scans were performed and findings of each were separately classified according to a five-grade system, and the results were correlated with the actual extent of tear observed during surgery. Internal echogenicity and subacromial impingement were analyzed before and after surgery. A accuracy of US in detecting rotator cuff tears was analyzed. In addition, the correlation between cuff shape observed by US before surgery and actual shape observed during surgery was assessed. It was noted that cuff thinning and abnormalities in shape did not recover to normal after surgery. However, in the cases of discontinuities observed by US before surgery, US findings indicated that the torn cuff was anchored to the greater tuberosity and functional during active motion. Although post-operative US findings were not normal, clinical results were good in most cases. Sensitivity of US for detecting rotator cuff tear was 100% and specificity 94%. US is non-invasive, cost effective and allows the physician to examine the joint while it is in motion. Therefore, at this time, we use US as a screening method for detecting rotator cuff tears. Furthermore, US allows us to check for re-tears while the joint is in motion, which is essential for accurate diagnosis."}
{"id": "10354876", "title": "Diagnostic and therapeutic impact of MRI and arthrography in the investigation of full-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Diagnostic and therapeutic impact of MRI and arthrography in the investigation of full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Investigation of shoulder pain is important before surgical treatment. The presence or absence of a full-thickness rotator cuff tear (FTRCT) may determine the type of surgical treatment. Both MRI and conventional arthrography can be used, but little is known about their relative diagnostic and therapeutic impact. We performed a prospective trial assessing: (a) the influence of MRI and arthrography results on the clinician's diagnostic thinking (diagnostic impact); (b) the influence of the results on the clinician's therapeutic thinking (therapeutic impact); and (c) the diagnostic performance of the two techniques in patients with surgical confirmation. A total of 104 consecutive patients with shoulder problems referred to a specialist orthopaedic shoulder clinic underwent pre-operative investigation with MRI and arthrography. The surgeon's diagnosis, diagnostic confidence and planned treatment were measured before the investigation, and then again after the results of each investigation. Before the presentation of the investigation, results, the patients were randomised into two groups. In one group MRI was presented first; in the other group, arthrography. The MRI results led to fewer changes in diagnostic category (14 of 46, 30%) than arthrography (20 of 54, 37%), but the difference was not significant (P > 0.5). Magnetic resonance imaging led to slightly more changes in planned management (17 of 47, 36%) than arthrography (14 of 55, 25%), but again the difference was not statistically significant (P > 0.3). The results of the second investigation always had less diagnostic and therapeutic impact than the first. The accuracy of MRI for FTRCT in 38 patients with surgical confirmation was 79%, sensitivity 81% and specificity 78%; the accuracy of arthrography was 82%, sensitivity 50% and specificity 96%. The clinical diagnosis and management plan can be adequately defined by a single radiological investigation. Magnetic resonance imaging and arthrography had fairly similar diagnostic and therapeutic impact and comparable accuracy, although MRI was more sensitive and less specific. Magnetic resonance imaging may be the preferred investigation because of its better demonstration of soft tissue anatomy."}
{"id": "10353037", "title": "Indirect MR arthrography of the unexercised glenohumeral joint in patients with rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Indirect MR arthrography of the unexercised glenohumeral joint in patients with rotator cuff tears. To evaluate the diagnostic utility of indirect MR arthrography of the unexercised glenohumeral joint in patients with rotator cuff tears confirmed by arthroscopy or arthrotomy as the gold standard. Twenty-six patients underwent conventional MR imaging and indirect MR arthrography of the stationary glenohumeral joint using a wrap-around surface coil. Unenhanced T1-weighted spin echo/T2-weighted fast spin echo sequences and T1-weighted gradient echo sequences, adding spectral fat suppression after intravenous administration of contrast medium, were performed in the oblique coronal and oblique sagittal planes. Images were analyzed by three experienced radiologists in consensus. Levels of diagnostic confidence were evaluated using a four-point scale of diagnostic certainty. Performing indirect MR arthrography of the unexercised shoulder leads to a diagnostically efficient enhancement of joint fluid (120% at 4 minutes and 145% at 8 minutes after intravenous injection of gadodiamide). In terms of soft tissue delineation, characterization of rotator cuff tears was significantly improved by using enhanced fat-suppressed T1-weighted gradient echo sequences compared with conventional MR imaging. Indirect MR arthrography without glenohumeral joint exercise in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears is feasible and represents a more convenient and less time-consuming alternative to indirect MR arthrography after joint exercise."}
{"id": "20086727", "title": "Proximal biceps tendon rupture: primarily an injury of middle age.", "content": "Proximal biceps tendon rupture: primarily an injury of middle age. A 51-year-old man suffered a rupture of the long-head tendon of the left biceps and a small rotator cuff tear while rock climbing. The typical signs and symptoms of a ruptured long-head biceps tendon include anterior shoulder pain, tenderness in the bicipital groove, and unusual bulging of the injured biceps. The history and physical exam are generally sufficient to make the diagnosis, but x-rays and MRI may be helpful to rule out related disorders. Because the injury is often associated with rotator cuff tendinitis, a complete shoulder exam is necessary. Conservative treatment will enable most patients to regain normal strength."}
{"id": "10339775", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging findings in idiopathic adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging findings in idiopathic adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder. To describe magnetic resonance imaging findings in idiopathic adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder. Twenty patients with idiopathic adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder underwent magnetic resonance imaging involving two spin-echo T2-weighted sequences with fat saturation and two spin-echo T1-weighted postgadolinium sequences; for all sequences, sections were obtained in the oblique coronal and transverse axial planes. Findings were compared to those obtained using the same imaging protocol in 15 patients with clinical manifestations of rotator cuff tear. Postgadolinium enhancement of the joint capsule and synovial membrane was seen in the rotator interval in all 25 adhesive capsulitis patients and in the axillary recess in 22 of the 25. Only one of the 15 rotator cuff tear patients had this finding. In both groups, postgadolinium enhancement occurred in the subacromial bursa, in the rotator cuff tendons, and in the acromioclavicular joint. No significant rotator cuff tears were found in any of the adhesive capsulitis patients. In difficult cases, magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium injection can contribute to the diagnosis of idiopathic adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder."}
{"id": "10336198", "title": "Rotator cuff: evaluation with US and MR imaging.", "content": "Rotator cuff: evaluation with US and MR imaging. Magnetic resonance (MR) and ultrasound (US) imaging are currently touted for assessment of rotator cuff disease. Optimum clinical imaging techniques include use of (a) a 1.5-T MR imaging unit with small planar coils, proton-density-weighted and T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequences, and 10-12-cm fields of view (yielding 400-470 x 500-625-microm in-plane spatial resolution) and (b) a state-of-the-art commercial US unit with insonation frequencies of 9-13 MHz (yielding 200-400-microm axial and lateral resolution). Proper diagnosis requires familiarity with normal anatomic characteristics and imaging pitfalls. Care must be taken to avoid sonographic tendon anisotropy and MR imaging magic angle effects, which can be misinterpreted as rotator cuff tear. At MR imaging, a complete cuff tear typically appears as either a hyperintense defect or a tendinous avulsion that extends from the bursal to the articular side of the cuff; a partial cuff tear typically appears as a focal hyperintense region that contacts only one surface of the cuff. Complete and partial tears manifest with a wide spectrum of findings at US. MR imaging and US are effective for evaluating rotator cuff injuries, with high reported accuracies for detection of complete tears but more disparate results for detection of partial tears."}
{"id": "10335968", "title": "Clinical impact of MR arthrography of the shoulder.", "content": "Clinical impact of MR arthrography of the shoulder. To evaluate the effect of MR arthrography of the shoulder on diagnostic thinking and therapeutic decisions by orthopedic shoulder surgeons. Orthopedic surgeons completed a questionnaire before and after MR arthrography for 73 consecutive patients. The main indications were suspected rotator cuff abnormalities. The clinical diagnosis, the degree of confidence in this diagnosis, and the therapeutic decision were noted before and after MR imaging. Surgical reports were available for 34 patients. Thirty-four percent of the pre-MR imaging diagnoses were withdrawn after MR imaging, and new diagnoses were made after MR imaging in 13% of the cases. Confidence in the diagnosis increased significantly after MR imaging for supraspinatus and infraspinatus lesions (p<0.05). Changes of therapeutic decision after MR imaging were noted in 36 of the 73 patients (49%). In 23 patients, more invasive therapeutic procedures were initiated after MR imaging, and a more conservative treatment was implemented for 13 patients. Agreement of MR diagnoses with surgery was 94% for supraspinatus tears, 87% for infraspinatus tears, 77% for subscapularis tears, and 81% for biceps tendon lesions. Agreement of clinical diagnoses with surgery was 56%, 83%, 50%, and 64%, respectively. MR arthrography of the shoulder has a major effect on diagnostic thinking and therapeutic decisions by orthopedic shoulder surgeons."}
{"id": "10327490", "title": "Rotator cuff imaging using bursography coupled to helical computed arthrotomography.", "content": "Rotator cuff imaging using bursography coupled to helical computed arthrotomography. To describe a rotator cuff imaging method with high sensitivity for the detection of partial tears of the superficial surface of the rotator cuff. 33 patients with shoulder pain and no conventional arthrography evidence of a full-thickness rotator cuff tear were investigated by bursography coupled with helical computed arthrotomography. Nine subsequently underwent surgery or bursoscopy. Helical computed arthrotomography disclosed an abnormality of the superficial surface of the rotator cuff in 15 patients (45.5%). In the nine patients who had surgery or bursoscopy, findings from this investigation were consistent with those from bursography plus helical computed tomography. Bursography coupled with helical computed tomography may be of assistance for the diagnosis of lesions of the superficial cuff surface, which often escape detection by ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging."}
{"id": "10231101", "title": "Internal impingement of the shoulder: comparison of findings between the throwing and nonthrowing shoulders of college baseball players.", "content": "Internal impingement of the shoulder: comparison of findings between the throwing and nonthrowing shoulders of college baseball players. The authors evaluated and compared the findings of gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies of throwing and nonthrowing shoulders in college baseball athletes and contrasted these findings with the clinical examination results. Ten throwing college baseball athletes were prospectively clinically examined for instability, range of motion, impingement signs, and relocation testing, then evaluated with bilateral gadolinium enhanced MRI using the nonthrowing shoulder as a control. All MRIs were performed on a 1.5-Tesla magnet and included routine adduction images and images obtained in abduction and external rotation (ABER). Studies were interpreted by a musculoskeletal radiologist and an orthopaedic surgeon specializing in shoulder surgery. In all shoulders, ABER imaging showed physical contact between the undersurface of the rotator cuff and the posterior superior glenoid. No imaging or physical examination abnormalities were identified in the nonthrowing shoulders. Three of 10 throwing shoulders had superior labral tears and adjacent paralabral cysts extending toward or into the spinoglenoid notch. Four of 10 throwing shoulders had abnormal signal change in the rotator cuff tendons. No correlation was identified between positive MRI findings and instability on physical examination. Physical contact between the rotator cuff undersurface and the subjacent labrum can be seen normally in the ABER position. Abnormalities of the rotator cuff and superior labrum are seen in asymptomatic throwing shoulders but not nonthrowing shoulders. MRI abnormalities consistent with internal impingement can be seen in asymptomatic patients. Treatment of these abnormalities in young throwing athletes should be approached with caution."}
{"id": "10227521", "title": "Greater tuberosity changes as revealed by radiography: lack of clinical usefulness in patients with rotator cuff disease.", "content": "Greater tuberosity changes as revealed by radiography: lack of clinical usefulness in patients with rotator cuff disease. Studies linking greater tuberosity findings on radiographs with rotator cuff disease have largely been uncontrolled and biased toward more severe disease. We correlated greater tuberosity changes seen on radiography with rotator cuff disease seen on MR images in a broadly symptomatic patient population. Both radiography and MR imaging were performed in 108 shoulders. Unaware of the MR imaging findings, three radiologists independently reviewed the radiographs for cortical thickening, subcortical sclerosis, and cystlike lesions in the humeral greater tuberosity. Interobserver agreement was analyzed using kappa statistics. We correlated the radiographic findings with MR imaging evidence of rotator cuff tears and tendonopathy. The positive predictive value of each finding for rotator cuff disease was also calculated. Interobserver agreement for the three radiographic findings was poor to fair: Kappa values ranged from .06 to .41. Cortical thickening and subcortical sclerosis were not seen more frequently in shoulders with rotator cuff disease than in normal shoulders. Cystlike lesions were more prevalent in shoulders with rotator cuff disease, but the association reached statistical significance (p < .05) for one observer only. Positive predictive values for each finding were low (14-48% for predicting full-thickness rotator cuff tears). Cortical thickening of the greater tuberosity and subcortical sclerosis are not associated with rotator cuff disease. For some observers, identifying cystlike lesions is associated with rotator cuff disease, but the clinical usefulness of the observation is limited by high interobserver variability and poor positive predictive value."}
{"id": "10216997", "title": "[Paralytic shoulder secondary to post-traumatic peripheral nerve lesions in the adult].", "content": "[Paralytic shoulder secondary to post-traumatic peripheral nerve lesions in the adult]. A critical review is presented of the indications for nerve repair or transfer and for palliative operations in the management of paralytic shoulder following traumatic neurological injuries in the adult. Different situations are considered: paralytic shoulder following supraclavicular lesions of the brachial plexus, following retro- and infraclavicular lesions and following lesions to the terminal branches of the plexus (axillary, suprascapular and musculocutaneous nerves) and finally problems related to lesions of the accessory nerve and the long thoracic nerve. I. Supraclavicular lesions of the brachial plexus. In complete (C5 to T1) lesions, the possibilities for nerve repair or transfer are at best limited, and the aim is to restore active flexion of the elbow. Palliative operations may be associated in order to stabilize the shoulder. In case of a complete C5 to T1 root avulsion, amputation at the distal humerus may be considered but is rarely performed combined with shoulder arthrodesis if the trapezius and serratus anterior muscles are functioning. The shoulder may also be stabilized by a ligament plasty using the coracoacromial ligament. In cases where the supraspinatus and long head of the biceps have recovered, but where active external rotation is absent, function may be improved by derotation osteotomy of the humerus. In partial C5,6 or C5,6,7 lesions, the indications for nerve repair and transfer are wider, as well as the indications for muscle transfers. In C5,6 lesions, a neurotization from the accessory nerve to the suprascapular nerve gives 60% satisfactory results; this is also true following treatment of C5,6,7 lesions, whereas restoration of active elbow flexion is obtained in 100% of cases in C5,6 lesions but only in 86% in C5,6,7 lesions. In cases where shoulder function has not been restored, palliative operations may be considered: arthrodesis or, more often, derotation osteotomy of the humerus which can be combined with transfer of the teres major and latissimus dorsi. II. Retro- and infraclavicular lesions of the brachial plexus. Twenty-five percent of the lesions of the brachial plexus occur in the retro- or infraclavicular region and involve the secondary trunks, most commonly the posterior trunk. Nerve repair should be performed early. The shoulder may be affected owing to involvement of the axillary nerve in cases of lesions of the posterior trunk, often associated with a lesion of the suprascapular nerve. Regarding the terminal branches (axillary, suprascapular and musculocutaneous nerves), spontaneous recovery may be expected in a significant proportion of cases but is often delayed (6-9 months), and the problem is to avoid unnecessary operations while not unduly delaying surgical repair in cases where it is indicated. MRI may be useful to delineate those cases where surgery is indicated: repair is usually performed around 6 months following trauma. Isolated lesions of the axillary nerve may be repaired with good results using a nerve graft. The lesion may occur in combination with a lesion of the suprascapular nerve; the latter may be interrupted at several levels. Proximal repair may be performed using a nerve graft; distal lesions are more difficult to repair and may require intramuscular neurotization. Lesions of the musculocutaneous nerve may be repaired with good results using a nerve graft. Lesions of the axillary nerve may be seen associated with lesions of the rotator cuff. The treatment varies according to the age and condition of the patient and according to the condition of the cuff muscles and tendons: in a young patient with avulsion of the tendons from bone, cuff reinsertion is indicated; in an older patient, the cuff must be evaluated by MRI or arthroscan, and repair is indicated unless the cuff tear is not amenable to surgery or there is fatty degeneration of the muscles. Palliative surgery may be indicated in cases seen late or after failed attempts at nerve repair. (ABSTRACT"}
{"id": "10210067", "title": "Arthroscopic debridement and acromioplasty versus mini-open repair in the treatment of significant partial-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Arthroscopic debridement and acromioplasty versus mini-open repair in the treatment of significant partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. Partial tears of the rotator cuff, especially of the articular side, have received attention only with the recent ability of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and arthroscopy to diagnose these lesions. Several early reports showed nearly 100% success in managing these lesions with arthroscopic debridement with or without acromioplasty. This series compares 32 patients with significant partial-thickness rotator cuff tears treated with debridement and acromioplasty versus 33 patients with mini-open repair. Follow-up was from 2 to 7 years. Preoperative MRI was not useful; when positive, preoperative arthrography was useful for articular side tears. Of the tears, 12% were bursal side tears and the remainder were articular side tears; all were at least 50% or more of the thickness of the tendon. A significant number of the arthroscopic group had fair results by UCLA score criteria. Three patients reruptured the remaining cuff later despite adequate acromioplasty. Healing of the partial tear was never observed at second-look arthroscopy. Although postoperative pain was significantly greater and recovery slower with open repair, no patient was reoperated on and rerupture of the repair did not occur. The outstanding results of prior studies of cuff debridement were not duplicated in this series of cuff debridements with long-term follow-up. Adequate acromioplasty alone does not prophylactically prevent rotator cuff tear progression. Recognition and repair of these significant partial tears may be advisable for the long-term function of the shoulder despite short-term improvement in morbidity with arthroscopic treatment."}
{"id": "10093412", "title": "[Isolated traumatic rupture of the subscapular tendon].", "content": "[Isolated traumatic rupture of the subscapular tendon]. Clinical appearance of isolated traumatic rupture of the subscapularis tendon confirmed with sonography, double contrast CT and intraoperatively in two patients has been presented. The mechanism of the injury--forceful external rotation and hyperextension of the arm, increased passive external rotation and positive \"lifft of test\" may lead to the correct diagnosis."}
{"id": "10090180", "title": "Shoulder involvement in rheumatic diseases. Sonographic findings.", "content": "Shoulder involvement in rheumatic diseases. Sonographic findings. To distinguish using shoulder sonography the different changes present in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR), and periarticular disorders (PD) of soft tissue of the shoulder. Ninety shoulders of patients with RA, 32 with PMR, 122 with PD, and 108 controls were studied sonographically, using a 7.5 MHz linear probe. The following structures were evaluated: long head of biceps tendon, supraspinatus, infraspinatus and subscapularis tendons, subacromial and subscapularis bursae, rotator cuff (thickness), calcifications, and glenohumeral and acromioclavicular joints. Statistical analysis was by Student's t test and chi-squared test. Involvement of long head of biceps tendon (peritendinous fluid collection, changes of thickness, and/or echotexture) was significantly different between RA and PMR and between PD and PMR. Alterations in thickness and/or fibrillar pattern were evaluated in rotator cuff tendons: supraspinatus tendon was involved with significant differences between PD and both RA and PMR; the changes of subscapularis tendon were present, with significant differences between PD and both the other groups; the alterations of infraspinatus tendon were not statistically different between the 3 groups. Effusion within bursae was present, with significant differences only between RA and PD. The mean thickness of rotator cuff was significantly different between controls (6.2 mm) and both PD (5.3 mm) and RA (5.8 mm), and between PMR (6 mm) and PD. Evaluation of effusion within the glenohumeral joint (capsule-bone distance) showed significant differences between controls (2.4 mm) and both RA (4.2 mm) and PMR (4 mm), between RA and PD (2.6 mm), and between PMR and PD. Calcifications were present only in PD (21.3%) and RA (6.7%), with significant differences. Effusion within the acromioclavicular joint was present in RA (35.5%) and PD (20.5%), with significant differences. Shoulder sonography showed involvement of all structures in RA, the prevalence of effusion in PMR, and involvement mainly of tendons in PD."}
{"id": "10077795", "title": "Comparison of magnetic resonance imaging and arthroscopy in the evaluation of shoulder pathology.", "content": "Comparison of magnetic resonance imaging and arthroscopy in the evaluation of shoulder pathology. Fifty-seven subjects with shoulder pain, the cause of which was not clear on clinical examination, underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and arthroscopy. With arthroscopy as the standard of reference, the accuracy of MRI for diagnosing shoulder disease was assessed. Pathologic conditions were organized into 3 groups: (1) labral tears, (2) rotator cuff disease, and (3) other pathologic conditions. At arthroscopic evaluation there were 15 labral tears, 24 rotator cuff tears, and 27 other abnormalities. MRI identified 11 of the labral injuries, with accuracy of 62%, sensitivity 73%, and specificity 58%. Rotator cuff tears were identified by MRI with accuracy of 68%, sensitivity 96%, and specificity 49%. When partial rotator cuff tears were differentiated from complete tears, only 16 of 24 injuries were identified by MRI. Nonrotator cuff, nonlabral disease was identified with accuracy of 75%, sensitivity 63%, and specificity 87%. In our center MRI does not appear to be an accurate effective tool for assessing shoulder pathologic conditions in patients in whom the clinical picture is not clear and therefore may not be of assistance in surgical planning for patients with these difficult conditions."}
{"id": "10067222", "title": "MR imaging of the thrower's shoulder. Internal impingement, latissimus dorsi/subscapularis strains, and related injuries.", "content": "MR imaging of the thrower's shoulder. Internal impingement, latissimus dorsi/subscapularis strains, and related injuries. In conclusion, internal impingement apparently occurs in nearly all patients and is demonstrable on MR imaging. Pathologic changes associated with internal impingement seem to develop with repetitive placement of the arm into a position of extreme external rotation and abduction. Findings may include lesions of the posterior superior labrum, undersurface irritation, or tearing of the supraspinatus-infraspinatus junction near the attachment site and cystic changes of the posterior superior glenoid and posterior lateral greater tuberosity. There is no evidence for a particular sequence of pathologic changes. Instability may be associated with but does not appear to be a prerequisite for the development of the pathologic lesions of internal impingement."}
{"id": "10067221", "title": "MR imaging of rotator interval, long biceps, and associated injuries in the overhead-throwing athlete.", "content": "MR imaging of rotator interval, long biceps, and associated injuries in the overhead-throwing athlete. The rotator interval between supraspinatus and subscapularis is proving to be an important anatomic and functional region of the shoulder. Appreciation of the anatomic structures, functional importance, and mechanisms of injury are invaluable in appropriate assessment, both by physical examination and diagnostic MR imaging. The long biceps tendon; the superior labrum and labral-biceps anchor; the coracohumeral ligament merging with the rotator interval capsule and the superior glenohumeral ligament; the ligamentous reflection pulley for the long biceps tendon at the far lateral margin of the interval extending to the lesser tuberosity and proximal bicipital groove, bounded by the distal superior margin of the subscapularis and anterior margin of the supraspinatus tendons; and the transverse humeral ligament extending between the lesser and greater tuberosities along the proximal bicipital groove all are intimately associated in this region and may be injured together. Understanding of the anatomy and function of the rotator interval continues to evolve. Rotator interval injury may be better understood as a complex or spectrum rather than an isolated lesion. When any one of the spectrum of associated injuries is suspected or found, all of the other possible associated injuries should be considered and evaluated, both on clinical and MR imaging evaluations."}
{"id": "10050829", "title": "Aunt Minnie's Corner. Superior labral tear with associated paralabral cyst in the spinoglenoid notch, and infraspinatus denervation myositis.", "content": "Aunt Minnie's Corner. Superior labral tear with associated paralabral cyst in the spinoglenoid notch, and infraspinatus denervation myositis."}
{"id": "9972207", "title": "[Role of magnetic resonance in hemodialysis patients with amyloid shoulder arthropathy].", "content": "[Role of magnetic resonance in hemodialysis patients with amyloid shoulder arthropathy]. Amyloid shoulder arthropathy is a frequent finding in long-term hemodialysis patients. Assessing the symptoms is fundamental in the approach to these patients but their long life expectancy means that the correct imaging quantification of scapulohumeral joint impairment is just as important. We investigated the role of MRI in amyloid shoulder arthropathy in long-term hemodialysis patients. From January, 1995, to December, 1996, twelve long-term (mean: 13 years) hemodialysis patients with amyloid shoulder arthropathy were examined with MRI. All of them had undergone physical examination to detect the most involved scapulohumeral joint. MRI was carried out with a 1.0 T Magnetom Impact unit (Siemens, Germany) using T1-weighted Turbo SE sequences at high resolution on coronal and sagittal planes, respectively parallel and perpendicular to the supraspinatus tendon, and FLASH sequences on the axial plane. Six patients were then submitted to surgery. MRI had identified 3/12 rotator cuff tears (always involving the supraspinatus tendon and other tendons), 7/12 rotator cuff tears from supraspinatus tendon injury, and 1/12 thickening and structural dishomogeneity of the supraspinatus tendon. Finally, no structural changes were shown in 1/12 cases. In addition, most MR examinations (11/12) showed some inhomogeneous material characterized by intermediate-to-low signal intensity on T1-weighted sequences; such changes were found in subacromial and subdeltoid bursas in part of the articular capsule and were always associated with hypointense nodular images in all sequences. Surgery was carried out in 6 patients and confirmed both the structural changes of the rotator cuff and the presence of amorphous material which appeared to be amyloid deposits at subsequent histology. MRI proved to be a very reliable tool even in the study of skeletal structural changes, permitting both the identification of periarticular calcifications and the accurate analysis and quantification of subchondral erosions. MRI was a very reliable tool not only in the study of rotator cuff tears due to amyloid deposition but also in the analysis of bone changes. Thus MRI could play a growing role in treatment planning."}
{"id": "9934421", "title": "Which is more useful, the \"full can test\" or the \"empty can test,\" in detecting the torn supraspinatus tendon?", "content": "Which is more useful, the \"full can test\" or the \"empty can test,\" in detecting the torn supraspinatus tendon? The purpose of this study was to determine the clinical usefulness of the full can and empty can tests for determining the presence of a torn supraspinatus tendon. The two tests were performed in 143 shoulders of 136 consecutive patients. In each test, the muscle strength was determined by manual muscle testing, and the presence of pain during the maneuver was recorded. We interpreted the tests as positive when there was 1) pain, 2) muscle weakness, or 3) pain or muscle weakness or both. Shoulders were examined by high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging with 95% accuracy for full-thickness rotator cuff tears. There were 35 shoulders with full-thickness tears of the supraspinatus tendon. The accuracy of the tests was the greatest when muscle weakness was interpreted as indicating a torn supraspinatus tendon in both the full can test (75% accurate) and the empty can test (70% accurate). However, there was no significant difference between the accuracy of the tests when this criterion was used. Pain was observed in 62 shoulders (43%) during the full can test and in 71 shoulders (50%) during the empty can test, but the difference was not statistically significant. Muscle weakness should be interpreted as indicative of supraspinatus tendon tear. Using this indicator, both tests are equivalent in terms of accuracy, but considering pain provocation, the full can test may be more beneficial in the clinical setting."}
{"id": "9930805", "title": "Occult fractures of the greater tuberosity of the humerus: radiographic and MR imaging findings.", "content": "Occult fractures of the greater tuberosity of the humerus: radiographic and MR imaging findings. The purpose of this study is to discuss the clinical implications of diagnosing a one-part greater tuberosity fracture on radiography and to describe associated rotator cuff findings on MR imaging. One-part greater tuberosity fractures are traditionally treated conservatively. Because clinical findings simulate those of rotator cuff abnormalities, some patients with missed or nonvisible fractures may be referred for MR imaging for further examination. In our study, MR imaging revealed no associated cuff abnormalities that required early surgery. Diagnosis of such a fracture on radiography may obviate the need for unnecessary MR imaging and arthroscopic surgery."}
{"id": "9930804", "title": "MR imaging for traumatic tears of the rotator cuff: high prevalence of greater tuberosity fractures and subscapularis tendon tears.", "content": "MR imaging for traumatic tears of the rotator cuff: high prevalence of greater tuberosity fractures and subscapularis tendon tears. The purpose of this study was to determine whether occult bony injuries or other characteristic MR abnormalities are frequent in patients suspected of having traumatic tears of the rotator cuff. MR arthrography of the shoulder was performed in 24 consecutive patients with suspected traumatic tears of the rotator cuff. MR findings were analyzed with regard to abnormalities of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis tendons; and the humeral head. A comparison group of 24 consecutive patients with symptoms of nontraumatic tears of the rotator cuff was included in the investigation. Radiographically occult fractures of the greater tuberosity were found in nine (38%) of 24 patients with clinically suspected traumatic tears of the rotator cuff (seven of which occurred in patients <40 years old). Nine partial-thickness and five full-thickness supraspinatus tears were found in the trauma group. In the comparison group, the corresponding numbers were 13 and 10, respectively. Seven partial lesions of the cranial border of the subscapularis and six complete subscapularis tears (all six in patients >40 years old) were found in the trauma group (nine and one in the comparison group). Occult greater tuberosity fractures and complete subscapularis tears are commonly seen on MR images in patients suspected of having traumatic tears of the rotator cuff. Greater tuberosity fractures should be looked for specifically in patients younger than 40 years, and subscapularis tears should be looked for specifically in patients older than 40 years."}
{"id": "9930100", "title": "Electromyographic activities of the biceps during arm elevation in shoulders with rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Electromyographic activities of the biceps during arm elevation in shoulders with rotator cuff tears. We investigated electromyographic activities of the biceps in 40 shoulders with full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff and 40 asymptomatic shoulders, with a normal rotator cuff on MRI, to determine the role of the biceps in cuff-deficient shoulders. Using surface electrodes, biceps activities were recorded during arm elevation in the scapular plane with and without a 1-kg load. The percentages of integrated electromyograms to the maximum voluntary contraction (%MVC) were obtained at 30 degrees, 60 degrees, 90 degrees, and 120 degrees of elevation. In the normal shoulders, %MVC of the biceps was always less than 10% through the arc of elevation both with and without load. Among 40 shoulders with rotator cuff tears, 14 showed increased activities of the biceps more than 10% in %MVC (p < 0.0001), whereas the remaining 26 shoulders had activities similar to the normal shoulders. The biceps activities in these 14 shoulders increased with load application and at higher angles of elevation. The muscle strength tended to be weaker in shoulders with increased biceps activities than in those without. Our findings suggest a potential supplemental function of the biceps in shoulders with rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "9916188", "title": "Partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff: evaluation and management.", "content": "Partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff: evaluation and management. The approach to management of a partial-thickness rotator cuff tear is best made with the understanding that this is not a singular condition. Rather, partial tears represent the common outcome of a variety of insults to the rotator cuff. Degenerative changes due to aging, anatomic impingement, and trauma may all be etiologic agents. Overhead athletes may develop tears due to repetitive microtrauma or internal impingement. Outlet radiographs and magnetic resonance imaging are recommended for routine preoperative evaluation. A nonoperative treatment program for rotator cuff strengthening and stretching is appropriate as initial treatment; modification of activities and anti-inflammatory medication are often used as well. Operative management may be considered when nonoperative treatment fails. Arthroscopic evaluation is required to determine the true extent of the cuff lesion. Arthroscopic subacromial decompression is recommended when outlet impingement is present. Rotator cuff debridement or formal cuff repair is dependent on the size of the cuff defect and the age and activity level of the patient. The importance of recognizing the different causes of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears is emphasized in this review of pathogenesis, clinical diagnosis, imaging, and treatment."}
{"id": "9883425", "title": "Skin temperature of the shoulder: circadian rhythms in normal and pathologic shoulders.", "content": "Skin temperature of the shoulder: circadian rhythms in normal and pathologic shoulders. Circadian rhythm of the shoulder skin temperature was studied in 21 shoulders of 20 patients with rotator cuff tears (average age, 58 years) and 4 shoulders of 4 patients with rotator cuff tendinitis (average age, 34 years). Fourteen of the 23 uninvolved shoulders with no abnormalities on magnetic resonance imaging were also studied as normal shoulders. With a portable thermometer with the probes attached to the anterior surface of both shoulders, the skin temperature was recorded every 5 minutes from 1:00 PM to 9:00 AM (20 hours). Both the normal and cuff tear shoulders showed a similar circadian rhythm with the temperature at night significantly lower than the temperature during the daytime (P < .0001). On the other hand, the tendinitis shoulders did not show this circadian rhythm; the temperature did not change significantly through the range of measurement. We conclude that the skin temperature shows a circadian rhythm in normal shoulders, and this rhythm may be affected by certain pathologic conditions of the shoulder."}
{"id": "9868709", "title": "Arthroscintigraphy in suspected rotator cuff rupture.", "content": "Arthroscintigraphy in suspected rotator cuff rupture. In order to evaluate the diagnostic efficiency of arthroscintigraphy in suspected rotator cuff ruptures this new imaging procedure was performed 20 times in 17 patients with clinical signs of a rotator cuff lesion. The scintigraphic results were compared with sonography (n = 20), contrast arthrography (n = 20) and arthroscopy (n = 10) of the shoulder joint. After performing a standard bone scintigraphy with intravenous application of 300 MBq 99m-Tc-methylene diphosphonate (MDP) for landmarking of the shoulder region arthroscintigraphy was performed after an intraarticular injection of 99m-Tc microcolloid (ALBU-RES 400 MicroCi/5 ml). The application was performed either in direct combination with contrast arthrography (n = 10) or ultrasound conducted mixed with a local anesthetic (n = 10). Findings at arthroscopical surgery (n = 10) were used as the gold standard. In case of complete rotator cuff rupture (n = 5), arthroscintigraphy and radiographic arthrography were identical in 5/5. In one patient with advanced degenerative alterations of the shoulder joint radiographic arthrography incorrectly showed a complete rupture which was not seen by arthroscintigraphy and endoscopy. In 3 patients with incomplete rupture, 2/3 results were consistent. A difference was seen in one patient with a rotator cuff, that has been already revised in the past and that suffered of capsulitis and calcification. Arthroscintigraphy is a sensitive technique for detection of rotator cuff ruptures. Because of the lower viscosity of the active compound, small ruptures can be easily detected, offering additional value over radiographic arthrography and ultrasound, especially for evaluation of incomplete cuff ruptures."}
{"id": "9866777", "title": "The anterior tilt of the acromion: radiographic evaluation and correlation with shoulder diseases.", "content": "The anterior tilt of the acromion: radiographic evaluation and correlation with shoulder diseases. The aim of this study was to test whether the anterior tilt of the acromion can be objectively evaluated on lateral radiographs, and whether there is a relation between this anatomical feature and the most common shoulder diseases. Lateral radiographs of 15 dried scapulas were performed in neutral position and with 5 degrees of caudal, cranial, anterior and posterior angulations. Two hundred and forty-three shoulders, both asymptomatic and affected by chronic and post-traumatic impingement, calcific tendinitis and instability, were examined by conventional radiography. The presence of rotator-cuff tears was investigated by sonography. A method was elaborated to obtain reproducible lateral radiographs and to determine the acromial tilt angle. Inter- and intraobserver and inter- and intraoperator variations in measurements were evaluated. Variations in tube angulation produced changes in tilt-angle values on dried scapulas. The average tilt angle for the chronic impingement and the instability groups were significantly different from the post-traumatic, calcific tendinitis and control groups. Rotator-cuff tears were significantly more frequent in the chronic impingement group and related to a more acute tilt angle. The inter- and intraobserver variability coefficients were 0.95 and 0.98, whereas the inter- and intraoperator variability coefficients were 0.94 and 0.96, respectively. Conventional radiography using fluoroscopy for positioning is a well-reproducible method for the evaluation of acromial tilt. There is a significant difference in tilt-angle values between some groups of subjects examined, but the lack of specificity limits the clinical importance of such measurement."}
{"id": "9864635", "title": "[Conservative treatment after first traumatic shoulder dislocation].", "content": "[Conservative treatment after first traumatic shoulder dislocation]. Between January 1989 and March 1997, 175 patients with traumatic shoulder dislocation were treated by conservative means (median age 41 years, 39 F, 136 M). In 78 patients (17 F, 61 M) a clinical and radiological follow up (median 50 months, range 6-106) could be obtained. Additionally, a diagnostic ultrasound was carried out in all patients. The recurrence rate in the group younger than 30 years (G < 30; n = 35) was 86%; in the group older than 30 years (G > 30; n = 43) it was 21% (P < 0.05). Persisting neurological deficits were found in 6 patients (8%). According to the Rowe score, 16 patients (46%) of the G < 30 achieved excellent or good results, in the G > 30, 29 patients (67%). In 17% of cases, a glenohumeral arthrosis was diagnosed be radiological means. 18% had radiological signs of a previous fracture of the greater tuberosity. Hill-Sachs lesions were identified in 19% of cases. Rotator cuff tears were diagnosed in 9% by ultrasound. No relationship between the duration of immobilization and the recurrence rate was found (P = 0.95). The recurrence rate following primary shoulder dislocation depends primarily on the patients' age."}
{"id": "9856552", "title": "You're the flight surgeon. C-130 pilot with supraspinalus muscle tear.", "content": "You're the flight surgeon. C-130 pilot with supraspinalus muscle tear."}
{"id": "9845789", "title": "The value of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of labral lesions in patients with anterior shoulder dislocation.", "content": "The value of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of labral lesions in patients with anterior shoulder dislocation. To evaluate the ability of ultrasonography to detect labral lesions in patients with anterior shoulder dislocation. We examined 29 patients with anterior shoulder dislocation with ultrasonography prior to arthroscopy. Twenty-six patients had labral lesions diagnosed by arthroscopy. These lesions were detected by ultrasonography with a sensitivity of 88% and a specificity of 67%. All lesions affected the anterior labrum, while six extended to the posterior labrum. The latter were not visualized by ultrasonography. Ultrasonography is valuable in the detection of anterior labral lesions even in patients with recent shoulder dislocation."}
{"id": "9844654", "title": "Complications in Paget disease at MR imaging.", "content": "Complications in Paget disease at MR imaging. To determine the MR imaging findings in patients with complications of Paget disease of bone. Of 45 patients with Paget disease who underwent MR imaging, 33 (26 men, seven women; age range, 64-91 years) with known complications of the disease were examined. Imaging in this subgroup included radiography (n = 26), computed tomography (n = 12), bone scintigraphy (n = 15), and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging (n = 33). Patients were examined specifically for musculoskeletal and neurologic complications of Paget disease, including fracture, basilar impression, spinal stenosis, bone tumor, and osteoarthrosis. The 56 complications documented in the 33 patients were fracture (n = 17), neurologic entrapment (n = 19), neoplasm (n = 9), and arthropathy (n = 11). MR imaging was beneficial in the diagnostic evaluation of basilar impression (n = 7), spinal stenosis (n = 12), and the tumor stage (n = 9). It also helped to successfully evaluate pagetic bone narrowing of the coracoacromial arch, which was associated with impingement syndrome and rotator cuff rupture (n = 2). The signal intensities in pagetic bone were most commonly similar to those in fat; this finding had a 100% negative predictive value in excluding neoplasm. Although Paget disease is diagnosed economically with conventional radiography, MR imaging is well suited for demonstrating the presence and extent of several characteristic disease complications, including basilar impression, spinal stenosis, and secondary neoplasm."}
{"id": "9819613", "title": "[Long biceps brachii instability. Role of ultrasonography].", "content": "[Long biceps brachii instability. Role of ultrasonography]. Dislocation of the long head of biceps tendon, including subluxation to displacement out of the bicipital groove, is an uncommon cause of shoulder pain. We investigated the role of US in the diagnosis of this condition. We examined eight patients with dislocation of the long head of biceps tendon: seven had a displaced, and one a subluxated tendon. All patients had early radiographic and US studies of the shoulder; then, three (37%) were submitted to CT-arthrography and two (25%) to MRI. US was performed at 7.5-13 MHz frequency, CT-arthrography with a volumetric acquisition technique and MRI with a surface coil at 1.5 T. Three patients with tendon dislocation had surgical confirmation of the diagnosis. Dislocation of the long head of biceps tendon was always diagnosed with US in all our eight patients; CT-arthrography and MRI confirmed the US findings. In the patient with subluxation of the long head of biceps tendon, US showed the tendon displaced over the lesser tuberosity whereas, in the 7 cases of complete luxations, the groove was empty and the tendon displaced medially. At CT-arthrography, the tendon was well outlined by contrast medium within its sheath. In dislocations, it was close to the anterior aspect of the humeral head. In two cases of dislocation, MRI showed both the empty bicipital sulcus and the medial tendon displacement. The subscapularis tendon tear was always associated with tendon dislocation; a supraspinatus tendon tear was observed in 6 cases. When imaging a painful shoulder, we should investigate the integrity and course of the long head of biceps tendon. In clinical practice, dislocation of this tendon can be reliably diagnosed with US. CT-arthrography and MRI should be used only to supplement inconclusive US studies."}
{"id": "9814932", "title": "Incomplete tears of the subscapularis tendon associated with tears of the supraspinatus tendon: cadaveric and clinical studies.", "content": "Incomplete tears of the subscapularis tendon associated with tears of the supraspinatus tendon: cadaveric and clinical studies. This study was undertaken to evaluate incomplete tears of the subscapularis tendon that occur in conjunction with small or medium-sized tears of the supraspinatus tendon. Fifty-two shoulders were examined in 26 embalmed cadavers. The average age at the time of death was 76.3 years. Rotator cuff tears were observed in 32 (61.5%) shoulders. Six (11.5%) shoulders had massive rotator cuff tears and were excluded from the study, leaving 46 shoulders for study. Twenty shoulders had a tear of the supraspinatus tendon, and 17 had a tear of the subscapularis tendon. All tears of the subscapularis tendon were articular-side incomplete tears. On histologic examination most pathologic changes of the subscapularis tendon were observed on the articular side of the upper portion. Lesions of the long head of the biceps brachii were identified in 14 (30.4%) shoulders. A statistically significant correlation was found between tears of the subscapularis tendon and the presence of lesions of the long head of the biceps brachii (P=.0014). In addition, the results of preoperative magnetic resonance imaging of 15 patients (average age, 62.9 years) with a surgically confirmed diagnosis of incomplete tears of the subscapularis tendon in conjunction with tears of the supraspinatus tendon were also evaluated. Incomplete tears of the subscapularis tendon could be identified on magnetic resonance imaging as an area of high signal intensity on axial T2-weighted images in all 15 shoulders studied."}
{"id": "9798449", "title": "Cystic changes of the humeral head on MR imaging. Relation to age and cuff-tears.", "content": "Cystic changes of the humeral head on MR imaging. Relation to age and cuff-tears. We obtained MR images of 140 painful shoulders in 134 patients to determine the relationship between cystic changes of the humeral head and integrity of the rotator cuff. Cystic changes were observed in 49 shoulders (35%) and the commonest site was in the bare bone area of the anatomical neck, and the second commonest site was at the attachment of the supraspinatus tendon. Cystic changes in the bare bone area were observed equally often in shoulders with or without rotator cuff tears (27% and 18%, respectively) and were more frequently observed in the elderly. Cystic changes at the attachment of the supraspinatus and subscapularis tendons were specific to rotator cuff tears: they were observed in 28% of rotator cuff tears, but in none of those with an intact cuff. We conclude that there are two distinct types of cystic changes: one at the attachment of the supraspinatus and subscapularis tendons, which is closely related to tears of these tendons, and the other in the bare bone area of the anatomical neck, which is related to aging."}
{"id": "9793136", "title": "[Radiotherapy of humero-scapular periarthritis using ultra-hard photons. Evaluation by MRI findings].", "content": "[Radiotherapy of humero-scapular periarthritis using ultra-hard photons. Evaluation by MRI findings]. Evaluation of MRI in radiotherapy of humeroscapular periarthritis. Seventy-seven patients with humeroscapular periarthritis prospectively underwent MRI before radiotherapy. Six months after radiotherapy, 34% of the patients had achieved complete pain relief, 35% major pain relief. Twenty percent had only slight improvement and 12% no improvement. Positive correlation of radiotherapy outcome and MRI findings could be shown for acute tendinitis, erosions, and complete and incomplete ruptures of the supraspinatus tendon. Radiotherapy is highly effective in the treatment of humeroscapular periarthritis. The indication can be improved using MRI."}
{"id": "9771210", "title": "Ultrasound and operative evaluation of arthritic shoulder joints.", "content": "Ultrasound and operative evaluation of arthritic shoulder joints. To assess the diagnostic value of ultrasonography (US) in the evaluation of arthritic shoulder joints. Twenty shoulders of 20 inpatients with arthritis were evaluated by US one day before the shoulder operation. Changes in the subacromial-subdeltoid bursa, biceps tendon and tendon sheath, rotatof cuff, and glenohumeral joint were recorded and compared with findings at operation. In the detection of effusion/hypertrophy in the subacromial-subdeltoid bursa, US had a sensitivity of 93% and a specificity of 83%. For a biceps tendon rupture US had a sensitivity of 70% and a specificity of 100%. US missed three intraarticular biceps tendon ruptures. For effusion/hypertrophy in the biceps tendon sheath US had a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 83%. For a rotator cuff tear US had a sensitivity of 83% and a specificity of 57%. US missed two small longitudinal rotator cuff tears. Three thin membranous, but intact, rotator cuff tendons were classified as full thickness tears by US. Synovial effusion/hypertrophy was detected by US and at operation in all of the 12 glenohumeral joints that were evaluable at surgery. US is a reliable method in experienced hands for the evaluation of inflammatory changes of an arthritic shoulder. In advanced stages of rheumatoid shoulder joints, however, US is not useful, because destructive bone changes and tendon ruptures change the normal anatomy and restrict shoulder motions, limiting the visibility of US."}
{"id": "9768891", "title": "Open acromioplasty does not prevent the progression of an impingement syndrome to a tear. Nine-year follow-up of 96 cases.", "content": "Open acromioplasty does not prevent the progression of an impingement syndrome to a tear. Nine-year follow-up of 96 cases. We performed open acromioplasty for intractable impingement syndrome on 96 shoulders (93 patients) with an intact rotator cuff. All the shoulders were examined by ultrasound after a mean interval of nine years. Those showing pathological findings, a poor or fair subjective result, or deterioration of the primary excellent outcome had MRI and/or arthrography. The mean Constant score for the affected shoulders was 70 points and that for 48 non-involved, symptom-free shoulders, 84 points. The subjective outcome was excellent in 45, good in 24, fair in 18 and poor in 9 shoulders. Complete tears were found in 12 shoulders and partial tears in seven. A total of 14 shoulders was symptom-free after acromioplasty, but after an average of five years became painful again and showed deterioration. Of these, six had complete tears and four partial tears of the cuff. The tear rate was 4% in shoulders initially judged to be excellent, 25% in good, 33% in fair and 55% in poor shoulders. The tear rate was 71% in shoulders which subsequently deteriorated. The incidence was higher in men (25%) than in women (11%). We conclude that a tear of the rotator cuff may appear after acromioplasty, although there was no evidence of a tear at the time of operation. This is usually the reason for deterioration in a shoulder with an initially good operative outcome."}
{"id": "9759817", "title": "The treatment of symptomatic os acromiale.", "content": "The treatment of symptomatic os acromiale. During a four-year period, fourteen individuals (fifteen shoulders) who had been seen at the shoulder service of our institution because of pain in the shoulder had a radiographic finding of an os acromiale. On clinical examination, the pain appeared to be due to an unstable os acromiale because the patients had point tenderness over the acromion and pain on forward elevation of the shoulder. The diagnosis of an os acromiale was confirmed on radiographs, magnetic resonance images, or a bone scan. Eight patients had an associated tear of the rotator cuff. The os acromiale was located in the pre-acromion in one shoulder, the meso-acromion in eleven shoulders, and the meta-acromion in three shoulders. At the operation, the anterior aspect of the acromion was found to be unstable in all shoulders. Eleven patients (twelve shoulders) had open reduction of the os acromiale and insertion of an autogenous iliac-crest bone graft. Of those patients, four (five shoulders) had open reduction and internal fixation with a tension-band procedure with use of pins and wires. Only one of those shoulders had a solid osseous union, and the other four shoulders had a non-union that was due to a disruption of the fixation. The remaining seven patients (seven shoulders) had open reduction and internal fixation with use of cannulated screws and a tension-band construct; a solid osseous union was achieved in all but one of them. One patient had excision of the pre-acromion, which relieved the pain. Two patients who had had failed open reduction and internal fixation had excision of a grossly unstable os acromiale in the meso-acromion; both patients had pain and weakness after this procedure. Of the twelve shoulders that had open reduction and bone-grafting, seven had union of the os acromiale; the average time to radiographic and clinical union was nine weeks (range, seven to twenty weeks). We concluded that, although it is rare, symptomatic unstable os acromiale does occur and can be effectively treated with use of autogenous bone-grafting and internal fixation with a rigid tension-band construct and cannulated screws."}
{"id": "9754490", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging assessment of the rotator cuff: is it really accurate?", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging assessment of the rotator cuff: is it really accurate?"}
{"id": "9752660", "title": "Acromioclavicular joint cyst and rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Acromioclavicular joint cyst and rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "9752659", "title": "Supraspinatus rupture at the musculotendinous junction.", "content": "Supraspinatus rupture at the musculotendinous junction."}
{"id": "9752649", "title": "Spontaneous detachment of the deltoid muscle origin.", "content": "Spontaneous detachment of the deltoid muscle origin. Three patients with four affected shoulders with spontaneous detachment of the deltoid origin are reported. In this group spontaneous detachment of the deltoid origin was associated with chronic massive rotator cuff defects. Detachment of the deltoid origin was associated with an acute, sudden onset of shoulder weakness. Pain was not a prominent complaint, and shoulder function was poor because of weakness. Spontaneous detachment of the deltoid origin can occur with chronic massive rotator cuff tears and can be responsible for an acute onset of shoulder weakness."}
{"id": "9745256", "title": "[Double oblique MR images of the shoulder: comparison with conventional images].", "content": "[Double oblique MR images of the shoulder: comparison with conventional images]. Because the scapula is not only slanted on transverse sections but also inclines on sagittal section, we now perform shoulder MR imaging using double oblique images (DOI), which are planes perpendicular or parallel to the long axis of the scapula obtained with oblique sagittal scout imaging. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of double oblique shoulder MR imaging. MR images of shoulders with operatively or arthroscopically proven lesions (20 cases) that had been examined on both conventional images (CI) and DOI were retrospectively reviewed. DOI were compared with CI not only in terms of diagnostic performance but also in their ability to identify the details of shoulder anatomy. All MR studies were done with a shoulder coil on a high-field (1.5T) unit. Although the accuracy of DOI in diagnosing shoulder disorders such as rotator cuff tear and labrum injury was not as good as that of CI, DOI were better for identifying or discriminating muscles and tendons of the rotator cuff, labralbicipital junction and anterior band of the inferior gleno-humeral ligament, and for recognizing the correct position of the glenoid labrum. MR double oblique imaging of the shoulder provides more detailed information about shoulder anatomy and disorders than conventional imaging."}
{"id": "9744045", "title": "[Standard ultrasound sections of the upper extremity--shoulder and elbow joint].", "content": "[Standard ultrasound sections of the upper extremity--shoulder and elbow joint]. The sonographic examination of the shoulder and elbow joint is demonstrated in standardized sectional planes providing a reproducible representation of anatomical structures. In ultrasound examination of the shoulder joint the following standardized planes are employed transverse and longitudinal planes in the dorsal, superior/lateral and ventral region. In ultrasound examination of the elbow joint the following standardized planes are employed: a transverse and two longitudinal planes in the ventral region, a transverse and a longitudinal plane in the dorsal region. These standardized sectional planes, performed in a real-time-procedure using a 7.5 MHz linear transducer, as well as the images on the screen, correspond to the guidelines provided by the German Society of Ultrasonography in the Locomotor Apparatus (DEGUM). In cases without pathological findings two standardized planes have to be documented. Otherwise the pathological finding has to be documented in two standardized planes. The introduced examination technique in standardized sectional planes provides an excellent overview of the shoulder and elbow joint with a sufficient evaluation of the periarticular soft tissue and the bony surface. The main advantages in comparison to other diagnostic means (i.e. CT, MRI) lies in the possible dynamic examination which allows excellent imaging especially in rotator cuff lesions. Because of the excellent evaluation of the periarticular structures, ultrasound plays a major diagnostic role in shoulder joint diseases. Furthermore this technique provides important information about intra- and periarticular disorders of the elbow joint. The standardized procedures are a useful means of assuring and improving the quality of sonographic examinations of articular and periarticular structures."}
{"id": "9733463", "title": "Is sonography performed by the rheumatologist as useful as arthrography executed by the radiologist for the assessment of full thickness rotator cuff tears?", "content": "Is sonography performed by the rheumatologist as useful as arthrography executed by the radiologist for the assessment of full thickness rotator cuff tears? Sonography and arthrography are techniques used to detect rotator cuff tears (RCT). The diagnostic value of sonography executed by a rheumatologist versus that of arthrography performed by a radiologist for assessment of RCT was investigated among patients with unilateral chronic shoulder complaints without an underlying inflammatory rheumatic disease. Forty-eight patients underwent sonography, arthrography, and surgical inspection, the results of surgical inspection being the gold standard. Sensitivity for assessment of a full thickness RCT was 0.86 for sonography and 0.77 for arthrography, specificity was 0.88 for sonography and 0.92 for arthrography. Compared to arthrography performed by the radiologist, sonography executed by the rheumatologist is as useful for assessment of full thickness rotator cuff tears. Sonography performed by the rheumatologist in combination with history taking and the physical examination during a single visit might change the routine daily practice of rheumatologists."}
{"id": "9725313", "title": "Tear of the posterior shoulder stabilizers after posterior dislocation: MR imaging and MR arthrographic findings with arthroscopic correlation.", "content": "Tear of the posterior shoulder stabilizers after posterior dislocation: MR imaging and MR arthrographic findings with arthroscopic correlation. The purpose of this article is to describe the findings on MR imaging and MR arthrography in posterior capsular tear and teres minor muscle injury after posterior dislocation. We also correlate MR imaging with the arthroscopic findings and present treatment options for these patients. MR imaging is helpful in diagnosing abnormalities caused by posterior dislocation injuries and in directing therapy. Teres minor muscle and capsular injuries may occur without the typical reverse Bankart lesion. Isolated teres minor muscle tears seen on MR imaging after posterior dislocation injury may cause pain. However, no consensus exists as to whether the lesions seen on MR images in these patients should be treated surgically or conservatively."}
{"id": "9678236", "title": "Sonography for the office screening of suspected rotator cuff tears: early experience of the orthopedic surgeon.", "content": "Sonography for the office screening of suspected rotator cuff tears: early experience of the orthopedic surgeon. This study examined the feasibility of orthopedic surgeons performing sonography of the shoulder at the initial office evaluation of the rotator cuff and assessed the sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value of sonography for the detection of tears in the rotator cuff. Initial results in 24 patients suggest that sonography by the orthopedic surgeon is feasible and that it detects tears in the rotator cuff with sufficient accuracy for clinical decision making."}
{"id": "9676206", "title": "[Echography of the supraspinatus tendon: forced passive adduction maneuver].", "content": "[Echography of the supraspinatus tendon: forced passive adduction maneuver]. Imaging methods are essential for a correct diagnostic approach and treatment planning in patients with a painful shoulder. More than any other, the supraspinatus tendon is often involved in impingement syndrome and sonography (US) is now the procedure of choice for the first assessment of rotator cuff tears. We suggest a supraspinatus tendon passive stress maneuver drawing the tendon out from underneath the acromion and showing a longer portion of the tendon that would otherwise be masked by the acromion. Twenty normal subjects (10 men and 10 women, aged 20 to 46 years, mean age: 32 years) and two patients with shoulder pain underwent shoulder US with real time equipment and a 7.5 MHz linear array transducer. US images were acquired with the subjects allowed to rest with their arm in neutral position and during supraspinatus tendon passive adduction stress maneuver (with the arm first abducted by placing a plastic cylinder device under the armpit, then submitted to passive forced adduction). All US scans were performed along the longitudinal axis of the tendon. The length of the supraspinatus tendon was measured from its insertion on the greater tuberosity of the humerus to the lateral edge of the acromion. Measurements were made in neutral position and during the stress maneuver and, for each subject, the increased length of the displayed portion was obtained as the difference between the two measurements. In neutral position at rest, the displayed portion of the supraspinatus tendon was 21 mm long on the average (range: 11 to 31 mm). The average increase, namely the tendon portion recovered from the acromial acoustic shadow, was 4.5 mm (range: 2 to 10 mm). In two patients the stress maneuver permitted better visualization of tendon tear, which finding was confirmed at MRI. The results of our study so far seem to suggest that the passive adduction stress maneuver permits to visualize a longer portion of the supraspinatus tendon without affecting its anatomical alignment and could thus be useful in US studies of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "9673643", "title": "Advanced arthrography of the shoulder with CT and MR imaging.", "content": "Advanced arthrography of the shoulder with CT and MR imaging."}
{"id": "9663318", "title": "A review of the role of magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of shoulder impingement syndrome and rotator cuff tendon tears.", "content": "A review of the role of magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of shoulder impingement syndrome and rotator cuff tendon tears. The objective of this paper is to present a review of the role of magnetic resonance imaging in the evaluation of shoulder impingement syndrome and rotator cuff tendon tears. This imaging modality is effective in demonstrating both the soft tissue and bony abnormalities associated with structural shoulder impingement which include subacromial-subdeltoid bursitis, supraspinatus tendinopathy, rotator cuff tendon tears, subacromial osteophytic spurs and acromioclavicular joint capsular hypertrophy and osteophytosis. The detection of a subacromial osteophytic spur is considered specific for shoulder impingement syndrome. The 3 most accurate magnetic resonance imaging signs of a full thickness supraspinatus tendon tear reported are: tendon discontinuity, musculotendinous junction retraction and supraspinatus tendon thinning. The most specific sign is tendon discontinuity and the most sensitive is subacromial-subdeltoid bursal fluid."}
{"id": "9658352", "title": "Shoulder ultrasound: diagnostic accuracy for impingement syndrome, rotator cuff tear, and biceps tendon pathology.", "content": "Shoulder ultrasound: diagnostic accuracy for impingement syndrome, rotator cuff tear, and biceps tendon pathology. We sought to determine the accuracy of ultrasound for the preoperative evaluation of shoulder impingement syndrome, rotator cuff tear, and abnormalities of the long head of the biceps tendon. The findings in 42 consecutive surgical cases were compared with the preoperative sonographic readings. Ultrasound detected all of the 10 full-thickness cuff tears identified at surgery (sensitivity 1.0, specificity 0.97) but detected only 6 of 13 partial-thickness cuff tears (sensitivity 0.46, specificity 0.97). A full-thickness tear was falsely diagnosed in one case of severe cuff abrasion. Dynamic scan criteria correctly diagnosed impingement in 27 of 34 cases (sensitivity 0.79, positive predictive value 0.96). Abnormalities of the long head of the biceps were accurately diagnosed with the exception of low-grade tendinitis and the superior labral tear, anterior to posterior, lesion. We concluded that ultrasound is a sensitive and accurate method of identifying patients with full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff, extracapsular biceps tendon pathology, or both. Dynamic ultrasound can help confirm, but not exclude, a clinical diagnosis of impingement."}
{"id": "9658346", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of suprascapular nerve palsy.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of suprascapular nerve palsy. In magnetic resonance imaging of peripheral nerve palsy, changes of signal intensity are often found in paralyzed muscles. The purpose of this report is to clarify the relation between magnetic resonance imaging findings and clinical examination in suprascapular nerve palsy. The subjects were 12 patients with suprascapular nerve palsy who underwent magnetic resonance imaging examinations. In 9 of 12 cases ganglion cysts were found at the spinoglenoid notches. On T1-weighted images the signal intensity of infraspinatus muscle was high in four cases but normal in the supraspinatus muscle in all cases. On T2-weighted images the signal intensity of infraspinatus muscle was high in six cases, and that for supraspinatus muscle was high in one case. In two cases the high intensity of palsied muscles became normal after the palsy recovered. Magnetic resonance imaging is a useful examination of peripheral nerve palsy not only for the detection of ganglion cysts but also for assessing the stage of paralysis."}
{"id": "9652501", "title": "Shoulder impingement syndromes.", "content": "Shoulder impingement syndromes. Not all shoulder pain conditions are a consequence of rotator cuff injuries secondary to anterior subacromial impingement. Additional causative forms have been identified and classified as posterosuperior glenoid rim, subcoracoid and suprascapular nerve (at spinoglenoid notch) impingement syndromes. We reviewed 206 consecutive magnetic resonance examinations carried out with conventional T1- and T2-weighted spin-echo and gradient-echo sequences in patients complaining of shoulder pain. Adjunctive sequences were acquired with the involved arm positioned in abduction and external rotation. Anterior subacromial impingement is only one of the possible causes of shoulder disorders. Posterosuperior glenoid rim impingement is the most frequent cause of shoulder pain in young throwers. Subcoracoid and spinoglenoid notch suprascapular nerve impingement are additional forms that must be considered in the differential diagnosis because of their frequent occurrence in routine clinical practice. Magnetic resonance imaging is the most useful diagnostic modality for shoulder disorders."}
{"id": "9648794", "title": "The association between irregular greater tuberosities and rotator cuff tears: a sonographic study.", "content": "The association between irregular greater tuberosities and rotator cuff tears: a sonographic study. Although an association between irregular greater tuberosities and rotator cuff tears has been suggested, no formal studies have been done. This study was designed to investigate the relationship between greater tuberosity irregularities, rotator cuff tears, and age. Sonographic examinations of both shoulders of 77 asymptomatic individuals (154 shoulders) between 30 and 80 years old were performed. The rotator cuffs and greater tuberosities were evaluated. Full- and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears were given equal significance. A two-tailed Fisher's exact test, a Student's t test, and logistic regression analysis were used to analyze the data. Sonography showed the greater tuberosity to be irregular in 36 (90%) of 40 shoulders with a rotator cuff tear. The greater tuberosity was irregular in only 12 (11%) of 114 shoulders without a rotator cuff tear. When the greater tuberosity was irregular, sonography showed 36 (75%) of 48 shoulders to have rotator cuff tears. When the greater tuberosity was normal, 102 (96%) of 106 of the rotator cuffs were normal on sonography. Statistical significance was detected (p < .001) for the association of greater tuberosity irregularity and rotator cuff tear. After accounting for age, a statistically significant association was found (p < .001) between rotator cuff status and greater tuberosity status. On sonography, greater tuberosity irregularities are reliable indicators in the assessment of shoulders for rotator cuff tears. In addition, we have shown that greater tuberosity irregularities are not simply related to aging."}
{"id": "9648793", "title": "Gradient-echo versus fat-suppressed fast spin-echo MR imaging of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Gradient-echo versus fat-suppressed fast spin-echo MR imaging of rotator cuff tears. The purpose of this study is to compare fat-suppressed T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequences with T2-weighted multiplanar gradient-echo sequences in revealing rotator cuff disorders. Oblique coronal fat-suppressed fast spin-echo images and gradient-echo images of 39 patients who underwent surgery of the shoulder were retrospectively reviewed. Images from the two techniques were reviewed separately. Each set of images was interpreted twice by four musculoskeletal radiologists independently and without knowledge of the surgical findings. Sensitivity and specificity for both sequences were determined. The kappa statistic was used to calculate intraobserver and interobserver agreement of interpretations. For detecting any tear, the sensitivity of the four readers was 71-96% using fast spin-echo and 58-100% using gradient-echo imaging. Confidence intervals showed no difference between the two sequences. Sensitivity of detecting full-thickness tears was 83-100% for both sequences. Interobserver agreement was good. T2-weighted gradient-echo and fat-suppressed T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequences depict rotator cuff tears equally well and take less time to acquire than conventional dual-echo spin-echo sequences."}
{"id": "9641520", "title": "Rotator cuff tear associated with an acromioclavicular cyst in rheumatoid arthritis.", "content": "Rotator cuff tear associated with an acromioclavicular cyst in rheumatoid arthritis. We report two cases of a full-thickness rotator cuff tear followed by acromioclavicular cyst formation in patients with longstanding erosive polyarticular rheumatoid arthritis. One of the consequences of a rotator cuff tear is articular instability with upward migration of the humeral head. The ensuing chronic friction against the undersurface of the acromioclavicular joint caused by arm movements can lead to a non-inflammatory effusion of the acromioclavicular joint with cyst formation. Clinical and ultrasonographic features and a pathogenetic hypothesis are discussed."}
{"id": "9638832", "title": "Anterior versus posterior, and rim-rent rotator cuff tears: prevalence and MR sensitivity.", "content": "Anterior versus posterior, and rim-rent rotator cuff tears: prevalence and MR sensitivity. To determine the relative distribution of the locations of rotator cuff tears, and the sensitivity of anterior versus posterior tears on MR images. We identified 110 consecutive patients who had a shoulder MR and either a partial-thickness or a small full-thickness rotator cuff tear diagnosed at arthroscopy. From the arthroscopy videotapes, we classified the tears as centered in the anterior or posterior half of the cuff, and as either in the critical zone or adjacent to the bony insertion. The original MR interpretation was compared with the arthroscopic findings. MR sensitivity and patient age were compared between patients with tears in the anterior and posterior halves of the cuff. In addition, in patients with partial tears less than 2 cm in diameter, an age comparison between those with tears in the critical zone and those with articular surface tears adjacent to the bony insertion (rim-rent tear) was performed. The tear was centered in the anterior half of the rotator cuff in 79% of the patients younger than 36 years old, and in 89% of the patients 36 years old and over. The average age of the patients with tears in the anterior half (44 years) was not significantly different from the average age of those with posterior tears (40 years) (P = 0.23). The sensitivity of MR for anterior tears was 0.69, and for posterior tears it was 0.56 (P = 0.17). The average age of the 9 patients with rim-rent tears was 31 years, while that of the 28 patients with similarly-sized partial tears not involving the insertion was 40 years old (P = 0.048). Five of the nine rim-rent tears (0.56) were interpreted correctly on the original MR report; two of the other tears were misinterpreted as intratendinous fluid but were diagnosable in retrospect. Even in patients less than 36 years old, most partial and small full-thickness rotator cuff tears are centered in the anterior half of the supraspinatus. Although our figure for MR sensitivity for these tears is lower than in recent articles, we found no significant difference between the sensitivity of MR for diagnosing posterior tears versus tears in the anterior half of the supraspinatus tendon. Rim-rent tears can be mistaken for intratendinous signal, and should be carefully looked for in younger patients with shoulder pain."}
{"id": "9633054", "title": "[Tertiary hyperparathyroidism: parathyroid cancer with liver metastases in a hemodialyzed patient].", "content": "[Tertiary hyperparathyroidism: parathyroid cancer with liver metastases in a hemodialyzed patient]. Parathyroid cancer is very rare in chronic renal failure. Only twelve cases have been described, but the actual incidence might be under estimated. Monoclonal proliferation have been demonstrated in hyperplasic parathyroid glands of uremic patients and the diagnosis between benign or malignant tumor may be difficult. Evidence for a deletion of the \"Retinoblastoma Tumor Suppressor gene\" (RB gene) is helpful for the diagnosis of parathyroid cancer, especially in the absence of dissemination. A 46-years old male patient on dialysis since 1989 for polycystic kidney disease developed a refractory and persistent hyperparathyroidism after parathyroidectomy with vascular and osteoarticular complications. Liver nodules were localised by sestaultrasonography. MIBI radionucleid scan and were confirmed by CT-scan, and ultrasonography. Diagnosis of parathyroid cancer was confirmed by the immuno-histochemical study of the biopsied liver nodules and the histopathological review of the removed parathyroid glands."}
{"id": "9599823", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the supraspinatus tendon: the significance of signal intensity alterations at the 'critical zone'.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the supraspinatus tendon: the significance of signal intensity alterations at the 'critical zone'. A pictorial essay of normal and abnormal appearances of the supraspinatus tendon is presented. An increased signal intensity within the supraspinatus tendon on short TE sequences is not necessarily abnormal. Increased signal seen within the tendon on modern magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) units is often due to a phenomenon known as the 'magic angle' effect. Only when supraspinatus tendon signal intensity is greater than that of muscle on long TE (T2) sequences should it be considered to be abnormal. The physical basis for the magic angle effect is outlined and a pictorial essay demonstrating the practical implications of this effect is presented. A comparison is made to signal intensity changes seen with partial and complete tears of the supraspinatus tendon. Correlation is made with important morphologic features of partial or complete tears."}
{"id": "9589092", "title": "[Low-field MR arthrography of the shoulder: early results using an open 0.2T MR system].", "content": "[Low-field MR arthrography of the shoulder: early results using an open 0.2T MR system]. To assess the practicability and image quality of doing MR arthrography of the shoulder using a 0.2T system. 60 patients (24 with chronic instability, 36 with impingement syndrome) were examined in an open 0.2T MR apparatus (Magnetom Open, Siemens). After the intra-articular injections of 15-20 ml of a 2 mmol Gd-DTPA solution, coronary STIR, T1-weighted, sagittal and axial T2*-weighted FLASH 2D sequences were performed. 21 patients subsequently underwent surgery. Image quality of the T1- and T2*-weighted FLASH 2D sequences was regarded as good or adequate and movement artifacts were minor or moderate. STIR sequences were statistically significantly worse in respect of image quality and movement artifacts (p < 0.001, p < 0.005). The sensitivity and specificity in the diagnosis of rotator cuff rupture as confirmed by surgery was 100% (labrum lesions 100%, 93%). Agreement in the diagnosis of rupture of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons was 0.93 and 0.65. MR arthrography of the shoulder using an open 0.2 T MR system provides adequate information concerning the intra articular structures of the joint. The disadvantage is the prolonged duration of the examination with the risk of poor image quality resulting from movement artifacts."}
{"id": "9586975", "title": "Primary traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation in patients 40 years of age and older.", "content": "Primary traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation in patients 40 years of age and older. During three consecutive ski seasons (1991 to 1994), 125 patients 40 years of age and older without previous shoulder injuries or surgery sustained a traumatic first-time anterior shoulder dislocation. At a minimum of 2 years' follow-up, patients were contacted to determine long-term outcome and to identify factors leading to prolonged morbidity or the need for surgical intervention. Fifty-two patients were available for interview. A modified Rowe shoulder score showed 32 excellent, nine good, eight fair, and three poor results. Eighteen (35%) rotator cuff tears were subsequently identified, with only 11 (61%) of these patients obtaining an excellent or good outcome (P = .011). Of the 11 patients with a fair or poor result, seven (64%) had a rotator cuff tear. Of the 12 patients with isolated cuff tears, 84% had an excellent or good result when treated surgically, compared with 50% when treated nonsurgically. Our findings indicate that recurrence is not a frequent complication of traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation in this age-group (4%). However, prolonged morbidity secondary to rotator cuff tear is more prevalent than in a younger population. We believe early diagnosis of rotator cuff pathology by either magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or arthrogram with subsequent surgical repair can lead to faster restoration of function and a better outcome in these select individuals."}
{"id": "9581249", "title": "Changes of sonographic, magnetic resonance tomographic, electromyographic, and histopathologic findings within a 2-month period of examinations after experimental muscle denervation.", "content": "Changes of sonographic, magnetic resonance tomographic, electromyographic, and histopathologic findings within a 2-month period of examinations after experimental muscle denervation. This study compares sonographical, histopathological, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and electromyographical (EMG) findings following acute muscle denervation. We performed an experimental denervation of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles on 35 New Zealand white rabbits by segment resection of the suprascapular nerve. The sonographical appearance of the supraspinatus muscle was followed and documented at short time intervals within a 2-month follow-up period. The sonographical, histopathological, and MRI changes due to denervation suggest a regular pattern. Apart from the reduction of the muscle diameter, there were considerable sonographical signs of denervation with an increase of echointensity and inhomogenicity of echotexture that appeared on day 14 after injury, and progressed continuously with time. MRI revealed a remarkable increase in signal intensity 3 weeks after denervation and reproducible T2 times. Pathological spontaneous activity on EMG could also be detected from day 14 after injury. Conventional histopathological staining methods (H&E, NADH, ATPase, basic and acid phosphatase) confirmed denervation and absence of reinnervation. The first nonspecific histopathological changes were seen 11 days after denervation in the form of moderately atrophic fibers. Typical histopathological signs of denervation appeared 3 weeks after nerve dissection. In summary, EMG, ultrasound, MRI, and histopathology each showed first abnormalities after about 2 weeks. In addition to EMG, sonography and MRI can document the course of muscle atrophy and mesenchymal abnormalities in neurogenic muscle lesions."}
{"id": "9571942", "title": "MR imaging in shoulder trauma. Value of STIR images.", "content": "MR imaging in shoulder trauma. Value of STIR images. To determine the adequacy of MR standard protocols by analyzing conventional T1- and T2-weighted SE sequences, and to evaluate the usefulness of additional fat-suppressed (STIR) images in shoulder trauma. Paracoronal T1-weighted, T2-weighted, SE, and STIR images were obtained on a 0.5 T superconductive system in 25 patients with shoulder trauma. In a separate evaluation of T1/T2 images and a combined evaluation of T1/T2 SE- and STIR images, we compared the number of patients with evidence of Hill-Sachs lesions, bone bruises, and/or rotator-cuff lesions. Compared to the combined evaluation of T1/T2 and STIR images, the separate evaluation of T1/T2 SE images revealed identical results for rotator-cuff lesions and Hill-Sachs lesions, but different results for the bone bruises in the area of the major tubercle. Occult fractures of the major tubercle, indicated by areas of bone bruising, might be missed with MR using conventional SE images. We recommend the use of additional paracoronal fat-suppressed sequences in patients with clinically suspected lesions and equivocal findings on plain radiographs and on standard SE sequences."}
{"id": "9571397", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder."}
{"id": "9565950", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder in the primary care setting.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder in the primary care setting. MRI is an excellent noninvasive method of diagnosing difficult shoulder problems. Although usually not needed for classic primary impingement syndrome or clinically obvious rotator cuff tears, MRI may be helpful in diagnosing secondary causes of impingement or in some cases involving partial rotator cuff tears. Some surgeons may use MRI preoperatively to define the extent of the rotator cuff tear, as this may alter their surgical approaches."}
{"id": "9562818", "title": "[Imaging methods].", "content": "[Imaging methods]. A number of abnormalities of the shoulder joint can cause pain or dysfunction. Imaging of this complex joint is demanding. Standard radiographs are considered to represent the basis of all imaging. For more detailed diagnoses, especially concerning soft tissue, more advanced imaging methods are required. Standard arthrography (without combination with either CT or MRI) is rarely indicated anymore. Bone scintigraphy is another imaging method with limited use in shoulder joint abnormalities (neoplasm, infection, occult fracture). Sonography is useful in abnormalities of the rotator cuff and the biceps tendon. This method is commonly employed for screening. CT is useful in the demonstration of complex fractures. CT arthrography is indicated in instability of the glenohumeral joint and is competing with MR arthrography. MRI and MR arthrography are the imaging method of choice for many indications, mainly due to their free choice of imaging planes and excellent contrast resolution. These methods provide the most detailed diagnosis mainly with regard to abnormalities of the rotator cuff (partial versus intact or full-thickness tears) and the biceps tendon and are useful in the assessment of instability."}
{"id": "9555840", "title": "Fractures of the greater tuberosity presenting as rotator cuff abnormality: magnetic resonance demonstration.", "content": "Fractures of the greater tuberosity presenting as rotator cuff abnormality: magnetic resonance demonstration. To show that magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can be useful to diagnose radiographically invisible greater tuberosity fractures in patients with clinical presentations suspicious for rotator cuff injury. Six patients with subtle greater tuberosity fractures who were sent for MRI because of possible rotator cuff tear are reviewed (age range, 27-51 years; mean, 40.5 +/- 8.4 years). Five of the patients recount direct trauma to their shoulders, whereas one noticed shoulder pain after a fall in which she fractured her ankle. MRI showed an area of edema confined to the greater tuberosity with linear low signal extending through the tuberosity consistent with a fracture in all cases. Although five patients had a complete set of shoulder radiographs before MRI, these were interpreted as normal in all cases. Full-thickness rotator cuff tears were not present in any of the cases. All of the patients were treated conservatively with good results. MRI can prevent unnecessary arthroscopy in patients clinically suspected of rotator cuff damage by showing subtle fractures of the greater tuberosity not visible on radiographs."}
{"id": "9525755", "title": "Quantitative assessment of the muscles of the rotator cuff with magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Quantitative assessment of the muscles of the rotator cuff with magnetic resonance imaging. The purpose of this study was to establish a magnetic resonance (MR) imaging standard for quantification of the muscles of the rotator cuff. Parasagittal T1-weighted turbo spin-echo images of the shoulder were obtained in 70 asymptomatic subjects (35 women, 35 men; age range: 21-70 years, mean: 45 years). Standardized cross-sectional areas (rotator cuff muscle areas divided by the area of the supraspinatus fossa) and standardized signal intensities (related to signal intensities of the teres major muscle) were measured and compared with 30 patients with different stages of rotator cuff tears and 10 patients with glenohumeral instability. In addition, a so-called tangent sign was evaluated with the hypothesis that a healthy supraspinatus muscle crosses a line (tangent) drawn through the superior borders of the scapular spine and the superior margin of the coracoid. Cross-sectional areas of the muscles of the rotator cuff were variable in asymptomatic subjects. Cross-sectional areas (but not signal intensities) did discriminate patients with different stages of rotator cuff tears from asymptomatic subjects. The tangent sign was negative in all asymptomatic subjects but positive in four and nine of 10 patients with medium and large rotator cuff tears, respectively. A method for quantification of the muscles of the rotator cuff using MR imaging is presented. Cross-sectional areas can be used for quantification of the muscles of the rotator cuff. The tangent sign is a useful MR sign for atrophy of the supraspinatus muscle."}
{"id": "9522674", "title": "[Rupture of the rotator cuff and skeletal muscle metastasis of primary lung carcinoma. A rare disease picture in differential diagnosis of shoulder pain].", "content": "[Rupture of the rotator cuff and skeletal muscle metastasis of primary lung carcinoma. A rare disease picture in differential diagnosis of shoulder pain]. Skeletal muscles is an uncommon site for metastatic spreading of malignancies such as carcinoma of the lung. Thus, to date, there have been only a small number of reports of carcinoma of the lung spreading to the skeletal muscles. This case study reports the rare combination of a rotator cuff lesion of the shoulder with the late occurrence of the metastasis of a squamous cell carcinoma of the lung in the ipsilateral deltoid muscle. The problems that result from this combination concerning diagnosis and therapy are discussed."}
{"id": "9519047", "title": "[The diagnostic accuracy and therapeutic relevance of CT arthrography and MR arthrography of the shoulder].", "content": "[The diagnostic accuracy and therapeutic relevance of CT arthrography and MR arthrography of the shoulder]. In glenohumeral instability, CT arthrography and MR arthrography of the shoulder joint were compared to assess accuracy in diagnosis of labral lesions and other internal derangements of the joint, and to evaluate relevance of both imaging methods for therapy. 38 patients with symptoms of shoulder instability were examined clinically, arthrographically with CT and MRI, and arthroscopically. Arthrography with CT and MRI was performed in a double-contrast technique after single puncture and simultaneous injection of the contrast agents for both imaging methods. Type and extent of lesions on arthrographic imaging were criteria for planning therapy to a conservative, sole arthroscopic, or open surgical approach. Sensitivity in diagnosis of labral lesion (26 defects) was 85% in CT, 88% in MRI and 100% if both methods were used. Full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff were visualised in CT in 73%, and in MRI in 100%. Diagnostic accuracy increased from partial to complete to total defects. An open surgical approach was correctly predicted on MRI in 90% and on CT in 71%. A sole arthroscopic therapy was correctly foreseen on both arthrographic techniques in only 38% due to difficulties to assess glenohumeral ligaments. CT arthrography and MR arthrography were excellent for diagnosing labral lesions. MRI is superior to CT in the imaging of all joint structures. Surgical approach can be accurately predicted with both imaging methods but special surgical techniques cannot be effectively planned to replace diagnostic arthroscopy in all cases."}
{"id": "9509826", "title": "Posterosuperior glenoid rim impingement as a cause of shoulder pain in top level waterpolo players.", "content": "Posterosuperior glenoid rim impingement as a cause of shoulder pain in top level waterpolo players. To further define the impingement occurring between the undersurface of the rotator cuff and the posterosuperior glenoid rim as a cause of shoulder pain in waterpolo athletes. A prospective design was used in the last three years. Data were collected in Science Sports Institute of Rome. Eleven top level waterpolo players of both sexes all members of Italian National Waterpolo teams complaining of shoulder pain. All the eleven cases were previously examined with clinical test and X-ray and MR imaging in conventional and functional views, and then underwent arthroscopy. In four cases, X-ray showed erosions of the posterosuperior glenoid and in 5 cases, osteochondral defects on the posterior aspect of humeral head. In eleven cases, MR detected posterosuperior labral damages, partial tears of the undersurface of the rotator cuff and posterosuperior glenoid impingement. Furthermore arthroscopy detected in all cases the pathological findings associated with the posterosuperior glenoid impingement. Even if the shoulder pain in the overhead athlete may be multifactorial, this study provides further evidence that the posterosuperior glenoid impingement may be the major cause of shoulder pain in waterpolo athletes."}
{"id": "9507602", "title": "MR arthrographic findings in tenosynovitis of the long bicipital tendon of the shoulder.", "content": "MR arthrographic findings in tenosynovitis of the long bicipital tendon of the shoulder. To assess the MR arthrographic findings of bicipital tenosynovitis in correlation with arthroscopy. The shoulder MR arthrographies of 500 consecutive patients were retrospectively analyzed for signs of bicipital tenosynovitis and associated pathologies. Forty patients (8%) had MR evidence of bicipital tenosynovitis, but only 17 (3%) with arthroscopic confirmation were included in the study. The MR findings in these patients were compared with those of 10 patients with rotator cuff lesions but arthroscopically normal long biceps tendons. MR arthrography was performed with 10-15 ml of a 250 mmol/l gadoterate meglumine (Gd-DOTA) solution injected under fluoroscopic guidance, and transaxial, oblique coronal and sagittal MR sequences were obtained. All 17 patients showed one or more abnormal findings: signal increase in the tendon with or without fusiform distension was seen in 12, surface irregularities in six, adhesions in 11 and noncommunicating effusions of the tendon sheath in six. Associated abnormalities of the rotator cuff were present in 16 while the seventeenth patient had glenohumeral synovitis without rotator cuff pathology. MR arthrograms correlated with arthroscopic findings in the joint but comparison was not possible in the intertubercular groove portion of the biceps tendon. None of the 10 patients with an arthroscopically normal biceps tendon showed any of the MR findings of bicipital tenosynovitis. Bicipital tenosynovitis is detectable by MR arthrography. In most cases it is an associated finding of rotator cuff abnormalities and likely to have a similar etiology. When lesions of the anterior rotator cuff are recognized, the biceps tendon should be scrutinized for inflammatory changes."}
{"id": "9499965", "title": "[Isolated lesions of the subscapularis tendon and internal malpositions of the biceps tendon. Apropos of 45 cases].", "content": "[Isolated lesions of the subscapularis tendon and internal malpositions of the biceps tendon. Apropos of 45 cases]. Our series consists of 45 lesions of the subscapularis tendon investigated by arthrography and CT arthrography. Arthrography demonstrated opacification of the subacromial bursa in 24% of cases, internal malposition of the long head of biceps in 46% of cases and direct signs of a lesion of the subscapularis tendon in 91% of cases. CT arthrography showed incomplete transverse avulsion in 18% of cases and complete transverse avulsion in 82% of cases. The biceps was dislocated in 35% of cases, and subluxed in 11% of cases. The subscapularis muscle was infiltrated by fat in 46% of cases. Isolated lesions of the subscapularis can be difficult to diagnose clinically and are more frequent than generally thought. CT arthrography must therefore be requested at the slightest doubt, as the intraoperative search for a lesion of the subscapularis tendon is sometimes difficult."}
{"id": "9490987", "title": "Shoulder dislocations in patients over 40: rotator cuff tear?", "content": "Shoulder dislocations in patients over 40: rotator cuff tear?"}
{"id": "9465232", "title": "[Osteochondral lesions of the humeral head: the usefulness of echographic study].", "content": "[Osteochondral lesions of the humeral head: the usefulness of echographic study]. In the cranial humeral end, osteochondral injuries localize in a circular crown including part of the humeral head and part of the major and minor tuberosities. Since this region is easy to depict with US, we investigated the potentials of this technique in detecting osteochondral injuries. Seventy-five osteochondral injuries found at 492 US examinations performed in 12 months with a 7.5 MHz linear probe were retrospectively reviewed. Clinical history taking was focused on the following: a) previous trauma or b) luxation-instability and c) if the patient was a sportsman devoted to activities requiring forced abduction-external rotation or adduction-internal rotation. Since the site of the head's humeral injury is an important clue for diagnosis, we subdivided the humeral circle into four ideal quadrants by two perpendicular lines with the main line passing through the bicipital groove. Then, each injury was ascribed to a quadrant. All patients were also submitted to radiography (at least two films) and to MRI; CT was performed in 12 patients. Ten patients underwent surgery. We found 34 Hill-Sachs lesions, 15 traumas, 9 arthrotic lesions, 7 cases of anterointernal and 4 of posterosuperior impingement, 4 cases of infraspinatus enthesopathy and 2 erosions due to perihumeral calcifications. In our experience, US was an accurate tool in the identification of humeral head conditions, which were confirmed at CT and/or MRI in all patients (no false positives). As for the injury nature, US diagnosis was confirmed in all Hill-Sachs lesions (34/34 cases), traumas (15/15 cases) and 50% of the cases of posterosuperior impingement (2/4 cases). These conditions made up about 2/3 of the whole cases (51/75 cases). US failed to establish the injury nature in the 9 arthrotic lesions, 7 cases of anterointernal impingement, 4 cases of infraspinatus enthesopathy and 2 erosions due to perihumeral calcifications. US can be suggested as the method of choice in the study of the osteochondral lining of the humeral head."}
{"id": "9430827", "title": "Imaging the long head of biceps tendon--a pictorial essay emphasizing magnetic resonance.", "content": "Imaging the long head of biceps tendon--a pictorial essay emphasizing magnetic resonance. Lesions of the long head of the bicepstendon (BT) are seen in association with tears of the rotator-cuff, particularly lesions of the subscapularis tendon and the rotator-interval. The frequency of positive MR-findings at the BT is approximately 25%. The pathologic alterations include complete medial luxation, subluxation and entrapment by the subscapularis tendon, tendinitis or tendovaginitis and lesions at the origin of the tendon at the superior labrum (superior labrum anterior to posterior (SLAP)--lesions). The imaging signs of BT pathology on MR include an abnormal course and position of the tendon, alterations in shape and changes in signal-intensity (SI), obliteration and thickening of the tendon-sheath. In long standing intra-articular BT rupture, neo-insertion of the tendon in the bicipital sulcus may ensue. The long BT needs to be visualized in transaxial, coronal oblique and sagittal oblique projections. Besides serving as stabilizer of the long head of biceps muscle, the BT is also an important stabilizer of the anterior joint capsule."}
{"id": "9430826", "title": "Diagnosis of tears in rotator-cuff-injuries.", "content": "Diagnosis of tears in rotator-cuff-injuries. Pathology of the rotator cuff is the cause of most common problems at the shoulder joint. Acute injuries are not as frequent as chronic cuff disease, but often they aggravate inflammatory or degenerative tendon alterations, even if they are of minor severity. Traumatic rotator cuff tears predominantly affect the supraspinatus tendon or the rotator interval. The subscapularis tendon is involved in anterior dislocations of the glenohumeral joint or in direct trauma. Plain film radiography still remains the base of all further imaging studies. If only full-thickness tears must be ruled out, double-contrast arthrography and ultrasound are acceptable imaging modalities. However, the former has a drawback in being invasive and does not detect partial tears at the bursal site of the cuff or rotator cuff tendinopathy, whereas the latter heavily depends on the experience of the radiologist and is restricted to the rotator cuff. Nowadays the most comprehensive imaging method is magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. MR imaging enables the detection or exclusion of complete rotator cuff tears with a reasonable accuracy and is also suitable to diagnose further pathologies of the shoulder joint. MR arthrography is valuable in the detection of subtle anatomic details and further improves the differentiation of rotator cuff diseases. Although in comparison MR imaging is still the most expensive imaging method, its high negative predictive value for the diagnosis of complete rotator cuff tears and its reliability evaluating different shoulder joint pathologies make it the preferred imaging modality."}
{"id": "9448758", "title": "The Bennett lesion of the shoulder.", "content": "The Bennett lesion of the shoulder. In this article we review the imaging features and significance of the Bennett lesion of the shoulder. Standard radiographic, computed arthrotomographic, and MR findings in three baseball pitchers diagnosed with Bennett lesions of the shoulder are discussed. A crescent-shaped region of mineralization at the posteroinferior aspect of the glenoid rim, consistent with a Bennett lesion, arises at the insertion of the posterior joint capsule. The diagnosis of this lesion, typically in baseball pitchers, should raise suspicion for associated labral and rotator cuff abnormalities."}
{"id": "9446120", "title": "[Echography of the shoulder with the patient supine in the diagnosis of rotator cuff rupture].", "content": "[Echography of the shoulder with the patient supine in the diagnosis of rotator cuff rupture]. We report a new method for shoulder sonography (US): the patient lies supine and his/her arm is positioned so as to optimize tendon depiction. The supraspinatus tendon, which is the most frequently involved structure in rotator cuff tears, is studied with the patient's arm dropped, elbow extended and forearm prone. Our series consisted of 49 surgical patients (arthroscopy in 16 and open surgery in 33 patients): US sensitivity in tear depiction was 84.8%, specificity 100% and accuracy 89.8%. Medium-small tears appeared as transonic areas within tendon substance and/or tendon focal thinning. Large tears appeared as: (a) missed or markedly thinned rotator cuff, with deltoid muscle approximation to the humeral head surface, (b) plenty of fluid collected around bulky tear margins. The US images of 36 patients were then reviewed and the details discussed. A new sign was observed in medium-small tears, that is a sharp hyperechoic band encircling the humeral cartilage (the compass sign). In conclusion, we believe that US performed with the patient in supine recumbency is easier to perform and provides a bigger field of view of the supraspinatus tendon; it also permits to keep stretched rotator cuff, with consequent image quality improvement."}
{"id": "9442331", "title": "Glenoid-labral cyst entrapping the suprascapular nerve: dissolution after arthroscopic debridement of an extended SLAP lesion.", "content": "Glenoid-labral cyst entrapping the suprascapular nerve: dissolution after arthroscopic debridement of an extended SLAP lesion. Glenoid labral cysts are commonly associated with labral tears, which can cause pain or instability. We present the case of a patient, referred for neurological complaints, who was actually suffering from supraspinatus nerve entrapment syndrome. Electroneurogram studies showed an isolated lesion of the branch to the infraspinatus muscle. Magnetic resonance imaging confirmed a glenoid labral cyst extending from the cranial glenoid to the scapular notch. After arthroscopic debridement of an extended SLAP-lesion that had caused joint fluid extrusion, the dissolution of the cyst was associated with complete neurological recovery. The patient is pain free and range of motion is normal. An attempt at an arthroscopic procedure seems warranted in cases like this, since cysts that accompany labral tears can dissolve after rigorous debridement of the torn labrum, much like meniscal cysts. Extended and hazardous open excisions can thus be avoided."}
{"id": "9442324", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging assessment of the rotator cuff: is it really accurate?", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging assessment of the rotator cuff: is it really accurate? Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is used increasingly for evaluating the rotator cuff. This study of 39 shoulders (38 patients) compared the accuracy of MRI interpretation of rotator cuff integrity by a group of community hospital radiologists (clinical community scenario, CCS) with that of a musculoskeletal radiologist (experienced specialist scenario, ESS), relative to arthroscopy. For the CCS subgroup, the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PV), negative PV, and accuracy for partial tears were: 0%, 68%, 0%, 82%, and 59%, respectively; for complete tears: 56%, 73%, 36%, 86%, and 69%, respectively; and for all tears combined: 85%, 52%, 50%, 87%, and 64%, respectively. For the ESS subgroup, the respective values for partial tears were: 20%, 88%, 20%, 88%, and 79%, respectively; for complete tears: 78%, 83%, 58%, 92%, and 82%, respectively; and for all tears: 71%, 71%, 59%, 81%, and 71%, respectively. We concluded that MRI assessment of the rotator cuff was not accurate relative to arthroscopy. MRI was most helpful if the result was negative, and MRI diagnosis of partial tear was of little value. Considering the high cost of shoulder MRI, this study has significant implications for the evaluation of patients with possible rotator cuff pathology."}
{"id": "9426783", "title": "Use of two-dimensional real-time ultrasonography for diagnosing contracture and strain of the infraspinatus muscle in a dog.", "content": "Use of two-dimensional real-time ultrasonography for diagnosing contracture and strain of the infraspinatus muscle in a dog. A strain injury to the infraspinatus muscle was a potential cause of forelimb lameness in a dog. Ultrasonography was used for evaluation of infraspinatus muscle injury. The ultrasonographic appearance of a typical infraspinatus muscle, contracture of an infraspinatus muscle, acute strain of an infraspinatus muscle, and progression of healing of the infraspinatus muscle are described."}
{"id": "9408954", "title": "Orthopedic and interventional applications at low field MRI with horizontally open configuration. A review.", "content": "Orthopedic and interventional applications at low field MRI with horizontally open configuration. A review. The recently introduced horizontally open configuration imagers allow imaging of knee, hip or shoulder during whole range of motion, which is not possible in conventional MR imagers. Special joint motion devices can be used to provide accurate and reproducible studies. In cervical spine, functional MR imaging may be useful in evaluating alarligament stability in patients with late sequelae of a whiplash injury, and in patients with rheumatoid arthritis who are clinically suspected of having a cervical myelopathy or superior migration of the odontoid process. In shoulder, full range of motion abduction study may be helpful in assessing the supraspinatus tendon impingement. To evaluate patellofemoral malalignment, quadriceps loading is recommended since associated contracting muscles and related soft tissue structures can be evaluated. The position of the femoral head relative to the acetabulum during different positions can be assessed. Open-configuration scanners provide an access to patients during scanning procedure, and therefore permit interventional procedures to be monitored with MRI. Such interventions include aspiration cytology/biopsy and different drainage procedures."}
{"id": "9372778", "title": "Prediction of rotator cuff repair results by magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Prediction of rotator cuff repair results by magnetic resonance imaging. Thirty chronic rotator cuff tears were repaired consecutively and evaluated prospectively using a precise anatomic description of the tear that included the rotator interval, the Constant functional score, and an assessment of the tendon state and the atrophy of the supraspinatus muscle by preoperative and postoperative magnetic resonance imaging. Early correlations (mean followup, 21.1 months) attempted to define predictive factors of the final outcome of the repair, physical factors indicative of final tendon state, and postoperative evolution of supraspinatus atrophy. Magnetic resonance imaging oblique sagittal views showed that supraspinatus atrophy correlated with the sagittal and coronal extent of the tear and represented a strong predictive factor of postoperative retearing. At followup, 15 (50%) cuffs were continuous and thick, seven (23%) were continuous but thin, and six (20%) were retorn. Two (7%) cuffs had been repaired only partly. In the group with a persistent tear, flexion strength and differential Constant score were correlated with the final tendon state with no excellent or good results, and with less than 4 kg of strength. Supraspinatus atrophy improved in 18 of the 22 postoperative continuous cuffs, but never decreased in persistent tears, although there was pain relief and functional gain."}
{"id": "9397454", "title": "MR arthrography of the shoulder: variants and pitfalls.", "content": "MR arthrography of the shoulder: variants and pitfalls. Use of magnetic resonance arthrography to evaluate pathologic conditions of the shoulder is becoming widespread. However, normal anatomy or anatomic variations can cause interpretive errors. The most common variations occur at the origins of the glenohumeral ligaments (GHLs) and the insertion of the joint capsule. Among the GHL variants, common origin of the superior and middle ligaments is the most frequent followed by thinning, thickening, or absence of a ligament, most often the middle one. Absence or thinning of one ligament is sometimes associated with thickening of another or changes in the size and shape of the anterior capsular recesses. Common normal variants of the labrum include foramen sublabrum (detachment of the anterosuperior labrum from the glenoid margin) and the Buford complex (absence of the anterosuperior labrum in association with a thick middle GHL). Pitfalls related to the arthrographic technique include (a) visualization of a deep sulcus between the insertion of the long head of the biceps tendon and the superior labrum and (b) an apparent type III capsular insertion due to overdistention of the capsule by injected contrast material."}
{"id": "9356936", "title": "Arthroscopic-assisted rotator cuff repair: patient selection and treatment outcome.", "content": "Arthroscopic-assisted rotator cuff repair: patient selection and treatment outcome. Over a 4-year period 24 patients out of 376 who required a rotator cuff repair were selected for arthroscopic-assisted rotator cuff repair. Preoperative selection criteria were refractory pain in the setting of good range of motion and strength (after an impingement test), absence of radiographic superior humeral head translation, and magnetic resonance imaging evidence of minimally retracted tear without rotator cuff muscle atrophy. Intraoperative selection criteria were the findings of an avulsion-type tear configuration with good tendon quality and absence of subscapularis tendon involvement. Based on these intraoperative criteria, 7 of the 24 patients were converted to an open approach to mobilize retracted and friable tendon tissue in a complex tear configuration. The remaining 17 patients underwent a transosseous arthroscopic-assisted rotator cuff repair with an average postoperative follow-up of 23 months. Evaluation by an independent therapist determined the postoperative American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons Shoulder Function Index of 96 +/- 3 for the operative shoulder. The Functional Rating Scores for Activities of Daily Living and Sports Activity Score were 89% +/- 10% and 87% +/- 12%, respectively. Instrumented isometric strength for abduction and external rotation strength in the operated shoulder were 94% +/- 20% and 93% +/- 20%, respectively, compared with the contralateral unoperated side. Five of eight patients who performed overhead sports returned to a premorbid level of performance, and 14 of 15 patients available for follow-up believed that their result was excellent. We conclude that through careful selection one can identify patients optimally suited for arthroscopic-assisted rotator cuff repair, but some may have to be converted to an open end approach because of the quality of the tendon tissue and configuration of the tear requiring soft tissue releases."}
{"id": "9356935", "title": "Suprascapular nerve entrapment caused by supraglenoid cyst compression.", "content": "Suprascapular nerve entrapment caused by supraglenoid cyst compression. Twenty-two cases of suprascapular nerve entrapment caused by supraglenoid cyst compression were reviewed. Pain and weakness were the presenting symptoms in 14 shoulders and pain alone in 8. Twenty of the cysts were diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging, and two were confirmed at surgical exploration. Electromyography of 20 shoulders was positive for neurologic involvement for both the infraspinatus and supraspinatus in 4 cases, for the infraspinatus only in 12, and negative in 4. Sixteen shoulders were treated by open excision, arthroscopy, or both. Superior labral lesions were diagnosed in 11 of 12 patients who underwent arthroscopy. At follow-up 10 of the patients who underwent surgery had complete resolution of symptoms, 5 had occasional pain or weakness, and 1 recurrence required a second surgery. Of six patients treated without surgery, two improved and four had no change. Supraglenoid ganglion cysts are common and can easily be diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging. For patients with symptoms arthroscopy with repair of the superior labral lesion and either arthroscopic debridement or direct open decompression and excision of the cyst is recommended."}
{"id": "9353479", "title": "MR arthrography of the shoulder: rethinking traditional imaging procedures to meet the technical requirements of MR imaging guidance.", "content": "MR arthrography of the shoulder: rethinking traditional imaging procedures to meet the technical requirements of MR imaging guidance. The purpose of this study was to determine the feasibility of and the appropriate technique for performance of MR imaging-guided arthrography of the shoulder. Thirty-eight MR imaging-guided glenohumeral joint punctures were performed using an open C-arm scanner with a vertically oriented magnetic field, adapted for interventional procedures. Two different approaches to the shoulder were used: a modification of the traditional anterior approach (seven procedures), and an anterosuperior approach (31 procedures) mimicking the anterior arthroscopy portal. The average procedure duration was determined. A retrospective review of needle mediolateral and anterioposterior position was determined for the anterosuperior approaches. Average procedure duration was 21 min for the anterior approach and 12 min for the anterosuperior approach. Subjectively, needle conspicuity was minimal with the anterior approach, contributing to prolonged imaging times. Needle visualization was much improved with the anterosuperior approach. Nine of the 31 anterosuperior procedures involved inadvertent injection of the subacromial or subdeltoid bursa. At the time of retrospective review, the needle was too laterally or too anteriorly positioned in six of these nine patients. With consideration of the technical demands of MR imaging guidance for interventional procedures, MR imaging-guided arthrography of the shoulder is feasible. The traditional radiologic approach to the shoulder must be modified to provide adequate visualization of the needle. The anterosuperior approach meets this needs."}
{"id": "9376998", "title": "Sonography and MRI in the evaluation of painful arthritic shoulder.", "content": "Sonography and MRI in the evaluation of painful arthritic shoulder. We evaluated 31 painful shoulders of 30 patients with chronic arthritis by ultrasonography (US) and compared the results with those of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Both US and MRI revealed effusion in the subacromial-subdeltoid (SA-SD) bursa, biceps tendon sheath (BTS) and glenohumeral (GH) joint, but MRI was more accurate in depicting joint inflammation because of its ability to visualize synovial hypertrophy. US visualized biceps tendon ruptures equally well as MRI. MRI was better able to reveal full-thickness tear of the supraspinatus tendon, whereas US showed better other changes of the supraspinatus tendon (degeneration or partial-thickness tear). Both of the imaging methods were able to depict erosions of the humeral head, but the locations occasionally differed. Inexpensive and easily available US can be recommended as the first imaging method for the detection of soft-tissue changes in the arthritic shoulder, but in rotator cuff problems both methods may be needed."}
{"id": "9327536", "title": "Rotator cuff pathology in athletes.", "content": "Rotator cuff pathology in athletes. The rotator cuff is the primary dynamic stabiliser of the glenohumeral joint and is placed under significant stress during overhead and contact sports. Mechanisms of injury include repetitive microtrauma, usually seen in the athlete involved in overhand sports, and macrotrauma associated with contact sports. Rotator cuff injury and dysfunction in the overhand athlete may be classified based on aetiology as primary impingement, primary tensile overload, and secondary impingement and tensile overload resulting from glenohumeral instability. A thorough history and physical examination are paramount in the evaluation, classification and treatment planning of the athlete with rotator cuff pathology. Imaging studies are a helpful adjunct to the history and physical. Athletes with primary impingement are usually middle aged or older and often have chronic shoulder pain and sometimes weakness associated with overhand sporting activities. Night pain is typical of full thickness rotator cuff tears. Impingement signs are positive and strength of elevation and external rotation are often limited. They usually respond to a nonoperative rehabilitation programme centred on decreasing inflammation, restoring range of motion and strengthening the rotator cuff and scapular stabilisers. Depending on the degree of cuff pathology, acromioplasty, debridement of partial cuff tears, and repair of full thickness tears are usually successful in those who fail a rehabilitation programme. Overhand athletes with cuff pathology secondary to subtle anterior instability are usually young and complain of pain and decreased throwing velocity. Instability may be so subtle that it is only detectable through a positive relocation test on examination. The majority of these athletes do not have a Bankart lesion on magnetic resonance imaging or arthroscopic examination. Arthroscopic examination usually demonstrates anterior capsular laxity (positive 'drive-through' sign), as well as superior-posterior labral and cuff injury typical of internal impingement. If rehabilitation alone is not successful, a capsulolabral repair followed by rehabilitation may allow the athlete to return to their previous level of competition. The athlete with an acute episode of macrotrauma to the shoulder resulting in cuff pathology usually presents with pain, limited active elevation and a positive 'shrug sign'. Arthroscopy and debridement of thickened, inflamed or scarred subacromial bursa with cuff repair or debridement as indicated is usually successful in those who do not respond to a rehabilitation programme."}
{"id": "9343659", "title": "Acromion-splitting approach through an os acromiale for repair of a massive rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Acromion-splitting approach through an os acromiale for repair of a massive rotator cuff tear. Os acromiale, failure of fusion of the secondary centers of ossification of the acromion process, has been noted as a contributing factor in shoulder impingement syndrome and rotator cuff tears. Treatments for symptomatic os acromiale with or without rotator cuff tears have been reported in the literature and range from excision of small fragments to fusion of larger, fragments with internal fixation and bone grafting. Generally, rotator cuff repairs have been performed when possible. We report an acromion splitting approach through an existing os acromiale to gain exposure for the repair of a massive rotator cuff tear. Subsequent to this repair, the acromion was repaired with internal fixation. Good functional use of the patient's upper extremity was obtained and the patient expressed satisfaction with the surgical outcome. The acromion splitting approach is a viable approach in patients with an os acromiale and a coexistent rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "9322701", "title": "The clinical role of shoulder ultrasound.", "content": "The clinical role of shoulder ultrasound. Rotator cuff surgery is facilitated by accurate pre-operative information regarding the presence and size of cuff tears, and the extent of any cuff retraction or lamination. A total of 117 consecutive patients who underwent shoulder ultrasound followed by surgical management were assessed, and the pre-operative ultrasound diagnoses were correlated with the operative findings. Ultrasound was found to be reliable for the detection of full-thickness cuff tears (positive predictive value 96%). In the assessment of partial thickness tears, ultrasound produced few false positives, but failed to diagnose a significant proportion of these lesions. Lamination and other interstitial cuff pathology were not reliably detected by ultrasound. In the diagnosis of subacromial impingement, ultrasound produced few false positives (positive predictive value 95%), but did produce a significant number of false negative results (negative predictive value 66%). Ultrasound is cheaper than MRI and arthrography, and is both non-invasive and 'dynamic'. It is reliable in the diagnosis of full-thickness cuff tears and is a useful adjunct in the diagnosis of cuff impingement and partial thickness tears, but is very much operator-dependent."}
{"id": "9314511", "title": "MR imaging of arthritides affecting the shoulder.", "content": "MR imaging of arthritides affecting the shoulder. MR imaging has had a limited role in the evaluation of arthritis involving the shoulder, despite studies that have shown this technique to be more sensitive than radiography in the evaluation of osseous erosions and cartilage loss. Factors responsible for limiting the use of MR imaging are its relatively high cost, as well as its insensitivity to diminished osseous mineralization and subtle areas of calcification or hyperostosis. MR imaging findings of some arthropathies, however--such as synovial osteochondromatosis, PVNS, and amyloid arthropath--are highly characteristic, and help in determining both diagnosis and treatment. Physicians also should be aware that MR imaging is highly effective at diagnosing numerous \"secondary\" conditions common in patients with shoulder arthropathies, including rotator cuff rupture, synovial cyst formation, and osteonecrosis."}
{"id": "9314509", "title": "MR arthrography of the shoulder.", "content": "MR arthrography of the shoulder. Although conventional MR imaging allows direct visualization of major anatomic structures, smaller intraarticular structures, including the glenoid labrum, glenohumeral ligaments, and articular surface of the rotator cuff tendon can be difficult to evaluate in the absence of a joint effusion. The authors review the techniques employed in performing MR arthrography, imaging characteristics of MR arthrography, and diagnostic utilization of the technique. Suggested indications are provided."}
{"id": "9314505", "title": "MR imaging of the rotator cuff.", "content": "MR imaging of the rotator cuff. MR imaging provides clinically useful information in detecting and characterizing pathology of the rotator cuff and other shoulder disorders in a noninvasive fashion. Complete and partial tears of the rotator cuff as well as factors contributing to impingement can be detected and characterized with MR imaging. The size and location of complete tears of the rotator cuff can be accurately determined with MR imaging."}
{"id": "9314504", "title": "MR imaging of impingement and rotator cuff disorders. A surgical perspective.", "content": "MR imaging of impingement and rotator cuff disorders. A surgical perspective. The role of MR imaging in the diagnosis of impingement and rotator cuff disorders is expanding greatly. This article discusses the clinically pertinent history, physical examination, and surgical treatment of rotator cuff problems. A rationale for consideration of open, \"mini-open,\" and arthroscopic surgical intervention is proposed. The utilization of MR imaging by the orthopedic surgeon for nonoperative, preoperative, and postoperative decision-making are presented. A close working relationship between the radiologist and the orthopedist is emphasized."}
{"id": "9314503", "title": "Rotator cuff impingement. Pathogenesis, MR imaging characteristics, and early dynamic MR results.", "content": "Rotator cuff impingement. Pathogenesis, MR imaging characteristics, and early dynamic MR results. Shoulder impingement can be diagnosed based on clinical findings, but clinical staging of its severity, which may range from reversible edema and hemorrhage to a complete rotator cuff tear, is often not possible. MR imaging allows direct examination of the thickness, signal characteristics, and continuity of the rotator cuff. Furthermore, MR imaging can be used not only to determine the status of the cuff, but also to detect pathology involving surrounding structures and to identify anatomic variations that may contribute to the impingement. Rapid MR imaging during active unguided shoulder motion will likely further increase our understanding of the biomechanics of the shoulder at different stages of impingement, and may shed further light on the pathogenesis of this disorder."}
{"id": "9314500", "title": "Shoulder imaging. Perspective.", "content": "Shoulder imaging. Perspective. At the outset of this issue on MR imaging of the shoulder, one perspective of shoulder imaging is provided, that of a senior bone radiologist, perhaps to shed some light on the question: What is the precise role of MR imaging in the assessment of shoulder disorders?"}
{"id": "9257962", "title": "A practical approach to imaging of the shoulder with emphasis on MR imaging.", "content": "A practical approach to imaging of the shoulder with emphasis on MR imaging. Our understanding of shoulder disorders has changed considerably as a result of improved diagnostic tools, such as arthroscopy and multiplanar imaging modalities. The diagnosis of the cause of shoulder pain can be difficult because a spectrum of disorders, including cervical spine disease, acromioclavicular arthritis, and shoulder instability. Impingement and denervation syndromes can present with similar clinical findings. Accurate depiction of anatomic abnormalities is important for treatment planning. The purpose of this article is to report on the application of available imaging modalities, with emphasis on MR imaging. A strategy for the appropriate use of these studies and their variations of technique is also provided."}
{"id": "9381126", "title": "[The biceps-/rotator cuff-index in ultrasound diagnosis of chronic rupture of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[The biceps-/rotator cuff-index in ultrasound diagnosis of chronic rupture of the rotator cuff]. Diagnosis of old lesions of the rotator cuff is clinically and sonographically challenging. To improve the sonographic diagnosis of old rotator cuff tears the index was developed. In a prospective study 100 patients were examined by ultrasound to evaluate standard measures of rotator cuff diameters in relation to the long biceps tendon. The compensating hypertrophy of the biceps tendon was sonographically quantified in relation to the rotator cuff diameter. The pathological study group included 50 patients with an old lesion of rotator cuff (> 3 months). The control group consisted of 50 patients without any lesions. Comparison of both groups revealed a significantly higher biceps/rotator cuff ratio (p < 0.05). Data higher than 0.8 represent a pathological ratio (Index positive), the standard is 0.5. The index is independent of sex and age. There are no significant index changes measurable in acute tears of the rotator cuff. The index helps to improve sensitivity in diagnosis of old rotator cuff tears by ultrasound."}
{"id": "9285998", "title": "Indirect MR arthrography: techniques and applications.", "content": "Indirect MR arthrography: techniques and applications. Indirect MR arthrography is a simple noninvasive alternative to direct MR arthrography and can potentially alter the diagnostic work-up of several diseases. Based on current knowledge, these diseases include rotator cuff tears. glenoid labrum tears, recurrent tears of the menisci and classification of osteochondritis dissecans. The technique is recommended for inclusion in the MRI diagnostic array, and may obviate the need for invasive direct MR arthrography. The technique and applications of indirect MR arthrography are summarized in this article, based on our own experiences and that described in the current literature."}
{"id": "9285996", "title": "MR arthrography of the rotator cuff and labral-ligamentous complex.", "content": "MR arthrography of the rotator cuff and labral-ligamentous complex. In MR imaging of the shoulder, diagnostic success requires the delineation of complex anatomic structures and the demonstration of subtle abnormalities. Magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography extends the capabilities of conventional MR imaging because contrast solution separates intra-articular structures and outlines abnormalities. There are several major contributions of MR arthrography. In assessment of the rotator cuff, arthrographic MR images enable the accurate differentiation of full-thickness tears from other cuff abnormalities, as well as the determination of tendon quality. In shoulders with suspected glenohumeral instability, arthrographic MR images show the locations of labral tears relative to the origins of glenohumeral ligaments. This article illustrates normal arthrographic MR features of the shoulder as well as common pathological disorders of the rotator cuff and labral-ligamentous complex."}
{"id": "9424648", "title": "[Subacromial impingement syndrome and rotator cuff tear. Ultrasonography of 140 cases].", "content": "[Subacromial impingement syndrome and rotator cuff tear. Ultrasonography of 140 cases]. We investigated the role of rotator cuff impingement in causing tears of supraspinatus and biceps tendons and the comparative reliability of plain radiography and sonography (US). One hundred forty patients with symptoms referrable to the rotator cuff were examined with plain radiography and US of the shoulder. US findings were correlated with MR or double contrast arthrography results in 10 patients and 39 patients were submitted to surgery (acromionplasty). Radiographic studies were performed first and diagnosed rotator cuff impingement (63 patients) caused by abnormal acromial margins or size (23 patients), by acromioclavicular joint protrusion (17 patients), by anterior acromial osteophytosis (10 patients), or by massive periarthritic calcifications (13 patients). In the same 140 patients. US showed normal cuffs in 46 cases, tendonitis in 34, calcific tendonitis in 13, partial-thickness cuff tears in 13, full-thickness cuff tears in 20 and biceps tendon tears in 14 cases. Six of 13 partial tears were studied with MRI, with 4 true positives and 2 false positives. US diagnosis was confirmed by arthrography in 4 complete tears. Twenty-nine of 39 patients undergoing acromionplasty were examined only with plain radiography and US. US accurately diagnosed all 20 massive full-thickness tears, with no false positives nor false negatives (US versus surgery and arthrography). Eleven true positives, 2 false positives and no false negative were observed in 13 partial-thickness cuff tears (US versus surgery and MRI). These findings suggest that rotator cuff US and plain radiography are easily performed, reproducible routine examinations to study the whole rotator cuff and the acromioclavicular joint in the many patients who need an accurate, safe, painless, rapid and cost-effective differential diagnosis, leaving it up to the surgeon to consider MRI or arthrography. Rotator cuff impingement tendonitis, overuse or calcific tendonitis, partial-thickness cuff tears and full-thickness tears ranging from light to severe cause similar shoulder pain and weakness on arm raising. The differential diagnosis must distinguish all these common causes of shoulder dysfunction and cuff problems from other conditions. We conclude that US and plain radiography are accurate routine tests of rotator cuff integrity and rotator cuff impingement."}
{"id": "9381775", "title": "[Results of surgical therapy of ruptures of the rotator cuff of the shoulder].", "content": "[Results of surgical therapy of ruptures of the rotator cuff of the shoulder]. This retrospective study was designed to evaluate mid-term results of patients after surgical treatment of rotator-cuff-tears by means of clinical and ultrasonographical examination with special regard to factors influencing the prognosis. 126 patients were examined clinically and ultrasonographically at a mean postoperative period of 37 months after surgery for rotator cuff lesions. A conservative therapy failed to be successful for at least 3 months before. All patients received an open decompression of the subacromial space, 68.6% of the patients received an additional reconstruction of the rotator cuff. The results were evaluated by use of the Constant-Score. The ultrasonographical examination was performed according to the technique described by Hedtmann. 69% of the patients showed good and excellent results. The mean Constant-Score was 81.4% of the age- and sex-related normal values. Patients with lesions extending more than 3 cm did significantly worse than those with smaller ruptures (Constant-Score: 74.2% vs. 90.6%). An involvement of the subscapularis-tendon was related with bad results. A rerupture was seen ultrasonographically in 17.3% of the patients. Regarding strict criteria of evaluation almost 70% of our patients not responding to conservative treatment achieved good and excellent results after surgery. Smaller lesions and tears solely involving the supraspinatus-tendon were associated with a better prognosis. Ultrasonography allows a reliable examination of the rotator-cuff-anatomy postoperatively performed, too."}
{"id": "9289042", "title": "[Indirect MR arthrography in the diagnosis of lesions of the labrum glenoidale].", "content": "[Indirect MR arthrography in the diagnosis of lesions of the labrum glenoidale]. It has been shown that intravenous administration of contrast media produces an MR arthrographic effect without the need for intraarticular injection. This is the first study evaluating this new technique of indirect MR arthrography in the diagnosis of glenoid labrum tears. 28 patients with clinically suspected labral injuries were prospectively investigated (1.5 Tesla, flexible surface coil). A plain MR examination of the shoulder (transverse and oblique-coronal orientation, T1-weighted spin- [TE/TR 15/675], proton density- and T2*-weighted gradient echo [TE/TR/Flip 14,32/600/30 degrees] sequences) and indirect MR arthrography (transverse and oblique-coronal orientation, fat-suppressed T1-weighted spin-echo sequences [TE/TR 15/675], intravenous injection of gadopentetate dimeglumine [0.1 mmol/kg], followed by 10-15 min of joint movement) were performed. Results were confirmed by arthroscopy and/or open surgery. Indirect MR arthrography significantly improved delineation of the glenoid labrum and hyaline cartilage (p < 0.05). Sensitivity and specificity of indirect MR arthrography in the diagnosis of labral injuries were 90% and 89%, compared to 79% and 67% of the native MR examination. Indirect MR arthrography is a promising non-invasive technique in the evaluation of the glenoid labrum."}
{"id": "9243387", "title": "Comparison of fat-saturation fast spin echo versus conventional spin-echo MRI in the detection of rotator cuff pathology.", "content": "Comparison of fat-saturation fast spin echo versus conventional spin-echo MRI in the detection of rotator cuff pathology. The purpose of this study was to compare the diagnostic performance of fat-saturation fast-spin-echo (FSE) T2-weighted (T2W) sequences with conventional spin-echo (CSE) T2W sequences in the detection of rotator cuff pathology using surgery as the reference standard. Oblique coronal dual-echo CSE and FSE T2W images with fat saturation from 50 surgically confirmed MR shoulder examinations were acquired on a 1.5-T MR scanner. Blinded MR readers retrospectively analyzed each imaging sequence separately and ultimately correlated both sequences together with findings at surgery. FSE was 100% sensitive and 94% specific in detection of full-thickness tears (n = 19) and 73% sensitive and 97% specific in the detection of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears (n = 13). There was no statistically significant difference in the performance of FSE with fat saturation compared with CSE. The two discrepancies between imaging sequences related to the extent of partial-thickness tears. Our findings suggest that fat-saturation FSE imaging can effectively replace CSE imaging in the evaluation of rotator cuff pathology."}
{"id": "9205245", "title": "MR imaging of the rotator cuff tendon: interobserver agreement and analysis of interpretive errors.", "content": "MR imaging of the rotator cuff tendon: interobserver agreement and analysis of interpretive errors. To evaluate accuracy in interpretation of shoulder magnetic resonance (MR) images and interobserver agreement and to characterize the types of errors. Five radiologists with varying experience independently and retrospectively twice interpreted the MR images of 222 symptomatic patients who underwent both MR imaging and shoulder arthroscopy. The first interpretation was a blind review; the second was with knowledge of the arthroscopic findings. For full-thickness tears, the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy were 84%-96%, 94%-98%, and 92%-97%, respectively, and for partial tears, 35%-44%, 85%-97%, and 77%-87%, respectively. There was no statistically significant difference between readers in the detection of partial or full-thickness tears. There was a statistically significant difference between readers in the no-tear category. Cohen kappa values generally indicated improved interobserver agreement proportional to the readers' experience (full-thickness tears, 0.731-0.881; partial tears, 0.168-0.443). Diagnosis of a full-thickness tear can be learned to a high degree of accuracy. Despite the radiologist's level of experience and knowledge of the arthroscopic findings, the sensitivity for diagnosis of partial tears is poor."}
{"id": "9340739", "title": "[Ultrasound findings after shoulder dislocation].", "content": "[Ultrasound findings after shoulder dislocation]. Sonography of the shoulder is an effective method for detecting tears of the rotator cuff and bone lesions. The purpose of this study was to evaluate prospectively the sonographic findings after shoulder dislocation. Sonography was performed on 208 patients with 210 shoulder dislocations, which were all verified by radiography. We diagnosed 62 rotator cuff lesions (29.5%), which were all in the group with traumatic shoulder dislocation. The incidence of tears in patients with first traumatic dislocation (n = 134) was 36.5%. 12 tears (21.8%) of the rotator cuff were noted in recurrent dislocations (n = 55). 23 fractures or bony avulsions of the greater tuberosity of the humerus (11%) and 168 Hill-Sachs lesions (80%) were seen. Sonographic examination of the shoulder revealed a significant amount of information that would remain undetected without the aid of expensive and/or invasive diagnostic tools."}
{"id": "9168717", "title": "MR imaging of rotator cuff tendon tears: comparison of T2*-weighted gradient-echo and conventional dual-echo sequences.", "content": "MR imaging of rotator cuff tendon tears: comparison of T2*-weighted gradient-echo and conventional dual-echo sequences. Although MR imaging evaluation of the rotator cuff is usually done with proton density- and T2-weighted spin-echo techniques, interest also exists in T2*-weighted gradient-recalled echo techniques. The shorter scan times of T2*-weighted sequences can be used to increase the number of signal averages and thus improve the signal-to-noise ratio. Our purpose in this study was to compare the sensitivity and specificity of oblique coronal T2*-weighted MR image interpretations with conventional dual-echo T2-weighted MR image interpretations when diagnosing rotator cuff tears. Forty-seven consecutive patients who underwent both MR imaging and shoulder arthroscopy were included in this study. The MR examination included both a 7 min 20 sec acquisition time proton density- and T2-weighted oblique coronal sequence and a 7 min 5 sec T2*-weighted oblique coronal sequence. The oblique coronal dual-echo T2-weighted images were evaluated by two of the authors independently, who were unaware of the arthroscopic findings. Each of the two observers graded each cuff as being intact, having a partial-thickness tear, or having a full-thickness tear. After a 3-week interval, each of the two observers then interpreted the T2*-weighted oblique coronal MR images in the same manner. Sensitivity and specificity for the two sets of interpretations were calculated in terms of the ability of the observers to use the two sequences to distinguish an intact cuff from a rotator cuff tear and to distinguish a partial-thickness cuff tear from an intact cuff or full-thickness tear. The results were then compared using Student's t test calculations. For distinguishing an intact cuff from a torn cuff, the sensitivity of the observers' interpretations was lower for the T2*-weighted images than for the conventional dual-echo T2-weighted images. The specificity also decreased with interpretation of the T2*-weighted images for one observer and was unchanged for the second observer. For distinguishing a partial-thickness cuff tear from a non-partial-thickness cuff tear (intact or full-thickness tear), the sensitivity and specificity of both observers decreased with interpretations of the T2*-weighted images when compared with the conventional dual-echo T2-weighted images. The results did not reach statistical significance. In this small study evaluating the ability of observers to diagnose rotator cuff tears on oblique coronal MR images only, interpretations of T2*-weighted images tended to be less sensitive and specific than interpretations of standard dual-echo T2-weighted images."}
{"id": "9219130", "title": "The low incidence of suprascapular nerve injury after primary repair of massive rotator cuff tears.", "content": "The low incidence of suprascapular nerve injury after primary repair of massive rotator cuff tears. We measured the incidence of cuff retear and injury to the suprascapular nerve after mobilization and repair of a massive rotator cuff tear. Of one hundred four rotator cuff repairs performed over a 5-year period, 10 patients (7 men and 3 women, age range 22 to 68 years) had primary repairs of massive rotator cuff tears requiring cuff mobilization and an acromioplasty as their only procedure. These patients were evaluated at a mean of 2.5 years (range 2.0 to 3.0 years) after surgery. At follow-up electromyographic examination confirmed that 1 of the 10 patients had an iatrogenic suprascapular nerve injury, whereas ultrasound evaluation revealed that 2 of 10 repairs failed. Pain relief was achieved in the eight patients with intact repairs and not in the two with recurrent tears. All patients had some limitation of active motion or strength, especially in external rotation. Thus 7 of 10 patients had neither evidence of nerve injury nor recurrent rotator cuff tears yet still showed limited active motion or weakness. It appears that operative injury to the suprascapular nerve during cuff mobilization can occur, but other factors such as inadequate cuff muscle function are more frequently responsible for the poor functional outcomes seen after successful repairs of massive rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "9304204", "title": "[Ultrasound diagnosis of soft tissue changes in dialysis-associated amyloidosis].", "content": "[Ultrasound diagnosis of soft tissue changes in dialysis-associated amyloidosis]. To develop criteria for the detection of long term dialysis-associated soft tissue changes due to amyloid deposits in various joints. Ultrasonographic examination of the shoulder (15 patients), hip (5 patients), knee (6 patients) and elbow (2 patients) using a 7.5 or 5 MHz scanner. A total of 28 joints were examined. Soft tissue changes in long term dialysis were found to be associated with an increased thickness of the supraspinatus tendon and/or biceps tendon as well as joint effusions with echogenic zones. Moreover, increased thickness of the joint capsule and echogenic proliferation of the synovia were observed. Ultrasound is an inexpensive and suitable method in the diagnosis and follow-up of soft tissue changes in patients on long term dialysis."}
{"id": "9244908", "title": "[Normal anatomy and pathologic features of the supraspinatus muscle: comparison between ultrasonography and surgery. Analysis of the potential sources of diagnostic errors].", "content": "[Normal anatomy and pathologic features of the supraspinatus muscle: comparison between ultrasonography and surgery. Analysis of the potential sources of diagnostic errors]. The supraspinatus muscle performs about 60% of the elevation-abduction motion of the arm; therefore, it has a prominent functional role among the extrarotational muscles of the shoulder and is the most injured in subacromial space conditions. Seventy-four patients, aged 21-64 years, were examined to compare ultrasonography (US) results with surgical findings in supraspinatus conditions and to analyze the possible pitfalls in US diagnosis. All the patients underwent conventional X-ray, US and then surgery or arthroscopy. The following criteria were considered: morphology, thickness, echotexture, the convexity of the superior border of supraspinatus tendon, the relationships with the subacromial bursa and the tendon of the biceps long head, the regularity of the bone cortex of the humeral head. US showed: chronic degenerative tendinopathy in 10 patients; perforating focal injuries in 21 patients; deep focal injuries in 10 patients; intramural focal injuries in 6 patients; superficial focal injuries in 8 patients; complete tendon tear with detachment in 19 cases. 62/74 US diagnoses were surgically confirmed, with a specificity of 83.7%. In our experience, US provided very useful information about the pattern, size and site of the injuries and was very helpful in the surgical planning."}
{"id": "9127074", "title": "Cyclic loading of transosseous rotator cuff repairs: tension overload as a possible cause of failure.", "content": "Cyclic loading of transosseous rotator cuff repairs: tension overload as a possible cause of failure. Previous experimental studies of failure of rotator cuff repair have involved a single pull to ultimate load. Such an experimental design does not represent the cyclic loading conditions experienced in vivo. We created 1 cm x 2 cm rotator cuff defects in 16 cadaver shoulders, repaired each defect with transosseous simple sutures, and cyclically loaded the repairs by a servohydraulic materials test system actuator at physiologic rates and loads (rate of 33 mm/sec to a load of 180 N.). A progressive gap was noted in each specimen, for a 100% rate of failure of the repairs. A 5 mm gap developed at an average of 25 cycles, and a 10 mm gap developed at an average of 188 cycles. The central suture always failed first and by the largest magnitude. This study suggests that rotator cuff tears that are repaired with a \"tension overload\" of a portion of the muscle-tendon units will undergo gradual failure with physiologic cyclic loading until the normal resting lengths of the muscle-tendon units are restored. This \"controlled failure\" of the repairs may explain residual defects that have been demonstrated by ultrasonography and by arthrography in patients with \"successful\" rotator cuff repairs. Clinical implications are that: 1) rotator cuff tears should be repaired without tension if possible; and 2) transosseous bone tunnels should ideally extend distal to the weak metaphysical bone so that purchase is obtained into cortical bone for greater fixation strength."}
{"id": "9124141", "title": "MR imaging of the shoulder after surgery.", "content": "MR imaging of the shoulder after surgery. This study examines the usefulness of MR imaging for assessing patients who have undergone shoulder surgery and have persistent postoperative complaints. Fifty patients with persistent postoperative shoulder pain underwent MR imaging before second-look arthroscopy. The MR imaging findings were correlated with findings at surgery. With surgical findings as the gold standard, we found MR imaging to be 100% sensitive and 87% specific in revealing full- or partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears. MR imaging was 84% sensitive and 87% specific in revealing residual impingement. The positive predictive value of MR imaging for diagnosing partial-thickness tears of the supraspinatus tendon was 56%. With this exception, the MR imaging findings correlated well with findings at arthroscopic second-look surgery. In patients who have undergone shoulder surgery, MR imaging is useful in pinpointing disorders and in planning for second-look surgery in patients with persistent postoperative complaints."}
{"id": "9124140", "title": "MR imaging of rotator cuff tears in individuals with paraplegia.", "content": "MR imaging of rotator cuff tears in individuals with paraplegia. The purpose of this study was to use MR imaging to evaluate the prevalence and extent of rotator cuff tears in paraplegic patients, who are at increased risk for impingement caused by overuse. Sixty-four MR examinations of the shoulder were evaluated for partial or full-thickness rotator cuff tears and for single or multiple rotator cuff tendon tears. Thirty-seven MR studies were from paraplegic subjects (26 symptomatic, 11 asymptomatic), and 27 MR studies were from able-bodied subjects (17 symptomatic, 10 asymptomatic). Among subjects who were symptomatic and paraplegic, 73% of shoulders imaged showed evidence of rotator cuff tear on MR images compared with 59% of shoulders in able-bodied symptomatic subjects. Of all subjects with paraplegia, 57% of shoulders imaged showed rotator cuff tears. Among all paraplegic subjects, prevalence and severity of tears correlated positively with age and duration of spinal cord injury. Tears that involved the posterior portion of the rotator cuff were revealed on MR images in 74% of the paraplegic subjects compared with 50% of the able-bodied subjects. MR imaging revealed a high percentage and degree of severity of rotator cuff tears in individuals with paraplegia and thus proved useful in evaluating shoulders in these patients."}
{"id": "9124128", "title": "Not-so-fast MR imaging of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Not-so-fast MR imaging of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "9113722", "title": "The rotator cuff. Commentary.", "content": "The rotator cuff. Commentary. To add clinical perspective to the articles of this two-issue collection, eight prominent shoulder surgeons discuss their approach to the treatment of rotator cuff disease. There is broad agreement in many areas, however, significant controversies remain."}
{"id": "9113711", "title": "Partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. Pathogenesis and treatment.", "content": "Partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. Pathogenesis and treatment. Partial-thickness rotator cuff tears are now acknowledged to be an important entity in the spectrum of the impingement syndrome. The pathogenesis of partial-thickness tears is often age- and activity-related. Surgical decision making is influenced by the extent of the tear and the associated bony and soft-tissue pathology."}
{"id": "9192430", "title": "Comparison of fast spin-echo and conventional spin-echo sequences in the MR diagnosis of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Comparison of fast spin-echo and conventional spin-echo sequences in the MR diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. The fast spin-echo (FSE) technique has been a successful alternative to conventional spin-echo (CSE) imaging in the brain, spine, and pelvis, but not in the knee. This study evaluated the performance of the FSE technique in comparison with the established CSE technique as a reference standard. Oblique coronal images of 30 shoulders were obtained by both FSE and CSE techniques. The FSE images were compared with CSE images in terms of blurring and motion artifact, fat signal intensity, structural conspicuity, and visualization of joint effusion and rotator cuff tears. We imaged 30 consecutive patients with suspected rotator cuff tears who were referred for MR examination. FSE images often were worse in blurring and motion artifact than CSE images. FSE images showed higher fat signal intensity, but visualized structural conspicuity, joint effusion, and rotator cuff tear as well as CSE images. Our results suggest that the FSE technique is not equal to the CSE technique but can be used for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "9090762", "title": "Consensus conference recommendations regarding imaging studies in degenerative disease of the unoperated shoulder.", "content": "Consensus conference recommendations regarding imaging studies in degenerative disease of the unoperated shoulder."}
{"id": "9157559", "title": "[Seidel humerus intramedullary nailing. Clinical results of 100 surgeries].", "content": "[Seidel humerus intramedullary nailing. Clinical results of 100 surgeries]. Between 01.01.88 and 30.07.94 we treated 81 traumatic and 19 pathologic humeral shaft fractures with the Seidel humeral locking nail (HLN). The majority of the 100 patients (60 women, 40 men) were older than 60 years of age. The dominant fracture type according to AO was type A. Operative stabilization was considered indicate because of fracture distraction during functional bracing in most cases. In general, patients choose surgical intervention in preference to conservative management. Radiological consolidation was observed within 10 weeks. In 48 cases sonography revealed motor disturbances between the gliding sheath of the rotator cuff, but there was no correlation between this and the shoulder mobility. In 7 cases an additional fracture was created during introduction of the nail. This complication can be avoided by using the right technique. There were no cases of non-union or radial nerve lesion. There were 2 patients who developed an infection, which disappeared after removal of the nail and introduction of antibiotic-loaded beads. Functional results were recorded in 63 patients: 53 patients (84%) had an excellent or satisfactory result (NEER score > 80). Among the others, problems at the site of nail insertion predominated. In our view, the Seidel humeral locking nail is an implant that provides exercise stability without intraoperative positioning problems or risk of injury to nerves or vessels. Nevertheless, this method needs a skilled surgeon with special training to handle typical technical nailing problems."}
{"id": "9055527", "title": "Radiology case of the month. Internal derangement of the shoulder. Complete tear of the supraspinatus tendon with severe retraction of the tendon medially.", "content": "Radiology case of the month. Internal derangement of the shoulder. Complete tear of the supraspinatus tendon with severe retraction of the tendon medially."}
{"id": "9020227", "title": "Extraarticular pigmented villonodular synovitis of the shoulder: a case report.", "content": "Extraarticular pigmented villonodular synovitis of the shoulder: a case report. A rotator cuff tear was diagnosed in a 57-year-old woman based on physical examination and magnetic resonance imaging studies. At operation, an abnormal bursal lesion also was found. The lesion was completely extraarticular and was identified histologically as pigmented villonodular synovitis. The patient was treated with complete bursectomy and repair of the rotator cuff tear and remains asymptomatic 21 months after operation. Pigmented villonodular synovitis is a condition characterized by cell proliferation and deposition of hemosiderin into the lining tissues of joints, tendons, and bursae. The extraarticular form of pigmented villonodular synovitis is extremely rare and usually represents an extension of a primary intraarticular process. Only a few cases have been reported in which the lesion was found exclusively outside the joint with no intraarticular segment. In reviewing the literature, no case of exclusively extraarticular pigmented villonodular synovitis of the shoulder was found. The sequelae of extraarticular pigmented villonodular synovitis are poorly understood, but this lesion can be locally invasive, and if left untreated, may destroy surrounding tissues. Therefore, early diagnosis and treatment are important for optimal results."}
{"id": "9016248", "title": "MR imaging of the shoulder after rotator cuff repair.", "content": "MR imaging of the shoulder after rotator cuff repair."}
{"id": "9015086", "title": "Rotator cuff: evaluation with fast spin-echo versus conventional spin-echo MR imaging.", "content": "Rotator cuff: evaluation with fast spin-echo versus conventional spin-echo MR imaging. To determine if fast spin-echo (SE) magnetic resonance (MR) imaging can provide similar information to that of conventional SE imaging for evaluation of the rotator cuff. One hundred twenty-six patients underwent MR imaging with conventional SE and non-fat-suppressed fast SE sequences (65 patients) or conventional SE and fat-suppressed fast SE sequences (61 patients). Two radiologists independently graded the rotator cuff with separate and side-by-side assessment of the fast SE and conventional SE images. For detection of full-thickness tears, agreement between non-fat-suppressed fast SE and conventional SE images was 93.8% (kappa = 0.78 [good]) and 95.4% (kappa = 0.82 [very good]) for the two readers, respectively, and agreement between fat-suppressed fast SE and conventional SE images was 98.4% (kappa = 0.96 [very good]) and 91.8% (kappa = 0.73 [good]) for the two readers, respectively. Rotator cuff grading was similar for fast SE and conventional SE: weighted kappa = 0.77 (good) and 0.68 (good) for non-fat-suppressed and weighted kappa = 0.83 (very good) and 0.67 (good) for fat-suppressed fast SE images for the two readers, respectively. Fast SE sequences yield similar interpretations as those obtained with a conventional SE sequence for evaluation of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "9501660", "title": "[Constant point evaluation for reconstruction of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[Constant point evaluation for reconstruction of the rotator cuff]. Thirteen patients aged 36-63 years underwent surgery for full thickness rotator cuff rupture. The average follow-up was 21.1 months (range 12-36 months). Supraspinatus tendon was torn in 7 cases, supraspinatus and infraspinatus in 4, subscapularis in 1 and all three tendons were ruptured in 1 patient. Subacromial decompression and cuff reconstruction was done in 11 cases, decompression combined with cuff debridement and partial subscapularis tendon reconstruction in 1 case and subscapularis reconstruction in 1 patient. Constant Score (version corrected for age and sex) was used for shoulder function evaluation. There were 6 very good, 4 good, 1 fair and 2 bad results. Recurrence of cuff tear was diagnosed sonographically in 2 cases of both supra- and infraspinatus rupture. Statistical analysis disclosed significant correlation between extent of the tear and final functional result. Constant Score can be recommended as an objective and useful method for shoulder function assessment."}
{"id": "9266041", "title": "Sonography and MRI of experimental muscle injuries.", "content": "Sonography and MRI of experimental muscle injuries. After sonographical examination with a 7.5-MHz linear array scanner, we created an experimental muscle injury of known site and location on 28 New Zealand white rabbits by stabbing them with a scalpel in the supraspinatus muscle. The changes in the healing process were followed and documented by sonography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) before and 2, 5, 11, 14, 36 and 64 days after injury. The changes in sonography and MRI followed a regular course. Ultrasound revealed an echo-poor area after injury with ever increasing echogenicity from the 14th day. Strong reflexes were found after 2 months. MRI showed few changes, only a slight increase of signal intensity, but a characteristic curve of calculated T2-times (a program of the MRI software). The interpretation of the sonographical picture in histopathological terms remained limited. The development of a hematoma and of fibrous scars can be followed up by sonography, but it is not possible to determine the point of time after injury very accurately. Nevertheless, sonography is a method of great value in the diagnosis of muscle injuries and, given certain limits, in the follow-up of the healing process, too. The significance of MRI can be increased by calculations with the implemented software, as in our study calculated T2-times produced a characteristic curve reflecting the shift of fluids after muscle injury."}
{"id": "9239637", "title": "Anatomy of the normal acromion investigated using MRI.", "content": "Anatomy of the normal acromion investigated using MRI. The shape of the acromion is strongly associated with impingement syndrome and with rotator cuff tears. It is notoriously difficult to image the acromion with conventional radiography. We have developed MRI techniques to depict the acromion in its longitudinal axis. Furthermore, we have measured the subacromial space in both external and internal rotation. In previous studies, three types of acromial shape have been described with the type III or hooked acromion being present in 66% of cases with rotator cuff tears. We studied 31 normal shoulders in 29 people using MRI. Within this population aged 24-36 years, mean age 31 years, no type III acromions were found. Twenty-one were type I (67.7%) and 10 were type II (32.3%). In addition, we found no difference in subacromial height in external or internal rotation. Low rates of intra- and interobserver error were found. These results imply that the hooked acromion is not present in the normal population and is, therefore, likely to be an acquired abnormality."}
{"id": "9064794", "title": "[Sonography of the musculoskeletal system].", "content": "[Sonography of the musculoskeletal system]. Beside standard radiographs, bone scintigraphy and MR imaging, ultrasonography plays an important role in assessing abnormalities of the musculoskeletal system. Ultrasonography is widely available, inexpensive and provides high-contrast resolution; however, interobserver variability is a major problem. Ultrasonography should only be employed by experienced examiners and for proven indications in order to prevent inadequate results. Most peer-reviewed publications have evaluated the role of ultrasonography for abnormalities of the rotator cuff and the achilles tendon. Ultrasonography also commonly provides useful information in hip, knee, foot, and wrist abnormalities as well as in the initial work-up in suspected infection or neoplasm; moreover, the role of ultrasonography in some less accepted indications is discussed, such as in meniscal and cruciate ligament injuries as well as in Morton's neuroma."}
{"id": "9040149", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging features of chloroma of the shoulder.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging features of chloroma of the shoulder. A patient with a history of essential thrombocytosis presented with diffuse skeletal pain and restricted motion of the left shoulder. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the left glenohumeral joint showed a soft tissue mass that displaced the rotator cuff. Biopsy of the mass revealed chloroma. MRI is the method that best characterizes this lesion."}
{"id": "9038113", "title": "Diagnosis of rotator cuff lesions: comparison of US and MRI on 38 joint specimens.", "content": "Diagnosis of rotator cuff lesions: comparison of US and MRI on 38 joint specimens. An experimental study was performed on cadaveric joint specimens of the shoulder to determine the accuracy of US and MRI in diagnosis of abnormalities of the rotator cuff. The value of different morphological criteria was evaluated for discrimination of degeneration as well as partial and complete disruption. A total of 38 surgically exposed specimens of the shoulder joint were examined by US, MRI and pathological methods visualising the tendons of the rotator cuff in same axial and longitudinal orientations. The three imaging modalities were reviewed separately by experienced examiners, respectively, who were blind to other results. Evaluation criteria consisted of signs of shape (thinning, thickening, discontinuity and absence of rotator cuff) and structure (changes in echogenicity in US, increased signal intensity in MRI, tissue changes in pathology). Findings in US and MRI were finally compared with pathology to assess sensitivity and specificity. Pathology demonstrated 4 full-thickness tears, 6 partial-thickness tears, 16 cases with degeneration and 12 normal rotator cuffs. Ultrasound showed pathological signs in all abnormal cuffs, and one MRI report was false negative. Specificity was 67 % in US (4 of 12 cases were false positive) and 100 % in MRI (no abnormal findings in healthy tendons). Discrimination of different pathological disorders of the rotator cuff was reduced in both methods. Using US only 10 of 16 cases of degeneration, 2 of 6 partial tears and 3 of 4 complete tears were correctly defined. Using MRI 13 of 16 degenerations, 3 of 6 partial tears and 3 of 4 complete tears were detected. The MRI technique failed to visualise intratendinous calcifications in all 3 cases. We conclude that MRI and US are both sensitive in detection of abnormalities of the rotator cuff. Ultrasound should be the primary diagnostic method in screening of shoulder pain because it is economic and fast. The MRI technique should be used secondary because it provides more information about extent of tendons and has lower risk of artefacts."}
{"id": "9024435", "title": "Single-tendon tears of the rotator cuff. Evaluation and treatment of subscapularis tears and principles of treatment for supraspinatus tears.", "content": "Single-tendon tears of the rotator cuff. Evaluation and treatment of subscapularis tears and principles of treatment for supraspinatus tears. Successful surgical treatment of single-tendon tears, which involve the supraspinatus or the subscapularis requires careful attention to technical details. In supraspinatus tears, careful mobilization and secure repair of the tendon will usually give a good outcome. In subscapularis tears, the diagnosis is not difficult if one carefully evaluates the patient for the classic pathognomonic findings of such a tear. If the tear is confirmed by CT or MR imaging and an acute repair is performed, the outcome is usually satisfactory."}
{"id": "9024430", "title": "Rotator cuff evaluation: imaging and diagnosis.", "content": "Rotator cuff evaluation: imaging and diagnosis. A variety of disorders can lead to disease and pathology of the rotator cuff tendons. The most important information is obtained during a careful history and physical examination. With the judicious use of various diagnostic modalities, evaluation of the cause of the rotator cuff disease is possible."}
{"id": "9006686", "title": "Traumatic tears of the subscapularis tendon. Clinical diagnosis, magnetic resonance imaging findings, and operative treatment.", "content": "Traumatic tears of the subscapularis tendon. Clinical diagnosis, magnetic resonance imaging findings, and operative treatment. The study population consisted of 14 shoulders in 13 consecutive patients with surgically confirmed isolated subscapularis tendon tears. In all but three patients, the mechanism of injury was traumatic hyperextension or external rotation of the abducted arm. All patients reported pain and weakness in the affected shoulder. Physical findings revealed limited passive range of motion at maximal internal and external rotation due to pain, weakness of internal rotation of the shoulder, and tenderness in the region of the intertubercular groove. However, these findings did not conclusively point to the subscapularis tendon as the site of injury. Preoperative interpretation of magnetic resonance imaging studies was used to diagnose tears of the subscapularis tendon in 14 shoulders and biceps tendon subluxation or dislocation in 6 shoulders. On arthroscopic examination, one patient was found to have a partial-thickness tear that was treated with arthroscopic debridement. Six shoulders had full-thickness tears of the subscapularis tendon, and seven shoulders had full-thickness tears associated with concomitant biceps tendon pathologic conditions, including subluxation, dislocation, or rupture. The full-thickness subscapularis tendon tears were repaired via an open anterior approach to the shoulder through the deltopectoral groove. Associated biceps tendon injuries were treated with tenodesis of the tendon to the intertubercular groove. Our early followup results have shown that, with proper diagnoses and surgical treatments, patients have greatly decreased pain and marked improvement in shoulder function."}
{"id": "9005933", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the musculoskeletal system. Part 6. The Shoulder.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the musculoskeletal system. Part 6. The Shoulder. The role of magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis and treatment of patients with shoulder pain has increased remarkably in recent years, largely because of improved resolution of images and increased experience of musculoskeletal radiologists. In rotator cuff disease/impingement and instability, magnetic resonance imaging adds a new dimension to the clinical findings through the noninvasive visualization of either the pathology itself or frequently associated abnormalities. It is the associated abnormalities that are depicted in instability: glenoid irregularities, labral tears, capsular laxity, and Hill-Sachs deformities. Glenoid, labral, and Hill-Sachs abnormalities can be assessed with either magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography arthrography. Magnetic resonance imaging has the advantages of noninvasiveness, multiplanar imaging capability and exquisite soft tissue contrast. In rotator cuff disease, magnetic resonance imaging depicts the status of the rotator cuff itself, revealing partial and full thickness tears, allowing an estimation of size and quality of tendon edges. Possible impingement sites can be identified. Primary instability with secondary impingement may be first suspected on magnetic resonance imaging. Postoperative complications, including recurrent tendon detachment, deltoid dehiscence, and infection, are clarified. Unsuspected but clinically important lesions, such as neoplasm, osteonecrosis, and ganglion with entrapment of the suprascapular nerve, each have characteristic magnetic resonance imaging appearances."}
{"id": "8998210", "title": "MR imaging of shoulder impingement and rotator cuff disease.", "content": "MR imaging of shoulder impingement and rotator cuff disease. A number of imaging modalities, such as conventional radiography, arthrography, ultrasonography, and MR imaging, can be used in the evaluation of shoulder pain related to impingement, tendinosis, and rotator cuff tear. Of these techniques, only MR imaging provides anatomic information coupled with superior soft-tissue contrast. MR imaging of the shoulder effectively demonstrates a variety of morphologic abnormalities that may be associated with tendon degeneration. Rotator cuff tears are also well depicted and may be further characterized with regard to tendon involvement, degree of retraction, and secondary muscular atrophy."}
{"id": "9115565", "title": "Arthroscopic decompression of a ganglion cyst causing suprascapular nerve compression.", "content": "Arthroscopic decompression of a ganglion cyst causing suprascapular nerve compression. Ganglion cysts causing suprascapular nerve compression are an uncommon cause of suprascapular nerve compression. The advent of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and its application in patients with shoulder pain has improved the ability to diagnose cystic lesions causing extrinsic compression of the suprascapular nerve. Traditionally, treatment of suprascapular nerve compression by a ganglion cyst has required open cyst excision through either a deltoid and infraspinatus muscle takedown or a muscle splitting approach. We present three cases of suprascapular nerve compression by a ganglion cyst in which the cyst was decompressed arthroscopically. In each case the patient's symptoms resolved after arthroscopic cyst decompression, and a postoperative MRI does not demonstrate reaccumulation of the cyst fluid. Arthroscopic ganglion cyst decompression is a well-tolerated approach to this problem that avoids the morbidity of an open surgical procedure. The absence of recurrent cyst formation combined with resolution of the symptoms attests to the success of this method."}
{"id": "9101759", "title": "[A dynamic shoulder model for biomechanical measurements of shoulder specimen].", "content": "[A dynamic shoulder model for biomechanical measurements of shoulder specimen]. The article discusses a dynamic shoulder model capable of simulating the forces generated by the rotator cuff and the deltoid muscle, and elevation movements of the glenohumeral joint using, a computer-aided servohydraulic unit. In 10 cadaver shoulder specimen, the effects of the loss of function of the supraspinatus muscle on maximum elevation was determined with an ultrasound system. Changes in the so-called impingement pressure below the coracoacromial arch were determined with the aid of capacitive pressure sensors. With the supraspinatus muscle inactive/ absent, the maximum elevation of the humerus showed a decrease of 6% (p < 0.05), which, however, was overcome by an increase in deltoid power of only one-third of the supraspinatus muscle power loss. For a simulated isolated supraspinatus defect, the subacromial pressure below the coracoacromial arch decreased by 8% (p > 0.05). These results confirm clinical investigations showing that isolated lesions affecting the supraspinatus tendon often fail to produce symptoms and thus require no surgical reconstruction."}
{"id": "9082479", "title": "[Ultrasound diagnosis of the shoulder].", "content": "[Ultrasound diagnosis of the shoulder]. Sonography of the shoulder joint is a well-established technique in the hands of the experienced examiner, when using a standardized protocol. It has proved invaluable in assessing pathological soft tissue changes, especially after trauma. The static evaluation of anatomy and dynamic assessment of function are especially helpful in both preoperative staging and postoperative follow-up. The normal anatomy, examination techniques, including our own variations, and pathological conditions are discussed. The findings and various classifications of impingement syndrome, rotator cuff injuries, biceps tendon lesions and inflammatory changes are examined. Review of the major articles in the literature shows excellent correlation with our results, the overall sensitivity in the case of rotator cuff lesions being over 90%. A well-performed ultrasound examination in most cases obviates the need for the more invasive arthroscopy and the more cumbersome and expensive MRI examinations."}
{"id": "9082478", "title": "[MR arthrography of the shoulder joint in a postoperative patient sample].", "content": "[MR arthrography of the shoulder joint in a postoperative patient sample]. Indications of MR arthrography were analyzed in this prospective study. The aim was to evaluate possible advantages over conventional MRI, establish diagnostic criteria and to analyze its meaning further for the therapeutic management of postoperative patients. MR arthrography was performed in eight patients who had undergone surgical repair of rotator cuff lesions (modified Neer acromioplasty) and in six patients who had undergone arthroscopic therapy of recurrent unidirectional dislocation of the shoulder by combined arthroscopic intra- and extracapsular repair. MR investigations were performed before and after application of a contrast solution (2 mmol Gd-DTPA). All patients suffered from chronic postoperative pain. In patients with rotator cuff lesions, a partial tear could be verified in one patient and excluded in all others. In patients after arthroscopic therapy by combined intra- and extracapsular repair, a radiologically patulous-appearing capsule correlated with clinically recurrent dislocations. In all other patients diagnostic criteria, such as distribution of the intra-articular contrast solution, proliferation of scar tissue, nodular appearance of the glenohumeral ligaments and capsule thickness, correlated with a regular postoperative status. MR arthrography of the shoulder represents a promising method in the evaluation of the postoperative shoulder. It might further improve the evaluation of reactive capsule alterations, scar tissue proliferation, and the labroligamentous complex, as well as the ability to differentiate partial and complete rerupture from degenerative changes of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "9082477", "title": "[Indirect MR arthrography of the shoulder. An alternative to direct MR arthrography?].", "content": "[Indirect MR arthrography of the shoulder. An alternative to direct MR arthrography?]. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic power of indirect MR arthrography (I-MRA) particularly in rotator cuff tears. Sonography, conventional MRI and I-MRA were compared with arthroscopy in 25 patients. Additionally literature about experience with the method in other shoulder disease was searched. Sensitivity and specificity in the detection of rotator cuff tears were 0.6 and 0.7 respectively using sonography, 0.66 and 1 with conventional MRI and 1 and 0.86 for I-MRA. I-MRA was especially useful in diagnosing partial tears. In other studies I-MRA showed good results in the evaluation of glenoid labral tears, with a sensitivity of 91% and a specificity of 92%. I-MRA can be successfully used to diagnose rotator cuff and labral tears."}
{"id": "9082475", "title": "[Diagnosis of shoulder impingement syndrome].", "content": "[Diagnosis of shoulder impingement syndrome]. This article reviews the pathogenesis and clinical and imaging findings in shoulder impingement syndrome. Shoulder impingement is caused by compression of the supraspinatus tendon underneath the coracoacromial arch, mainly in forward flexion of the arm. Different stages of impingement syndrome are described. Stage I relates to edema and hemorrhage of the supraspinatus tendon. Stage II is characterized by bursal inflammation and fibrosis, as well as tendinopathy. In stage III there is a tear of the rotator cuff. Clinical signs may overlap. Moreover, calcifying tendinitis, fractures and pain originating from the cervical spine may mimic shoulder impingement syndrome. Imaging is important for the exact diagnosis. Standard radiographs are the basis of imaging in shoulder impingement syndrome. They may demonstrate subchondral sclerosis of the major tuberosity, subacromial spurs, and form anomalies of the acromion. They are also important in the differential diagnosis of shoulder impingement syndrome and demonstrate calcifying tendinitis, fractures and neoplasm. Ultrasonography has found acceptance as a screening tool and even as a final diagnostic method by many authors. However, there is a high interobserver variability in the demonstration of rotator cuff tears. Its usefulness has therefore been questioned. MR imaging is probably the method of choice in the evaluation of the rotator cuff and surrounding structures. Several investigations have demonstrated that differentiation of early findings, such as tendinopathy versus partial tears, may be difficult with MR imaging. However, reproducibility for fullthickness tears appears to be higher than for sonography. Moreover, specificity appears to be superior to sonography. MR arthrography is not universally accepted. However, it allows for more exact differentiation of discrete findings and may be indicated in preoperative planning. Standard arthrography and CT have a limited role in the current assessment of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "9068210", "title": "Sonographic signs of complete rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Sonographic signs of complete rotator cuff tears. To evaluate the usefulness of high resolution ultrasound (HRUS) in the examination of complete rotator cuff tear (RCT). A prospective study of 157 patients with sonographic examination of shoulder was performed. All of them complained of chronic shoulder pain and were referred by clinician for suspicion of RCT. Their age ranged from 30 to 76 years. The ultrasonic scanners we used were Acuson 128 XP 10 with 7MHz linear transducer, or Diasonics VST master series using 10MHz linear transducer. Examination positions included external rotation of shoulder for scanning biceps tendon and subscapularis tendon, and internal rotation for supraspinatus tendon and lateral scan of infraspinatus tendon and teres minor tendon. Sonographic criteria of complete RCT included 1. complete absence of rotator cuff (RC); 2. focal thinning of RC; 3. focal hypoechoic cleft of RC; 4. focal depression of RC; and 5. heterogeneous hypoechoic RC with subdeltoid bursa fluid. Arthrography was performed after sonography examination on the same day. Among 49 complete RCTs diagnosed by sonography, 46 were proved to be complete RCT by arthrography; only 3 were false positive. In 108 patients with normal rotator cuff diagnosed by sonography, 104 had compatible results with arthrography; only 4 patients turned out to be complete RCT. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive values, negative predictive values and accuracy were 92%, 97.2%, 93.9%, 96.3% and 95.5%, respectively. HRUS can directly demonstrate the morphological changes of RC. It has a high sensitivity and specificity in the diagnosis of complete RCT, and can be used as a firstline screening modality for complete RCT in patients with chronic shoulder pain."}
{"id": "9065069", "title": "Cuff tear arthropathy with hemarthrosis. A report on 3 elderly patients.", "content": "Cuff tear arthropathy with hemarthrosis. A report on 3 elderly patients."}
{"id": "8981271", "title": "Management of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Management of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. Partial-thickness tearing of the rotator cuff is common; however, relatively little is written on the subject. We reviewed 39 patients with partial-thickness rotator cuff tears who underwent acromioplasty, debridement of the abnormal tissue, and tendon suturing. Follow-up averaged 55 months (range 13 to 132 months). Twenty-three (59%) patients had an excellent result, 10 (26%) patients had a satisfactory result, and 6 (15%) patients had an unsatisfactory result. Four of the six patients with unsatisfactory results had also had unsuccessful previous surgery. Thirty-five (90%) patients rated their response to surgery as either much improved or improved. No complications occurred, and to date no reoperations have been required. Diagnosis of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears can be challenging. Magnetic resonance imaging supplies the most complete information about tendon structure. Conservative treatment is reasonable for most partial-thickness tears. When surgical treatment is indicated, acromioplasty, debridement, and tendon repair are effective."}
{"id": "8958621", "title": "Humeral avulsion of the anterior shoulder stabilizing structures after anterior shoulder dislocation: demonstration by MRI and MR arthrography.", "content": "Humeral avulsion of the anterior shoulder stabilizing structures after anterior shoulder dislocation: demonstration by MRI and MR arthrography. To demonstrate the MRI findings of an anterior shoulder capsular avulsion from the humerus, with or without subscapularis rupture, after anterior dislocation or severe abduction external rotation injury. We retrospectively reviewed the MRI and MR arthrographic examinations of seven patients who were identified at surgery with avulsion of the anterior shoulder stabilizers from the humerus. MRI was correlated with clinical history and surgical results. MRI findings included: inhomogeneity or frank disruption of the anterior capsule at the humeral insertion (all), fluid intensity anterior to the shoulder (six patients), tear of the subscapularis tendon (six patients), dislocation of the biceps tendon (four patients), and a Hill-Sachs deformity (four patients). MR arthrography additionally found extravasation of contrast through the capsular defect (two patients). Our findings suggest that MRI is helpful for diagnosing humeral avulsion of the anterior glenohumeral capsule, especially when a tear of the subscapularis tendon insertion is present. MR arthrography may be of benefit for diagnosing capsular avulsion without associated subscapularis tendon abnormality."}
{"id": "8952110", "title": "Sports medicine. Shoulder pain. Part II: Rotator cuff tendinitis.", "content": "Sports medicine. Shoulder pain. Part II: Rotator cuff tendinitis."}
{"id": "9064765", "title": "[Ultrasound follow-up after experimental muscle denervation].", "content": "[Ultrasound follow-up after experimental muscle denervation]. To describe sonographical results following acute, experimental muscle denervation. Denervation of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles was performed in 28 New Zealand white rabbits by segmental resection of the suprascapular nerve. The changes in the sonographic image of the muscles were follow up and documented at short intervals over 2 months. The sonographically detectable changes following denervation follow a definite pattern. In addition to the reduction in muscle diameter, sonographical signs of denervation include an increase of echodensity and an inhomogeneity of echotexture that appeared on day 14 after injury and became more prominent at larger intervals. Sonography may play a supportive role in the diagnosis and follow-up of neurogenic muscle atrophy."}
{"id": "8897778", "title": "Ossification of the coracoacromial ligament: association with rotator cuff pathology of the shoulder.", "content": "Ossification of the coracoacromial ligament: association with rotator cuff pathology of the shoulder. The objective of this study was to assess the association of ossification of the coracoacromial ligament (CAL) observed on conventional radiographs with the presence of rotator cuff pathology as demonstrated by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), arthrography, and/or surgery. Conventional radiographs (internal and external rotation and outlet and axillary views) on eight patients showed ossification of the coracoacromial ligament. Rotator cuff integrity was assessed by physical examination in all 8 patients, by arthrography in 3 patients, and by MRI in 2 patients. Surgery was performed on four of the patients. Physical examination showed impingement findings and decreased rotator cuff strength suggestive of rotator cuff disease in all eight patients. The arthrograms and MRI examinations showed the presence of full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Four of these patients underwent surgery and the rotator cuff defects were confirmed and repaired. Identification of ossification of the CAL on conventional radiographs should be recognized as strongly suggestive of associated significant rotator cuff pathology."}
{"id": "8894339", "title": "Isolated infraspinatus atrophy in a collegiate volleyball player.", "content": "Isolated infraspinatus atrophy in a collegiate volleyball player. To describe a case of isolated infraspinatus atrophy due to suprascapular nerve entrapment by a labral ganglion cyst in a volleyball player and to propose a mechanism for its formation. A female volleyball player was evaluated for shoulder pain and found to have atrophy of the infraspinatus muscle. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a loculated ganglion cyst impinging on the suprascapular nerve. Several etiologies for isolated infraspinatus atrophy in volleyball players are cited in the literature. It is suggested here that the rapid deceleration in the volleyball spike can result in a superior labral lesion (SLAP), which can lead to ganglion cyst formation. These ganglion cysts can then cause isolated infraspinatus atrophy by impinging on the suprascapular nerve at the spinoglenoid notch. In one study, isolated infraspinatus atrophy was found in 12% of elite volleyball players. Since infraspinatus atrophy may result from impingement of the suprascapular nerve by ganglion cysts and not just traction injuries, imaging studies, such as an MRI, should be considered in the evaluation of these patients."}
{"id": "8991423", "title": "[Imaging methods in traumatology of the shoulder- and elbow joint].", "content": "[Imaging methods in traumatology of the shoulder- and elbow joint]. Radiological diagnostics (diagnostic imaging) of the traumatised shoulder and elbow joint has expanded considerably and has become increasingly meaningful in recent years. The introduction of computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging has enabled a significantly better assessment of soft parts and of the inner spatial structure of the joints. Hence, focus of diagnosis has now shifted from the assessment of the bones (which was previously the main aspect of diagnosis) to a different analysis of the joint as a functional unit of bone and soft part structures, an analysis that can also detect subtle changes such as additive micro-traumas. The article reviews the conventional imaging methods and the present state of the art in tomographic imaging technique, and illustrates this by means of several representative examples of diagnostic imaging."}
{"id": "8940792", "title": "MR imaging of rotator cuff impingement: correlation with full-thickness rotator cuff tear.", "content": "MR imaging of rotator cuff impingement: correlation with full-thickness rotator cuff tear. Rotator cuff tears usually derive from shoulder impingement, and need surgical treatment. This study is to verify the Magnetic Resonance Image (MRI) findings of rotator cuff impingement which are related to full-thickness rotate cuff tear (FTRCT). Totally 68 patients with shoulder impingement syndrome were studied, including 39 shoulders with surgically-proven FTRCT, and 29 shoulders without FTRCT. MRI findings of shoulder impingement were evaluated for peribursal fat plane, subacromial distance, acromion shape, subacromioclavicular space, irregularity of coracoacromial ligament and presence of subacromial spurs. The correlation with FTRCT was also determined. Peribursal fat plane obliteration (p = 0.0001), hook-shaped acromion (p = 0.0148), subacromioclavicular indentation (p = 0.0004), and decreased subacromial distance (p = 0.0005) showed significant correlation with FTRCT; however, subacromial spurs (p = 0.6238) and thickened irregular coracoacromial ligament (p = 0.1611) showed poor correlation. Specific MRI findings of rotator cuff impingement are fairly reliable and helpful for discrimination of FTRCT from non-FTRCT cases, and can be used preoperatively and noninvasively to determine the necessity of surgical repair of rotator cuff."}
{"id": "8915265", "title": "MR arthrography in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. Standard spin-echo alone or with fat suppression?", "content": "MR arthrography in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. Standard spin-echo alone or with fat suppression? To examine the value of fat-suppressed images in MR arthrography of the shoulder in patients with rotator cuff tears. MR arthrography was performed in 25 patients (9 women, 16 men) ranging from 19 to 64 years. Standard T1-weighted spin-echo images (sSE) and fat-suppressed images (FS) were obtained after intraarticular injection of contrast material. The MR studies were analyzed according to contrast, image quality and conspicuity of pathology. A diagnosis was established without knowledge of the conventional arthrographic findings on the basis of sSE versus FS techniques. The contrast between the intraarticular fluid and the adjacent structures in FS images was increased compared to sSE images in all patients. The conspicuity of anatomical structures was improved in 8 patients. Without fat suppression, 2 false-negative and one false-positive full-thickness tears were diagnosed. With the FS technique, 14 full-thickness tears and 4 partial-thickness tears of the cuff were correctly classified. The results suggest that, if MR arthrography is chosen for a diagnosis of rotator cuff disorders, a fat suppression sequence should be included."}
{"id": "8816656", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging for evaluation of failed repairs of the rotator cuff. Relationship to operative findings.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging for evaluation of failed repairs of the rotator cuff. Relationship to operative findings. We used magnetic resonance imaging to evaluate thirty shoulders in twenty-nine patients who had unacceptable pain and loss of function after at least one operative procedure for a lesion of the rotator cuff. A preoperative history was recorded and physical and radiographic examinations were performed before magnetic resonance imaging. All patients had a reoperation two to 156 months (average, thirty-two months) after the operation. The results of the magnetic resonance imaging and the findings at the most recent operation were then compared with regard to the integrity of the rotator cuff, the deltoid muscle, and the long head of the biceps tendon. The sensitivity and specificity of magnetic resonance imaging for the diagnosis of full-thickness tears, partial-thickness tears, and intact rotator cuffs were 84 and 91 per cent, 83 and 83 per cent, and 80 and 100 per cent, respectively. The positive and negative predictive values were 94 and 77 per cent, 56 and 95 per cent, and 100 and 96 per cent, respectively. Three shoulders had a clinically detached and retracted origin of the deltoid muscle that was identified correctly on magnetic resonance imaging, and this finding was confirmed operatively. A rupture of the long head of the biceps tendon was identified correctly in four of six shoulders. In one of the two remaining shoulders, the rupture was obscured on magnetic resonance imaging because of a so-called balloon artefact from a nearby metal suture anchor. Magnetic resonance imaging detected two unexpected lesions: a denudation of the articular cartilage in one shoulder and a ganglion cyst in the supraspinatus muscle in another."}
{"id": "8797926", "title": "Improving the diagnostic accuracy of MR in the detection of infraspinatus tendon injuries.", "content": "Improving the diagnostic accuracy of MR in the detection of infraspinatus tendon injuries. Our goal was to determine the accuracy of MRI in the diagnosis of infraspinatus tendon injury and more specifically to determine if the antero-posterior extent of a rotator cuff tear is predictive of infraspinatus tearing. The MR images of 41 shoulders with surgically proven supraspinatus tears at surgery were retrospectively reviewed. The following were assessed for each of the 41 studies: the number of oblique coronal images on which a tendon defect could be seen, the angle subtended by the tear on axial images (the rotator cuff \"axial angle\"), and the extent of signal abnormality on sagittal images. The rotator cuff axial angle was 75.6 degrees in patients with infraspinatus tendon tears (ITTs) versus 40 degrees in those without ITTs, and this difference was significant (p < 0.001, t = 3.06). The mean number of oblique coronal images (obtained with a 4 mm slice and 1 mm gap) showing signal abnormality was 5.4 in the ITT group versus 2.9 in those without ITTs, and this difference was also significant (p < 0.001, t = 4.45). The mean sagittal extent of the tendon abnormality was 24.6 mm in the ITT group and 11.6 mm in those without ITTs, but the difference was not significant (p > 0.05, t = 1.1364). The axial angle and the number of oblique coronal images in which signal abnormality was present were significantly related to a higher incidence of infraspinatus tears."}
{"id": "8865490", "title": "Rotator cuff strain: a post-traumatic mimicker of tendonitis on MRI.", "content": "Rotator cuff strain: a post-traumatic mimicker of tendonitis on MRI. To determine whether there is a subset of young patients (< 35 years) with acute, post-traumatic insults to the rotator cuff which mimic the early stages of impingement. One hundred and ninety-seven consecutive shoulder MR images were retrospectively reviewed, and the results of 83 clinically correlated. Two observers independently evaluated the location of intra-tendon signal and adjacent bone marrow abnormalities on T1- and T2-weighted images. These findings were correlated with age, history of trauma, and surgical or clinical follow-ups. Patients younger than 35 years had signal intensity that was more localized in atypical locations (posterior aspect of the supraspinatus tendon), more commonly associated with marrow abnormalities (presumed bone bruise), and more often associated with trauma. Younger patients also were less likely to require surgery, especially if they showed bone bruises. This differentiated them from older patients (> 45 years), who demonstrated more widespread signal within the tendon, rare bone bruises, and more frequent surgery. Localized tendon signal in atypical locations of the supraspinatus tendon, particularly when associated with bone bruise and young age, suggests the possibility of a post-traumatic strain."}
{"id": "8865483", "title": "Imaging of bursae around the shoulder joint.", "content": "Imaging of bursae around the shoulder joint. The authors present a review of the anatomy of the major bursae around the shoulder joint and discuss the use of the different imaging modalities which demonstrate their radiologic features. The calcified subacromial-subdeltoid bursa has a characteristic appearance on plain radiographs. When inflamed it can be visualized by ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging. Calcific bursitis may involve the subcoracoid bursa. This bursa may mimic adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder or complete rotator cuff tear when injected inadvertently during shoulder arthrography. Less well known are three coracoclavicular ligament bursae. These are also subject to calcific bursitis and have a typical radiologic appearance."}
{"id": "8686597", "title": "MR imaging of the rotator cuff mechanism: comparison of spin-echo and turbo spin-echo sequences.", "content": "MR imaging of the rotator cuff mechanism: comparison of spin-echo and turbo spin-echo sequences. Although well documented in other MR imaging applications, the value of turbo spin-echo sequences in evaluating the shoulder has not been addressed. This study was designed to directly compare matched spin-echo and turbo spin-echo sequences in the MR imaging evaluation of the rotator cuff. Using otherwise matched double-echo sequences of equal time duration, we performed 123 paired spin-echo (TR/TE, 200/25,75; one excitation) and turbo spin-echo (3500-5000/22,90; two excitations) sequences in the paracoronal and/or parasagittal plane of the shoulders of 76 patients referred to our institution for possible rotator cuff tear. The sequences were retrospectively analyzed for cuff signal and morphology, fluid conspicuity, coracoacromial arch morphology, and bone marrow signal abnormalities. Surgical and nonsurgical clinical results were correlated when available. We found 100% diagnostic correlation between spin-echo and turbo spin-echo sequences for rotator cuff integrity. Surgical data were available for 26 patients, and clinical follow-up for another 37. For complete rotator cuff tear in the surgical subpopulation, sensitivity was 89%, specificity was 94%, and diagnostic accuracy was 24 of 26 (92%). We found no diagnostically significant difference between the two imaging sequences for fluid conspicuity, coracoacromial morphology, or marrow signal. Signal-to-noise ratios were superior in the turbo spin-echo sequences. Turbo spin-echo sequences are an accurate and efficient tool in the MR imaging evaluation of the rotator cuff. Potential benefits include time saving, increased spatial resolution, and improved signal-to-noise ratio."}
{"id": "8685350", "title": "Labral injuries: accuracy of detection with unenhanced MR imaging of the shoulder.", "content": "Labral injuries: accuracy of detection with unenhanced MR imaging of the shoulder. To prospectively assess the accuracy of unenhanced magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in the detection and localization of labral injuries. One hundred three patients with clinically suspected shoulder injuries were prospectively examined with unenhanced MR imaging. A combination of gradient-echo and high-resolution fast-spin-echo axial pulse sequences were used. Surgical correlation was obtained in all patients. At surgery, 37 torn anterior, 36 torn superior, and 19 torn posterior labral were identified. The sensitivity for detection of these tears with MR imaging was 100%, 86%, and 74%, respectively; the specificity was 95%, 100%, and 95%, respectively. Overall, unenhanced MR imaging was 95% accurate in the detection of labral injuries. With appropriate pulse sequences, unenhanced MR imaging of the shoulder is an accurate technique for the detection and localization of labral injuries."}
{"id": "8928565", "title": "[Proton spin tomography imaging of the rotator cuff in calcific tendinitis of the shoulder].", "content": "[Proton spin tomography imaging of the rotator cuff in calcific tendinitis of the shoulder]. An analysis of the MR-images of 75 patients with calcifying tendinitis of the shoulder was performed. The aim of the study was to recognize characteristic findings of the calcific deposits and their relation to the involved tendons as well as the coincidence with additional degenerative alterations of the rotator cuff. The calcifications can be demonstrated with high accuracy (> 95%) in T1-weighted images as areas of decreased signal intensity. It is possible to characterize the calcifications similar to G\u00e4rtner's radiologic classification differentiating form and density of the calcific deposits as well as their delimitation to the tendon structure. In T2-images there frequently is a perifocal band of increased signal intensity which can be identified as an oedema around the calcification. Analysing two perpendicular planes the calcifications can be assigned to the corresponding anatomical structure. 83 percent were located in the supraspinatus tendon above the humeral head or in the superior part of the subscapularis tendon. Degenerative areas of the rotator cuff are demonstrated as small zones of increased signal intensity, abnormal morphology or discontinuity of the tendon. Only in one patient a partial tear could be found; 11 percent showed variable signs of degenerative alteration of the involved tendon."}
{"id": "8872930", "title": "Relationship between calcifying tendinitis and subacromial impingement: a prospective radiography and magnetic resonance imaging study.", "content": "Relationship between calcifying tendinitis and subacromial impingement: a prospective radiography and magnetic resonance imaging study. In a prospective study radiographs and magnetic resonance images of 75 patients with calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff were analyzed. The aim was to evaluate any relation between calcifying tendinitis and subacromial impingement. A total of 83% of the calcifications were located in the supraspinatus or the adjoining part of the subscapularis tendon. On T1-weighted images they could be demonstrated with high accuracy as areas of decreased signal intensity. A magnetic resonance imaging categorization of the calcium deposits was carried out by means of a differentiation of form, outline, and density. A partial rotator cuff tear was found in one shoulder; in 11% variable aspects of degenerative alteration of the affected tendon were seen. By analysis of the radiographic outlet view 16% of the cases had a type III acromion. In conclusion, little correlation exists between calcifying tendinitis and additional findings associated with subacromial impingement."}
{"id": "8818778", "title": "Site and size of rotator-cuff tear. Findings at ultrasound, double-contrast arthrography, and computed tomography arthrography with surgical correlation.", "content": "Site and size of rotator-cuff tear. Findings at ultrasound, double-contrast arthrography, and computed tomography arthrography with surgical correlation. The authors discuss findings of ultrasound (US), double-contrast arthrography (AG), and contrast computed tomography arthrography (CTA) in assessing precise site and size of rotator-cuff tears. Eighty-six patients were compared prospectively in a masked fashion; the results of surgery were studied in 25 patients and the results of arthroscopy were studied in 61 patients. Ultrasound detected 80% (8 of 10) of the partial-thickness tears and 90% (18 of 20) of the full-thickness tears. Arthrography and CTA had identical results with 70% sensitivity (7 of 10) in partial-thickness tears; AG showed 90% (18 of 20) and CTA 95% (19 of 20) of the full-thickness tears. Arthrography had two false-positive findings, and US and CTA had one each. The size of a tear could be evaluated correctly with AG in 30% (9 of 30), with US in 70% (21 of 30) and with CTA in 76% (23 of 30). More extensive tears were encountered at US than had been found at surgery in 2% (2 of 86) and less extensive tears in 9% (8 of 86); CTA depicted more extensive tears in 2% (2 of 86) and less extensive tears in 6% (6 of 86), respectively. The site of a tear could be evaluated with AG in 30% (9 of 30); US and CTA showed the site correctly in every patient in which the tear could be diagnosed. Ultrasound and CTA were equally accurate in diagnosing and evaluating the size and site of rotator-cuff tears. Double-contrast AG was less accurate in the diagnosis of tears and the size and site of tears clearly could be assessed worse."}
{"id": "8792271", "title": "Sonography of the biceps tendon of the shoulder: normal and pathologic findings.", "content": "Sonography of the biceps tendon of the shoulder: normal and pathologic findings. Abnormalities of the tendon of the long head of the biceps brachii muscle commonly associate with other lesions about the shoulder, especially rotator cuff rupture, and are a frequent cause of a painful shoulder. As pathognomonic clinical signs of these lesions are often lacking, noninvasive imaging techniques are practical and valuable. In this report the anatomy of this tendon is described, correlating with sonographic images. Examination technique and typical sonographic findings in pathologic conditions affecting the long bicipital tendon sheath, the substance of the tendon, and the position of the tendon are illustrated. Their distinction is important to proper patient management."}
{"id": "8698718", "title": "Isolated rupture of the subscapularis tendon.", "content": "Isolated rupture of the subscapularis tendon. Sixteen consecutive patients were managed operatively for repair of an isolated traumatic rupture of the subscapularis tendon in the absence of avulsion of the lesser tuberosity. All of the patients were men. The diagnosis was made for each patient on the basis of the clinical examination and was confirmed by imaging studies and operative exploration. The operative treatment consisted of mobilization of the subscapularis after exploration and protection of the axillary nerve, transosseous reinsertion of the tendon to a trough created at the lesser tuberosity, closure of the rotator interval, and protection of the shoulder for six weeks postoperatively. The average duration of follow-up was forty-three months (range, twenty-four to eighty-four months). Thirteen patients subjectively rated the result as excellent or good. The average functional score of the shoulder, as assessed according to the system of Constant, was 82 per cent of the average age and gender-matched normal value. Active flexion was normal in twelve patients, was decreased by 15 degrees or less in three, and was severely limited in one patient. The capacity of the patients to work in their original occupations had increased from an average of 59 per cent of full capacity preoperatively to an average of 95 per cent postoperatively (p = 0.006). Operative treatment proved to be economically sound within the Swiss National Accident Insurance system. The quality of the result did not depend on the capacity for work at the time of the operation, on the type of work in which the patient was engaged, on the state of the biceps, or on the duration of follow-up. Conversely, the results were less successful when there was an increased delay from the time of the injury to the time of the operative repair."}
{"id": "8677829", "title": "Rotator cuff disorders.", "content": "Rotator cuff disorders. The supraspinatus, infraspinatus, teres minor and subscapu\u013aaris muscles form a musculotendinous rotator cuff that provides dynamic stability to the shoulder joint. Symptoms of rotator cuff injury include limitation of motion, weakness and pain that often radiates down the upper arm and is present at night. Examination may reveal deltoid and rotator cuff atrophy, tenderness, limited passive range of motion and weakness on abduction and external rotation. Radiographs may show degenerative changes of the acromion or acromioclavicular joint, cysts, sclerosis and spurs of the greater tuberosity, and calcific deposits within the supraspinatus tendon. In most patients with subacromial impingement, conservative management, including physical therapy, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and subacromial injections, is successful. Failure of conservative therapy after six to 12 weeks merits further evaluation with magnetic resonance imaging or arthrography, and consideration of surgery."}
{"id": "8657921", "title": "Indirect MR arthrography: optimization and clinical applications.", "content": "Indirect MR arthrography: optimization and clinical applications. To evaluate and optimize a method for producing magnetic resonance (MR) images similar to MR arthrograms of multiple synovial joints with intravenous gadopentetate dimeglumine injection. The authors examined the effects of joint motion, dose of gadopentetate dimeglumine (0.1, 0.2, and 0.4 mmol/kg), and fat saturation on the enhancement rate of the joint cavity and the degree of image contrast generated among articular structures on MR images in 14 healthy volunteers. Shoulder, elbow, wrist, hip, knee, and ankle joints of 10 volunteers were imaged with optimized parameters. Indirect MR arthrographic findings in 17 patients with joint disorders (eg, rotator-cuff tears, meniscal tears, and osteoarthritis) were compared with arthroscopic findings. Fat-saturated images obtained after 10 minutes of exercise and administration of 0.1 mmol/kg gadopentetate dimeglumine were similar to those obtained after intraarticular injection of contrast medium. Exercising the joint yielded the strongest joint-cavity enhancement. Increasing the dose of contrast medium in the unexercised joint did not statistically significantly improve the contrast-to-noise ratio. Rotator cuff tears, meniscal tears, and cartilage defects were better delineated with this method than with unenhanced MR imaging and showed good correlation with arthroscopic results. Indirect MR arthrography of an exercised joint provides homogeneous enhancement and improved delineation of soft-tissue structures."}
{"id": "8767161", "title": "[Acromio-clavicular joint cyst. Surgical treatment].", "content": "[Acromio-clavicular joint cyst. Surgical treatment]. A chronic cyst of the acromioclavicular joint was treated in 3 patients who were followed up for an average period of 26 months. All three were over 60 years old and presented with a massive rupture of the rotator cuff with a subnormal range of passive motion; active motion was variably affected and was painful. The patients underwent resection of one cm of the lateral end of the clavicle, together with resection of the cyst and synovectomy of the upper part of the pathologic humero-acromial joint; the coraco-acromial ligament was left in place. With a mean follow-up of 26 months, the 3 patients have significant pain relief and no cyst has recurred. The authors propose a mechanism to explain the persistence of the cysts in patients with massive rotator cuff tear: elevation of the arm brings the humeral head upwards and forces synovial fluid into the acromioclavicular joint through a perforation in the frayed capsule; this communication is later obstructed by synovial fringes which prevent drainage of the fluid. Excision of the synovium cures the problem."}
{"id": "8686465", "title": "Atrophy of the supraspinatus belly. Assessment by MRI in 55 patients with rotator cuff pathology.", "content": "Atrophy of the supraspinatus belly. Assessment by MRI in 55 patients with rotator cuff pathology. A study of 5 fresh cadaveric shoulders demonstrated that an oblique-sagittal plane which crosses the scapula through the medial border of the coracoid process offers a view of the supraspinatus fossa mostly limited by bone. This view could easily be reproduced by MRI and we called it the Y-shaped view. It allowed a reliable measurement of supraspinatus muscle atrophy by the calculation of the occupation ratio (R) which is the ratio between the surface of the cross-section of the muscle belly and that of the fossa. This ratio was calculated in a prospective study based on 55 shoulders divided into 3 groups with different rotator cuff status: group I, 15 controls; group II, 10 degenerative cuffs, without tears; group III, 30 operated tears. There was no difference between groups I (mean ratio 0.7) and II (mean ratio 0.62), but the ratio was decreased in group III (mean ratio 0.44), in which the extent of the tear in both the sagittal and coronal planes aggravated the muscle atrophy. We propose a three-stage classification to improve indications for rotator cuff tear treatment."}
{"id": "8633460", "title": "Power Doppler sonography in the assessment of musculoskeletal fluid collections.", "content": "Power Doppler sonography in the assessment of musculoskeletal fluid collections. Power Doppler sonography is a relatively new technique that has been shown to depict hyperemia associated with musculoskeletal inflammatory disease. We performed this study to evaluate the ability of power Doppler sonography to differentiate musculoskeletal fluid collections of varying etiologies. Gray-scale and power Doppler sonography were performed on 39 patients with joint effusions or appendicular fluid collections. Blood flow (hyperemia) in the soft tissues adjacent to the fluid collections was subjectively analyzed and graded on a scale of 1 to 4 (1, normal flow; 2-4, increasing degrees of hyperemia). All fluid collections were aspirated within 24 hr of the sonographic examination. We found 31 joint effusions and 12 periarticular collections with appropriate imaging and pathologic correlation. Adjacent to 36 effusions and fluid collections, we saw moderate or marked hyperemia. Thirty-five of the 36 had an inflammatory or neoplastic cause, including 15 infected collections. One fluid collection had a degenerative etiology (subdeltoid bursitis secondary to supraspinatus tendon tear). Adjacent to the seven remaining effusions and fluid collections, we saw normal or mildly increased hyperemia; none of these collections had an inflammatory etiology. Power Doppler sonography helps distinguish inflammatory and infectious musculoskeletal fluid collections from those that are noninflammatory, and it may help guide the decision to perform diagnostic aspiration. Power Doppler sonography does not reliably differentiate between inflammatory collections of infectious and noninfectious origin because collections of either origin may significantly increase adjacent soft-tissue perfusion."}
{"id": "8816343", "title": "Subscapularis tendon disruption after Bankart reconstruction for anterior instability.", "content": "Subscapularis tendon disruption after Bankart reconstruction for anterior instability. After undergoing a Bankart repair with a subscapularis tendon and capsular incising technique, four patients were identified who had failure of their subscapularis tendon repair. All had a traumatic event or injury to their shoulder between 1 day and 4 months after operation. The patients presented with findings including recurrent instability, weakness in internal rotation, an abnormal liftoff test, and increased external rotation of the affected extremity. Surgical exploration demonstrated failure of the Bankart repair in two cases in addition to failure of the subscapularis tendon repair in all four. In one patient magnetic resonance imaging was diagnostic of subscapularis tendon disruption. After reoperation was performed, stability was achieved in three of four patients, return of normal internal rotation strength in two, and a normal liftoff test in two. Prompt reexploration and repair of the subscapularis tendon-capsule complex is recommended."}
{"id": "8710459", "title": "[Use of oblique sagittal T2-weighted images in diagnosing rotator cuff tears].", "content": "[Use of oblique sagittal T2-weighted images in diagnosing rotator cuff tears]. The correlation between oblique sagittal T2-weighted images and oblique coronal T2-weighted images was determined in 86 patients who had symptoms and signs suggesting rotator cuff tears. Abnormal high signal lesions suggesting full and partial thickness tear of the supraspinatus tendon were observed on the oblique coronal images in 20 and 27 of 86 patients, respectively. The oblique sagittal images showed the lesions just the same as the oblique coronal images. In the other 39, abnormal high signal lesions were not observed on oblique coronal images or on oblique sagittal images. The oblique sagittal images were proved not useful to detect tears of the supraspinatus tendon. However, the oblique sagittal T2-weighted images showed posterior extension of high signal lesions and clarified abnormal high signal lesions near the long head of the biceps tendon in two patients. These results suggested that oblique coronal images should always be taken at the first step to identify supraspinatus tendon tear, and oblique sagittal images can be taken as an adjust to the former images."}
{"id": "8615243", "title": "MR evaluation of rotator cuff pathology using T2-weighted fast spin-echo technique with and without fat suppression.", "content": "MR evaluation of rotator cuff pathology using T2-weighted fast spin-echo technique with and without fat suppression. This study was designed to compare MR imaging findings from T2-weighted fast spin-echo images with and without fat suppression and then to compare surgical results with those MR imaging interpretations in the evaluation of rotator cuff disease. T2-weighted fast spin-echo images--with and without fat suppression--of 177 shoulder MR imaging studies were reviewed separately in a retrospective, randomized, and blinded fashion. Both sets of images were read in conjunction with the corresponding proton density-weighted images. The diagnosis of normal tendon, tendinosis, degeneration, and partial- and full-thickness tears was made using established criteria. T2-weighted fast spin-echo techniques with and without fat suppression showed excellent agreement in the diagnosis of normal tendon (kappa=.90) amd full-thickness tears (kappa=.98), good agreement for partial tears (kappa=.70) and moderate agreement for the combined group of tendinosis and degeneration (kappa=.53). MR imaging and surgical correlation in 43 patients showed 86% specificity (95% confidence interval, 65-96%) for intact tendons, and 100% sensitivity (95% confidence interval, 82-100%) for full-thickness tears on T2-weighted fast spin-echo imaging--both without and with fat suppression. For partial tears, MR imaging showed a sensitivity of 92% (95% confidence interval, 65-99%) with fat suppression and 67% (95% confidence interval, 39-86%) without fat suppression. T2-weighted fast spin-echo imaging--with or without fat suppression--is a highly sensitive technique in the diagnosis of normal tendons and complete tears of the rotator cuff. Because of increased lesion conspicuity, fat suppression tends to perform better in the diagnosis of partial tears."}
{"id": "8741055", "title": "Ultrasonography for diagnosis of rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Ultrasonography for diagnosis of rotator cuff tear. In this study the clinical usefulness of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears was assessed. One hundred twenty-two patients undergoing preoperative ultrasonography were evaluated surgically. Three different ultrasonographic machines were applied with a 7.5-MHz linear-array transducer. Surgery confirmed a sensitivity of 79% for full-thickness tears and 50% for partial thickness tears. In 73 patients with negative ultrasonographic findings, the specificity was 100% for full-thickness tears and 90% for partial-thickness tears. The diagnostic sensitivity for full-thickness tears of the Hitachi EUB-340 system was significantly lower than those of Hitachi EUB-415 and EUB-515, and thus the former cannot be recommended for detection of rotator cuff tears. The sensitivity with regard to partial-thickness tears was also significantly lower with the Hitachi EUB-340 system as compared to the Hitachi EUB-515. There were no significant differences in false-positive rate among the three machines used. In conclusion, accurate ultrasonographic diagnosis of rotator cuff tear requires a high-resolution machine, as well as considerable experience in interpretation."}
{"id": "8734209", "title": "[Synovial cyst involving isolated paralysis of the infraspinatus muscle. Ultrasonographic diagnosis and MRI].", "content": "[Synovial cyst involving isolated paralysis of the infraspinatus muscle. Ultrasonographic diagnosis and MRI]. A case of entrapment neuropathy of the inferior branch of the suprascapular nerve in the spinoglenoid notch is described. Ultrasonography and MRI examination showed a ganglion cyst in the spinoglenoid notch with an extension to the glenohumeral joint. The lesion was confirmed by surgical and pathological examination."}
{"id": "8728370", "title": "Medial dislocation of the long head of the biceps tendon. Magnetic resonance imaging evaluation.", "content": "Medial dislocation of the long head of the biceps tendon. Magnetic resonance imaging evaluation. Medial dislocation of the long head of the biceps branchii tendon is a rare occurrence and is often associated with degenerative or traumatic tears of the rotator cuff, specifically tears of the subscapularis tendon. Following a dislocation, the biceps tendon will assume either an intra- or extra-articular position depending on whether or not the subscapularis tendon detaches from its humoral insertion. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been found to provide valuable information concerning the location of the biceps tendon and the integrity of the rotator cuff. In this report, three patients with suspected dislocations of the biceps tendon are evaluated using MRI."}
{"id": "8643842", "title": "[Magnetic resonance in the study of the painful shoulder. The surgical comparison in 30 consecutive cases].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance in the study of the painful shoulder. The surgical comparison in 30 consecutive cases]. Eighty patients complaining of shoulder pain were examined with MRI from January, 1993, through December, 1994. Thirty of them were submitted to surgery, with an exhaustive inspection of shoulder structures and the treatment of abnormal findings. In this subgroup of surgical patients, MRI had depicted 16 complete tears of the rotator cuff, 4 partial tears, 8 cases of subacromial impingement, I humeral head osteochondritis and, finally, I humeral head osteochondritis with complete rotator cuff tear. Surgical findings confirmed MR diagnosis in 97% of cases. MR findings were then compared with literature data and some atypical features were observed in our series. MRI was totally reliable in complete cuff tears (16/30 patients), always showing the involvement of supraspinatus tendons and, in some cases, of other cuff tendons. In partial cuff tears (4/30 patients), besides the classic pattern of a fissure in the deep/superficial supraspinatus tendon, we observed intra- and peritendinous changes, with no tendon interruption, due to diffuse microlesions. When impingement due to subacromial space narrowing, with no cuff tear, was present (8/30 patients), MRI depicted different causes--e.g., acromioclavear arthrosis, coracoacromial ligament hypertrophy and posttraumatic changes. MRI showed tendinosis in all patients but overestimated it in one case where partial cuff tear was not confirmed surgically--the only false positive in our series. At surgery, all these cases were classified as stage I-II impingement (according to Neer's classification). Finally, MRI was very reliable in the study of bone conditions (osteochondritis), both isolated and associated with cuff tears. The diagnostic accuracy of MRI in the study of the painful shoulder was very high (97%), in agreement with literature data. This is very important because many different causes of shoulder conditions (abnormal tendons, bones and mechanics) may present with similar clinical symptoms. MRI appears as the only imaging method yielding complete and accurate pieces of information in the patients with a painful shoulder."}
{"id": "8610564", "title": "MR imaging of the rotator cuff: peritendinous and bone abnormalities in an asymptomatic population.", "content": "MR imaging of the rotator cuff: peritendinous and bone abnormalities in an asymptomatic population. MR imaging of the shoulder was performed in an asymptomatic population to determine the prevalence of MR-evident peritendinous and bone abnormalities. Findings were correlated with subject age and rotator cuff abnormalities. Dual-echo T2-weighted oblique coronal MR images of the shoulder were evaluated for 100 asymptomatic volunteers who were 19-88 years old. Twenty symptomatic patients with arthroscopic correlation were included as controls. Images were assessed independently by two reviewers with no knowledge of subject history or symptomatology. Bursal, peribursal, and bone findings were correlated with subject age and the appearance of the rotator cuff tendon. Changes characteristic of acromioclavicular joint osteoarthrosis were present in three fourths of the shoulders. One third had subacromial spurs. Changes in the peribursal fat plane and the presence of fluid in the subacromial-subdeltoid bursa paralleled the degree of MR-evident rotator cuff abnormalities. Joint fluid was observed in nearly all subjects. Our findings reveal a high prevalence of MR-evident bone and peritendinous shoulder abnormalities among asymptomatic individuals. The prevalence of subacromial spurs and humeral head cysts correlated closely with the severity of MR-evident rotator cuff abnormalities, as did changes in the bursa and peribursal fat. Acromioclavicular joint osteoarthrosis is seen in many shoulders independently of rotator cuff disease; therefore, its presence alone does not appear to be a reliable indicator of pain or tendon disease."}
{"id": "8609146", "title": "Abnormal findings on magnetic resonance images of asymptomatic shoulders.", "content": "Abnormal findings on magnetic resonance images of asymptomatic shoulders."}
{"id": "8609145", "title": "Abnormal findings on magnetic resonance images of asymptomatic shoulders.", "content": "Abnormal findings on magnetic resonance images of asymptomatic shoulders."}
{"id": "8643944", "title": "[Shoulder problems in leisure athletes: physical examination, diagnosis and therapy. Sensible procedures in daily practice].", "content": "[Shoulder problems in leisure athletes: physical examination, diagnosis and therapy. Sensible procedures in daily practice]. At first sight the anatomy of the shoulder may seem simple (see Fig. 1). However, for the physician treating a patient suffering from shoulder pain, the scapulo-thoracal interplay of 5 joints and 19 muscles, providing a wide and varied range of motion, may constitute an obstacle difficult to overcome. In the leisure athlete acute injuries must be distinguished from degenerative disease. Contact sports in particular tend to involve risks of falling on the shoulder, injuring the shoulder girdle or the elbow and wrist, sometimes with major consequences: complex fractures, dislocations, ligament and tendon lesions or joint instabilities. Thorough, rapid and cost-effective diagnostic evaluation of the athlete, involving clinical examination (function tests), radiographic imaging (shoulder a.p., y-view) and in selected cases ultrasonography (compared with the other side) may be necessary in starting early and effective therapy."}
{"id": "8919503", "title": "Sonographic detection of tears of the anterior portion of the rotator cuff (subscapularis tendon tears).", "content": "Sonographic detection of tears of the anterior portion of the rotator cuff (subscapularis tendon tears). We studied the value of ultrasonography in identifying tears of the most anterior portion of the rotator cuff (subscapularis tendon tears). Shoulder sonography was performed on 1640 patients with shoulder symptoms, 435 of whom underwent surgery. Among the patients who were operated on, 17 had predominantly or exclusively subscapularis tendon tears; 14 of these were full-thickness and three were partial-thickness tears. Ultrasonography demonstrated 82% (14 of 17) of the subscapularis tendon tears; 86% (12 of 14) of the full-thickness tears and 67% (2 of 3) of the partial-thickness tears were correctly diagnosed with ultrasonography. Sonography can diagnose and show the size of subscapularis tendon tears reliably, but it necessitates that the arm can be externally rotated to the maximum extent when performing the study."}
{"id": "8775111", "title": "Diagnosis of glenoid labral tears. A comparison between magnetic resonance imaging and clinical examinations.", "content": "Diagnosis of glenoid labral tears. A comparison between magnetic resonance imaging and clinical examinations. We studied 54 patients with shoulder pain secondary to anterior instability or glenoid labral tears refractory to 6 months of conservative management with no evidence of rotator cuff lesions. All patients had sufficient preoperative clinical data, magnetic resonance imaging, and shoulder arthroscopy results for analysis. The ability to predict the presence of a glenoid labral tear by physical examination was compared with that of magnetic resonance imaging (conventional and arthrogram) and confirmed with arthroscopy. There were 37 men and 17 women (average age, 34 years) in the study group. Of this group, 64% were throwing athletes and 61% recalled specific traumatic events. Clinical assessment included history with specific attention to pain with overhead activities, clicking, and instances of shoulder instability. Physical examination included the apprehension, relocation, load and shift, inferior sulcus sign, and crank tests. Shoulder arthroscopy confirmed labral tears in 41 patients (76%). Magnetic resonance imaging produced a sensitivity of 59% and a specificity of 85%. Physical examination yielded a sensitivity of 90% and a specificity of 85%. Physical examination is more accurate in predicting glenoid labral tears than magnetic resonance imaging. In this era of cost containment, completing the diagnostic workup in the clinic without expensive ancillary studies allows the patient's care to proceed in the most timely and economic fashion. Glenoid labral tears have been associated with overhead throwing activities, trauma, and shoulder instability. Assessment of an athlete with shoulder pain should take into account a careful history of clicking sounds or catching, symptoms with overhead activities, reports of instability, or previous trauma. On physical examination, patients with labral tears often demonstrate objective instability with or without clicking or catching during glenohumeral rotation. Plain radiographs have not been helpful, and radiologists have relied on techniques from arthrogram to arthrotomogram, CT arthrogram, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and MR arthrogram to assist in the diagnosis. Various sensitivities and specificities have been reported for these tests. However, a large degree of intra- and interobserver variability has been demonstrated, and the degree to which these studies are helpful in preoperative planning has been questioned. No previous study to our knowledge has involved MRI in a direct comparison of other diagnostic modalities. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to investigate the accuracy of MRI and physical examination in the diagnosis of glenoid labral tears."}
{"id": "8742880", "title": "Suprascapular nerve entrapment at the spinoglenoid notch caused by a ganglion cyst.", "content": "Suprascapular nerve entrapment at the spinoglenoid notch caused by a ganglion cyst. A 34-year-old man had right infraspinatus muscle palsy and posterior aching of the shoulder caused by electromyographically confirmed suprascapular nerve entrapment. Sonography and magnetic resonance imaging revealed a cystic lesion at the spinoglenoid notch; this lesion was diagnosed as a ganglion. Operative removal led to immediate pain relief and incomplete recovery of the compressed branches of the suprascapular nerve."}
{"id": "8732800", "title": "Recent advances in shoulder surgery.", "content": "Recent advances in shoulder surgery. Major changes have taken place in the diagnosis and treatment of rotator cuff tears. It seems that magnetic resonance imaging alone as a diagnostic tool is still not sensitive enough, particularly in the diagnosis of partial tears. Arthrography and arthroscopy are still considered essential for an accurate preoperative diagnosis. To guarantee a better postoperative result, a carefully planned course of preoperative physiotherapy is mandatory. In experienced hands, arthroscopic surgery gives results comparable to those obtained with open procedures. A careful debridement, anterior acromioplasty, and decompression have replaced extensive surgical intervention in the treatment of massive tears. The first results in treating calcifying tendinitis with shock-wave therapy seem encouraging. A more refined diagnosis of the impingement syndrome is a prerequisite for a successful outcome because impingement is not caused by a narrowing of the subacromial space in all patients. Increase in contents of this space and instability are equally important factors."}
{"id": "8658003", "title": "[Rotator cuff rupture, traumatic or degenerative lesion].", "content": "[Rotator cuff rupture, traumatic or degenerative lesion]."}
{"id": "8820096", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging in musculoskeletal assessment: a surgeon's perspective.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging in musculoskeletal assessment: a surgeon's perspective. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is a significant advance in musculoskeletal noninvasive visualization, especially for the soft tissues including the menisci. The purpose of this article is to give the radiologist a surgeon's perspective on the role of this technology in clinical practice. For MR imaging to be cost effective, it must accurately define anatomy, and reveal changes that have an impact on patient care--i.e., be clinically relevant. For MR imaging to be accurate, optimum software, hardware, and an experienced radiologist are essential. However, even if an MR examination has high accuracy, the abnormal findings of this evaluation may not be related to the clinical problem that the patient presents with. This is supported by the demonstration that asymptomatic patients may have grade 3 meniscal tears, herniated discs, and rotator cuff changes. The MR examination may not change patient management even if it demonstrates pathologies such as a meniscal tear. The patient may tolerate the dysfunction and pain. The most cost-effective method of providing musculoskeletal care is still a careful history and competent physical examination."}
{"id": "8820094", "title": "The magic angle effect in musculoskeletal MR imaging.", "content": "The magic angle effect in musculoskeletal MR imaging. The \"magic angle\" effect in magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is caused by changes in the dipolar interactions between water hydrogen protons that are loosely bound along collagen fibrils in organized tissue such as tendon or articular cartilage. When tendons are aligned at 55 degrees to the main magnetic field, the T2 relaxation time is lengthened, causing focal increased signal on short echo time MR images. Tendons in the ankle, wrist, and rotator cuff of the shoulder are common sites to observe this effect. Distinguishing magic angle effect from pathologic signal abnormalities due to degeneration or partial tears requires close comparison between T1- and T2-weighted images, as well as evaluation for secondary signs of injury such as tendon thickening or associated fluid."}
{"id": "8820092", "title": "MR arthrography: is it worthwhile?", "content": "MR arthrography: is it worthwhile? Magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography is possible in any joint in which standard arthrography is performed. The diagnostic potential of this technique is optimized in the assessment of complex anatomical structures and intra-articular abnormalities that are difficult to visualize on conventional MR images. This paper presents the most common applications of MR arthrography in the shoulder, hip, knee, ankle, elbow and wrist, and explores the clinical indications in which MR arthrography adds the greatest benefit compared to standard arthrography and conventional MR imaging. Arthrographic MR images are most valuable in the evaluation of glenoid and acetabular labra, tendons of the rotator cuff, post-operative menisci, osteochondral fractures and loose bodies."}
{"id": "8952917", "title": "[Synovial cyst of the supracapsular notch of the shoulder with supracapsular nerve compression in a sportsman. Apropos of a case. Review of the literature].", "content": "[Synovial cyst of the supracapsular notch of the shoulder with supracapsular nerve compression in a sportsman. Apropos of a case. Review of the literature]. Compression of the supra scapular nerve by a ganglion is rare. The authors report a case evoking rotator cuff tendinitis. A 28 year old right handed handball player was seen for increasing pain and weakness in the right shoulder. He was treated in a first time for a rotator cuff tendinitis. In a second time a new clinical examination revealed an amyotrophy of the supraspinatus fossa. Electromyographic studies showed a denervation of the infra and supraspinatus muscle. An MRI was performed and showed a ganglion cyst at the suprascapular notch. An excision by posterior approach was performed and led to an uneventful recovery of the patient. This case reveals that an entrapment neuropathy of the suprascapular nerve can take the appearance of an ordinary rotator cuff tendinitis."}
{"id": "8919441", "title": "Traumatic tear of the rotator interval.", "content": "Traumatic tear of the rotator interval. We studied 10 patients with capsular tear of the glenohumeral joint in the rotator interval -- the triangular space separating the supraspinatus and subscapular tendons. The patients, manual laborers and athletic people, had no previous shoulder pain. Tears appeared after forced internal rotation caused by trauma. The pain was anterior and radiated distally. Pain was absent at rest but recurred immediately after activity was resumed. On examination, range of motion was normal. Hawkins' impingement sign and the palm-up test usually caused pain. Radiographic findings were normal. Arthrography showed leakage of contrast medium into the subscapularis fossa. The tear was not visualized with ultrasonography or magnetic resonance imaging. Eight patients underwent an operation consisting of minimal acromioplasty with coracoacromial ligament resection, coracoidplasty, and suture of the rotator interval. All patients had relief of pain and return of full function."}
{"id": "8919122", "title": "Correlation of MR imaging, CT arthrography, and arthroscopy of the shoulder.", "content": "Correlation of MR imaging, CT arthrography, and arthroscopy of the shoulder. Rotator cuff tears and instability of the glenohumeral joint are a common cause of chronic shoulder pain and disability. Currently CT arthrography is the method of choice to evaluate the extent of osseous and soft tissue abnormalities. This study was undertaken to determine if magnetic resonance imaging was able to depict post-dislocation abnormalities and rotator cuff pathology and if MRI can replace CT arthrography. Sixty four patients, who were operated on for the first time (arthroscopy or arthrotomy) between November 1986 and July 1991, were compared in a blinded fashion with the results of MR imaging in 40 cases and of CT arthrographies in 24 cases. For the evaluation of rotator cuff tears MRI proved to have a sensitivity of 83.3% and an accuracy of 90.3%. Labral pathology was depicted with a sensitivity of 69.2% and an accuracy of 87.1%. In cases involving a Hill-Sachs lesion the sensitivity of MRI was 90% and the accuracy 95%. MR imaging is an accurate method in the evaluation of rotator cuff pathology and to some extent labral abnormalities."}
{"id": "8872551", "title": "Partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff. A clinicopathological review based on 66 surgically verified cases.", "content": "Partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff. A clinicopathological review based on 66 surgically verified cases. This review is based on 66 patients with partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff, verified at operation. Their average age was 54 years, and all had symptoms of subacromial impingement. The duration of shoulder pain was for between 2 and 108 months (mean 11.4 months). Ultrasonography, arthrography and bursography were helpful in establishing the diagnosis. On exploration, tears were found in the supraspinatus tendon, with 9 extending into the infraspinatus. After anterior acromioplasty, excision of the diseased portion and tenorrhaphy were undertaken. Satisfactory results were obtained in 62 patients (94%) with an average follow-up of 32 months. Spontaneous repair at the torn site was never seen. In addition to Neer's staging of impingement, we propose a new classification based on the integrity of the cuff tendon. We conclude that a partial-thickness cuff tear is an important cause of shoulder disability, which deserves much more clinical attention; misdiagnosis is common and leads to mismanagement. When conservative treatment fails, accurate diagnosis and proper surgical repair are essential."}
{"id": "8851790", "title": "[Diagnostic imaging of the shoulder joint in impingement].", "content": "[Diagnostic imaging of the shoulder joint in impingement]."}
{"id": "8851442", "title": "MRI of the shoulder: a rational approach to the reporting of findings.", "content": "MRI of the shoulder: a rational approach to the reporting of findings."}
{"id": "8817045", "title": "Shoulder imaging. A review.", "content": "Shoulder imaging. A review. Plain radiography still remains the primary imaging method for most shoulder disorders. A good evaluation should include adequate radiographs that provide substantial information about bone and joint pathology. Two anteroposterior projections complemented with a third view fulfill the requirements of two mutually orthogonal images. The third view can be the elevation view or either the axillary or Y-view. Additional projections are used depending on the clinical history and settings. Arthrography is almost the golden standard in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. Ultrasound is capable of enabling diagnosis of rotator cuff tears and other soft tissue lesions. The demanding technique requires a dedicated radiologist devoted to musculoskeletal examinations. Of the advanced imaging modalities CT depicts detailed bony images and, combined with arthrography, intra-articular pathology. MR is best suited for soft tissue lesions as well as bone marrow lesions. The choice of an advanced study should be considered according to the clinical history, the clinical findings and the results of the radiography. Undirected use of multiple hightech examinations is unnecessarily costly and may yield ambiguous information."}
{"id": "8762985", "title": "[Results of a series of deltoid flaps for the treatment of massive rotator cuff tears with an average follow-up of 3.5 years].", "content": "[Results of a series of deltoid flaps for the treatment of massive rotator cuff tears with an average follow-up of 3.5 years]. We report a series of 14 patients with a massive rotator cuff tear operated on with a deltoid flap according to Augereau's technique. The aim of this study was to evaluate the benefits of this technique using Constant's scoring system. The follow up is 40 months. 14 patients, mean age 59 years, with a total rotator cuff tear type III according to Gerber's classification were included. There was 13 total ruptures of the supra and infra spinatus tendon and one infraspinatus and subscapularis lesion. All the patients had shoulder pain, and the preoperative, Constant's score was 24.1/100. The diagnosis of the rotator cuff rupture was confirmed by X-rays, arthrography and ultra-sonography. 8 patients had a Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) evaluation. The surgical procedure was the technique described by Augereau, and three patients had a resection of the distal clavicle. One patient had a small piece of dacron to reinforce the suture of a very thin deltoid flap. All the patients had a immobilization in abduction and the rehabilitation programm began immediately. Results on pain were good: +11.4 points according to Constant's score, but improvement strength (+0.7 point) or motion (+1 point) was not significative. Postoperative Constant's score was 46.9, ponderated score increased from 29.5 per cent to 57.5 per cent. Ten patients were very satisfied, 2 were satisfied and two were disappointed. One of them neaded shoulder arthrodesis; the other needed a new surgery to remove the piece of dacron, and was allayed with NSAI drugs. External rotation was slightly increased: +2 point. These results are similar to others series on pain relief, but the results are poor on strength restauration and on shoulder motion. This technique is a heavy surgical procedure and results are not better than arthroscopic sub acromial decompression for massive rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "8753822", "title": "[Analysis of clinical symptoms in shoulder arthropathy].", "content": "[Analysis of clinical symptoms in shoulder arthropathy]. Frequency of chosen clinical symptoms has been analyzed in 236 patients aged 10 to 80 years with shoulder pathology. It was found that \"impingement syndrome\" is characteristic for periarthritis humeroscapularis simplex. Active and passive movement restriction of the shoulder was frequently observed in periarthritis humeroscapularis simplex acuta; passive one greater than 50% was typical for capsulitis adhesiva. Crepitus at the movements, muscle wasting, impingement syndrome pain at the abduction and external rotation against resistance is indicative of periarthritis humeroscapularis destructive. Sonographic assessment of the shoulder is recommended in every case with the biceps long head rupture suspicion."}
{"id": "8717118", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of dialysis-related amyloidosis of the shoulder and hip.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of dialysis-related amyloidosis of the shoulder and hip. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of MRI in identifying abnormalities of the periarticular structures in patients with symptoms of dialysis-related amyloid arthropathy. MR images of shoulders and hips in 5 dialysis patients with symptoms of amyloid arthropathy were compared to images of shoulders and hips in 4 asymptomatic dialysis patients, shoulders in 9 nondialysis patients, and hips in 12 nondialysis patients. These were evaluated for the presence of focal periarticular osseous lesions, tendinous and capsular thickening, and periarticular fluid. Increased thickness of the supraspinatus tendon was found in both symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. Capsular thickening at the hip was present in all symptomatic patients, and in 3 of 8 asymptomatic hips. Joint and bursal fluid was common in the symptomatic group, and was present in some asymptomatic individuals. Osseous lesions were detected in the absence of plain film findings, and demonstrated variable signal intensity. MRI is useful in detecting signs of dialysis-related amyloidosis. Findings of a milder degree in asymptomatic dialysis patients suggests that MRI may also be valuable in the early diagnosis of this syndrome."}
{"id": "8711919", "title": "[Ultrasound examination of the shoulder joint].", "content": "[Ultrasound examination of the shoulder joint]. The ultrasound examination of the shoulder is an effective, quick and painless diagnostic method. The skilled examiner has no problem to detect rotator cuff tears, bursitis, tendinitis and instabilities as well as arthrosis or hematoma of the acromioclavicular joint and biceps tendon rupture. In the literature the sensitivity of ultrasound examination of the shoulder depended from 91 to 100% and specificity from 83 to 100%. The dynamic examination gives a special view of gliding tendons, muscles and bony landmarks of the shoulder. With standardized pictures the orthopedic surgeon should be able to diagnose and document almost every shoulder soft tissue pathology."}
{"id": "8711918", "title": "[The shoulder joint--diagnostic imaging].", "content": "[The shoulder joint--diagnostic imaging]. In the assessment of shoulder joint abnormalities plain films must still be used today as primary imaging modality. For soft tissue, cartilage, tendon and ligament lesions, CT with arthrography and particularly MRI with arthrography is available today. Especially latter method leads to a significantly extended diagnosis, which in many cases implies a major therapeutical significance."}
{"id": "8673512", "title": "Neuroarthropathy: an overuse injury of the shoulder in quadriplegia.", "content": "Neuroarthropathy: an overuse injury of the shoulder in quadriplegia. The shoulder joint of the spinal cord injured patient is the primary joint used for transfer and wheelchair propulsion. In addition to ordinary use, the shoulder is subject to overuse injury with resultant functional impairment. Frequent overuse injuries of the shoulder include subdeltoid bursitis, bicipital tendonitis, rotator cuff tear and secondary degenerative arthritis. Neuroarthropathy of the shoulder, an overuse injury of an insensate shoulder girdle, has been rarely described in the literature. The case presented is that of an active 47 year old, right hand dominant, C7 complete quadriplegic male with a one week history of painless right shoulder girdle swelling. Radiologic evaluation documented right proximal humerus destruction. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) confirmed syringomyelia. The pathophysiology of neuroarthropathy is presented here and limited treatment options are discussed."}
{"id": "8646903", "title": "[The importance of medical history taking in diagnosis of shoulder arthropathy].", "content": "[The importance of medical history taking in diagnosis of shoulder arthropathy]. The data collected at taking medical history were analyzed on the basis of clinical, radiographic and sonographic differential diagnosis in shoulder pathology. Material included 236 patients. Hedtmann and Fett classification has used. Age of the patient, duration of the condition and its relation to the trauma in a broad meaning are of paramount importance. The authors recommend sonographic examination in all cases of shoulder contusion with no bony abnormalities on radiographs and in all cases of anterior shoulder dislocation in order to assess rotator cuff condition."}
{"id": "8571867", "title": "Amyloidosis of the shoulder in patients on chronic hemodialysis: sonographic findings.", "content": "Amyloidosis of the shoulder in patients on chronic hemodialysis: sonographic findings. The purpose of this study was to determine the sonographic findings of amyloidosis in shoulders of patients on chronic hemodialysis. Sonograms were obtained for 19 shoulders of 11 patients on chronic hemodialysis with clinical findings suggestive of amyloidosis. Five patients had biopsy-proven amyloidosis, and one patient had positive shoulder joint fluid aspirate. The thicknesses of the following structures were measured: the rotator cuff, the subacromial-subdeltoid bursa, and the long head of the biceps tendon and its synovial sheath. The presence of intra- or periarticular masses or nodules, hyperechoic areas, bony erosions, and calcifications was specifically assessed. Shoulder sonograms from dialysis patients were compared with normal sonograms obtained for 20 asymptomatic shoulders of patients without renal disease. The mean rotator cuff thickness in the patients with amyloidosis was significantly greater than that in the normal group (p < .0001). Ten shoulders of six patients with amyloidosis but none of the control subjects had a rotator cuff thickness greater than 7 mm. The synovial sheath of the long head of the biceps tendon was thickened in 10 shoulders of patients with amyloidosis and in one normal shoulder. The subacromial-subdeltoid bursa was thickened in seven shoulders of patients with amyloidosis but not in any shoulders in the control group. Eight shoulder sonograms from dialysis patients showed intra- or periarticular nodules. Sonographic findings associated with amyloidosis of the shoulder include thickening of the rotator cuff, the synovial sheath of the long head of the biceps tendon, and the subacromial-subdeltoid bursa and the presence of nodules within or around the joint. Shoulder sonography may be useful as a noninvasive technique for the diagnosis of dialysis-related amyloidosis in the proper clinical setting."}
{"id": "8539398", "title": "Accuracy of fat-suppressed MR imaging of the shoulder for detection of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Accuracy of fat-suppressed MR imaging of the shoulder for detection of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "7484618", "title": "Rotator cuff disease.", "content": "Rotator cuff disease."}
{"id": "8665291", "title": "Relationship between the lateral acromion angle and rotator cuff disease.", "content": "Relationship between the lateral acromion angle and rotator cuff disease. One hundred consecutive magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies of the shoulder obtained for the purpose of evaluating rotator cuff symptoms were retrospectively reviewed to assess the relationship between acromion morphologic appearance and rotator cuff disease. The studies were reviewed simultaneously by two authors. Each cuff was assigned a tendon grade and an overall cuff score with MRI criteria previously described in the literature. A newly described \"lateral acromion angle\" was measured from a specified oblique coronal cut on each MRI study and was correlated with the corresponding MRI-determined rotator cuff score and supraspinatus tendon grade. Observed correlations were analyzed by using statistical methods. The average measured lateral acromion angle was 78 degrees, with a range from 64 degrees to 99 degrees. Eight shoulders had angles less than or equal to 70 degrees, and all eight of these patients were found to have full-thickness rotator cuff tears. As the lateral acromion angle decreased, a statistically significant increase in rotator cuff disease was noted (p < 0.0001). A significant correlation between increasing age and rotator cuff disease was also observed (p < 0.0001). Multiple regression analysis confirmed that both the lateral acromion angle and the age of the patient were independent predictors of rotator cuff score. Finally, although a trend was noted suggesting a correlation between acromion type (I--flat, II--curved, and III--hooked) and MRI-determined rotator cuff disease, this trend did not reach statistical significance (p = 0.12). Surgical correlation with MRI rotator cuff findings in 35 patients showed an MRI sensitivity of 100% and specificity of 83%. A statistically significant correlation between the lateral acromion angle and MRI-determined rotator cuff disease has been noted. The described angle may be a useful adjuvant in the evaluation and management of rotator cuff disease."}
{"id": "8665286", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging evaluation of capsulolabral tears after traumatic primary anterior shoulder dislocation. A prospective comparison with arthroscopy of 25 cases.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging evaluation of capsulolabral tears after traumatic primary anterior shoulder dislocation. A prospective comparison with arthroscopy of 25 cases. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the use of static magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as a preoperative diagnostic tool in young patients with a traumatic primary anterior shoulder dislocation. Twenty-five patients who had acute primary traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation were examined with MRI and arthroscopy. The patients (18 male and 7 female) were between 16 and 39 years old (mean age, 27 years). They had no previous shoulder dislocations. The dislocations were confirmed radiographically. Examination with MRI and arthroscopy was performed within 10 days after the trauma. The MRI evaluation was performed before the arthroscopic examination, and the images were interpreted by an experienced magnetic resonance radiologist. No information from the MRI examination was available to the orthopedic surgeons before arthroscopy. The standard of reference for comparison was arthroscopy. Subacute MRI evaluation identified 15 labral tears, 12 Hill-Sachs lesions, 1 total rotator cuff lesion, 1 partial joint side rotator cuff lesion, and 1 partial rupture of the biceps tendon. Arthroscopic examination revealed 22 labral tears, 15 Hill-Sachs lesions, 1 total rotator cuff lesion, 1 partial joint side rotator cuff tear, 1 partial rupture of the biceps tendon, and 1 osseous Bankart lesion. Anterior capsulolabral tears and Hill-Sachs lesions appeared with a high incidence after acute anterior primary shoulder dislocation. Conventional MRI was only moderately reliable in the preoperative evaluation of labral tears and Hill-Sachs lesions, and it failed to give an accurate, differentiated preoperative diagnosis of the capsulolabral lesions."}
{"id": "8608689", "title": "Long-term follow up to patients with frozen shoulder after mobilization under anesthesia, with special reference to the rotator cuff.", "content": "Long-term follow up to patients with frozen shoulder after mobilization under anesthesia, with special reference to the rotator cuff. In order to evaluate the efficacy of mobilization under anesthesia as a therapy for frozen shoulder, 43 patients with a mean age of 52.8 years were examined after an average time of 4.7 years. Since some authors have been concerned about rotator cuff tears, special attention--using sonography--was paid to rotator cuff lesions. Clinical and sonographic examinations were very similar and showed a perfect recovery in 27 of 37 patients (73.0%). The average time off work after mobilization was 6.2 weeks compared with expected spontaneous recovery of about 30 months. Outcome was worse in patients with previous trauma to their shoulder. In 2 patients (5.4%) the sonography revealed a slight rotator cuff tear, which is not uncommon in 60-year-old persons. Two additional patients (5.4%) underwent shoulder surgery two years after mobilization due to a persistent impingement syndrome and to a supraspinatus-tear. We conclude, that mobilization under anesthesia for frozen shoulder is an effective treatment modality causing little harm."}
{"id": "8534390", "title": "Slip of the lip--tears of the superior glenoid labrum-anterior to posterior (SLAP) syndrome. A report of four cases.", "content": "Slip of the lip--tears of the superior glenoid labrum-anterior to posterior (SLAP) syndrome. A report of four cases. The shoulder's unique wide range of motion is largely restrained by the articular capsule and the external ligaments of the glenohumeral joint. Internally, the long head of the biceps tendon passes within the capsule and inserts on the superior lip of the glenoid labrum. Trauma distracting this tendon can tear the superior glenoid labrum, producing the superior labrum anterior to posterior (SLAP) syndrome. Four patients, two of whom were female, presented with complaints of acute shoulder pain associated with weakness in abduction and forward flexion. Routine shoulder roentgenograms were normal. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies revealed a superior glenoid labral tear consistent with a SLAP syndrome. The superior labrum, unlike the firmly bound inferior portion, is loosely attached to the glenoid fossa. This inherent mobility predisposes it to disruption. To routine ultrasonography and arthrogram, the superior labrum may be obscured by superimposed structures. Shoulder arthroscopy, computed tomography, arthrography, and MRI have relatively equal sensitivity in visualizing these labral tears. The SLAP lesion accompanies 16% of all rotator cuff tears, occurring more often than heretofore recognized. When clinically suspected, they can be readily visualized by a noninvasive MRI examination."}
{"id": "8532336", "title": "[Ultrasonography of the shoulder in subacromial syndromes with disorders and injuries of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[Ultrasonography of the shoulder in subacromial syndromes with disorders and injuries of the rotator cuff]. Shoulder sonography was performed prospectively in 4172 patients with 4588 shoulders affected with pathology of the subacromial space, among them 1227 operated cases with 425 rotator cuff tears (292 total tears and 133 partial tears). A two-criterion model with formal as well as echogenic and dynamic criteria was used for the diagnosis of cuff tears. The overall sensitivity in diagnosing rotator cuff tears was 95.3% (97.3% in total tears and 91.0% in partial tears). False-negative results were found overall in 1.6% of cases. Overall accuracy for all defects was 94.9%. Involvement of the supraspinatus tendon was found in 95.8%, of the infraspinatus in 39.3% and of the subscapularis in 10.1%. In 33.6% of cases, involvement of the long head of biceps was found. It was clearly correlated with the size of the tears: 25.9% in isolated supraspinatus tears and 68.8% in three-tendon tears of subscapularis, supraspinatus and infraspinatus. Differentiation between fresh, traumatic tears and degenerative tears is possible by means of measuring retraction, determining the length of the distal cuff stump and by formal criteria of the stump configuration as well as by bursal criteria. Differentiation of old tears of suspected traumatic origin from those with degenerative causes is impossible."}
{"id": "8532335", "title": "[Magnetic resonance tomography in disorders of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance tomography in disorders of the rotator cuff]. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has become a powerful diagnostic tool for the evaluation of the painful shoulder in general and of the diseased rotator cuff in particular. MRI evaluates cuff disease in terms of tendon morphology and pathologic signal alterations within diseased cuff tendons. Additionally, MRI displays important pathoanatomic changes of the coracoacromial arch which are predisposing factors for the development of shoulder impingement syndrome and cuff disease. The accuracy of MRI in diagnosing small rotator cuff tears and in assessing the integrity of the labral-ligamentous complex is improved by the intraarticular injection of a suitable contrast agent. In the preoperative assessment of patients with cuff disease, MR arthrography enhances the staging of the disease and allows a more confident exclusion of concomitant lesions of the shoulder joint."}
{"id": "7480690", "title": "US depiction of partial-thickness tear of the rotator cuff.", "content": "US depiction of partial-thickness tear of the rotator cuff. To test previously defined ultrasound (US) criteria for identification of partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff. Before shoulder arthroscopy, 52 patients with shoulder pain for more than 3 months were examined with a 7.5-MHz commercially available linear-array transducer and a standardized study protocol. The criteria used to detect partial-thickness tears were (a) a mixed hyper- and hypoechoic focus in the crucial zone of the supraspinatus tendon and (b) a hypoechoic lesion visualized in two orthogonal imaging planes with either articular or bursal extension. The US findings were reported as partial-thickness tears in 17 shoulders, of which three were false-positive findings. There was one false-negative finding. The sensitivity of US in depiction of partial-thickness tears was 93%, and specificity was 94%. The positive predictive value was 82%, and the negative predictive value was 98%. US can depict most partial-thickness tears with use of the criteria described."}
{"id": "19077997", "title": "Rotator cuff dysfunction in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.", "content": "Rotator cuff dysfunction in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Periarticular shoulder problems, particularly those involving the rotator cuff, are commonly found in the general population. Although synovitis of the glenohumeral and acromioclavicular joints may be seen in rheumatiod arthritis (RA), periarticular shoulder problems may also occur. The objective of this study was to define the prevalence of shoulder symptoms and periarticular shoulder abnormalities in a group of RA patients and to correlate findings on physical examination with those obtained with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).Shoulder function was evaluated by history, physical examination, roentgenogram, and MRI in a group of older, male RA patients; 82% of the 40 patients evaluated had a history of shoulder pain, and 88% had an abnormal physical examination. The most frequent abnormality involved the rotator cuff musculature. Plain roentgenograms were abnormal in only 10 of the 26 (38%) patients. In contrast, abnormalities were noted on MRI in 13 of 14 patients studied (93%). The most frequent MRI abnormalities related to the rotator cuff, with a spectrum of abnormalities ranging from mild inflammatory changes through compete tendon tears. Of note, in all 14 patients undergoing MRI, physical examination findings correlated with abnormalities noted on MRI.Problems referred to the shoulder may be very common in RA patients. Rotator cuff dysfunction was the most common cause of shoulder problems in a population of older, male RA patients. A thorough physical examination often establishes the cause of these problems."}
{"id": "8581997", "title": "Anatomy and pathomechanics of shoulder instability.", "content": "Anatomy and pathomechanics of shoulder instability. The mechanisms contributing to glenohumeral stability are complex and varied. The rotator cuff is the dominant contributor to stability through the mid arcs of motion through concavity compression. At the end ranges of motion, the capsular ligamentous system becomes responsible for shoulder stability. As the shoulder position varies from adduction to abduction and internal to external rotation, varying components of the capsular ligamentous system become responsible for static shoulder stability. The nature of the individual ligament contribution to overall static stability has become better known through biomechanical cutting studies of cadaveric shoulders. Further insight into the pathoanatomy of shoulder instability can be gleaned from MR imaging studies that defined which tissues have been injured and which have not. This more detailed understanding of the capsular ligamentous system will eventually result in a more precise nomenclature of defining shoulder instability. The current use of the words anterior shoulder instability is not unlike the use of the term internal derangement of the knee from the late 1970s. In the future, there will be discussions of clinical diagnoses of IGHLC injury or incompetence. The more precisely we know all the details of the mechanisms of shoulder stability, the more precisely we can clinically define the various injuries and syndromes that afflict our patients."}
{"id": "8552811", "title": "[Medial luxation of the long head of the brachial biceps. Magnetic resonance imaging].", "content": "[Medial luxation of the long head of the brachial biceps. Magnetic resonance imaging]. The medial intraarticular dislocation of the biceps tendon of the shoulder is a rare pathologic condition and its diagnosis before surgery is very important to properly repair the tears of rotator cuff tendons, the rotator cuff being nearly always involved. We report our experience in 8 patients (1.8%) with biceps tendon dislocation observed in a series of 432 patients submitted to MR studies to address several diagnostic issues. The MR patterns of biceps tendon dislocation and the related physiopathologic mechanisms are discussed. The MR images were retrospectively reviewed by two of the authors and dislocations were diagnosed in a subgroup of 34 patients (7.8%), associated with full-thickness tears of the tendon of supraspinatus muscle; all patients also presented a full-thickness tear of the subscapularis tendon. A dislocated biceps tendon can follow a variety of courses depending on the pattern of subscapularis tendon tear. We always found a complete dislocation of the biceps tendon; other dislocation patterns reported in the literature, and particularly oblique and superficial dislocations, were never observed in our series. Dislocation is visible on axial images, where the tendon appears completely displaced from the bicipital groove, but also sagittal and coronal images can depict the more medial position of the tendon. In our patients this abnormality was correctly identified in 4 patients during the first observation and in the extant patients during the retrospective review. The dislocation of the biceps tendon of the shoulder was frequently associated with a complete tear of the supraspinatus tendon (23.5%). All patients exhibited severe joint effusion and in two patients the dislodged tendon was also inflamed."}
{"id": "8545644", "title": "Effect of field of view on MR diagnosis of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Effect of field of view on MR diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. To determine the effect of decreasing the field of view (FOV) on the accuracy of MR for diagnosing rotator cuff tears. One hundred shoulder MR scans with surgical correlation were evaluated for the presence or absence of a cuff tear. The sensitivity and specificity of MR relative to the surgical results were determined for the 59 patients scanned with a 24-cm FOV, and the 41 patients scanned with an 18-cm FOV. All other imaging parameters including acquisition time were identical. The sensitivity and specificity of the two groups were compared using a t-test. The specificity of MR for diagnosing a rotator cuff tear improved from 0.65 for the 24-cm FOV group to 0.89 for the 18-cm FOV group (P = 0.04). The sensitivity changed from 0.91 to 0.96 (P = 0.25). Reducing the FOV from 24 cm to 18 cm results in a statistically significant improvement in specificity of MR for diagnosing rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "7568835", "title": "Acute traumatic tears of the rotator cuff: value of sonography.", "content": "Acute traumatic tears of the rotator cuff: value of sonography. To determine the value of sonography in the evaluation of acute traumatic tears of the rotator cuff. Preoperative sonography was performed within 3 weeks of trauma in 184 patients, 98 of whom underwent surgery. The rotator cuff tears were preoperatively classified as partial-thickness tears or as small, large, or massive full-thickness tears. Sonographic findings were correlated with surgical findings (n = 70) and arthroscopic inspection (n = 28). Adequate examination was possible in 163 (88%) of 184 patients. Sonography demonstrated 42 (91%) of 46 full-thickness tears and seven (78%) of nine partial-thickness tears. Sonography showed more extensive tears than were found at surgery in four (4%) of 98 patients and less extensive tears in seven (7%) of 98 patients. Sonographic patterns were a defect (31 [63%] of 49 tears), focal thinning (10 [21%] of 49 tears), and nonvisualization (eight [16%] of 49 tears). Sonography is useful in the evaluation of acute shoulder trauma when a rotator cuff tear is suspected and findings at plain radiography are negative."}
{"id": "8548441", "title": "Acromial structure and tears of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Acromial structure and tears of the rotator cuff. Rotator cuff lesions have been related to the structure of the acromion. We report a clinical review of 56 shoulders and the analysis of their acromial structure as seen on the radiographic arch (outlet) view and magnetic resonance imaging. The shoulders were classified as acromial type I (flat), type II (curved), or type III (hooked). On plain radiographs 89% of type III acromions had tearing of the rotator cuff (p < 0.001). The association between acromial type as determined on magnetic resonance imaging and the presence of rotator cuff tearing was less significant. Magnetic resonance imaging offered no additional benefit over plain radiographs for determining acromial type. In addition, a method of quantitating acromial structure (the \"acromial angle\") was devised. This angle showed a significant association with acromial types (p < 0.0001) seen on plain radiographs and had good interobserver reproducibility (coefficient of variation, 0.1). With this measurement system a type I acromion had an acromial angle of 0 degrees to 12 degrees; a type II acromion, 13 degrees to 27 degrees; and a type III acromion, greater than 27 degrees."}
{"id": "7671508", "title": "Function of supraspinatus muscle with torn cuff evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Function of supraspinatus muscle with torn cuff evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging. An estimation of the residual function of the supraspinatus muscle after rotator cuff tear is useful to select the best operative method for repair of the torn cuff and to evaluate prognosis after surgery. The residual function of the supraspinatus muscle was studied by magnetic resonance imaging with motor unit potential amplitudes on electromyograms. Forty-three normal shoulders and 41 shoulders in patients with cuff tears were scanned by magnetic resonance imaging parallel to the long axis of the supraspinatus muscle. The ratio of the largest width of the supraspinatus muscle belly to the distance from the greater tubercle to the proximal end of the supraspinatus muscle was termed the supraspinatus muscle belly ratio. The linear bands of the supraspinatus muscle and the variation in the muscular signal intensity were classified into 3 grades. With a reduction in the motor unit potential amplitude, the supraspinatus muscle belly ratio became lower than 0.15. Additionally, the degree of appearance of the linear bands in the supraspinatus muscle belly increased, and the signal intensity became less uniform. The residual function of the supraspinatus muscle decreased when such morphologic changes were shown by magnetic resonance images. By analyzing these images, the best operative method for repairing a rotator cuff tear can be selected and the prognosis can be evaluated."}
{"id": "7645478", "title": "Association of sonographically detected subacromial/subdeltoid bursal effusion and intraarticular fluid with rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Association of sonographically detected subacromial/subdeltoid bursal effusion and intraarticular fluid with rotator cuff tear. Although an association between sonographically detected joint fluid and rotator cuff disease has been reported, the significance of sonographically detected subacromial/subdeltoid bursal effusion has not been studied. We examined a group of patients who had shoulder sonography and surgery to determine the association between bursal and joint effusion and surgically proved tears of the rotator cuff. We retrospectively reviewed the preoperative shoulder sonography reports of 163 patients for the presence of fluid within the subacromial/subdeltoid bursa or glenohumeral joint. Surgical reports were obtained to determine the status of the rotator cuff. The sonographic reports of 232 asymptomatic shoulders were also reviewed to determine the prevalence of fluid within the subacromial/subdeltoid bursa or the glenohumeral joint. Sixty-seven (41%) of the 163 patients had a joint effusion, bursal fluid, or both. Joint effusion alone was seen in 35 patients. Fourteen of these had a normal rotator cuff at surgery, and 21 had a rotator cuff tear (sensitivity, 22%; specificity, 79%; positive predictive value, 60%). Bursal fluid alone was seen in 10 patients, seven of whom had a rotator cuff tear (sensitivity, 7%; specificity, 96%; positive predictive value, 70%). In 22 patients, fluid was seen in both the bursa and the joint; 21 had surgically proved rotator cuff tears (sensitivity, 22%; specificity, 99%; positive predictive value, 95%). Of the 232 asymptomatic shoulders, 16 (6.9%) had isolated joint effusions, eight (3.4%) had isolated bursal effusions, and four (1.7%) had both joint and bursal effusions. The sonographic finding of intraarticular fluid alone (without bursal fluid) has both a low sensitivity and a low specificity for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. However, the finding of fluid in the subacromial/subdeltoid bursa, especially when combined with a joint effusion, is highly specific and has a high positive predictive value for associated rotator cuff tears. Sonographically detected fluid in both the joint and the bursa is an uncommon finding in asymptomatic shoulders. The sonographic observation of fluid in the subacromial bursa, either isolated or combined with a joint effusion, should prompt a careful evaluation of the supraspinatus tendon for tear."}
{"id": "7607060", "title": "[Neuralgic amyotrophy (Parsonage-Turner syndrome) following streptokinase thrombolytic therapy].", "content": "[Neuralgic amyotrophy (Parsonage-Turner syndrome) following streptokinase thrombolytic therapy]. A 61-year-old man was given short-term thrombolytic treatment with streptokinase (1.5 million IU) 6 hours after the onset of anginal symptoms. Ten days later he complained of severe pain in the right upper arm and right shoulder, and also on the left 3 days later. Simultaneously there occurred severe atrophic pareses of the supra- and infraspinatus, deltoid and rhomboid muscles bilaterally, without sensory component. When admitted to the neurological department 3 weeks later laboratory tests, immunological parameters, electrophoresis and cerebrospinal fluid were unremarkable. Radiological examinations of the cervical and thoracic vertebrae demonstrated moderate degenerative changes. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging of the cervical vertebrae showed small disc protrusion and narrowing of the intervertebral foramina, but they could not explain the clinical picture. Electromyography demonstrated a bilateral peripheral neurogenic lesion without evidence of radicular distribution or any lesion of individual peripheral nerves. These findings led to the diagnosis of neuralgic amyotrophy (Parsonage-Turner syndrome). With analgesics and physiotherapy the pareses slowly regressed over the following months. The infusion of streptokinase was the only probable cause found to explain the neuralgic amyotrophy, a connection that has never been reported until now."}
{"id": "7640925", "title": "Ultrasound guided aspiration of symptomatic supraspinatus calcific deposits.", "content": "Ultrasound guided aspiration of symptomatic supraspinatus calcific deposits. 11 consecutive patients with shoulder pain were referred from the shoulder clinic for plain radiography. Supraspinatus calcific deposits were suspected after other causes of shoulder pain had been eliminated by clinical examination and local anaesthetic tests. Radiographs confirmed calcific deposits in all 11 shoulders and all deposits were shown by ultrasound to be lying in the supraspinatus tendon. Using a free-hand ultrasound guidance technique, a 19 G needle was passed percutaneously into all 11 shoulders in an attempt to aspirate the deposit. Six patients experienced immediate pain relief or relief on the same day, whilst four others were pain free at the 2 weeks follow-up clinic. One patient who was though to have a co-existing supraspinatus tear diagnosed by the scan was symptomatically unchanged."}
{"id": "7570077", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder: review.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder: review."}
{"id": "7569078", "title": "[Traumatic lesion of the rotator cuff: ultrasonographic diagnosis. Report of a case].", "content": "[Traumatic lesion of the rotator cuff: ultrasonographic diagnosis. Report of a case]."}
{"id": "7754892", "title": "Adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder: MR diagnosis.", "content": "Adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder: MR diagnosis. Adhesive capsulitis is a clinical syndrome of pain and severely decreased joint motion (\"frozen shoulder\") caused by thickening and contraction of the joint capsule and synovium. Although arthrographic criteria for the diagnosis have been described, to our knowledge, the MR characteristics have not been reported. Accordingly, we studied the MR findings in 10 patients with this syndrome. MR images of 25 subjects were included in the study. Nine had adhesive capsulitis documented by arthrography, and one had adhesive capsulitis proved at surgery. The MR findings in these patients were compared with those of 15 asymptomatic volunteers. Images were assessed for thickness of the joint capsule and synovium, for thickness of the coracohumeral ligament, and for volume of articular fluid. Capsule and synovium thickness was measured adjacent to the axillary recess. The volume of intraarticular fluid was calculated from direct measurements of the axillary recess and biceps tendon sheath. The rotator cuff interval was qualitatively evaluated for the presence of abnormal tissue. Thickening of capsule and synovium on MR images was characteristic of adhesive capsulitis, with a significant difference between mean thickness in patients with adhesive capsulitis (5.2 mm) and in asymptomatic volunteers (2.9 mm) (p < .01). Capsule and synovium thickness greater than 4 mm was a specific (95%) and sensitive (70%) criterion for the diagnosis of adhesive capsulitis. There was no significant difference in volume of articular fluid or thickness of the coracohumeral ligament between patients with adhesive capsulitis and asymptomatic volunteers (p > .5). The rotator cuff interval was not useful for assessing changes of adhesive capsulitis. Joint capsule and synovium thickness greater than 4 mm is a useful MR criterion for the diagnosis of adhesive capsulitis. The volume of articular fluid seen on MR images is not significantly diminished in patients with adhesive capsulitis."}
{"id": "7754891", "title": "MR diagnosis of rotator cuff tears of the shoulder: value of using T2-weighted fat-saturated images.", "content": "MR diagnosis of rotator cuff tears of the shoulder: value of using T2-weighted fat-saturated images. The purpose of this study was to compare the use of fat-saturated T2-weighted spin-echo MR imaging with that of conventional T2-weighted spin-echo MR imaging to detect full- and partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff of the shoulder, using arthroscopy as the standard for the diagnosis. Forty-nine consecutive patients with shoulder pain who had both MR imaging and arthroscopy of their affected shoulders were studied. The study group consisted of 10 patients with full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff, 20 with partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff, and 19 with intact rotator cuff tendons proved arthroscopically. All patients had T1-weighted, conventional T2-weighted, and fat-saturated T2-weighted MR images obtained in a plane slightly oblique to the coronal plane along the long axis of the supraspinous tendon. The images were divided into two sets, one including both T1-weighted and conventional T2-weighted images, the other including T1-weighted and fat-saturated T2-weighted images. Two musculoskeletal radiologists reviewed each set of MR images in a blinded fashion. The reviewers were asked to decide whether the rotator cuff showed a full-thickness tear, a partial-thickness tear, or no tear on each set of images. In the case of partial-thickness tears, the reviewers were asked to indicate which surface (bursal or joint) of the rotator cuff was affected. These data were correlated with the arthroscopic findings and with each other using McNemar and kappa analysis. Detection of full-thickness tears was excellent for both reviewers using either imaging technique. However, when the fat-saturated technique was used, the sensitivity increased significantly, from 80% to 100%. Detection of partial-thickness tears was poor with conventional spin-echo MR imaging (15%). Although significantly improved when fat saturation was used (35%), detection rates were still lower than rates reported in the literature. Identification of the torn surface of the rotator cuff was correct in 50% of cases in which partial-thickness tears were successfully identified. Fat saturation decreased the specificity of identification of both partial and full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff but significantly increased the specificity with which intact rotator cuffs were identified. Use of the fat-saturation technique improved detection of both full-thickness and partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff on MR images compared with standard spin-echo imaging techniques. Despite this improvement, detection of partial-thickness tears was poor with both techniques. Furthermore, correct identification of which surface of the rotator cuff was torn in patients with partial tears was nearly random."}
{"id": "7658938", "title": "Os acromiale in a baseball catcher.", "content": "Os acromiale in a baseball catcher. Throwing injuries of the shoulder can result from an acute traumatic event or chronic overuse. Shoulder impingement has multiple etiologies; the most common being rotator cuff weakness/overuse and resultant glenohumeral instability. However, an uncommon cause of shoulder impingement syndrome is that of a nonfused os acromiale. There are three centers of ossification in the acromion which are usually completely fused by 18 yr of age. The most common site of nonunion is between the meso-acromion and meta-acromion. Os acromiale is reported at a rate of 14/1000 (1.4%) and is bilateral in approximately 62% of cases. The classic diagnosis is radiographically defined with both AP and axillary lateral views, and a contralateral comparison view may be helpful. Computerized axial tomography also aids in the diagnosis. Most os acromiale are asymptomatic. However, if recalcitrant impingement syndrome and/or rotator cuff tears are found in association with os acromiale, then surgical fusion or resection of the ossicle is recommended."}
{"id": "7644916", "title": "[Role of the subacromial space on development of the impingement syndrome. II].", "content": "[Role of the subacromial space on development of the impingement syndrome. II]. Twenty-five patients with suspected impingement syndrome on the basis of clinical examination were evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). In paracoronal and parasagittal planes, different measurements of bony structures of the subacromial space and of the glenoid joint were performed, as in the anatomical study reported in the companion paper. A healthy, age-and sex-matched group of 25 persons underwent the same MRI-procedure and the results were compared with those in the patients. Ruptures of the rotator cuff were excluded by means of standard X-rays, physical examination, and ultrasound. The comparison revealed a highly significant difference between the sizes of the subacromial space. Healthy persons had a space that was larger by more than one third than that of the patients. Other parameters did not differ significantly between the two groups. In a further part of the study the insertion zone of the coracoacromial ligament into the undersurface of the acromion was histologically studied in 24 autopsy specimens. Different staining techniques were used to find out whether microscopic changes occur during different stages of life. Cartilage without bone formation of the acromion was found in children. In adult specimens bony projections of the undersurface of the acromion and thickening of the surrounding fibrocartilage were found, but there was no correlation between ageing and these changes. However, in patients suffering from impingement syndrome the subacromial space is reduced. Acromioplasty enlarges the space by resection of the anterior part of the acromion. Bony spurs on the acromion and a thickening of the fibrocartilaginous layer are not degenerative changes, but they are caused by increased tensile strength of the coracoacromial ligament and are not influenced by age."}
{"id": "7617385", "title": "[Calcific tendinitis of the shoulder].", "content": "[Calcific tendinitis of the shoulder]. Degenerative ossification is formed directly at the major tubercle. Like in any other gliding tendon, fibrocartilage cells lie on the articular side of the rotator tendon at the pivot of the humerus head. Typically, the calcific deposits of calcifying tendinitis are found between these two areas. At this site, hydroxyapatite is usually formed by fibrocartilage cells through an unknown stimulus. There is no ossification. This is a two-phase disease. During the chronic initial phase, a calcific deposit is formed in the tendon of the rotator cuff. In the X-ray, it is clearly circumscribed and has a dense appearance (type I). Pain is inconsistent and may exist for years. In the acute phase, the deposit undergoes spontaneous resolution. Now it takes on a translucent and cloudy appearance without clear circumscription (type III). Patients experience severe pain for 2-3 weeks. Finally, a normally functioning shoulder joint will result. The X-ray therefore allows a prognostic conclusion. In a study including 235 calcific deposits, it became clear that there are some cases where it is not possible to designate the specific X-ray morphology to a given deposit (type II). Irrespective of the phase of disease, the so-called calcific deposit is composed of poorly mineralized hydroxyapatite. For a diagnosis, we require: a typical history, clinical findings consistent with tendinitis of the rotator cuff, calcific deposits in the tendon associated with signs and symptoms of tendinitis. It is recommended that radiographs be taken at least in AP projections with the shoulder in internal and external rotation to demonstrate the deposits without super-imposition. Ultrasound shows concomitant bursitis and is useful for the differential diagnosis of rupture of the rotator cuff. Radiographic diagnosis is most difficult when there are small opacifications near the rotator attachment. In this case, allocation may become possible only later in the course of disease. Initial treatment should always be non-operative. Almost all therapeutic modalities are said to be quite successful. Needles under local anesthesia is recommended only for patients with marked pain who lack any signs of resolution in the X-ray. According to a prospective study, the success rates of needles depend on the roentgenologic findings: in type I deposits, resolution occurs in 33%, in typq II deposits in 71%. Freedom from pain is seen in about 50% of the patients. Type III deposits undergo resolution with and without therapy in about 2-3 weeks. Post-operative results are reported to lie between 77% and 96% irrespective of the method used.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7617377", "title": "[Spontaneous tendon ruptures. Etiology, pathogenesis and therapy].", "content": "[Spontaneous tendon ruptures. Etiology, pathogenesis and therapy]. Spontaneous tendon ruptures are ascribed to recurrent microtrauma resulting from continuous mechanical loading in a critical zone, to muscular imbalance combined with poor coordination as a result of inappropriate training, and also to deteriorating circulation with increasing age. Ruptures of the rotator cuff occur more frequently with increasing age, and the size of the rupture also correlates with age. The frequency of the complaint in men, the predominant involvement of the dominant shoulder, and also the above-average occurrence in occupations involving strenuous physical work indicate that degenerative change plays a role. In about 50% of patients presenting with a ruptured rotator cuff, the genesis is clearly traumatic. A trauma will almost always be the cause of an isolated rupture of the subscapularis tendon. The choice of reconstruction technique for a ruptured rotator cuff depends on the patient's age and level of activity in daily life. In the case of young patients, further surgical measures to repair the defect are indicated following failure of primary suture of the tendon, but in older patients subacromial debridement alone is considered the appropriate procedure. Rupture of the long head of the biceps tendon is usually a sequela of a rotator cuff rupture and the resulting loss of protective cover. Isolated ruptures of the long head of the biceps tendon are much rarer. They tend to occur in middle-aged patients and are usually the result of a relatively minor trauma. Ruptures of the distal biceps tendon are also relatively rare (3%) and are always of traumatic origin. There is no absolute indication for surgical intervention for a ruptured long head of the biceps tendon. Surgical repair is essential in the case of rupture of the distal biceps tendon. Transosseous reinsertion at the tuberosity of the radius is the recommended method of repair. Today's frequent cases of rupture of the Achilles tendon in the framework of sports activities are ascribed to inappropriate training procedures in combination with poor muscular coordination. An exogenous cause is the administration of local injections for pain relief in the form of a so-called tendon anesthetic. Today an increasingly important role is assigned to functional therapy with ultrasound support, although suturing the tendon is still the intervention of choice to meet the high functional demands imposed in the framework of top-level sports.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7617376", "title": "[Ultrasonography and magnetic resonance tomography (MRI) of tendon injuries].", "content": "[Ultrasonography and magnetic resonance tomography (MRI) of tendon injuries]. Both ultrasound and MR imaging have become increasingly important for the assessment of tendon abnormalities. Ultrasound is widely available and is mainly suitable for emergency situations in traumatology and as a screening method. For soft tissue imaging only up-to-date sonographic equipment should be used. Moreover, the examiner's experience is crucial for adequate results. MR imaging is not as easily available. However, it is more reproducible and may be indicated in a preoperative situation. Most publications about sonography and MR imaging deal with the rotator cuff and the Achilles tendon. Fewer investigations relate to the posterior tibial tendon, the extensors of the knee and the proximal and distal biceps tendon. The role of ultrasound and MR imaging in abnormalities of these structures is discussed based on the literature and our own experience."}
{"id": "7605957", "title": "[The magnetic resonance tomographic findings following the resection arthroplasty of the caput humeri].", "content": "[The magnetic resonance tomographic findings following the resection arthroplasty of the caput humeri]. The resection of the humeral head is normally carried out only with respect to four-part and dislocation fractures in elderly patients. The purpose of this study was to examine whether there is a correlation between the clinical results and the MRI findings. 8 patients underwent clinical and MR examination two to 6 years after resection. A cartilage-like tissue formation between the remaining humeral head and the glenoid fossa, with signal intensities comparable to hyalin cartilage was found in all patients. The good functional results following resectional surgery of the humeral head can partially be related to new substitute cartilage resulting from a chondroid metaplasia."}
{"id": "7754927", "title": "Shoulder pain: a diagnostic dilemma.", "content": "Shoulder pain: a diagnostic dilemma. The etiology of shoulder pain can usually be placed into one of five categories: fracture and/or contusion, shoulder separation involving the clavicle, instability of the glenohumeral joint, impingement syndrome involving the rotator cuff or biceps tendinitis, and frozen shoulder. Non-shoulder pathology, such as cervical strain, thoracic outlet syndrome and referred pain from phrenic nerve irritation, should be excluded when evaluating patients presenting with shoulder pain. After inflammatory or infectious arthritis has been ruled out, the history should point to either acute trauma or an overuse injury. Physical examination may provide information about neurovascular status, palpable tenderness, range of motion, strength, instability and impingement. Radiographic studies are usually indicated in patients with a history of trauma, but they are often not necessary in the initial evaluation of overuse injuries. Magnetic resonance imaging and arthrograms should be reserved for patients who have not responded to six to eight weeks of conservative treatment and are candidates for surgery."}
{"id": "7783037", "title": "[MRI of the rotator cuff: evaluation of a new symptomatologic classification].", "content": "[MRI of the rotator cuff: evaluation of a new symptomatologic classification]. The different classifications use for the rotator cuff pathology seem to be incomplete. We propose a new classification with many advantages: 1) Differentiate the tendinopathy between less serious (grade 2A) and serious (grade 2B). 2) Recognize the intra-tendinous cleavage of the infra-spinatus associated with complete tear of the supra-spinatus. 3) Differentiate partial and complete tears of the supra-spinatus. We established this classification after a retrospective study of 42 patients operated on for a rotator cuff pathology. Every case had had a preoperative MRI. This classification is simple, reliable, especially for the associated intra tendinous cleavage."}
{"id": "7724774", "title": "Acromial arch shape: assessment with MR imaging.", "content": "Acromial arch shape: assessment with MR imaging. To test the hypothesis that acromial shape is comparable on supraspinatus outlet view radiographs and parasagittal magnetic resonance (MR) images. Supraspinatus outlet view radiographs of a dried scapula were obtained in the neutral position and with various degrees of caudal, cranial, anterior, and posterior angulation. Sagittal MR images of 41 asymptomatic and 39 symptomatic shoulders were reviewed and compared with outlet view radiographs from the 39 symptomatic cases. Acromial shape was assessed with published classification schemes. Minor variations in angulation produced changes in apparent acromial shape and thickness on the radiographs. MR imaging from a lateral to a more medial section changed the shape or thickness grade in 39 of 41 asymptomatic shoulders. There was poor correlation between findings at radiographic and MR assessment of acromial shape in the symptomatic group. Apparent acromial shape is sensitive to minor changes in radiographic technique and MR section viewed."}
{"id": "7724773", "title": "Rotator cuff tendon tears: evaluation with fat-suppressed MR imaging with arthroscopic correlation in 100 patients.", "content": "Rotator cuff tendon tears: evaluation with fat-suppressed MR imaging with arthroscopic correlation in 100 patients. To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of fat-suppressed magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of rotator cuff tears in a large symptomatic population. One hundred patients underwent both MR imaging and arthroscopy of the shoulder. Ninety-two patients underwent fat-suppressed conventional spin-echo MR imaging (repetition time msec/echo time msec = 2,500/20, 60), and eight patients underwent fat-suppressed, fast spin-echo MR imaging (2,000/80). With data combined for complete and partial tears of the rotator cuff (n = 31), MR imaging had an accuracy of 93%; sensitivity, 84%; and specificity, 97%. Seventeen of 20 complete tears and nine of 11 partial tears were properly identified with MR imaging. Two partial tears were not detected and three complete tears were incorrectly called partial tears at MR imaging. Of two false-positive MR imaging findings, one was called a complete tear and the other, a partial tear. Fat-suppressed MR imaging has high diagnostic accuracy in evaluating tears of the rotator cuff tendon."}
{"id": "7620866", "title": "Giant synovial cyst of the shoulder presenting as a chest wall mass.", "content": "Giant synovial cyst of the shoulder presenting as a chest wall mass. Synovial cysts are most frequently found about the knee. Less commonly they have been described at the shoulder, elbow, ankle, and hip joints. Synovial cysts of the shoulder are associated with rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, chronic steroid use, Charcot joint disease, and long-standing rotator cuff tears. Although often asymptomatic, patients may present complaining of pain, loss of joint motion, or presence of an unexplained mass. The authors present the case of an elderly man with a very large synovial cyst presenting as an anterior chest wall mass."}
{"id": "7617896", "title": "[Chronic shoulder pain. Ultrasonography versus surgery].", "content": "[Chronic shoulder pain. Ultrasonography versus surgery]. This work was aimed at investigating US reliability in the diagnosis of rotator cuff lesions. A series of 554 patients with a chronically painful shoulder submitted to US was retrospectively reviewed to search for any possible rotator cuff lesion. US demonstrated total or partial cuff tears in 82 potentially surgical patients (14.8%) Then, in this group, the occurrence of every US sign was investigated. Cuff disappearance was observed in 42 patients (51.2%), convexity loss in 20 (24.4%), cuff thinning in 17 (20.75%) and focal discontinuity in 3 patients only (3.7%). In the second part of the study, we considered only 33 surgical patients. Surgery confirmed cuff tears in 30 patients (90.9%), whereas in 3 false-positive patients US had overestimated focal hyperechoic areas and tendon thinning. Thus, our study confirms the almost absolute sensitivity of some US signs of cuff lesions, e.g., cuff disappearance and convexity loss, in the screening of the patients with a chronically painful shoulder. On the contrary, when focal hyperechoic lesions or tendon thinning are present and US poorly demonstrates them, potentially surgical patients must be submitted to MRI."}
{"id": "7614836", "title": "Imaging of the painful shoulder.", "content": "Imaging of the painful shoulder. The normal anatomy of the shoulder is reviewed. The clinical presentation and management of the major categories of shoulder pathology are briefly outlined. The most common imaging methods used in the evaluation of shoulder pain are presented. The strengths and limitations of radiography, arthrography, computed tomography, sonography, and magnetic resonance imaging are reviewed. Finally, the advantages and disadvantages of using arthroscopy as the major diagnostic tool are discussed."}
{"id": "7605315", "title": "Partial thickness supraspinatus tears: diagnosis by magnetic resonance arthrography.", "content": "Partial thickness supraspinatus tears: diagnosis by magnetic resonance arthrography. Two patients, with clinical symptoms of advanced impingement syndrome, presented for radiologic evaluation. The magnetic resonance (MR) images of each patient were interpreted as representing a full thickness tear of the supraspinatus tendon. Magnetic resonance arthrography was performed on both patients to further determine the extent of the tear. Using this technique, both patients were diagnosed correctly as having partial thickness tears; one on the articular surface and the other on the bursal surface of the tendon. This information is useful in surgical planning and in patient outcome."}
{"id": "7771960", "title": "Aspects of musculoskeletal magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Aspects of musculoskeletal magnetic resonance imaging. MRI can clearly identify many pathological processes in the musculoskeletal system. Because it is a non invasive investigation, it plays an important role in assessing joint pathology and musculoskeletal masses prior to any interventional procedure. If used properly, it can be cost effective and redundant diagnostic tests can be reduced, appropriate therapy can be instituted and unnecessary surgical intervention and hospitalisation can be avoided."}
{"id": "7606420", "title": "Considerations about a unique clinical pattern: flexion block of the shoulder.", "content": "Considerations about a unique clinical pattern: flexion block of the shoulder. Frozen shoulder is a well-defined nosologic entity characterized by retraction of the anterior portion of the glenohumeral joint capsule. When clinical findings are inconclusive, arthrography can differentiate a frozen shoulder from a stiff and painful shoulder. We report three cases of stiffness of the shoulder that we believe was due to a unique pathological process. Flexion was restricted to 120 degrees and a sensation suggestive of mechanical blockage was felt upon passive flexion. Medical rotation was restricted and painful, whereas lateral rotation with the elbow held against the torso was normal. Findings upon arthrography or magnetic resonance imaging were normal, with no evidence of capsulitis or chronic rotator cuff lesions. Our pathogenic hypotheses include a lesion of the proximal portion of the long head of the biceps brachii or a focal ligamentous lesion. Treatment should consist of specific physical therapy and, in refractory forms, gentle mobilization under general anesthesia."}
{"id": "16558307", "title": "Suprascapular neuropathy in a collegiate pitcher.", "content": "Suprascapular neuropathy in a collegiate pitcher. A healthy, 20-year-old, highly competitive collegiate baseball pitcher developed vague pain and soreness in the dominant posterior shoulder with live pitching. The symptoms intensified, and, after a particularly poor starting performance, the athlete presented for physical examination. Examination revealed visible atrophy of the infraspinatus muscle and decreased strength in external rotation and abduction. Magnetic Resonance Imaging was inconclusive. Electromyographic examination revealed decreased suprascapular nerve conduction to the infraspinatus muscle. Our diagnosis was entrapment neuropathy from traction on the suprascapular nerve at the spinoglenoid notch, causing delayed conduction to the infraspinatus muscle. We took a conservative approach of shoulder rehabilitation and activity modification, which resulted in the athlete returning to a highly competitive level without further problems, despite the remaining atrophy and muscle weakness. Examination of injuries to the shoulder complex, especially in athletes involved in repetitive overhead motions, should take suprascapular neuropathy into consideration."}
{"id": "7862988", "title": "Rotator cuff disorders: interobserver and intraobserver variation in diagnosis with MR imaging.", "content": "Rotator cuff disorders: interobserver and intraobserver variation in diagnosis with MR imaging. To determine interobserver and intraobserver variation in the interpretation of magnetic resonance (MR) images in rotator cuff disorders. MR images of the shoulder in 97 patients were retrospectively reviewed twice, with a 3-week interval. Surgical findings indicated a full-thickness tear in 29 patients, grade 1 impingement in 19 (tendinitis), and grade 2 impingement (partial tear) in 26. The control population comprised 23 asymptomatic volunteers or patients. All observers were accurate in the diagnosis of a full-thickness tear (89%-98%), with good intraobserver (kappa = 0.67-0.84) and interobserver agreement (kappa = 0.74-0.92). In diagnoses of tendinitis, partial tear, and normal cuff, there were wide ranges of sensitivity (13%-74%) and specificity (72%-93%), as well as poor interobserver (kappa = 0.12-0.60) and intraobserver agreement (kappa = 0.35-0.78). Full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff can be accurately identified at MR imaging with little observer variation. Consistent differentiation of normal rotator cuff, tendinitis, and partial thickness tears is more difficult."}
{"id": "7862986", "title": "Effusion criteria and clinical importance of glenohumeral joint fluid: MR imaging evaluation.", "content": "Effusion criteria and clinical importance of glenohumeral joint fluid: MR imaging evaluation. To investigate the clinical importance of glenohumeral joint (GHJ) fluid. The amount of GHJ fluid in 17 volunteers and 208 consecutive patients was graded at magnetic resonance imaging with T2-weighted fat-suppressed coronal oblique images by two blinded observers. Thorough historical data and physical examination results were available for 108 patients. Presence and grade of GHJ fluid were correlated with age, sex, presence of osteophytes activity scale, supraspinatus tenderness, clinical impingement, prior subacromial injections, rotator cuff tears (RCTs), joint tenderness, joint pain, and history of trauma. GHJ fluid was seen in 40% (n = 83) of patients and in only 6% (n = 1) of volunteers. The volume of fluid correlated with osteophytes (P = .04), increasing age (P = .0001), and RCTs (P = .005). No correlation was found with activity rating, focal tenderness, joint pain, diagnosis of impingement, impingement grade, supraspinatus insertional tenderness, subacromial injection, prior trauma, or sex. The presence of GHJ fluid appears to be abnormal and in most cases is related to RCTs and osteoarthritis. It seems to be unrelated to activity, tenderness, or impingement."}
{"id": "7778695", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging evaluation of the rotator cuff tendons in the asymptomatic shoulder.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging evaluation of the rotator cuff tendons in the asymptomatic shoulder. Thirty shoulders in 20 volunteers (average age, 29 years; range, 17 to 49) with no shoulder symptoms or known abnormalities were scanned using magnetic resonance imaging. All scans were interpreted by one radiologist who was blinded to clinical data. Appearance of rotator cuff tendons on the images was graded. Grade 0 was normal, homogeneous low signal intensity structure. Grade 1 lesion was focal, linear, or diffuse intermediate signal through the tendon. Grade 2 lesion was high signal intensity within the tendon and less than full thickness. Grade 3 was high signal intensity through full thickness of the tendon. No supraspinatus or infraspinatus tendons were grade 0 (normal); all supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons had grade 1 changes through the tendons; and 7 of 30 (23%) of the tendons had grade 2 changes. None of the 30 shoulders had grade 3 changes in the rotator cuff tendons. There is a wide array of abnormal magnetic resonance imaging signals in shoulders of young asymptomatic individuals, but they do not have full-thickness rotator cuff tears (grade 3 lesion). Nonenhanced magnetic resonance imaging may be of limited value in defining rotator cuff injury in a patient with shoulder pain unless a full-thickness rotator cuff tear is suspected clinically."}
{"id": "7754109", "title": "[Magnetic resonance arthrography. Preliminary experience in study technic and main diagnostic applications].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance arthrography. Preliminary experience in study technic and main diagnostic applications]. In the study of osteoarticular conditions, MRI makes a definite diagnostic improvement, even though some problems are still to be solved. Thus, on the basis of their arthrographic experience, the authors experimentally applied this technique to MRI, to assess the actual feasibility of MR arthrography. Forty-three patients were selected to undergo MR examinations after the intraarticular injection of 15-20 ml paramagnetic contrast agent (Gd-DTPA), with 0.25% saline solution. Before MR arthrography every patient underwent a baseline MR arthrography exam. Normal anatomy was better depicted with MR arthrography. In all cases, even small lesions and other structural changes missed at baseline MRI were demonstrated. Therefore, in agreement with previous arthrographic and CT arthrographic reports, we believe MR arthrography to be a simple technique improving MR diagnostic capabilities in selected cases."}
{"id": "7706351", "title": "Rotator-cuff changes in asymptomatic adults. The effect of age, hand dominance and gender.", "content": "Rotator-cuff changes in asymptomatic adults. The effect of age, hand dominance and gender. We studied the integrity of the rotator cuff in both dominant and non-dominant shoulders of 90 asymptomatic adults between the ages of 30 and 99 years using ultrasound. The criteria for diagnosis had been validated on unembalmed cadaver specimens. We found no statistically significant difference in the incidence of impingement findings between dominant and non-dominant arms or between genders. The prevalence of partial- or full-thickness tears increased markedly after 50 years of age: these were present in over 50% of dominant shoulders in the seventh decade and in 80% of subjects over 80 years of age. Our results indicate that rotator-cuff lesions are a natural correlate of ageing, and are often present with no clinical symptoms. Treatment should be based on clinical findings and not on the results of imaging."}
{"id": "7612422", "title": "Update in shoulder magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Update in shoulder magnetic resonance imaging. The shoulder is capable of the largest range motion of any articulation in the human body. Because it is inherently unstable, the glenohumeral joint is dependent on the support given by surrounding muscular, ligamentous, and tendonous structures. A variety of disorders may involve these structural supports and lead to shoulder pain and dysfunction. Refinements in magnetic resonance (MR) imaging techniques have allowed improved characterization of these abnormalities and may permit earlier and more specific diagnoses in patients with shoulder pain. Theories as to the pathogenesis of rotator cuff disease include intrinsic and extrinsic impingement as well as overload tendinosis. MR is useful in the evaluation of rotator cuff impingement and tears. The classification and MR assessment of glenohumeral instability has recently received increased attention yet remains an area of difficulty. MR arthrography has been used with some success in the evaluation of instability demonstrating improved diagnostic sensitivities and specificities when compared with conventional MR. Relatively little attention has been paid to MR evaluation of the shoulder after surgery. Micrometallic artifact, distortion of soft-tissue planes, and persistent signal abnormalities within rotator cuff and capsulolabral structures may hinder assessment of recurrent tear or instability in the postoperative patient."}
{"id": "10150316", "title": "Type 4 acromion: a new classification.", "content": "Type 4 acromion: a new classification. The three types of acromial processes previously described in the literature include type 1, in which the undersurface is straight, and types 2 and 3, in which the undersurface is concave. In this report, a fourth type of acromion is described in which the undersurface is convex near its distal end. The frequency of a type 4 acromion in the normal population is discussed based on a retrospective review of the MR examinations of 30 patients that originally were read as normal."}
{"id": "7848321", "title": "Radiologic vignette. Complete rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Radiologic vignette. Complete rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "7735751", "title": "Case report: lipoma arborescens of the sub-deltoid bursa.", "content": "Case report: lipoma arborescens of the sub-deltoid bursa. Lipoma arborescens is a rare synovial disorder which principally affects the knee joint. We describe an unusual case of lipoma arborescens arising within the sub-deltoid bursa in association with a rotator cuff tear. Pre-operative diagnosis was made by magnetic resonance imaging."}
{"id": "7731767", "title": "[Comparison between T2*- and T2-weighted images in diagnosing rotator cuff tears].", "content": "[Comparison between T2*- and T2-weighted images in diagnosing rotator cuff tears]. This study was performed to determine the merits of T2*-weighted images in diagnosing rotator cuff tear, compared with T2-weighted images. T2-and T2*-weighted images were obtained in 10 asymptomatic volunteers and 94 patients with symptoms referable to the rotator cuff. The increased signal with full thickness of the rotator cuff was not shown on either T2- or T2*-weighted images in the volunteers. These findings on T2-weighted images and on T2*-weighted images were observed in 33 and 58 of 94 patients with symptoms, respectively. Every patient who showed these abnormal findings on T2-weighted images had the abnormal findings on T2*-weighted images. These findings on T2*-weighted images were wider than those on T2-weighted images in 20 of 33 patients. Surgical findings were available in 21 of 94 patients. Rotator cuff tears were surgically confirmed in 20 patients whose MR images showed increased signal lesions on both T2- and T2*-weighted images. On the other hand, one patient who did not have rotator cuff tear showed increased signal lesion with full thickness on T2*-weighted images, but not on T2-weighted images. We think increased signal lesions on T2-weighted images may strongly suggest rotator cuff tear, whereas those on T2*-weighted images are not specific."}
{"id": "8787306", "title": "[Ultrasonography of the tendons of the rotator cuffs of the shoulder].", "content": "[Ultrasonography of the tendons of the rotator cuffs of the shoulder]. After a short review of the use of ultrasonography to study shoulder rotator tendons, the technique of the investigation is described, as well as the main landmarks, findings indicative of complete rotator cuff tear, and limitations of ultrasonography in this indication. A number of issues concerning the preoperative workup are discussed. Results in a prospective study of 100 patients are reported. Findings upon ultrasonography, arthrography, and surgical exploration in these patients are analyzed comparatively. Sensitivity and specificity of ultrasonography for the diagnosis of complete rotator cuff tear (RCT) were 95% and 100%, respectively. These data show that ultrasonography is a reliable investigation for confirming, detecting, and evaluating RCT, although extensive experience with the technique is required."}
{"id": "8623610", "title": "[The value of MRI in the evaluation of lesions of the supraspinous muscle. Multicentric retrospective study of 66 records].", "content": "[The value of MRI in the evaluation of lesions of the supraspinous muscle. Multicentric retrospective study of 66 records]."}
{"id": "7998527", "title": "MR arthrography of the shoulder: normal intraarticular structures and common abnormalities.", "content": "MR arthrography of the shoulder: normal intraarticular structures and common abnormalities. MR imaging with gadopentetate dimeglumine (MR arthrography) is a new technique for evaluating the shoulder. Early clinical experience indicates that MR arthrography improves the visualization of intraarticular structures [1-3]. On T1-weighted images, high-signal contrast solution outlines the low-signal surface of the cuff tendons, the contour of the glenoid labrum, and the course of the glenohumeral ligaments. This essay illustrates the anatomic features of normal glenohumeral structures seen on MR arthrography and common pathologic disorders of the labral-ligamentous complex and rotator cuff."}
{"id": "7895205", "title": "Massive rotator cuff tears. Screening by routine radiographs.", "content": "Massive rotator cuff tears. Screening by routine radiographs. To clarify their usefulness in screening massive rotator cuff tear, routine radiographs of the shoulder were compared in three groups: (1) shoulders with a massive rotator cuff tear (MRCT), (2) shoulders with a small full-thickness rotator cuff tear (SRCT), and (3) normal control shoulders. Two different statistical methods were employed to assess the gradation (order) of correlation in 83 shoulders (22 were MRCTs, 31 with SRCTs, and 30 controls). Superior migration of the humerus and deformity of the greater tuberosity showed by far the more significant contribution to MRCT than did other abnormalities. When the shoulders were screened for these two abnormalities, the sensitivity was 78% (21/27) and specificity was 98% (55/56)."}
{"id": "7886459", "title": "[The traumatized shoulder in computerized and magnetic resonance tomography].", "content": "[The traumatized shoulder in computerized and magnetic resonance tomography]. Diagnosis of traumatic changes of the shoulder can be achieved by several invasive and nonivasive radiological procedures allowing visualization of bony and/or soft tissue structures. With reference to 74 shoulder examinations CT, CT-arthrography, and MRI were reviewed and their value for further treatment assessed. Since joint effusions occurred in nearly all cases of glenoid and rotator cuff lesions, a cost-effective strategy for diagnosing traumatic changes of the shoulder is presented."}
{"id": "7882114", "title": "Extravascular axillary vein compression in a competitive swimmer: a case report.", "content": "Extravascular axillary vein compression in a competitive swimmer: a case report. An unusual case of acute axillary vein compression secondary to hypertrophy and intramuscular edema of the subscapularis muscle is described in a competitive swimmer. The signs and symptoms of this condition are similar to those of axillary vein thrombosis, including nonedematous swelling, discoloration, pain, and prominent cutaneous veins of the involved upper limb. Early recognition and diagnosis by means of venography are important to distinguish the condition from axillary vein thrombosis and to alert the practitioner to the potential of future axillary vein thrombosis in such a case. The treatment is primarily conservative."}
{"id": "7822341", "title": "Abnormal findings on magnetic resonance images of asymptomatic shoulders.", "content": "Abnormal findings on magnetic resonance images of asymptomatic shoulders. Magnetic resonance images of the shoulders of ninety-six asymptomatic individuals were evaluated to determine the prevalence of findings consistent with a tear of the rotator cuff. The scans were reviewed independently by two diagnostic radiologists who are experienced in the interpretation of magnetic resonance images of the shoulder. The over-all prevalence of tears of the rotator cuff in all age-groups was 34 per cent (thirty-three). There were fourteen full-thickness tears (15 per cent) and nineteen partial-thickness tears (20 per cent). The frequency of full-thickness and partial-thickness tears increased significantly with age (p < 0.001 and 0.05, respectively). Twenty-five (54 per cent) of the forty-six individuals who were more than sixty years old had a tear of the rotator cuff: thirteen (28 per cent) had a full-thickness tear and twelve (26 per cent) had a partial-thickness tear. Of the twenty-five individuals who were forty to sixty years old, one (4 per cent) had a full-thickness tear and six (24 per cent) had a partial-thickness tear. Of the twenty-five individuals who were nineteen to thirty-nine years old, none had a full-thickness tear and one (4 per cent) had a partial-thickness tear. Magnetic resonance imaging identified a high prevalence of tears of the rotator cuff in asymptomatic individuals. These tears were increasingly frequent with advancing age and were compatible with normal, painless, functional activity. The results of the present study emphasize the potential hazards of the use of magnetic resonance imaging scans alone as a basis for the determination of operative intervention in the absence of associated clinical findings."}
{"id": "7756022", "title": "Rotator cuff.", "content": "Rotator cuff."}
{"id": "7743752", "title": "Acute apatite arthritis of the shoulder in a young woman.", "content": "Acute apatite arthritis of the shoulder in a young woman. We describe the case of a 40-year-old-woman with an acute arthritis of the left shoulder. Synovial fluid aspirated from the joint cavity appeared purulent but contained few leucocytes and no birefringent crystals. It was, however, rich in apatite crystals. A communication between the subacromial bursa and the gleno-humeral cavity through the rotator cuff could be demonstrated by sonography. The acute arthritis was secondary to the intra-articular rupture of a peri-articular calcification."}
{"id": "7713089", "title": "Role of shoulder ultrasonography in the evaluation of the painful shoulder.", "content": "Role of shoulder ultrasonography in the evaluation of the painful shoulder. The purpose of this study was to determine the accuracy of ultrasonography in the detection of rotator cuff tears. In a prospective study of 41 patients, the ultrasound results could be compared with the combined results of (CT) arthrography, arthroscopy and operation. The sensitivity of sonography in detecting partial and total rotator cuff tears was 86%, the specificity 91%, the positive predictive value 96% and the negative predictive value 73%. In spite of the relatively small size of this series, our results are comparable with those of most other studies. Based on these results, sonography can provide a non-invasive, rapid and inexpensive diagnostic method for screening patients with shoulder complaints. A disadvantage of the method is its long learning curve."}
{"id": "7707483", "title": "Sonographic findings of rotator cuff calcifications.", "content": "Sonographic findings of rotator cuff calcifications. We studied the findings and value of sonography in the diagnosis of rotator cuff calcifications in comparison to plain radiographs. Sonograms were correlated with plain radiographs in 951 patients. The diagnosis of rotator cuff calcifications was made by ultrasonography in 87 and with plain films in 93 of 951 patients. Sonography displayed two additional bursal slurry calcifications were found on plain films. Three types of calcifications were found with ultrasonography: (1) a hyperechoic focus with a well-defined shadow (79%); (2) a hyperechoic focus with a faint shadow (14%); and, (3) a hyperechoic focus with no shadow (7%). Large and slurry calcifications and bursal calcifications were better seen with ultrasonography, but small and more scattered deposits were better found on plain radiographs. Sonography proved to be reliable in the detection and localization of rotator cuff calcifications, but classification into a formative or resorptive phase could not be done. Because of this and the possibility of pathologic conditions of bone, plain radiographs should always be obtained prior to doing sonography."}
{"id": "7569174", "title": "[Functional and anatomical results after surgical treatment of ruptures of the rotator cuff. 2: postoperative functional and anatomical evaluation of ruptures of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[Functional and anatomical results after surgical treatment of ruptures of the rotator cuff. 2: postoperative functional and anatomical evaluation of ruptures of the rotator cuff]. The authors examined the anatomic condition and the function of the rotator cuff obtained after an average period of four years following surgical repair in a series of 100 full thickness rotator cuff tears. The aim was to assess the validity of Constant's scoring method and to analyse risk factors and the frequency of recurrent tears. The series comprised 98 patients, 62 men and 36 women whose average age was 56 years. It included 69 tears of less than 2 cm in size (39 cases) or between 2 to 4 cm (3 cases) of the supra-spinatus, 22 tears of the supra- and infraspinatus measuring between 2 to 4 cm, and 9 massive tears. The tendon of the long head of the biceps was pathological in 1/3 of cases. All 98 patients were operated on by the same surgeon using the same repair technique, and all followed ambulatory rehabilitation along the same principles of self-rehabilitation applied pre operatively. In each patient function was assessed using Constant's scoring method, and the condition of the repaired cuff was determined by ultrasonography at the time of clinical follow-up. The average follow-up period was 4 years (2 to 6 years). Ultrasonography revealed intact cuffs in 65 per cent, thinned cuffs in 11 per cent and recurrent full thickness tears in 24 per cent of cases. The risk of recurrent tear increased with the extent of the tear to be repaired (57 per cent), in older patient (25 per cent) and with a higher level of post-surgical occupational use (18 per cent). A drop in the post-operative Constant score had a predictive value for a full thickness recurrent defect. Constant's scoring method appears to be a reliable, reproducible method for analysing functional results following surgical repair of full thickness cuff tears and to reflect the anatomic condition of the repaired cuff. At clinical follow-up, the anatomic condition of the cuff is more determinant of final functional results than initial tear size. Assessment of functional results must be complemented by anatomic examination using ultrasonography in order to specify the size of any possible recurrent defect and to detect thinning of the cuff which cannot be identified by Constant's score. Analysis of the risk factors for recurrent tear led the authors to question the necessity of repairing massive tears in older patients and pointed to the valuable advantages of reinforcing fragile cuffs during initial repair especially in very active patients."}
{"id": "7992740", "title": "MR diagnosis of superior labral anterior posterior (SLAP) injuries of the glenoid labrum: value of routine imaging without intraarticular injection of contrast material.", "content": "MR diagnosis of superior labral anterior posterior (SLAP) injuries of the glenoid labrum: value of routine imaging without intraarticular injection of contrast material. Superior labral anterior posterior (SLAP) lesions are peculiar types of tears that involve the superior and anterior aspects of the glenoid labrum and extend posteriorly. The biceps tendon may also be involved in the injury. There have been conflicting reports in the literature about the value of MR imaging in depicting these injuries. Some authors have advocated imaging in special planes and, more recently, the use of intraarticular injection of contrast material to facilitate the diagnosis of SLAP injuries. Symptoms of SLAP injury of the glenoid labrum are nonspecific, and patients are often imaged according to routine imaging protocols that include images in axial, oblique coronal, and oblique sagittal planes using spin-echo pulse sequences. Intraarticular injection of contrast material is not part of routine MR imaging of the shoulder. We sought to determine the value of routine MR imaging without intraarticular contrast enhancement in the diagnosis of SLAP injuries of the glenoid labrum. The MR images of eight patients with arthroscopically proved SLAP lesions were selected for this study. The MR imaging appearance of the glenoid labrum, biceps tendon attachment, and rotator cuff tendons were retrospectively evaluated in the axial, oblique coronal, and oblique sagittal planes in each case. The findings were correlated with the surgical observations. All eight patients showed an abnormal labrum on the coronal MR images, on 88% of the axial images, and on 50% of the sagittal images. An oblique or horizontal linear focus of increased signal was seen to traverse the labrum in 50% of the cases on sagittal images. Fifty percent of the cases also showed an intraarticular body, presumably representing the displaced fragment of a bucket-handle tear, on all imaging planes (the MR \"Cheerio\" sign). Routine MR imaging of the shoulder without intraarticular injection of contrast material is useful in the diagnosis of SLAP injuries of the glenoid labrum."}
{"id": "7878228", "title": "[Lesions of the rotatory cuff: diagnostic validity of echography. Surgical findings].", "content": "[Lesions of the rotatory cuff: diagnostic validity of echography. Surgical findings]. Ultrasonography is the method of choice in the study of rotator cuff tears, a very frequent event especially as the final outcome of the impingement syndrome. The authors investigated US sensitivity with the retrospective review of 20 surgical patients with a chronically painful shoulder. US sensitivity was 85%, with 15% false-negative results. Seventeen true-positive cases were restudied for the three main US signs of cuff tear: marked tendon thinning was observed in 64.7% of cases, cuff disappearance in 23.5% and focal discontinuity in 11.8%. This retrospective study confirms that, whenever US shows a cuff tear, the diagnosis can be made, while when US findings are negative or questionable, but clinics are positive, MRI must be performed."}
{"id": "7855722", "title": "The impact of MRI on our understanding of the pathology of sports injuries.", "content": "The impact of MRI on our understanding of the pathology of sports injuries. NMR imaging has become an important diagnostic tool in the evaluation of musculoskeletal disease. However, its ability to evaluate pathogenic mechanisms of disease may eventually have even a greater impact on patient care. NMR imaging has significantly affected our understanding of the clinical significance of meniscal tears and appropriate patient management. It has also extended our understanding of the prevalence and importance of x-ray and arthroscopically occult bone, tendon and ligament injuries. By knowing the pathogenic mechanisms of disease, we can more reliably diagnose and treat pathology. In particular, many horizontal degenerative tears in older patients may be asymptomatic and are best left in place. Many acute tears may be best treated with immediate meniscal repair. MR imaging can reliably different these tear types with non-invasive imaging. MR's ability to detect bone injuries may lead to aggressive early non-weightbearing on injured bone, thereby preserving the subchondral bone from collapse and the joint from secondary osteoarthrosis. MRI's ability to detect and stage degenerative tendonosis of tendons and ligaments, such as the rotator cuff, may lead to arthroscopic decompression or debridement which provides symptomatic relief and may preserve and protect the intact cuff."}
{"id": "7643588", "title": "Isolated partial tear of subscapularis muscle in a competitive water skier. A case report.", "content": "Isolated partial tear of subscapularis muscle in a competitive water skier. A case report. Partial tears of the subscapularis tendon associated with anterior shoulder dislocation, are frequently described while the isolated lesions of this tendon are quite rare. We report the case of a 33 years old water-skier who injured his right subscapularis muscle during a forced movement of adduction and internal rotation. Ultrasound evaluation and then MRI were used to depict the entity of the lesion. The ruptured tendon was surgically repaired using a MITEK anchor system. Four months after surgery, the athlete returned back to his full athletic activity."}
{"id": "7993249", "title": "Shoulder impingement syndrome: diagnostic accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging and radiographic signs.", "content": "Shoulder impingement syndrome: diagnostic accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging and radiographic signs. Shoulder impingement syndrome is commonly encountered in orthopaedics. In a blinded retrospective study, magnetic resonance imaging and roentgenographic signs in 41 patients with clinical signs of impingement syndrome were compared with 40 control patients. Statistically significant differences between the groups included the absence of subarcromial fat, as well as the presence of a supraspinatus tear, subacromial osteophytes, and a decreased coracohumeral distance. Other signs reported to occur in patients with impingement syndrome did not vary significantly in the population studied."}
{"id": "7976897", "title": "Abnormalities of the long head of the biceps tendon of the shoulder: MR imaging findings.", "content": "Abnormalities of the long head of the biceps tendon of the shoulder: MR imaging findings. The normal anatomy of the long head of the biceps tendon of the shoulder has been described in detail [1]. Descriptions of different pathologic processes affecting this structure also have been published [1-3] but have been incomplete, showing only a limited variety of abnormalities. In this article, abnormalities of the long head of the biceps tendon seen on MR images are illustrated in greater variety and detail. Recognizing abnormalities of the biceps tendon is important because they are a common source of shoulder pain both alone and in combination with abnormalities of the rotator cuff, labrum, and other structures. Because incomplete diagnosis can lead to treatment failure, it is important to recognize less common imaging manifestations of common entities."}
{"id": "7972758", "title": "Posterosuperior glenoid impingement of the shoulder: findings at MR imaging and MR arthrography with arthroscopic correlation.", "content": "Posterosuperior glenoid impingement of the shoulder: findings at MR imaging and MR arthrography with arthroscopic correlation. To determine the utility of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and MR arthrography in the evaluation of arthroscopic findings of posterosuperior glenoid impingement. The findings at MR imaging, MR arthrography, and physical examination with the patient under anesthesia were retrospectively reviewed in eight patients with arthroscopic evidence of posterosuperior glenoid impingement. All patients had shoulder pain; anterior instability was found in six patients. Other than bone marrow abnormalities, findings at MR imaging were not reliable for the detection of posterosuperior glenoid impingement. MR arthrography was superior to routine MR imaging in all four cases in which it was done; positioning the shoulder in abduction and external rotation was beneficial in three of four patients. Impingement of the rotator cuff on the posterior superior glenoid labrum is a cause of posterior shoulder pain in athletes who throw. MR arthrography may allow detection of abnormalities associated with this clinical entity."}
{"id": "7886475", "title": "The coracoacromial arch: MR evaluation and correlation with rotator cuff pathology.", "content": "The coracoacromial arch: MR evaluation and correlation with rotator cuff pathology. The relative prevalence of various acromial shapes, appearance of the coracoacromial ligament and enthesophytes along the inferior aspect of the acromioclavicular joint in patients with and without rotator cuff tears were evaluated. Of 76 patients with clinical instability and impingement, 31 had a normal rotator cuff and 45 demonstrated a partial or full tear of the supraspinatus tendon at surgery. Results were compared with those from magnetic resonance (MR) scans of 57 asymptomatic volunteers. Of the 45 patients with a supraspinatus tear, 38% (17) had a flat acromial undersurface (type I), 40% (18) had a concave acromial undersurface (type II), 18% (8) had an anteriorly hooked acromion (type III), and 4% (2) had an inferiorly convex acromion (type IV). Among the 31 patients with a normal rotator cuff at surgery and the 57 asymptomatic volunteers, the respective prevalences of the type I acromion were 39% (12) and 44% (25), of type II 48% (15) and 35% (20), type III 3% (1) and 12% (7), and type IV 10% (3) and 9% (5). Shoulders with surgically proven rotator cuff tears showed a tendential association with a type III acromion (8/45) and statistically significant associations with a thickened coracoacromial ligament (17/45) and acromioclavicular enthesophytes (18/45). For the association between inferiorly directed acromioclavicular joint enthesophytes and rotator cuff tears, age appears to be a confounding factor. The type IV acromion, newly classified by this study, does not have a recognizable association with rotator cuff tears.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7855336", "title": "Labrocapsular ligamentous complex of the shoulder: normal anatomy, anatomic variation, and pitfalls of MR imaging and MR arthrography.", "content": "Labrocapsular ligamentous complex of the shoulder: normal anatomy, anatomic variation, and pitfalls of MR imaging and MR arthrography. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is a useful modality for evaluating the labrocapsular ligamentous complex (LCLC) of the shoulder. MR arthrography is an important and occasionally indispensable supplementary modality for accurate differentiation between normal and deranged glenohumeral joints. Because of the joint distention that occurs during MR arthrography, it is especially helpful in detecting subtle capsular derangement, as occurs in patients with atraumatic instability. Also, some of the pitfalls associated with MR imaging of the LCLC are less likely to occur with MR arthrography. Radiologists should look for several key abnormalities when evaluating MR images of the shoulder: an anterior or posterior Bankart lesion; a Hill-Sachs defect; a tear of the rotator cuff, glenoid labrum, or superior labrum-biceps tendon attachment; and loose bodies. Knowledge of normal anatomy, normal variations, and pitfalls in image interpretation related to evaluation of the LCLC will help the radiologist accurately detect debilitating derangements associated with glenohumeral instability."}
{"id": "7838807", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder. MRI has rapidly become a commonly used technique for evaluation of the shoulder. It provides a wealth of information regarding the entire shoulder girdle, and it is the most accurate noninvasive method available for imaging the rotator cuff. There have been numerous technical improvements in MRI in the relatively short time that clinical MRI has been in existence. Further refinements in design, new imaging sequences, and additional clinical experience should help to increase the accuracy and flexibility of this imaging modality."}
{"id": "7824769", "title": "[Rotator cuff rupture in the shoulder impingement syndrome. Echography and arthrography: 2 diagnostic methods compared].", "content": "[Rotator cuff rupture in the shoulder impingement syndrome. Echography and arthrography: 2 diagnostic methods compared]. After briefly reviewing the shoulder impingement syndrome, the authors investigate the role of two diagnostic imaging methods, i.e., ultrasonography (US) and arthrography, in demonstrating the typical features of this condition. Over a 15 months' period, 190 patients suffering from shoulder pain were examined with arthrography; 50 of them subsequently underwent acromion plastic surgery and rotator cuff stitching. This study was aimed at comparing US and arthrographic results, applying classifiable criteria to make the most accurate diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. The lack of visibility of the rotator cuff at US was the major and clearest sign of tear (100% of cases). The association between cuff thinning and hypo/hyperechoic damaged focal areas was another major sign (in 76.19% of complete tears and in 14.28% of incomplete tears). Hyperechoic focal areas alone proved to be a false-positive finding in 5 cases, while in 11 of 19 cases normal US patterns were a false-negative finding; in 3 cases other conditions were diagnosed. To conclude, the value of US is emphasized in the screening of the painful shoulder and the use of arthrography is suggested when both clinical tests and US fail to yield enough information for a diagnosis to be made."}
{"id": "8092054", "title": "Imaging options for suspected rotator cuff disorder.", "content": "Imaging options for suspected rotator cuff disorder."}
{"id": "8090902", "title": "Os acromiale associated with rotator cuff impingement: MR imaging of the shoulder.", "content": "Os acromiale associated with rotator cuff impingement: MR imaging of the shoulder. To evaluate the magnetic resonance (MR) imaging findings of os acromiale in rotator cuff disease. Retrospective analysis was performed of 10 shoulder MR studies of 10 patients older than 25 years with os acromiale. The authors subdivided these patients into three types on the basis of seven possible configurations. Eight of the 10 patients with os acromiale showed failure of fusion between the mesoacromion and meta-acromion (type A), one between the preacromion and mesoacromion (type B), and one between the meta-acromion and basiacromion (type C). Osteophytic lipping was seen at the margins of the acromial gap in nine cases. The os acromiale could be detected on the oblique sagittal image, oblique coronal image, or both, and in each case, there was a lesion in the supraspinatus tendon: tendinitis in four patients and tendon tear in six. Os acromiale can be an important cause of rotator cuff impingement and can be detected with routine MR imaging of the shoulder."}
{"id": "7924049", "title": "Imaging techniques for glenohumeral arthritis and glenohumeral arthroplasty.", "content": "Imaging techniques for glenohumeral arthritis and glenohumeral arthroplasty. A thorough history and physical examination can usually determine the cause of a painful shoulder. In most cases, the diagnosis and cause of glenohumeral arthritis are fairly obvious. Imaging studies such as radiographs, computed tomography (CT), arthrography, ultrasonography, and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging are used to confirm and further define the pathologic process. Early in the development of glenohumeral arthrosis, subtle radiographic findings may suggest the diagnosis when the symptoms are mild. Later in the progression of joint destruction, imaging studies are crucial to the planning of prosthetic arthroplasty. Subsequent to arthroplasty, imaging studies can identify existing or potential problems that might correlate with the clinical course. Recent advances in musculoskeletal imaging, such as CT, ultrasound, and MR imaging, enable the physician to confirm or document anatomic pathology that was previously only inferred. There has been a corresponding increase in the use of imaging modalities. Concurrently, cost has become a major concern, and its limitation or reduction a priority of current and future medical care. Consequently, the knowledge gained from further research, education, and clinical experience must promote appropriate use and enable doctors to avoid sophisticated imaging when the results will not influence the course of treatment. The radiographic evaluation of glenohumeral arthrosis the use of imaging techniques in planning prosthetic glenohumeral arthroplasty, and the role of imaging in followup evaluations of prosthetic arthroplasty are discussed. The preferred approaches to these subjects are presented and clinical cases are used to highlight the important and interesting principles."}
{"id": "7824983", "title": "Diagnosis of partial and complete rotator cuff tears using combined gradient echo and spin echo imaging.", "content": "Diagnosis of partial and complete rotator cuff tears using combined gradient echo and spin echo imaging. Most magnetic resonance (MR) studies evaluating the rotator cuff for tears have used T2-weighted imaging in the coronal oblique and sagittal oblique planes. T2*-weighted gradient echo imaging, however, has advantages over spin echo imaging, including contiguous slices without cross-talk, high contrast around the cuff, and intrinsically shorter imaging times which can be used to increase the number of signals averaged and thus improve the signal-to-noise ratio. We reviewed the shoulder MR scans of 87 consecutive patients who underwent both a MR scan and a shoulder arthroscopy during which the size of tears, if present, was graded. The reviewers were blinded as to the history and arthroscopic results. The MR scans included oblique coronal T2*-weighted gradient echo and oblique sagittal T2-weighted spin echo images. MR cuff grades were correlated with arthroscopic findings. For complete tears, the sensitivity of MR was 0.91 and the specificity 0.95. For partial tears, the sensitivity was 0.74 and the specificity 0.87. This accuracy is similar to two-plane T2-weighted imaging as previously reported in the literature. There was a statistically significant correlation (p < 0.0005) between the cuff grade as determined by MR and the arthroscopic findings."}
{"id": "7824981", "title": "Isolated subacromial bursal fluid on MRI of the shoulder in symptomatic patients: correlation with arthroscopic findings.", "content": "Isolated subacromial bursal fluid on MRI of the shoulder in symptomatic patients: correlation with arthroscopic findings. Fluid in the subacromial bursa (SAB) is a common finding on magnetic resonance (MR) images of the shoulder, and the implications of this finding have not been clarified. We retrospectively reviewed and correlated the MR features with arthroscopic findings in 21 symptomatic patients who had fluid in the SAB on MR imaging without demonstrable rotator cuff tear. Rotator cuff impingement was the most frequent surgical finding (42.9%). Other frequent surgical observations were glenoid labrum abnormality (28.6%), bursitis (19%), and supraspinatus tendinitis (14.3%). Distribution of acromial types was similar to that reported by Bigliani et al., and impingement was evenly distributed among acromial types in our study population. We conclude that in our patient population group the MR finding of isolated SAB fluid in symptomatic patients is highly likely to be associated with the finding of other abnormalities in the shoulder joint at surgery."}
{"id": "7800193", "title": "[Differential diagnosis of pathological and pseudo-pathological shoulder. Clinico-ultrasonographic findings].", "content": "[Differential diagnosis of pathological and pseudo-pathological shoulder. Clinico-ultrasonographic findings]. Clinical examination for rotator cuff tears is rarely conclusive and very difficult is the differential diagnosis with lesions of the axillary nerve. In a little hospital we chose to use first non invasive and cheaper tools for this diagnosis. 24 patients were first evaluated by a physiatric MD, and radiological and ultrasound studies were then performed. Ultrasonography (US) was done with a high frequency probe (7.5 MHz). More than 85% of our patients had, in this way a quick, cheap and non invasive diagnosis, and moreover a quick rehabilitation treatment. Only 3 patients were later studied invasively by arthrography or electromyography with needle, their treatment started later. In 3 patients US demonstrates a normal rotator cuff, and so a diagnosis of nervous lesion. Four patients had a complete large tear of the rotator cuff. In 14 patients US shows small or partial tear. Our non invasive diagnosis was quick, cheap and therapy started earlier with better final results."}
{"id": "8079856", "title": "MR arthrography of the shoulder with gadopentetate dimeglumine: influence of concentration, iodinated contrast material, and time on signal intensity.", "content": "MR arthrography of the shoulder with gadopentetate dimeglumine: influence of concentration, iodinated contrast material, and time on signal intensity. MR arthrography of the shoulder with gadopentetate dimeglumine has been proved to be valuable in the diagnosis of injuries of the rotator cuff and glenoid labrum. To date, no standard protocol for the concentration of gadopentetate dimeglumine and the volume of iodinated contrast material used for intraarticular injection exists. This study compared the intraarticular signal intensities achieved with three different MR arthrography protocols with respect to the volume of iodinated contrast material, the concentration of gadopentetate dimeglumine, and the interval between injection of contrast material and the MR study. MR arthrography was performed with three different protocols in 38 patients (26 men, 12 women). Patients examined with protocol 1 received an intraarticular injection of 5 ml of iotrolan and 5 ml of a 5 mmol/l solution of gadopentetate dimeglumine, resulting in a gadopentetate dimeglumine concentration of 2.5 mmol/l. Patients in protocol 2 received only 0.5 ml of iotrolan plus 12 ml of a 10 mmol/l solution of gadopentetate dimeglumine, leading to a 10 mmol/l concentration. The interval between injection and MR imaging for patients in protocols 1 and 2 was 30-45 min. Patients in protocol 3 received an intraarticular injection of 10 ml iotrolan and 1 ml of a 500 mmol/l solution of gadopentetate dimeglumine, resulting in an intraarticular concentration of gadopentetate dimeglumine of 45 mmol/l. MR examinations were performed between 20 and 360 min after administration of contrast material. Patients in protocol 3 had additional conventional and CT arthrography within 30 min after injection. The contrast-to-noise ratio of the intraarticular signal intensity was calculated for all protocols. The contrast-to-noise ratio (mean +/- SD) was 22.7 +/- 7.4 for the 2.5 mmol/l solution (protocol 1), 47.5 +/- 11.9 for the 10 mmol/l solution (protocol 2), and 9.9 +/- 3.1 for the 45 mmol/l solution (protocol 3) within 1 hr after injection. For protocol 3, an increase in contrast-to-noise ratio was observed after 90-180 min (53.5 +/- 12.7), followed by a decrease in contrast-to-noise ratio after 180 min (17.1 +/- 8.2). The image quality of conventional, CT, and MR arthrography (90-180 min after injection) was good in all cases of protocol 3. For MR arthrography performed within 1 hr after injection, protocol 2 is sufficient. The optimal time frame for protocol 3 is between 1.5 and 3 hr after joint puncture. Protocol 3 allows the prior performance of conventional and CT arthrography. Therefore, the addition of 1 ml of a 500 mmol/l solution of gadopentetate dimeglumine to 10 ml of iodinated contrast material is advisable if a subsequent MR study is anticipated."}
{"id": "8058959", "title": "MR arthrographic depiction of tears of the rotator cuff: benefit of abduction and external rotation of the arm.", "content": "MR arthrographic depiction of tears of the rotator cuff: benefit of abduction and external rotation of the arm. To show the effectiveness of positioning the arm in abduction and external rotation (ABER) during magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography for depiction of tears of the rotator cuff. Five throwing athletes with shoulder pain were prospectively imaged with standard MR imaging, MR arthrography, and ABER MR arthrography. The status of the rotator cuff was recorded; arthroscopic correlation was obtained. One partial tear of the distal infraspinatus tendon was detected with ABER MR arthrography only. One full-thickness tear was detected with both MR arthrography and ABER MR arthrography, but the component of the tear that extended into the infraspinatus tendon was depicted with ABER MR arthrography only. One partial tear was detected with both MR arthrography and ABER MR arthrography; no additional information was provided by either technique alone. The ABER position may be useful in detection and characterization of tears of the rotator cuff, especially partial tears of the undersurface. This information would be useful in selection of patients for conservative therapy, arthroscopy, or arthrotomy."}
{"id": "8037057", "title": "What is the significance on increased signal within the rotator cuff on T2-weighted images in the coronal oblique plane?", "content": "What is the significance on increased signal within the rotator cuff on T2-weighted images in the coronal oblique plane?"}
{"id": "8037037", "title": "Detection of soft-tissue hyperemia: value of power Doppler sonography.", "content": "Detection of soft-tissue hyperemia: value of power Doppler sonography. Power Doppler sonography is a new technique that offers extended dynamic range over that provided by conventional color Doppler imaging, thereby facilitating measurement of tissue perfusion. We evaluated the efficacy of power Doppler sonography in depicting soft-tissue hyperemia in musculoskeletal inflammatory conditions. Twenty-three patients with predominantly unifocal musculoskeletal symptoms were evaluated with conventional gray-scale imaging and power Doppler sonography. The shoulder was evaluated in 14 patients, the elbow in three, and various other sites in six. For comparison purposes, the contralateral asymptomatic joint or site was examined in 17 cases. Fluid collections were aspirated in seven patients. Soft-tissue hyperemia was seen on power Doppler sonograms at the symptomatic site(s) in 22 of 23 cases studied, with an appearance ranging from frank tissue blush to large, isolated peritendinous/peribursal vessels. Findings associated with hyperemia included rotator cuff tendinitis and/or tear, bursitis, and symptomatic wrist ganglia. Findings on power Doppler sonograms were normal in one patient who had a small, sterile hip joint effusion, and findings on subsequent scintigrams, pelvic radiographs, and CT scans were normal. Power Doppler sonography consistently shows hyperperfusion associated with musculoskeletal inflammatory disease. As such, it represents a useful adjunct to gray-scale sonography in these settings, particularly as findings on conventional sonograms in inflammatory conditions can be nonspecific."}
{"id": "8208939", "title": "Acromioclavicular joint fluid: determination of clinical significance with MR imaging.", "content": "Acromioclavicular joint fluid: determination of clinical significance with MR imaging. To determine the clinical significance of fluid in the acromioclavicular (AC) joint. A total of 108 patients with clinical shoulder problems and 16 volunteers underwent MR imaging with a 1.5-T unit. Coronal T1- and T2-weighted images were evaluated for the presence of AC joint fluid, glenohumeral joint fluid, and AC joint osteophytes. Medical records were reviewed for the presence of clinical signs and symptoms. AC joint fluid was commonly seen in the patients (67%) but was rare in the volunteers (12%). The presence of AC joint fluid was associated with advancing patient age, presence of osteophytes, and fluid in the glenohumeral joint. AC joint fluid was not associated with focal tenderness, prior corticosteroid injections, history of trauma, findings of impingement, evidence of rotator cuff tear on MR images, or gender. AC joint fluid appears to be an asymptomatic manifestation of osteoarthritis."}
{"id": "8066230", "title": "[Ultrasonography of the shoulder: the acromioclavicular joint].", "content": "[Ultrasonography of the shoulder: the acromioclavicular joint]. In 95% of the patients complaining of shoulder pain, pain is consequent to mechanical impingement of the coraco-acromial arch on the rotator cuff. Acromioclavicular joint conditions play a major role (well over 50%) in initiating the process. This study was aimed at assessing the value of acromioclavicular investigations during shoulder US studies. September 1992 to September 1993, a hundred and seventy-four patients with shoulder pain underwent US exams of both shoulders and acromioclavicular joints. In 62% of patients rotator cuff tears (from less to more severe) were demonstrated, in 48% biceps tendon conditions (effusion, tendonitis, dislocation or tear) and in 31% aspecific degenerative changes of the rotator cuff. Three acromioclavicular joint cysts, a clavicular fracture and an acromioclavicular dislocation were also observed. The patients with US patterns of acromioclavicular conditions were 105 (60%); in 38% of cases, only capsular hypertrophy due to joint degeneration was observed. In 22% of cases the latter was associated with arthrosis-like changes of the articular rim. In 63% of cases rotator cuff tears were associated and in 37% of cases there were aspecific degenerative cuff changes. The authors believe that, especially in the latter cases, acromioclavicular joint US can be a useful approach to diagnosis and treatment."}
{"id": "8027145", "title": "Isolated paralysis of the infraspinatus muscle.", "content": "Isolated paralysis of the infraspinatus muscle. We report six patients with isolated paralysis of the infraspinatus and discuss the diagnosis, pathology, treatment, and outcome over a mean follow-up period of 33 months. Four patients were shown to have space-occupying lesions at the spinoglenoid notch by MRI or ultrasonography or both, and ganglia were confirmed and removed surgically in three, with good results. Ganglia at this site are not uncommon and should be included in the differential diagnosis of patients presenting with shoulder pain and weakness."}
{"id": "8020240", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging findings in shoulders of hemodialyzed patients.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging findings in shoulders of hemodialyzed patients. Twenty two patients (24 shoulders) who had undergone hemodialysis for a mean of 13.4 years, and who had reported chronic shoulder pain for > 6 months, were examined by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), including T1 and T2 echo gradient images in the frontal plane and T1 images after gadolinium. An increase in thickness of the rotator cuff as well as synovitis and bursitis were documented. Twenty shoulders demonstrated a mean thickness of 8.05 mm. Most often, the signal intensity of T2 and T1 weighted images was intermediate, and T1 images failed to show an uptake of gadolinium. Of the 24 shoulders, 20 had subacromial subdeltoid bursitis and 21 had glenohumeral synovitis. These results indicate that MRI is of help in the early diagnosis of arthropathy in long term hemodialyzed patients. Magnetic resonance imaging findings are more precise than those of ultrasound, particularly for thickness measurements. Moreover, MRI films are easier to read and permit the detection of synovial involvements. The therapeutic value of MRI lies in the fact that it can isolate the two principal causes of shoulder pain in hemodialyzed patients. The increase in cuff thickness leading to impingement syndrome can be treated by surgical decompression; the synovitis can be treated by radioisotope synovectomy."}
{"id": "8020237", "title": "Treatment of primary anterior shoulder dislocation in patients older than 40 years of age. Conservative versus operative.", "content": "Treatment of primary anterior shoulder dislocation in patients older than 40 years of age. Conservative versus operative. Primary shoulder dislocation in patients older than 40 years of age is frequently benign, but may be associated with significant rotator cuff or nerve injury. A series of such patients was observed to determine an effective treatment algorithm. Treatment of those dislocations associated with fractures of the greater tuberosity was determined by the fracture pattern. Four patients with glenoid fractures were all treated operatively. Patients without associated fractures were classified according to the absence or presence of significant pain or weakness after 3 weeks. Of 27 patients who were symptom free at 3 weeks, only four had associated problems after 3 months. All of 13 patients complaining of weakness or pain after 3 weeks had significant associated lesions (11 rotator cuff tears, 2 cuff tears plus neurologic deficit). The persistence of significant pain or weakness 3 weeks after primary dislocation in this age group is an indication for further investigation (arthrography or ultrasound). While recurrent instability is relatively uncommon, rotator cuff repair when appropriate in medically fit patients resulted in pain relief and return of strength."}
{"id": "8020233", "title": "Functional and anatomical results after rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Functional and anatomical results after rotator cuff repair. The anatomic condition of the rotator cuff and the functional results obtained were studied in a homogeneous series of 100 full thickness cuff tears in 98 patients with an average followup of 4 years. Constant's functional score, used by the European Society for Shoulder and Elbow Surgery, was done preoperatively and postoperatively in each patient, in addition to ultrasonography at followup. There was a close correlation between the anatomic condition of the cuff and Constant's functional score before surgery (p = 0.0063) and after repair, irrespective of the type of tear repaired (p = 0.0012) or the sonographic appearance of the cuff at followup (p = 0.0001). Ultrasonography showed 65% intact cuffs, 11% intact but thinned cuffs, and 24% recurrent defects. Three predisposing factors for recurrence were noted: size of tear to be repaired (p = 0.0001) accounted for 57%, age (p = 0.063) for 25%, and degree of occupational use for 18%. The functional results obtained were more related to the anatomic condition of the repaired cuff at followup than to the tear size at surgery. Predictive clinical factors for recurrence included overall Constant's functional score, reduced ability to perform daily activities, reduced active flexion, abduction and external rotation, and loss of muscular strength. Constant's functional score reflected the functional results with accuracy, reliability, and reproducibility. Additional ultrasonography appears necessary to specify the exact size of the recurrent defect and to distinguish between certain anatomic types, such as thinned cuffs, which can give rise to difficult problems in manual workers after defect repair."}
{"id": "8192045", "title": "Is shoulder arthrography considered an acceptable alternative to MR imaging in the evaluation of rotator cuff tears?", "content": "Is shoulder arthrography considered an acceptable alternative to MR imaging in the evaluation of rotator cuff tears?"}
{"id": "8042491", "title": "Intraarticular findings in the chronically painful shoulder. A study of 32 posttraumatic cases.", "content": "Intraarticular findings in the chronically painful shoulder. A study of 32 posttraumatic cases. 32 consecutive patients suffering from chronic shoulder pain for more than 6 months after a single, nondislocating shoulder trauma were examined clinically and by special radiographs, dynamic sonography, MRI and arthroscopy. Typical complaints were pain during loading, especially during over the head activities. Symptoms of a \"dead arm\" and instability were also present. Patients with previous dislocations, traumas or radiographic signs of degenerative shoulder lesions were excluded. The patients had a decreased active range of motion and positive signs of apprehension and impingement, but only 4 had clinical signs of shoulder instability. Diagnostic evaluation identified labral tears, partial and total rotator cuff lesions with subacromial impingement and tendinitis of the biceps tendon. Surgery was performed in 24 patients, using capsulolabral and rotator cuff reconstruction, arthroscopic labral resection and open subacromial decompression. In conclusion, patients with chronic posttraumatic shoulder pain have intraarticular injuries, especially tears of the glenoid labrum. History, clinical findings, radiography and sonography are seldom diagnostic. MRI is valuable, particularly for identification of labral pathology, but arthroscopy appears necessary for a preoperative assessment."}
{"id": "8028951", "title": "[Sonographic findings of rotator cuff tears: correlation with MR imaging].", "content": "[Sonographic findings of rotator cuff tears: correlation with MR imaging]. Sonography was performed in 41 patients with symptoms referable to the rotator cuff. Sonography was performed immediately after MR imaging, so that the information obtained by MR imaging could be applied to sonographic diagnosis. Twenty patients were diagnosed from T2-weighted images as having complete tears of the rotator cuff. Sonography showed full-thickness anechoic areas in 12 of the 20 patients, heterogeneous hyperechoic areas in seven, and no abnormal findings in the other one. Thirteen patients were diagnosed as having incomplete tears with MR imaging. Sonography showed heterogeneous hyperechoic areas in 12, but no abnormal findings in one of the 13. Hyperechoic areas in the rotator cuff were shown in four of eight patients who had been diagnosed from T2-weighted images as not having tears. We consider full-thickness anechoic areas to be specific findings of complete tears, although some patients with rotator cuff tears did not show this finding."}
{"id": "8048356", "title": "[Ultrasonographic diagnosis of the pathology of the rotator cuff and subacromial bursa: criteria].", "content": "[Ultrasonographic diagnosis of the pathology of the rotator cuff and subacromial bursa: criteria]. Shoulder soft tissues echographic evaluation depends on the availability of well established echographic diagnostic criteria, which hasn't been fully accepted until nowadays, as results in that field have been controversial. The main purpose of the present study has been to determine the echographic criteria of the most frequent shoulder periarticular soft tissue pathology. A prospective study has been carried out, comparing the right to the left shoulder of 37 normals in order to determine the normal characteristics and limits of the selected echographic parameters (echogenicity, echostructure, dimensions in terms of width, rhythm of movement and rotator cuff competence ratio). Afterwards, the relative role of these variables in the identification of three different nosological groups determined through suitable gold standard diagnostic methods (36 suprasinatus tears, 20 supraspinatus tendinitis and 22 subacromial bursitis) has been determined. Lastly, the discriminant power of some echographic parameters association was tested, thus suggesting the echographic criteria to be selected. Results support the following criteria: 1) supraspinatus tears: cuff competence ratio less than 1, the difference value between the affected and the sound tendon thickness less than -1,8 mm associated with asymmetries of one of the remaining parameters (echogenicity, echostructure or rhythm); 2) supraspinatus tendinitis: the difference between the affected and the sound tendon thickness bigger than 1 mm associated with asymmetries of one of the remaining parameters (echogenicity, echostructure or rhythm); cuff competence ratio equal or above 1;3) subacromial bursitis: the difference between the affected and the sound bursa thickness bigger than 1 mm associated with asymmetries of one of the following parametres: echogenicity, echostruture or rhythm."}
{"id": "8038880", "title": "Evaluation of the painful shoulder.", "content": "Evaluation of the painful shoulder. The clinical evaluation of the painful shoulder by an experienced and knowledgeable health care professional remains the most sensitive and clinically useful tool for the assessment of most patients with rotator cuff disease, glenohumeral instability, glenohumeral arthritis, and adhesive capsulitis. The judicious and appropriate use of diagnostic imaging studies requires a thoughtful and thorough evaluation of the data obtained from these studies and their correlation to the patient's symptoms, history, mechanism of injury, and physical findings. The appropriate use of all of this diagnostic information should result in a precise, complete, and accurate diagnosis for most patients with shoulder pain."}
{"id": "8198183", "title": "Posterior ossification of the shoulder: the Bennett lesion. Etiology, diagnosis, and treatment.", "content": "Posterior ossification of the shoulder: the Bennett lesion. Etiology, diagnosis, and treatment. We report a series of ossific lesions of the posterior inferior glenoid in a group of elite baseball players. We hope to clarify the etiology, diagnosis, and treatment of the Bennett lesion. From August 1985 to August 1991, we identified six professional baseball pitchers and one college pitcher with evidence of ossification of the shoulder on plain radiographs, computed tomography, or magnetic resonance imaging. Arthroscopic examination was performed in all cases. All seven players had identifiable posterior labral injury on arthroscopic examination; six of these seven also had varying degrees of undersurface posterior rotator cuff damage. No anterior tissue damage, anterior instability, or subacromial impingement was noted. No ossification was identified arthroscopically. Intraarticular labral and rotator cuff tears were debrided arthroscopically and patients underwent rehabilitation for 4 to 6 months after surgery. Six of the seven athletes returned to preinjury performance levels; however, one pitcher is no longer playing competitive baseball. The Bennett lesion is an extraarticular posterior ossification associated with posterior labral injury and posterior undersurface rotator cuff damage. It is not, however, a result of traction stresses in the region of the triceps insertion. Recognition is important for identification and treatment of the lesion and associated pathologic damage."}
{"id": "8180457", "title": "Distribution of normal and abnormal fluid collections in the glenohumeral joint: implications for MR arthrography.", "content": "Distribution of normal and abnormal fluid collections in the glenohumeral joint: implications for MR arthrography. Although magnetic resonance (MR) images of the glenohumeral joint frequently demonstrate intraarticular fluid, no specific criteria have, to the authors' knowledge, been published that allow accurate assessment of the amount of fluid present. Also, despite the increasing use of MR arthrography of the shoulder, the optimal amount of intraarticular fluid that should be used with this technique has not been determined. The authors progressively distended the glenohumeral joint in six cadaveric shoulder specimens with a dilute gadopentetate dimeglumine solution and obtained MR images after injection of 2, 5, 10, 15, and 20 mL of the solution. The pattern of fluid distribution was evaluated, and these results were then used to estimate the amount of fluid that was present in the glenohumeral joint on MR images of 20 shoulders obtained in 12 asymptomatic volunteers. In 14 of these shoulders, intraarticular fluid was present; however, in none was more than 2 mL evident. Results of the cadaveric study also indicated that 15 mL of intraarticular fluid appears to be the optimal amount for MR arthrography."}
{"id": "8178178", "title": "[Criteria for legal assessment of rotator cuff rupture].", "content": "[Criteria for legal assessment of rotator cuff rupture]. The judgement of the correlation between an accident and a rotator cuff tear has an important role in legal and private accident insurance. Owing to the high morbidity of degenerative alterations and ruptures of the rotator cuff tendons, the causality of an acute traumatic rupture can be difficult to demonstrate, which means assessments are often controversial. In a retrospective study we evaluated 25 orthopaedic assessments and tried to find rules for an objective estimation. The judgement of correlation between trauma and rotator cuff tear should be based on four pillars: history, trauma mechanism, initial findings and course of the functional deficit. Possible mechanisms of traumatic rupture are discussed from various angles. Important clinical findings, e.g. a functional supraspinatus deficit, should be fully documented. X-Rays of both shoulders can lead to indirect demonstration of preexistent changes in the rotator cuff. Sonographic evaluation can show up the rotator cuff tear and demonstrate signs of acute injury. After persistent pain and functional deficit, in a few cases operative and microscopic findings will lead to a correct estimate of causality. Because of the diagnostic uncertainty a 20-point score is introduced for retrospective assessment of the history (2 points), trauma mechanism (3 points), initial clinical, radiological and sonographic findings (10 points) and course of functional deficit (5 points) to evaluate the role of trauma in rotator cuff tears. Using this score trauma can be classified as the main or partial cause or as irrelevant to the pathogenesis of rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "8174017", "title": "Diffuse pigmented villonodular synovitis of the shoulder: a case report.", "content": "Diffuse pigmented villonodular synovitis of the shoulder: a case report. Pigmented villonodular synovitis (PVNS) of the shoulder is an uncommon disorder with unknown etiology. It is characterized by synovial proliferation and hemosiderin deposition into the synovial tissues of the affected joints. PVNS affects mainly the knee joint and shoulder involvement is rare. There are only 12 cases of shoulder involvement reported in the English-language literature. A case of PVNS of the shoulder with simultaneous rotator cuff tear is presented and the literature is reviewed."}
{"id": "8126271", "title": "MR evaluation of rotator cuff impingement: correlation with confirmed full-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "MR evaluation of rotator cuff impingement: correlation with confirmed full-thickness rotator cuff tears. To clarify the efficacy of MRI for the evaluation of rotator cuff impingement beneath the coracoacromial arch, MRI findings were correlated with confirmed full-thickness rotator cuff tears (FTRCTs). Thirty-four shoulders with FTRCT and 49 control shoulders without FTRCT were selected for this study. Direct measurement of the subacromial space (SAS) and MRI grading of SAS and subacromioclavicular space (SACS) were correlated with FTRCT. In addition, the MRI impingement score (sum of SAS grade and SACS grade) was correlated with age and FTRCT. Direct measurement of the SAS showed poor correlation with FTRCT. The SAS grade showed significant correlation with FTRCT; however, SACS grade showed poor correlation. Shoulders with higher MRI impingement scores were associated with FTRCT in patients over 40 years of age. The MRI sign of rotator cuff impingement is fairly reliable and helpful in discriminating patients with FTRCT, especially older patients."}
{"id": "8126038", "title": "Ultrasonography and arthrography in the diagnosis of tears of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Ultrasonography and arthrography in the diagnosis of tears of the rotator cuff. The accuracy of ultrasonography and arthrography in the prediction of lesions of the rotator cuff was evaluated and compared with the operative findings in a retrospective study of forty-nine patients (forty-nine shoulders). In the detection of full-thickness (stage-III) tears of the rotator cuff, ultrasonography had an over-all sensitivity of 74 per cent, a specificity of 95 per cent, an accuracy of 84 per cent, a predictive value of a positive test of 95 per cent, and a predictive value of a negative test of 75 per cent. In contrast, arthrography demonstrated a sensitivity of 93 per cent, a specificity of 95 per cent, an accuracy of 94 per cent, a predictive value of a positive test of 96 per cent, and a predictive value of a negative test of 91 per cent. Ultrasonography could not reliably differentiate between partial (stage-II) and full-thickness (stage-III) tears. Lesions of the long head of the biceps brachii tendon were recorded by ultrasonography for twenty-two patients (45 per cent) and by arthrography for eleven patients (22 per cent). The ultrasonographic finding of fluid in the sheath of this tendon is not a reliable sign of a lesion in the tendon."}
{"id": "7920064", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of rotator cuff lesions.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of rotator cuff lesions. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic performance of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in rotator cuff diseases. Forty consecutive patients studied by MRI from September 1990 to September 1992 were included in the study. MRI was performed on a 1.5 tesla MR scanner. Each MRI study was reviewed by two radiologists experienced in rotator cuff tendons. The MRI finding was compared with the surgical result. MRI sensitivity for all tears (partial and complete) was 1.0 (22/22), specificity 0.89 (16/18), accuracy rate 0.95 (38/40), and the predictive value 0.92 (22/24). Signal changes of the rotator cuff tendon (primary signs) were the most reliable criteria in diagnosis of the tear. Changes of subacromial and subdeltoid fat planes and bursa (secondary signs) were complimentary when primary signs were indeterminant. The direction of the long axis of abnormal signal intensity in the rotator cuff tendon may be a good indicator when differentiating tears from tendinitis. We conclude that MRI shows excellent performance in the determination of the presence or absence of a rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "8191450", "title": "[Evaluation of the rotator cuff with magnetic tomography].", "content": "[Evaluation of the rotator cuff with magnetic tomography]. Rotator cuff tears are difficult to diagnose clinically, both in the acute and the chronic phase. Both conservative and surgical treatment give the best results if the injury is detected early. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has recently been introduced for diagnoses of cuff tears. The purpose of this study was to establish the accuracy of MRI in relation to surgical findings in the same patient group. MRI was used in the diagnosis of 25 patients who later underwent surgery for injury to the rotator cuff. During the surgery, 19 total tears were identified, of which 15 had been described by MRI. MRI showed a sensitivity of 79% and a specificity of 83%. The predictive value of a positive test was 83%. In experienced hands, MRI is extremely accurate for detecting rotator cuff injuries, but ultrasonography should still be the first method of diagnosis in Norway, because of its accuracy when used by experienced practitioners, and its availability and low cost."}
{"id": "8312510", "title": "[Application possibilities of MR arthrography in diseases of the shoulder joint].", "content": "[Application possibilities of MR arthrography in diseases of the shoulder joint]. In a prospective study possible indications for MR arthrography of the shoulder were evaluated. 37 patients were examined before and after intraarticular administration of a 2-mmolar solution of Gd-DTPA. MR arthrography was performed if there was no joint effusion and/or an uncertain finding concerning the rotator cuff or the capsulolabral complex on plain MR images. MR arthrography leads to a better demonstration of labrum pathology in 11/22 patients and to a superior delineation of the capsuloligamentous apparatus in 20/22 cases. In 9/15 patients with impingement lesions MR arthrography allowed a differentiation of severe tendinitis from partial and small full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff. MR arthrography of the shoulder joint enhances the accuracy of MR in case of an uncertain finding on plain MR images."}
{"id": "8310926", "title": "Tears of the anterior portion of the rotator cuff (the subscapularis tendon): MR imaging findings.", "content": "Tears of the anterior portion of the rotator cuff (the subscapularis tendon): MR imaging findings. Tears of the most anterior portion of the rotator cuff, the subscapularis tendon, are reported to be uncommon and rarely occur in isolation. The MR findings of subscapularis tendon tears have received little attention in radiologic publications. Accordingly, the objective of this study was to describe the MR imaging findings in the shoulders of patients with tears of the subscapularis tendon. Preoperative MR images of nine patients with surgically confirmed rotator cuff tears that predominantly or exclusively involved the subscapularis tendon were analyzed. In all patients, MR imaging showed the contours of the subscapularis tendon to be poorly defined and the tendon itself to be of abnormally high signal intensity on T2- or T2*-weighted images. Discontinuity and frank retraction of the tendon were evident in seven patients (78%). Thickening of the distal portion of the tendon (n = 3) and calcification (n = 1) were seen less frequently. Associated abnormalities of the biceps tendon were common, seen in seven patients (78%), five of whom had medial dislocation of the tendon. Bone and labral injuries were uncommon. Tears of the subscapularis tendon can be identified on MR images as areas of disorganized tendon morphology and abnormal high signal intensity on T2- or T2*-weighted images. Abnormalities of the biceps tendon also are seen commonly. When subscapularis tears are recognized, the long head of the biceps tendon should be scrutinized for associated injury or malposition."}
{"id": "7912584", "title": "Correlation between MRI and operative findings of the rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Correlation between MRI and operative findings of the rotator cuff tear. Rotator cuff disease is one of the most common causes of shoulder pain. Various methods have been used to evaluate this problem. In this study, we determine the accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the shoulder in diagnosing the rotator cuff tear based on operative findings. Ten patients with a painful shoulder requiring operation received an MRI of the shoulder before surgery. A GE 1.5 Tesla MR scanner with a five-inch planar surface coil was applied and the diagnosis was confirmed by an experienced radiologist in the field of musculoskeletal MRI. All patients underwent surgery within two weeks of MRI examination. Nine of the 10 patients were shown to have rotator cuff tear by MRI. Among the nine MRI positive patients, eight were proven to have such lesions on operation (two massive tears, four moderate complete tears, and two bursal side tears). One false-positive result was found to be an adhesive capsulitis and supraspinatus tendinitis at operation. The remaining case, diagnosed as tendinitis by MRI, turned out to be a small incomplete tear on operation. Therefore, the sensitivity of MRI for rotator cuff tear in this study was 0.89. The overall accuracy was 80%. We concluded that MRI has a high accuracy in detecting the rotator cuff tear. False-positive and false-negative diagnoses were attributed to a severe tendinitis and an incomplete tear, respectively."}
{"id": "9097178", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging studies of the shoulder: diagnosis of lesions of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging studies of the shoulder: diagnosis of lesions of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "9097177", "title": "Sonography of tendons: patterns of disease.", "content": "Sonography of tendons: patterns of disease."}
{"id": "8179928", "title": "Magnetic resonance pathology of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Magnetic resonance pathology of the rotator cuff. This article reviews the current issues in imaging of the rotator cuff with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Important technical issues are discussed, including some of the newer pulse sequences, surface coils, and MR arthrography. Debate continues over what constitutes the normal appearance of the rotator cuff. Issues regarding studies of asymptomatic volunteers, pitfalls in imaging, and MR artifacts such as magic angle effects are discussed. The article also reviews the basic concepts of MR interpretation of pathologic lesions of the cuff, including tendinopathy, partial and complete tears, and the relationships to rotator cuff impingement."}
{"id": "8179927", "title": "Basic anatomy of the shoulder by magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Basic anatomy of the shoulder by magnetic resonance imaging. An understanding of the normal magnetic resonance (MR) infrastructural details of musculotendinous elements of the rotator cuff forms the basis for analysis of its pathology. The muscular bellies of the teres minor, infraspinatus, supraspinatus, and subscapularis are easily identified in MR images. In their lateral course both the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles transition to tendons gradually. Their lateral tendinous portions partially overlap and form a layered appearance on MR images. The subscapularis, with its fan-like tendinous insertional slips at the lesser tuberosity, can be identified easily in all imaging planes. The ligamentous structures of the shoulder, including the coracoacromial and coracohumeral ligaments, are visualized as low signal bands in all imaging planes. The capsuloligamentous structures including the superior, middle, and inferior glenohumeral ligament and glenoid labrum present considerable anatomic variations. This is especially true with respect to the anterior labrum, which varies from absent to a well-formed triangular appearance. Understanding the basic MRI anatomy of all soft tissue structures of the shoulder is essential for appropriate interpretation of lesions related to the shoulder."}
{"id": "8179926", "title": "Computed arthrotomography of glenohumeral instability.", "content": "Computed arthrotomography of glenohumeral instability. In spite of recent advances in imaging technology, computed arthrotomography continues to be a useful imaging modality for shoulder evaluation. The spatial resolution of computed tomography (CT) and the longer clinical experience continue to provide advantages over magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Computed arthrotomography remains a simple and reliable method for evaluation of the glenoid labrum in patients with shoulder instability."}
{"id": "8179925", "title": "Ultrasonography of rotator cuff pathology.", "content": "Ultrasonography of rotator cuff pathology. Shoulder sonography is a valuable means of evaluating the rotator cuff and biceps tendon. In experienced hands, it is as sensitive as arthrography and magnetic resonance imaging for detecting rotator cuff tears and abnormalities of the biceps tendon. Because sonography is rapid, noninvasive, relatively inexpensive, and capable of performing bilateral examinations in one sitting, it should be used as the initial imaging test when the primary question is one of rotator cuff or biceps tendon abnormalities."}
{"id": "8144344", "title": "Diagnostic performance of magnetic resonance imaging for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears using supplemental images in the oblique sagittal plane.", "content": "Diagnostic performance of magnetic resonance imaging for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears using supplemental images in the oblique sagittal plane. The authors evaluated the diagnostic utility of supplemental imaging in the oblique sagittal (OS) plane for the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. Two radiologists with varying levels of MRI experience blindly reviewed shoulder MR examinations of 50 patients for rotator cuff tears. Shoulder examinations were interpreted twice, initially using only double-echo spin-echo images obtained in the oblique coronal (OC) plane and later using double-echo spin-echo images obtained in the both the OC and OS planes. Tears were characterized according to size, location, and extent, and levels of diagnostic confidence were evaluated. Sensitivity and specificity of MR for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tear was 85% and 80%, respectively, with the OC series increasing to 95% and 93%, respectively with OCOS scans. However, these increases were not statistically significant. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves suggest a trend toward increased diagnostic confidence when supplemental OS scans are available, especially for the less experienced reader. Characterization of rotator cuff tears was not improved with additional OS images. Supplemental OS scans did not demonstrate a definite improvement in diagnostic accuracy for rotator cuff tears compared to OC scans alone. Estimations based on sample size calculations indicate that a much larger population of patients would be needed to show a statistically significant difference."}
{"id": "8128027", "title": "[Posterosuperior glenoid rim impingement in athletes: the diagnostic value of traditional radiology and magnetic resonance].", "content": "[Posterosuperior glenoid rim impingement in athletes: the diagnostic value of traditional radiology and magnetic resonance]. First described by Walch in 1991, the posterosuperior glenoid rim impingement syndrome is a major condition in the differential diagnosis of shoulder pain occurring in the athletes engaged in repetitive and loading movements of abduction and extra-rotation of the dominant upper limb. Thirty-eight athletes with these dynamic athletic characteristics, referred for unexplained shoulder pain and with a clinical diagnosis of posterosuperior glenoid rim impingement syndrome, underwent radiography and MR examinations, with excellent final results. Radiography was capable of depicting the abnormal skeletal features of this kind of impingement, thus allowing a preliminary diagnosis to be made. MRI excelled in diagnosing the lesions in the deep surface of the supraspinatus tendon and in the posterior labrum secondary to impingement. The static and the kinematic sequences with the arm in abduction and extrarotation proved to be the best ones to define the physiopathologic phases of impingement. Thus, we conclude that invasive diagnostic procedures are not necessary for the correct and unquestionable diagnosis of posterosuperior glenoid rim impingement syndrome."}
{"id": "8054232", "title": "Shoulder joint stability after arthroscopic subacromial decompression.", "content": "Shoulder joint stability after arthroscopic subacromial decompression. In 55 patients with type I or type II impingement lesions we performed arthroscopic subacromial decompression. Fifty-two patients are followed up 1 year postoperatively. In all patients the condition of the affected shoulder before and after decompression was documented using a 100-point shoulder score (pain on activity, 15 points; pain without activity, 15 points; function, 20 points; weight lifting, 10 points; muscle strength, 15 points; range of motion, 25 points). At follow-up we also documented the extent of passive inferior shift of the humeral head by ultrasound. The mean score preoperatively was 60.9 (+/- 13.8). Postoperatively there was a significant increase to 84.7 (+/- 12.5). The average postoperative hospital stay was 8.8 days (+/- 2.1). In 12 patients (23%) the postoperative score was less than 85 points, and in these the treatment was considered to have failed. Comparison of these patients as a group with those in whom the treatment was successful revealed no difference in age, a small but not significant difference in the preoperative duration of shoulder complaints, and no difference in the postoperative length of stay in hospital. However, there was a significant difference in the extent of passive inferior shift of the humeral head: in the failure group the mean inferior shift was 4.6 +/- 1.9 mm, while in the other patients the shift was only 2.7 +/- 1.0 mm. This difference was statistically highly significant. There was a statistical highly significant negative Pearson correlation coefficient of -5.56 between postoperative score and inferior shift of the humeral head. We conclude that patients with subacromial pathology and hypermobile glenohumeral joints may not be good candidates for subacromial decompression."}
{"id": "8047956", "title": "Two portions of the supraspinatus muscle: a new finding about the muscles macroscopy by dissection and magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Two portions of the supraspinatus muscle: a new finding about the muscles macroscopy by dissection and magnetic resonance imaging. Axial MR images of the shoulder joint reveal a central linear band within the supraspinatus muscle void of signal which seems not to represent the only tendon of this muscle. Due to the importance of the supraspinatus muscle for the painful impingement syndrome of the shoulder we studied the fibrous architecture of this muscle comparing 30 MR images and 49 cadaver dissections. We found the supraspinatus muscle to be composed of two distinct portions. The mean length of the ventral portion is 88 mm and of the dorsal portion 106 mm. The angle of the central tendon which is formed by fibers of both muscle portions relative to the frontal plane is 50 degrees. Both muscle portions probably act differently in moving the arm. This finding seems to be important for the pathophysiology of rotator cuff tears which are mainly located anteriorly within the ventral muscle portion and the eccentric central tendon."}
{"id": "8024688", "title": "MRI of trauma and sports-related injuries of tendons and ligaments. Part I: Spine and upper extremities.", "content": "MRI of trauma and sports-related injuries of tendons and ligaments. Part I: Spine and upper extremities. MRI is valuable in evaluation of tendons and ligaments in sports-related injuries. Tendons and ligaments show dark signal intensity on all MR sequences. Alteration in size, shape, continuity, and signal intensity of these structures can be well visualized with MRI. Impingement syndrome is the leading cause of atrophy and degeneration of the rotator cuff. Shape of the acromion, presence of subacromial spur, and involvement in certain sport activities that lead to shoulder instability may cause impingement of the rotator cuff. This article systematically reviews the injuries of tendons and ligaments in the spine, shoulder, elbow, wrist, and hand."}
{"id": "7875142", "title": "The effect of prolonged isometric contractions on muscle fluid balance.", "content": "The effect of prolonged isometric contractions on muscle fluid balance. Ultrasound scanning was performed at three sites above the fossa supraspinata on nine healthy subjects and five patients with myofascial shoulder pain. This method produced a well-defined depiction of the soft tissue layers above the fossa supraspinata and reproducible muscle thickness measurements. In the healthy subjects the average distance from the skin surface to the trapezius muscle was 7.7 mm and the average thickness of the trapezius muscle was 5.3 mm, and the average thickness of supraspinatus muscle was 20.0 mm. The supraspinatus muscle was thinner at the medial measuring site than at the other two sites. In contrast, a tendency towards a larger distance was seen from the skin to trapezius muscle at the medial measuring site than at the other two sites. No statistical differences were found between the two groups of subjects either at rest or during brief shoulder abductions. All the subjects performed a 30 degrees unilateral isometric shoulder abduction test to exhaustion. The median endurance time was 33 min for the healthy subjects and only 5 min for the patients. The ratings of perceived exertion (RPE) were in line with this, since the increment in RPE with time was larger for the patients than for the healthy group. The reduced shoulder abduction endurance time in the patient group may have been related to impaired muscle function and/or pain development. During the 33-min shoulder abduction in the healthy subjects, the thickness of supraspinatus muscle increased by 14%, indicating muscle swelling, whereas the thickness of trapezius muscle remained constant.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7740135", "title": "[Osteochondroma of the clavicle and pain syndrome of the shoulder. Apropos of a case. Review of the literature].", "content": "[Osteochondroma of the clavicle and pain syndrome of the shoulder. Apropos of a case. Review of the literature]. Osteochondroma, a frequent benign tumor of the bone, is in most cases asymptomatic. Localization in the clavicle is extremely rare. The authors report an isolated case occurring in the coraco-clavicular area responsible for a painful shoulder syndrome evoking rotator cuff tendinitis. A 47 years female patient consulted for painful shoulder syndrome. Pain occurred following an effort and at night. On clinical examination, the area around the coracoid process was tender as was the supraspinatus fossa. Passive anterior elevation of the shoulder was limited to 150 degrees. She had a positive Job's sign as well as a painful < Gross armtest >. Initial Radiological assessment showed no anomalies. Arthrographic CT scan revealed an expansive process compatible with osteochondroma. The lesion was in contact with the supraspinatus muscles and the coracoid process. Extraperiosteal resection was performed through a delto-pectoral approach. Recovery of a painless mobile joint was rapid. Clavicular embryology is not yet well understood. The appearance of an exostosis at this localization seems to confirm that the clavicular cartilage behaves as an epiphyseal bone plate. The exostosis, which has a congenital origin, can appear, when it reaches a certain size or when it mechanically interferes with surrounding muscles and tendons. In our observation, the lesion led to irritation of the supraspinatus muscle leading to tendinitis. Diagnosis is usually made on standard roentgenographic evaluation. CT scan and MRI show a cartilaginous coating which should not exceed 10 mm in the case of a benign tumor. There exists a possibility of sarcomatous degeneration, but this is rare on the peripheral skeleton. Treatment should be performed by complete extraperiosteal resection of the exostosis along with its perichondral cover. Clavicular localization of an osteochondroma is very rare. This case report illustrates the possibility of a painful shoulder syndrome associated with this lesion. This report also seems to suggest the hypothesis that the cartilage at this level behaves as an epiphyseal bone plate."}
{"id": "7719780", "title": "MRI of tendon injuries.", "content": "MRI of tendon injuries."}
{"id": "7638384", "title": "[Results of the surgical repair of the rotator cuff. Radio-clinical correlation].", "content": "[Results of the surgical repair of the rotator cuff. Radio-clinical correlation]. This study was undertaken to evaluate the functional results of rotator cuff tear repair. This retrospective study concerned 108 shoulders operated with a minimal follow up of 1 year (mean 5.5 years). The average age of this masculine population was 55 years. The rotator cuff tear involved: 39 times the supra-spinatus, 59 times the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus, 6 times the supra and infra-spinatus and the teres minor, 4 times the supra-spinatus and superior part of the sub-scapularis. All these patients were reviewed using the Constant's score. The functional results were compared with an ultrasonographic study and a radiographic protocol including 5 views. Muscle strength was measured objectively with the aid of an isokinetics testing (Cybex II). The results were satisfactory concerning pain (67 per cent did not suffer anymore) daily activity (78 per cent experienced a slight disability) and mobility (92 per cent of the patients had an anteflexion > 120 degrees and 82 per cent an external rotation > 40 degrees). Concerning strength, the results were variable and related to the posterior extension of the tear. Most of the patients complained of weakness (mean objective deficit of strength = 25 per cent), specially a disability during repetitive over head activities. The radiographic protocol analysed the humeral head position (16 per cent of spontaneous acromio-humeral interval narrowing on the standard X Ray and 43 per cent of dynamic narrowing on Leclercq view). The spontaneous narrowing was correlated with a severe omarthrosis and a re-rupture of the rotator cuff. All these re-ruptures involved an infraspinatus lesion. Dynamic narrowing, with an acromial interval < 7 mm, were seen in 71 per cent of the patients with posterior extension of the rotator cuff tear explaining the poor final result; the ultrasonographic assessment found a thinning (75 per cent of patient) and a heterogeneity in the infraspinatus even after repair. We found 14 re-ruptures and 6 ultrasonographic disorganised structures. A well preserved external rotation and a centred head gave good result because they were associated with the integrity of the infra-spinatus, essential to the muscular balance of the rotator cuff and necessary for the dynamic and static centering of the humeral head. In 71 per cent of the cases, the suture of the posterior cuff tear did not allow a good dynamic position of the humeral head. A spontaneous narrowing (static view) of the acromio-humeral interval was in relation with a re-rupture which evolved to omarthrosis. A dynamic narrowing with a Leclercq radiograph was associated with a functional deficit after rotator cuff repair. Humeral head stabilisation, supplied by posterior muscles of the rotator cuff, is essential in prevention of omarthrosis and in recovery of good strength. In several specific cases, we think that the transfer of an external rotator muscle, with a good humeral head stabilization action, may restore strength."}
{"id": "8249731", "title": "Glenoid labral tears: prospective evaluation with MRI imaging, MR arthrography, and CT arthrography.", "content": "Glenoid labral tears: prospective evaluation with MRI imaging, MR arthrography, and CT arthrography. We prospectively compared MR imaging, MR arthrography, and CT arthrography to determine the sensitivity of each technique in detecting glenoid labral tears and in determining whether the labrum is detached or degenerated. Thirty patients 19-39 years old (mean, 27 years old) who had either signs and symptoms of shoulder instability or shoulder pain of unexplained origin were referred for diagnostic imaging. Each patient underwent MR imaging, followed by MR arthrography after intraarticular injection of 25 ml of a dilute solution of gadopentetate dimeglumine. Twenty-eight of thirty patients underwent CT arthrography after intraarticular injection of air and radiographic contrast material. Each patient also underwent arthroscopy or open surgery. At surgery, labral tears were found in 28 patients; a detached fragment was found in 26 patients. The labrum was found to be degenerated in 18. A labral tear was detected on MR images in 26 (93%) of 28, on MR arthrograms in 27 (96%) of 28, and on CT arthrograms in 19 (73%) of 26. A detached labral fragment was detected on MR images in 12 (46%) of 26, on MR arthrograms in 25 (96%) of 26, and on CT arthrograms in 13 (52%) of 25. Labral degeneration was detected on MR images in two (11%) of 18, on MR arthrograms in 10 (56%) of 18, and on CT arthrograms in four (24%) of 17. MR arthrography was the best of the three imaging techniques for showing the inferior part of the glenoid labrum and inferior glenohumeral ligament. MR arthrography and MR imaging both showed labral tears with greater sensitivity than CT arthrography did. MR arthrography was the most sensitive of the three techniques for detecting a detached labral fragment and labral degeneration. Furthermore, MR arthrography afforded the best visualization of the inferior part of the labrum and the inferior glenohumeral ligament. MR imaging and MR arthrography also enabled direct visualization of rotator cuff disease and other unsuspected associated abnormalities."}
{"id": "8291016", "title": "Case report 815: Tear of the rotator interval.", "content": "Case report 815: Tear of the rotator interval. Rotator interval tears are an uncommon, but clinically important subtype of rotator cuff tear. As MRI assumes an ever increasing role in the imaging evaluation of the painful shoulder, radiologists must be aware of this entity and appreciate the difficulty in diagnosing these tears with MRI. Differentiation of a true rotator interval tear from normal synovium and capsule in this space is most likely not possible with MRI, and symptoms may be referred and misleading. It is therefore important to correlate the MR findings with the clinical history and physical examination."}
{"id": "8291006", "title": "Imaging shoulder impingement.", "content": "Imaging shoulder impingement. Appropriate imaging and clinical examinations may lead to early diagnosis and treatment of the shoulder impingement syndrome, thus preventing progression to a complete tear of the rotator cuff. In this article, we discuss the anatomic and pathophysiologic bases of the syndrome, and the rationale for certain imaging tests to evaluate it. Special radiographic projections to show the supraspinatus outlet and inferior surface of the anterior third of the acromion, combined with magnetic resonance images, usually provide the most useful information regarding the causes of impingement."}
{"id": "8237322", "title": "Early complications after anterior dislocation of the shoulder in patients over 40 years. An ultrasonographic and electromyographic study.", "content": "Early complications after anterior dislocation of the shoulder in patients over 40 years. An ultrasonographic and electromyographic study. The rate of complications after anterior dislocation of the shoulder was evaluated in 65 patients aged over 40 years. 36 of 55 cases had electromyographically verified axillary nerve or brachial plexus injury. Rotator-cuff lesion was seen in 24 of the 63 sonographically examined cases. At follow-up in a telephone interview on average 3 years after the injury, 27 of the 57 cases had complaints from their shoulder. The incidence of initial nerve and/or cuff lesions was higher in those with persisting symptoms at follow-up."}
{"id": "8414488", "title": "[Sonographic diagnosis in shoulder joint instability. Possibilities and limitations].", "content": "[Sonographic diagnosis in shoulder joint instability. Possibilities and limitations]. Ultrasound evaluation expands the possibilities of diagnostic imaging techniques for patients with shoulder instabilities. Static ultrasound investigation documents the acute or chronic dislocated shoulder. Dynamic evaluation demonstrates the direction of instability. Concomitant Hill-Sachs lesions or rotator cuff tears can be diagnosed with high diagnostic accuracy. Clinically relevant documentation of labrum defects (Bankart lesions) by ultrasound is not possible with the technique currently available."}
{"id": "8414487", "title": "[Ultrasonographic appearance of the rotator cuff in elderly subjects].", "content": "[Ultrasonographic appearance of the rotator cuff in elderly subjects]. Some special points must be taken into consideration when diagnosing complaints of the shoulder joint in older patients by means of sonography. Such patients not only have a higher incidence of systemic disease, but also--as we know from autopsies--a large percentage of rotator cuff tears. These changes--with the exception of small partial tears--can be recognized sonographically with a high degree of certainty. Prospective sonographic studies have provided us with information that the incidence of rotator cuff tears rises from 25% in patients in their fifties to 50% in patients in their seventies. These studies enabled us to explain the hitherto unknown clinical relevance of these changes. In general, the patients complained of little pain, but when large tears were present, there was usually a clear loss of function, which however was astonishingly well tolerated. These findings would call for caution in indicating complicated reconstructive surgery."}
{"id": "8351333", "title": "Rotator cuff: evaluation with fat-suppressed MR arthrography.", "content": "Rotator cuff: evaluation with fat-suppressed MR arthrography. Thirty-seven shoulders with rotator cuff diagnoses proved at arthrography, arthroscopy, or open surgery were examined prospectively with magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography. T1-weighted MR images were obtained with and without fat suppression after intraarticular injection of gadopentetate dimeglumine. Without fat suppression, overall accuracy was 84%. False-positive full-thickness tears were diagnosed in three patients who were proved to have partial tears. False-negative normal tendons were diagnosed in two patients who had partial tears. The corresponding sensitivity and specificity were 90% and 75%, respectively. With the aid of fat-suppressed imaging, full-thickness and partial cuff tears were identified with 100% sensitivity and specificity. Fat-suppressed images also showed intratendinous contrast material imbibition in three torn cuffs with frayed, friable tendon margins. Fat suppression in MR arthrography is valuable in the differentiation of partial from full-thickness cuff tears and in the detection of small partial tears of the inferior tendon surface."}
{"id": "8273012", "title": "[Instability and impingement of the shoulder of the high performance athlete in overhead stress].", "content": "[Instability and impingement of the shoulder of the high performance athlete in overhead stress]. The present prospective study was performed on 89 competitive sportsmen (league players of handball, basketball, volleyball and water polo). The evaluation was based on information obtained from a review of training methods, a standardised anamnestic, physical and sonographic examination directed at pain, function, flexibility and all signs of impingement and instability of the shoulder counted in a score. The incidence of shoulder pain, which handicapped during training and play within the last 6 months was for water polo 60%, handball 40%, volleyball 25% and basketball 3.5%. Analysing these problems we found severe problems predominantly in handball, fewer in water polo or volleyball. According to data obtained from sports with throwing activity we found a high incidence of shoulder disorders. Using basketball players as a control group with less throwing activity our results would suggest that this mechanism seems to be the most important. The high incidence of severe disorders in handball players is additionally caused by traumatic injuries. Ultrasonography shows predominantly incomplete tears of the deep surface of the supraspinatus tendon near to the insertion with exception of the basketball players. Only in 5 shoulders (2.8%) we found the coincidence of clear signs of instability and subacromial pathology. The term \"instability impingement\" has not proved to be very helpful and has turned out to be far too diffuse to establish a diagnosis."}
{"id": "8273011", "title": "[Magnetic resonance morphologic changes in shoulder joints of world class water polo players].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance morphologic changes in shoulder joints of world class water polo players]. In a prospective study we examined the dominant shoulder of 11 athletes from the 1992 German Olympic water polo team. Their mean age was 25.4 +/- 3.5 years. Water polo had been practised generally for 14.1 +/- 4.3 years and professionally for 11.6 +/- 3.9 years. The weekly training amounted to between 12.5 and 19.5 hours. All athletes were submitted to standardised clinical, sonographical and MRI tests. In 5 cases we found anamnestic and/or clinical indications of rotator cuff pathology. In all 5 cases the supraspinatus tendon was affected, and in three cases both the supra- and the infraspinatus tendon were involved. Sonographically, no specific pathology except a thickened rotator cuff was seen. Remarkable changes were revealed by magnetic resonance imaging. In 8 cases changes were present in the insertion of the rotator cuff at the humeral head. The subacromial bursa was not pathologic. The tendon of the long head of the biceps was pathologically changed in 9 cases. In 7 athletes a so-called biceps halo and in two an osteophyte in the area of the bicipital groove was visible. In all of the 11 dominant shoulder joints massive hypertrophy of the articular capsule and pathologic changes of the anterior glenoid labrum existed. Occult osseous lesions were detected in 5 athletes, and osseous lesions of the humeral head in 8 athletes. In all athletes we could document degenerative changes at the acromioclavicular joints such as effusion in 7 cases, arthritis in two cases, and evident synovitis in two cases. Many of the changes detected by MRI were not symptomatic.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7584215", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of impingement and rotator cuff disorders. A surgical perspective.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of impingement and rotator cuff disorders. A surgical perspective. In conclusion, the clinical picture of impingement syndrome is one of a continuum occurring as a result of compression of the bursa and rotator cuff within the subacromial space. In its early stages nonoperative management will often suffice, but in resistant cases and in cuff tears operative intervention is often indicated. The usefulness of MR imaging has greatly expanded for the orthopaedist diagnosing and treating the patient with impingement. After careful clinical evaluation and plain radiographs, MR imaging can significantly add to our knowledge as to the extent of the disease process. This added information can aid in tailoring an individualized treatment regimen and can be invaluable in the preoperative planning for patients with rotator cuff pathology."}
{"id": "7584214", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of impingement and rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of impingement and rotator cuff tears. This article addresses the role of MR imaging in the spectrum of impingement and rotator cuff tears. Rotator cuff and coracoacromial arch anatomy, the cause of impingement syndrome, and the pathology and imaging of calcific tendinitis are reviewed."}
{"id": "7584213", "title": "Pathogenesis of rotator cuff disorders. Magnetic resonance imaging characteristics.", "content": "Pathogenesis of rotator cuff disorders. Magnetic resonance imaging characteristics. In summary, rotator cuff pathology is a continuum that begins with degeneration of collagen fibers at a rate that exceeds that of repair. The degenerative process is accelerated with aging, chronic inflammatory diseases, impingement, and repetitive activity. A tendon weakened by disease may then be torn by routine physical activity. MR imaging can help predict which patients are at risk for rotator cuff disease because of abnormal anatomy and can detect the disease at an early stage so that the progression may be altered before a tear occurs."}
{"id": "7584208", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the postoperative shoulder.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the postoperative shoulder. The use of MR imaging in the evaluation of the postoperative shoulder and the findings indicative of postoperative pathology remain largely unexplored. MR imaging does seem to be diagnostic of complete rotator cuff tears following cuff repair. In all postoperative cases, a key to differentiating the expected from the pathologic is to be familiar with the procedure that was performed."}
{"id": "8354686", "title": "Magnetic resonance-imaging studies of the shoulder. Diagnosis of lesions of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Magnetic resonance-imaging studies of the shoulder. Diagnosis of lesions of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "8348136", "title": "Applied MRI anatomy of the shoulder.", "content": "Applied MRI anatomy of the shoulder. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the shoulder is rapidly evolving as the choice diagnostic procedure for management of shoulder derangement, particularly for soft tissue injuries not well delineated by conventional radiography. With application of appropriate MRI protocol/sequences and familiarity with applied shoulder MRI anatomy, valuable diagnostic information may be derived that can greatly assist management/therapy of common problems, such as rotator cuff tears, impingement, and instability as well as less frequent causes of shoulder pain and dysfunction."}
{"id": "8346359", "title": "[Echography, magnetic resonance and double-contrast arthrography of the rotator cuff. A prospective study in 30 patients].", "content": "[Echography, magnetic resonance and double-contrast arthrography of the rotator cuff. A prospective study in 30 patients]. Shoulder pain is a common clinical problem with different etiologies. Without a specific diagnosis, treatment could be ineffective, causing functional limitation, chronic pain and atrophy. US and MRI allow in many cases to correctly define the different etiologies causing shoulder pain, often due to rotator cuff conditions. From June to September 1992, thirty patients with clinically suspected acute or chronic rotator cuff lesion were studied with US, MRI and double contrast arthrography. US and MRI findings were evaluated and compared using arthrography and surgery as the gold standard. The overall accuracy of MRI was 93%: the method yielded accurate information about size and number of rotator cuff tears, and about bursal, bone and muscle involvement. US accuracy was 83% in the diagnosis of large tears, 63% in the diagnosis of small and partial tears and only 11% in the diagnosis of tendinitis. Both MRI and arthrography exhibited high accuracy (respectively 91 and 100%) in the detection of rotator cuff tears when their results were compared with surgical findings. A flow chart to be used in the patients with acute or chronic shoulder pain was drawn from the critical analysis of the above results."}
{"id": "8331246", "title": "Kinematic MRI of the shoulder.", "content": "Kinematic MRI of the shoulder. Clinical evaluation of shoulder pain can be difficult. Pain in the shoulder is often dynamic/positional, and it can often be elicited only during specific activity or function. Soft tissue deforms or changes in shape through motion. These complex interrelationships at the glenoid humeral joint require dynamic studies to accurately evaluate normal anatomy and abnormal pathology. The objective of our study was to evaluate the use of a dynamic cyclic cine imaging to evaluate the glenoid humeral joint. Kinematic MRI was performed using axial 5 mm sections of the gradient echo and dedicated shoulder surface coil. The patient's arm was placed in the Bonutti cine shoulder system and allowed fixed incremental rotational movement of the shoulder at 10 degrees intervals. Images were reformatted onto a dynamic cine motion by oscillating from internal to external rotation then back to internal rotation. A total of 24 asymptomatic shoulders and 35 symptomatic painful shoulders were studied. Normal variations in the glenoid labrum were readily identified. The glenoid labrum in external rotation is taunt and triangular with well-identified capsular attachments. In neutral rotation the labrum often has increased signal and the middle glenoid humeral ligament occasionally blends with the labrum, making identification difficult. In maximum internal rotation the labrum is rounded and occasionally infolded. Variations in signal through the labrum are not indicative of tears. Capsular attachment must be followed from maximum internal to external rotation to identify stripping. The middle and inferior glenoid humeral ligaments often blend with labrum and internal rotation; however, in external rotation they can be identified as distinct and separate structures. Subcoracoid impingement can be identified in maximum internal rotation with a narrowing of the subcoracoid space to < 11 mm and buckling of the subscapularis and lesser tuberosity against the coracoid process. Accurate evaluation of the capsular/labral complex requires cine studies for accurate diagnosis. Signal changes alone or labral morphology alone varies through rotation, and static MRI does not accurately assess these morphologic changes, which vary with extremity position. Capsular attachments can be identified with cine studies accurately and reproducibly. Subcoracoid impingement can be identified with a narrowing of the coracohumeral distance to < 11 mm in internal rotation, which is suggestive of pathology."}
{"id": "8504591", "title": "The treatment of posterior subluxation in athletes.", "content": "The treatment of posterior subluxation in athletes. Posterior instability in athletes is a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. Athletes have recurrent posterior subluxations rather than true dislocations, and they have pain rather than instability, which makes the diagnosis difficult. The pathology is usually capsular laxity rather than a true reverse Bankart lesion. There is not one diagnostic test, including computed tomography (CT) arthrogram, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or arthroscopy, that will always help with the diagnosis. Most athletes respond to conservative care with an exercise program designed to strengthen the posterior deltoid, the infraspinatus, and the teres minor; but, there is still a select group of athletes that cannot perform their sport after an extensive rehabilitation program. The surgical options for these athletes are varied, and the results in most cases are less than ideal. A posterior capsulorrhaphy was performed to treat this problem. This was initially performed with a staple, but this technique has been abandoned for a suture capsulorrhaphy to avoid staple problems. The 40 athletes treated operatively that had adequate follow-up evaluation reflected a 40% failure rate. Most of the failures were related to ligamentous laxity and unrecognized multidirectional instability not treated at the time of surgery. There may be subtle differences between a patient with posterior subluxation and multidirectional instability; these must be differentiated before operation. Also, the higher the competitive level of athlete, the worse the overall results. The high-level athlete must be informed that even if his or her shoulder is stabilized, the functional results may not allow him or her to continue at the same competitive level."}
{"id": "8320901", "title": "Ultrasonography of joint capsules and tendons in dialysis-related amyloidosis.", "content": "Ultrasonography of joint capsules and tendons in dialysis-related amyloidosis. Beta-2-microglobulin (beta 2m) amyloid infiltrates joint synovia, tendons and capsules. We report a cross-sectional ultrasonographic (US) evaluation of supraspinatus tendons' (SST) and femoral neck capsules' (FNC) thickness in 49 patients on long-term hemodialysis. Normal values for SST and FNC were defined in control subjects. Among the 49 patients, aged 21 to 86 (median 59) years at the time of US, dialyzed for 1 to 228 (median 97) months, 33 had at least one abnormal joint. The prevalence of patients with at least one or at least two abnormal joints, the number of abnormal joints per patient and the thickness of SST and FNC increased significantly with dialysis duration (P < 0.001 for all parameters considered). All (N = 11) patients with radiological and/or histological evidence of dialysis-related amyloidosis (DRA) had thickened SST and/or FNC. Twenty-two other patients without similar evidence of DRA also had thickened FNC and/or SST. Three died; post-mortem examination demonstrated that US abnormalities were due to beta 2m amyloid infiltration. We suggest that SST and FNC thickness, measured by US, is a useful, non-invasive tool for the diagnosis of DRA."}
{"id": "8509471", "title": "A practical guide to diagnostic imaging of the upper extremity.", "content": "A practical guide to diagnostic imaging of the upper extremity. Imaging of the upper extremities can be challenging and rewarding. Newer imaging modalities, including MRI and CT, have greatly expanded the ability of the radiologist to define soft-tissue abnormalities in the wrist, especially triangular fibrocartilage tears and carpal and radioulnar instability. MRI of the shoulder has almost replaced the arthrogram for diagnosing rotator cuff tears. The plain film, however, remains the mainstay of bone imaging and is the most efficacious first step in the diagnostic work-up. The radionuclide scan, although nonspecific, may provide a map for the radiologist to locate occult lesions. Dialogue between the surgeon and radiologist is essential to effective upper extremity evaluations. The radiologist can maximize his or her effectiveness by performing a brief history and physical examination of the patient."}
{"id": "8475294", "title": "Hooked acromion: prevalence on MR images of painful shoulders.", "content": "Hooked acromion: prevalence on MR images of painful shoulders. An association between the morphology of the acromion and the occurrence of rotator cuff tear (RCT) has been suggested by findings at both pathologic examination and routine radiography. As a tomographic technique, magnetic resonance (MR) assessment of acromial shape may be more accurate than routine radiography. The authors studied acromial morphology on sagittal oblique MR images of a control population (47 shoulders), of patients with isolated impingement (30 shoulders), and of patients with full-thickness RCTs (34 shoulders) to assess the association of acromial shape with disorders of the rotator cuff. Acromions were classified as flat (type 1), smoothly curved (type 2), or hooked (type 3). Data were collected by two observers, blinded to clinical and surgical information, who acted in consensus. Patients with RCT had a significantly increased prevalence of type 3 acromions compared with control patients (62% vs 13%, P < .001). Type 3 acromions tended to be more prevalent in the group with impingement (30%, P = .17). There was no significant difference in the distribution of acromion types among control patients with respect to age or gender."}
{"id": "8332795", "title": "[Echography in diseases of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[Echography in diseases of the rotator cuff]. The diagnostic accuracy of shoulder US was investigated in 69 patients with a \"painful shoulder\" and the results compared with those of MR imaging. In our experience, US exhibited 95% sensitivity, 69% specificity, 83% positive predictive value, 90% negative predictive value and 85% accuracy. The analysis of the single US patterns proved the difficult distinction of small tears from focal tears, whereas complete ruptures were always easy to identify. In summary, all cases of rotator cuff degeneration or tear were always detected but not always correctly identified. False negatives on US included inflammatory processes of cuff structures but never ruptures or degenerations. Therefore, in our diagnostic protocol, US appeared to be a valuable screening method in the exclusion of rotator cuff injuries; other imaging techniques--i.e., arthrography, MR imaging, arthroscopy--were employed only in questionable/positive cases on US."}
{"id": "8462039", "title": "Intravenous administration of gadolinium in the evaluation of rheumatoid arthritis of the shoulder.", "content": "Intravenous administration of gadolinium in the evaluation of rheumatoid arthritis of the shoulder. The authors sought to determine the utility of intravenously administered gadolinium chelates in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of patients with rheumatoid arthritis of the shoulder. One shoulder was examined for each of 12 patients--6 men and 6 women, ranging in age from 48 to 71 (average 63) years--with well-established disease. The patients had had the disease for 1 to 25 (average 13) years. Static MRI was performed before and after infusion of gadolinium diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (Gd-DTPA) (0.1 mmol/kg body weight); T1-weighted or proton-density images (repetition time [TR] 600 to 1000 ms, echo time [TE] 15 to 30 ms) were obtained. Images obtained after enhancement were particularly useful in the differentiation of pannus from fluid and also allowed improved delineation of tears of the supraspinatus tendon. In addition, contrast-enhanced dynamic gradient-echo spoiled GRASS sequences (TR 50 ms, TE 11 ms, flip angle 70 degrees) were obtained for all patients; for these sequences the same slice was imaged repeatedly at 20-second intervals. The rate of increase of signal intensity in abnormal synovium varied from 0.64 to 5.83 (average 2.30, standard deviation [SD] 1.67) units/second; the enhancement factor ranged from 1.55 to 4.64 (average 2.63, SD 0.98). The authors conclude that for imaging the shoulder enhancement with Gd-DTPA allows improved distinction between synovial thickening and joint effusion and may improve assessment of the rotator cuff. The wide range in the rate of signal increase and total enhancement during dynamic imaging probably reflected heterogeneity in the study population."}
{"id": "8322068", "title": "[Ultrasound in inflammatory rheumatic joint diseases].", "content": "[Ultrasound in inflammatory rheumatic joint diseases]. Inflammatory changes of the shoulder joint could be detected at a very early stage, when the clinical and radiological examinations were unremarkable. In 50% of the cases a rupture of the rotator cuff could be demonstrated. Only 10% of the shoulder joints had normal sonographic findings, whereas 50% were normal on clinical or radiological examination. Synovitis and effusion of the hand can be diagnosed very well by clinical examination, and can be documented in ultrasound. The sonographic diagnostic accuracy in tendon ruptures of the hand is lower than accuracy of the clinical examination. New technical developments may yield better results. Inflammatory changes of the hip joint are very difficult to diagnose by clinical examination. Synovitis, effusion and changes of the capsule can be better detected by ultrasound. Sonography of the hip joint has become part of our routine diagnostic programme, especially because early changes of the joint do not present clear symptoms."}
{"id": "8322066", "title": "[Determining normal ultrasound values of the supra- and infraspinatus muscles].", "content": "[Determining normal ultrasound values of the supra- and infraspinatus muscles]. Sonographic investigations concerning thickness of tendons (in longitudinal sections) and muscles (in resting position and isometric contraction) were performed on 60 volunteers without shoulder complaints. Increase in muscle thickness within isometric contraction did not depend on thickness in resting position. There was no side difference in tendon thickness. Since the observed values (median 4-5 mm) were far below measurements cited in the greater part of literature, we tried to verify our data by sonographic and anatomic examination of shoulders of corpses. We conclude that, by standardising, thickness measurement of tendons and muscles might become more important in diagnosis of shoulder complaints."}
{"id": "8475398", "title": "[Nuclear magnetic tomography in shoulder dislocation].", "content": "[Nuclear magnetic tomography in shoulder dislocation]. Sixty-two patients with anterior shoulder dislocations were examined by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). After a primary dislocation, 30 patients showed 23 (77%) tears of the glenoid labrum, 13 (45%) anterior-inferior separation of the capsula, 24 (83%) Hill-Sachs lesions, 6 fractures of the greater tuberosity and 4 glenoid rim fractures. Thirty-two patients with recurrent shoulder dislocation had 14 (44%) tears and 15 (47%) defects of the glenoid labrum, 16 (50%) anterior-inferior separation of the capsula, 28 (88%) Hill-Sachs lesions and 3 glenoid rim fractures. MRI permits complete non-invasive documentation of glenohumeral instability if joint effusion is present. In the absence of joint effusion, diagnostic accuracy can be improved by application of a contrast medium."}
{"id": "8475397", "title": "[The value of sonography in ruptures of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[The value of sonography in ruptures of the rotator cuff]. In 375 patients ultrasonography of the rotator cuff was carried out before operation. All the patients underwent acromioplasty, either alone or with additional repair of a full-thickness tear. The ultrasound findings were then compared with the intraoperative findings. Two hundred and seventy-two tears of the rotator cuff were seen on ultrasonography, and in 262 cases this was confirmed at operation. In 103 patients no rupture was diagnosed by ultrasound, but in 26 of these cases a full-thickness tear was detected on operation. These figures yield sensitivity of 91%, specificity of 89% and accuracy of 90%; the positive predictive value was 96%, the negative predictive value 75%. In most cases of incorrect evaluation the size of the tears was underestimated by ultrasonography."}
{"id": "8454760", "title": "MRI of suprascapular neuropathy in a weight lifter.", "content": "MRI of suprascapular neuropathy in a weight lifter. Suprascapular neuropathy results from abnormal compression of the suprascapular nerve, typically at the suprascapular or spinoglenoid notch. This may be produced by either mass effect such as ganglion cyst or by certain repetitive shoulder motions producing wide scapular excursion (e.g., hyperabduction), which causes traction upon the nerve. Certain sports activities such as weight lifting predispose to this type of neuropathy. The clinical presentation is frequently not specific and the patient may be sent for MR evaluation to rule out rotator cuff tear or other more common shoulder abnormalities. This entity should be suspected if MR images demonstrate selective atrophy of the spinatus muscles with a structurally intact rotator cuff."}
{"id": "8451648", "title": "[Arthroscopic sub-acromial decompression. Comments on indications and surgical technique].", "content": "[Arthroscopic sub-acromial decompression. Comments on indications and surgical technique]. Between January 1989 and December 1991 614 arthroscopic subacromial decompressions were performed for impingement syndromes. The first 100 cases represented our learning curve. The first 74 of the remaining 514 cases were available for evaluation and form the basis of the results presented here. Twenty (27.02%) patients were rated stage II in Neer's classification and 54 (72.98%) were rated stage III, 33 (44.59%) of them with a small full-thickness tear (less than 1 cm) and 21 (28.37%) with larger defects. Patients were evaluated pre- and postoperatively utilizing the ULCA shoulder score. The average follow-up was 7.9 months. The overall results were satisfactory in 67 cases (90.5%) and unsatisfactory in 7 cases (9.5%). Within the satisfactory group, 28 results (37.8%) were rated excellent and 39 (52.7%) were rated good. In the unsatisfactory group four results (5.4%) were rated fair and three (4.1%) poor. The results in advanced stage III (n = 21), with an average follow-up of 8.4 months, were satisfactory in 20 cases (excellent in 8 and good in 12) and unsatisfactory in one case. It is concluded that arthroscopic subacromial decompression is an effective treatment for both stage II and III impingement syndromes, producing acceptable results that are comparable to those of open procedures. Technically, it seems necessary to perform synovectomy of the ventral synovia in the glenohumeral joint, to resect the coracoacromial ligament completely and also to remove calcifications completely. Depending on the findings of a preoperative sonographic examination of the shoulder joint, the extent of the acromioplasty may be minimized."}
{"id": "8421748", "title": "Shoulder after surgery: MR imaging with surgical validation.", "content": "Shoulder after surgery: MR imaging with surgical validation. To assess the accuracy of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in the evaluation of the shoulder after surgery, MR examinations were performed in 31 patients before repeated surgery, and MR findings were correlated with the subsequent operative findings. In addition, the MR findings associated with prior surgery were reviewed, including altered structure of the acromion, soft-tissue metal artifacts, a surgical trough in the humeral head, nonvisualization of the subacromial-subdeltoid fat stripe, and intermediate signal intensity within the substance of the rotator cuff on images obtained with all pulse sequences. The MR criteria for full-thickness tears in the shoulder after surgery are the presence of fluidlike signal intensity on T2-weighted images that extends through an area of the rotator cuff or the nonvisualization of a portion of the rotator cuff. With use of these criteria, six of seven full-thickness rotator cuff tears were identified at MR imaging, with an accuracy of 90%. Partial cuff tears were indistinguishable from repaired tendons. Findings at MR imaging were 74% accurate concerning the presence of impingement."}
{"id": "8421747", "title": "The normal shoulder: common variations that simulate pathologic conditions at MR imaging.", "content": "The normal shoulder: common variations that simulate pathologic conditions at MR imaging. The appearance of the supraspinatus tendon and anterior capsular mechanism was analyzed in 60 asymptomatic shoulders with magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. The images were reviewed with special attention to findings that simulate pathologic conditions, as defined by means of currently accepted criteria. On T1-weighted and proton-density (PD) spin-echo (SE) images, intermediate signal intensity was present within the supraspinatus tendon in most shoulders. Focal signal intensity within the distal tendon was particularly common finding, being present in 95% (57 of 60) of shoulders on PD images. Focal obliteration of the subacromial-subdeltoid fat stripe and acromioclavicular joint arthrosis were seen in 95% (57 of 60) and 48% (29 of 60) of the subjects, respectively. There was considerable variation in the shape of the anterior glenoid labrum-glenohumeral ligament (GHL) complex. The labrum may appear triangular, round, crescentic, or absent. The middle and inferior GHLs lie in proximity to the upper half of the anterior labrum; the cleavage plane between the ligaments and the labrum can mimic a tear at MR imaging."}
{"id": "8101743", "title": "MR patterns of rotator cuff and labral lesions: comparison between low-field and high-field images.", "content": "MR patterns of rotator cuff and labral lesions: comparison between low-field and high-field images. Eighteen people (10 men, 8 women) were examined on a 0.3-T (low-field) imager with T1-weighted axial and coronal images and either axial or coronal T2-weighted images. Thirty-two people (22 men, 10 women) were examined on a 1.5-T (high-field) imager with axial T1-weighted images and coronal, sagittal dual-echo images. Rotator cuff lesions were diagnosed by the following findings: abnormal signal in the tendon, irregularity or discontinuity at the musculo-tendinous junction, or muscle abnormality. Glenoid labrum tears were considered if one or more of the following criteria were present: labral deformity of unusual size, focal defect, amputation or displacement with fluid, or capsular stripping. Comparison between the high-field and low-field MR images in the evaluation of rotator cuff lesions suggests that the high-field imager is better than the low-field imager in the differentiation of tendinitis from tears, in the confirmation of bursitis and in detection of subscapularis lesions. A higher contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR), less time consumption, and more section planes (especially, sagittal sections) appear to be the main reasons for this. As far as labral lesions are concerned, the performances of the high-field imagers and low-field imagers were almost equal. The artifact of greater chemical shift with a high-field imager would more or less, we assume, degrade the better CNR achievable in the diagnosis of labral lesions."}
{"id": "8488437", "title": "Anatomy of the acromial arch: correlation of anatomy and magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Anatomy of the acromial arch: correlation of anatomy and magnetic resonance imaging. Based on a retrospective study of 179 MRI records covering four populations (patients presenting with impingement without known injury (n = 90), post-traumatic shoulder pain (n = 28), instability or dislocation (n = 36) and controls (n = 25)), morphologic criteria are suggested to define presumedly normal arches and arches compatible with subacromial impingement. The subacromial arch is presumed normal or without impingement if the sagittal and frontal views show it to be parallel to the humeral head, and/or if there is a fatty layer interposed between the arch and the supraspinatus m. The arch is presumed \"aggressive\" or actually capable of giving rise to impingement if, in either the sagittal or frontal view, there is a zone of narrowing of the subacromial passage with an impression of the arch on the supraspinatus tendon or tendinous thinning at this level or just lateral to this narrowed zone. Based on these criteria, study of the 179 MRI records demonstrated a significant difference of distribution of the arches in the four populations. \"Aggressive\" arches were found in 45.5% of patients with impingement, 25% of patients with posttraumatic pain, 8.9% of patients with an acute or recurrent dislocation and 12% of controls. Conversely, a presumedly normal arch was found in 56% of the controls, 55% of patients with dislocation, 25% of posttraumatic painful shoulders and only 5.5% of patients with clinical impingement. Subacromial impingement may be due to the type 3 acromial dysplasia described by Bigliani or to a thickening of the coracoacromial ligament at its acromial attachment. This study was supplemented by 15 anatomic dissections which confirmed the regularity of attachment of the coracoacromial ligament at the inferior aspect of the acromion along its lateral border."}
{"id": "8483150", "title": "[MRI in the pre-operative evaluation of lesions of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[MRI in the pre-operative evaluation of lesions of the rotator cuff]. The authors report a series of 38 patients who had been examined by MRI and then operated for a rotator cuff syndrome. The correlation between the description of the cuff lesions after MRI and the surgical observations were excellent for 37 patients. In one case MRI showed a false image of tear of the supra spinatus m. on its anterior edge. This was due to a bad knowledge of the anatomy of the muscle and tendon and to a poor orientation of the frontal cut plane. This study was complete with MRI and anatomic study of 12 non embalmed cadaveric shoulders. The results showed that MRI was very sensitive (0.93) and specific (0.94) for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. MRI allowed also to show partial tears of the tendons of the rotator cuff. The authors propose a MRI classification of cuff lesions which permits to establish a good surgical planning."}
{"id": "8446022", "title": "Imaging case of the month. Impingement syndrome.", "content": "Imaging case of the month. Impingement syndrome."}
{"id": "8421637", "title": "Treatment of rotator cuff impingement.", "content": "Treatment of rotator cuff impingement. The author performed 497 shoulder decompression procedures between 1978 and 1989. Of these procedures, 252 (51%) had tears of the rotator cuff that were repaired concomitantly. The results were successful in over 90% of the cases. It is suggested that articular-surface tears or intratendinous tears are the possible cause of some of the failures of the open procedure. The findings also suggest that the use of arthroscopy or magnetic resonance imaging may be indicated in selected cases. However, for the appropriate patient, open shoulder decompression continues to be an excellent treatment."}
{"id": "8421612", "title": "Office arthroscopy of the shoulder. A diagnostic alternative.", "content": "Office arthroscopy of the shoulder. A diagnostic alternative. Office arthroscopy of the shoulder is a technically demanding procedure and is significantly more challenging than office arthroscopy of the knee. With the proper equipment and in the hands of an experienced shoulder arthroscopist, the procedure offers many advantages. Patients unanimously prefer office arthroscopy to MR imaging because of the ability to view their pathology personally in a medium more palatable and understandable than MR imaging. Office arthroscopy appears to be a safe, accurate, and cost-effective alternative to MR imaging for the diagnosis of shoulder pathology in select patients."}
{"id": "8421610", "title": "Evaluation and treatment of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Evaluation and treatment of the rotator cuff. The use of the arthroscope for evaluation and treatment of rotator cuff problems is becoming more common. Technology has advanced to the point where we can now not only positively diagnose early rotator cuff problems, but successfully treat them; many times without open shoulder surgery. Arthroscopic cuff debridement and decompression are the mainstays of surgical prevention. Arthroscopic suture fixation of delaminated cuff tears or small rotator cuff avulsions is now possible. The miniopen rotator cuff approach is excellent for repairing most larger full-thickness tears. This article reviews all of these current topics and offers step-by-step surgical techniques used and recommended by the author."}
{"id": "8418980", "title": "Impingement in the athlete.", "content": "Impingement in the athlete. There is no doubt that the understanding of shoulder mechanics and pathology will continue to evolve. It is not appropriate to consider that all patients, especially young athletes, who have shoulder pain have \"impingement.\" Rather, a careful evaluation will result in the correct diagnosis and the institution of the appropriate treatment. A step-by-step assessment and management scheme is necessary for each health care professional dealing with athletes. If surgery is deemed necessary, the correction of the anatomic abnormality with minimal disruption of normal anatomy will be the key to allowing the athlete to return to his or her chosen sport."}
{"id": "8418972", "title": "Magnetic resonance arthrography of the shoulder. A new technique of shoulder imaging.", "content": "Magnetic resonance arthrography of the shoulder. A new technique of shoulder imaging. Although magnetic resonance imaging is very sensitive and even though pathology in the rotator cuff is readily detected, it is often difficult to distinguish between complete rotator cuff tears, partial rotator cuff tears, and area of tendinitis. This article reports the results of a new technique for evaluation of shoulder pathology, which the authors have labeled magnetic resonance arthrography, and compares the results of magnetic resonance arthrography with those of conventional magnetic resonance imaging."}
{"id": "8416605", "title": "Sonography of the shoulder in patients with tears of the rotator cuff: accuracy and value for selecting surgical options.", "content": "Sonography of the shoulder in patients with tears of the rotator cuff: accuracy and value for selecting surgical options. The management of patients with signs and symptoms referable to the rotator cuff depends on the presence of cuff injury and the size of the tear. Treatment options include conservative nonsurgical management for patients with an intact or partially torn cuff, arthroscopic decompression of the coracoacromial space for those not responding to nonsurgical management, and a range of surgical techniques to repair full-thickness tears. This study was designed to determine whether sonographic evaluation with classification of the extent of cuff injury is accurate for purposes of treatment planning. Preoperative sonography of the rotator cuff was performed on 225 patients, and findings were classified into intact, partial tear, small full-thickness tear, large full-thickness tear, and massive tear groups. Surgical correlation with the predicted sonographic classification was provided by arthroscopic inspection or open surgery. The sonographic findings were surgically confirmed for 206 (92%) of the 225 patients. More extensive cuff injury was encountered during surgery than had been predicted sonographically in 11 patients (5%); less extensive injury than predicted was found during surgery in eight patients (4%). Our results show a high correlation between the sonographic classification of rotator cuff injury and the surgical findings. The selection of appropriate treatment programs can be reliably based on the sonographic classification."}
{"id": "8357686", "title": "[Possibilities of shoulder arthroscopy in comparison with magnetic resonance tomography and arthro-computerized tomography].", "content": "[Possibilities of shoulder arthroscopy in comparison with magnetic resonance tomography and arthro-computerized tomography]. In the last 15 years the methods of examination of the shoulder have intensively expounded. According to a well documented retrospective study we describe the value of the shoulder arthroscopy and its correlation to MRI and arthro-CT findings. MRI represents nowadays the best way of exploring rotator cuff lesions and of investigating an impingement syndrome. Associated with a contrast medium its ability to clear up an anterior or posterior shoulder instability is now superior to the arthro-CT's. The arthroscopy allows the dynamic exploration of the joint and can be used not only as a diagnostic but also as a therapeutic procedure."}
{"id": "8305104", "title": "Lesions of the subscapular tendon regarding two cases in arthroscopic surgery.", "content": "Lesions of the subscapular tendon regarding two cases in arthroscopic surgery. Subscapularis tendon lesions in the shoulder are usually difficult to diagnose through clinical examination alone. Isolated subscapularis tendon lesions are infrequent, and most of these injuries are associated with biceps tendon pathology, rotator cuff tears, fractures to the tuberosities, or as a part of an instability complex of the shoulder. All of these other diagnoses over-shadow and complicate the diagnosis of the subscapularis tendon. Although magnetic resonance imaging is frequently effective in evaluating subscapularis tendon tears, arthroscopy is certainly more efficient and affords the additional benefit of allowing surgical treatment of the lesion. The authors present two clinical cases and an update of the literature concerning this unusual lesion."}
{"id": "8284463", "title": "[Experimental study of dislocations of the scapulohumeral joint].", "content": "[Experimental study of dislocations of the scapulohumeral joint]. One may produce easily an experimental dislocation (anterior or erecta) of the scapulohumeral joint. The authors discuss, the experimental model then they describe the anatomical lesion produced through the experimental dislocation of 32 shoulders and the correlation observed after RMI assessment of 24 recurrent dislocations. The tear of the inferior glenohumeral ligament is constant, in 20 per cent of the cases the tear lies on the anterior aspect of the glenoid, in the other cases the tear was found on its humeral side. Whatever the situation of the tear of the inferior glenohumeral ligament, the lesion of the labrum was constant. The erecta dislocation was produced with the same movement but with a particular tear of the glenohumeral ligament: the tear was longitudinal. The experimental dislocation needs, in 7 or 8 cases, a desinsertion of the deep aspect of the rotator cuff. The Hill Sachs lesion occurs when the humerus falls along the chest wall after the dislocation. In 50 per cent of the patients, MRI shows modifications of the cuff which are compatible with our results. Hills Sachs lesions appear to be constant after MRI examination."}
{"id": "8280327", "title": "Saline magnetic resonance arthrography in the evaluation of glenohumeral instability.", "content": "Saline magnetic resonance arthrography in the evaluation of glenohumeral instability. Sixty-five patients underwent magnetic resonance (MR) shoulder arthrography. Forty-eight of these patients underwent examination under anesthesia (EUA). MR images were retrospectively evaluated for signs felt to be imaging indicators of shoulder instability, including evaluation of various capsular measurements and the presence of glenoid labral tears, as well as Hill-Sachs fractures. Statistical analysis of the results showed that no correlation between capsular indicators with EUA-documented instability was found. However, there was a statistically significant correlation between the presence of a Bankart cartilaginous deformity (p = 0.000) and Hill-Sachs fractures (p = 0.022) with EUA-documented instability. Sensitivity to labral tears was 89% and specificity was 98%, whereas Hill-Sachs fracture detection was 69% and 87%, respectively. We believe that MR saline arthrography is of benefit in the evaluation of the anterior labrum when unenhanced MR imaging is inconclusive, and we speculate on the role of MR arthrography as a primary investigative tool."}
{"id": "8272224", "title": "Ultrasonographic detection of thickened joint capsules and tendons as marker of dialysis-related amyloidosis: a cross-sectional and longitudinal study.", "content": "Ultrasonographic detection of thickened joint capsules and tendons as marker of dialysis-related amyloidosis: a cross-sectional and longitudinal study. Dialysis-related amyloidosis is characterized by a beta 2-microglobulin (beta 2M) infiltration of joint synovia, tendons and capsules. We report a cross-sectional ultrasonographic evaluation of supraspinatus tendon and femoral neck capsule thickness in 49 patients on long-term haemodialysis. Ultrasonographic evaluation was repeated 21 +/- 4 (SD) months later in 16 patients. Normal values for the supraspinatus tendon and femoral neck capsule were defined in a group of control subjects without history or signs of joint disease. Among the 49 patients, aged 21-86 (median 59) years, dialysed for 1-228 (median 97) months, 33 had at least one abnormal joint. The prevalence of patients with at least one and at least two abnormal joints, the number of abnormal joints per patient, and the thickness of the supraspinatus tendon and femoral neck capsule increased significantly with dialysis duration (P < 0.001 for all parameters considered). By multiple linear regression analysis, mean thickness of the supraspinatus tendon was positively related to both dialysis duration (P < 0.0001) and age (P = 0.036) independently. All (n = 11) patients with radiological and/or histological evidence of dialysis-related amyloidosis at the time of ultrasonography had thickened supraspinatus tendon and/or femoral neck capsule; which were also thickened in an additional 22 patients without radiological evidence of dialysis-related amyloidosis. Three died within 5-10 months of the ultrasonographic investigation: post-mortem examination of the periarticular tissue confirmed that the detected thickening was due in all three to beta 2M amyloid infiltration.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8066296", "title": "[Fibrous frame of the rotator cuff. The concept of fibrous lock].", "content": "[Fibrous frame of the rotator cuff. The concept of fibrous lock]. MRI assessment of shoulder suggests the presence of a strong fibrous structure in the depth of the supra spinatus muscle. An anatomical study has been performed in 20 fresh human shoulders. There was a very strong fibrous frame within the anterior part of the supra spinatus m. and within the upper part of the sub scapularis. The upper part of the infra spinatus m. contained a significant fibrous reinforcement too so as in the teres minor m. The authors describe fibrous structures around the rotator interval, which constitute an antero-superior Fibrous Lock of the scapulo humeral joint and may help the repair of the full thickness tears of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "1491817", "title": "Radiology rounds: MRI of rotator cuff arthropathy.", "content": "Radiology rounds: MRI of rotator cuff arthropathy. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has proved to be an excellent diagnostic tool in evaluating the musculoskeletal system. This article illustrates one particular facet of musculoskeletal MRI: investigation of the rotator cuff tendon complex."}
{"id": "1287844", "title": "[Ultrasound assessment of reconstructed rotator cuffs].", "content": "[Ultrasound assessment of reconstructed rotator cuffs]. The evaluation of recurrent shoulder symptoms in patients who have had rotator cuff repair is a diagnostic challenge. Pain and limitation of motion may be caused by a recurrence of the rotator cuff tear. Arthrography is not considered to be helpful in postoperative cases, since it is false-positive in most of them. Pre-operative ultrasonography of the shoulder is regarded as a highly accurate diagnostic tool for rotator cuff tears. The diagnostic criteria used are: the continuity of the rotator cuff, its contour, its thickness and its echogenicity. Our study was aimed at determining which ultrasonographic criteria were significant for a retear. In addition, the \"normal\" postoperative sonographic appearance of the rotator cuff was established. Of 133 patients with a full thickness rotator cuff tear, 110 were evaluated 4-48 months (mean in 21 months) after surgery. A total of 85 cuffs were reconstructed, in 46 cases by direct suture, in 33 cases by suture to the major tubercle and in 6 cases by tendon transfer (Cofield technique). In 25 cases cuffs the could not be reconstructed. Subacromial decompression was performed routinely. The patients were evaluated clinically by range of movement, force and isometric and impingement tests. The subjective outcome was assessed by the algo-functional index of Patte. Ultrasonography was performed using a 7.5-MHz linear scanner. Each sonographic criterion was referred to the clinical and subjective findings. Ultrasonographic evaluation of the rotator cuffs that could not be reconstructed revealed non-visualization of the tendons. In 13 of the 85 patients in whom reconstruction of the cuff was possible a normal sonographic pattern was seen.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1489465", "title": "Fat-suppression MR arthrography of the shoulder.", "content": "Fat-suppression MR arthrography of the shoulder."}
{"id": "1475420", "title": "[The incidence and role of the os acromiale in the acromiohumeral impingement syndrome].", "content": "[The incidence and role of the os acromiale in the acromiohumeral impingement syndrome]. Os acromiale (an apparently supernumerary bone) corresponds to persistence of the lateral end of acromion ossification nucleus over 18 years of age. Os acromiale is articulated with the clavicle and the base of acromion; its incidence is high and often bilateral. A rarer variant is secondary os acromiale, lying between acromion and great humeral tuberosity. Both variants predispose to the onset of pain due to acromiohumeral impingement. Rotator cuff tears are frequently associated due to direct injury to subacromial compartment structures and to overtraction of acromiocoracoid ligament following functional overuse. Three hundred and ninety-eight patients were examined (313 males and 85 females, aged 12 to 71 years): 265 of them underwent conventional radiography with specific projections for the shoulder and 133 underwent CT. Dysplasia was observed in 9.55% of cases (38 patients), which is in agreement with reports by other authors. CT demonstrates the presence of os acromiale better than specific radiographic projections, without requiring painful patient positioning. Axial CT scans allow the depiction of subacromial compartment structures that cannot be demonstrated by US. The evident and frequent association of arthrotic-degenerative acromioclavicular alterations even after os acromiale assimilation confirms the close relationship of the latter bone to rotator cuff conditions, especially to rotator cuff tears. In our opinion, the correct description of this finding has high prognostic value in the subjects likely to experience functional shoulder overuse and allows the correct etiopathogenesis of pain. Therefore CT, which is an elective imaging method especially suited to demonstrate calcium-density structures, thanks to its high spatial and contrast resolution, can be used concurrently with MR imaging because it is less expensive and more easily available."}
{"id": "1423703", "title": "Shoulder tendinoses.", "content": "Shoulder tendinoses. The most common source of shoulder pain is soft-tissue dysfunction. Although fractures of the humerus, scapula, and clavicle are common throughout life, most problems encountered between the ages of 15 and 60 are related to the ligaments, tendons, and muscles of the shoulder girdle. This article deals mainly with tendinitis and tendinosis as primary entities, and to a lesser extent with tendon problems attributable to a primarily bony or ligamentous dysfunction."}
{"id": "1516301", "title": "Ultrasonography of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Ultrasonography of rotator cuff tears. This is a prospective study of ultrasonography of the rotator cuff mechanism as an alternative to arthrography for screening rotator cuff tears. Seventy-two patients (40 men and 32 women) with possible rotator cuff tears were referred for shoulder arthrography. Before arthrography, bilateral shoulder sonography was performed by a technician under the direction of a radiologist. Arthrograms and sonograms were read separately, and a decision as to the absence or presence of a rotator cuff tear was made without knowledge of the results of the other examination. The results showed 90% sensitivity and 91% specificity, with a positive accuracy of 87%, and a negative accuracy of 93%. Ultrasonography of the rotator cuff is a noninvasive, painless, and cost-effective screening method for patients with a suspected rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "1518937", "title": "Ultrasonography of the shoulder.", "content": "Ultrasonography of the shoulder. Shoulder sonography has been shown to be an effective noninvasive means of detecting rotator cuff tears and biceps tendon abnormalities. The examination requires careful attention to technique and a thorough knowledge of normal gross and sonographic anatomy. Rotator cuff tears generally cause a diffuse or focal decrease in the space between the humeral head and the deltoid muscle. Therefore, tears are easiest to detect by noting abnormally close apposition of the deltoid and humeral head."}
{"id": "1421996", "title": "MRI of the shoulder.", "content": "MRI of the shoulder. MR imaging of the shoulder has become an important imaging modality for that joint. Excellent soft tissue contrast and multiplanar acquisition provide optimal assessment of muscle, tendons, hyaline and fibrous cartilage, joint capsules, fat, bursae and bone marrow. The most common indications for shoulder MRI are suspected rotator cuff tear, shoulder instability, osteonecrosis, neoplasm and infection. In this article we describe MR technique, special anatomy of the shoulder, and diagnostic MR criteria of common pathologic conditions."}
{"id": "1411915", "title": "[Nuclear magnetic resonance tomography diagnosis of changes in the glenoid process in patients with unstable shoulder joints].", "content": "[Nuclear magnetic resonance tomography diagnosis of changes in the glenoid process in patients with unstable shoulder joints]. In 4 fresh specimens and in 14 healthy volunteers we studied normal anatomy of the glenoid labrum by MRI. In a total of 124 patients we examined the shoulder joints by MRI. 69 patients had any kind of subacromial pathology. 55 patients showed a glenohumeral instability. All MRI findings were compared with the surgical findings during arthroscopy and during open surgery. 44 patients showed a recurrent anterior instability, 7 patients showed a multidirectional instability, 2 patients showed a posterior instability, and 2 patients presented acute anterior dislocation. We found significant variability in the labral shape as well as significant variability of anterior capsular attachment. The pathologic changes of the glenoid labrum were classified in four different types. In 78% we found a concomitant Hill-Sachs lesion of various diameter. 5 patients suffered from an additional complete rotator cuff tear. Compared to the intraoperative findings MRI had a sensitivity of 95%, a specificity of 94%, an accuracy of 94%, a positive predictive value of 91%, and a negative predictive value of 96% in detecting labral pathology. Presenting a high diagnostic value for detecting Bankart lesions, MRI may replace other diagnostic modalities like CT-arthrography."}
{"id": "1391816", "title": "[The value of MR tomography in acute shoulder dislocations].", "content": "[The value of MR tomography in acute shoulder dislocations]. 24 patients up to two weeks after primary traumatic shoulder dislocation were examined at 0.5 and 1.5 T. Surgical and/or arthroscopic correlation was available in 13, CT-arthrographic correlation in 16 patients. A joint effusion allowing sufficient evaluation of the capsulolabral complex was present in 21/24 (87.5%) cases. 11/14 patients with combined dislocated detachments of the glenoid labrum and capsular lesions were subsequently operated upon. Marrow edema of the humeral head was found in 16/19 Hill-Sachs lesions and in 4/5 fractures of the greater tuberosity. Two patients presented with a lesion of the long biceps tendon associated with rotator cuff tears and were also subsequently operated upon. MRI performed shortly after primary traumatic shoulder dislocation allows a comprehensive evaluation of the intraarticular lesions and decisively influences further therapy."}
{"id": "1642657", "title": "Utility of high-resolution ultrasound for the diagnosis of dialysis-related amyloidosis.", "content": "Utility of high-resolution ultrasound for the diagnosis of dialysis-related amyloidosis. To evaluate the utility of real-time, high-resolution ultrasound of the shoulder in the diagnosis of dialysis-related amyloidosis. We performed a case series study of 2 groups of patients seen at a referral-based clinic in a tertiary care hospital. The shoulders of 13 patients with normal renal function and of 38 patients receiving long-term hemodialysis were studied by real-time, high-resolution ultrasound. All hemodialysis patients were evaluated clinically for the presence of dialysis-related amyloidosis. Surgical specimens of joints were available for all 13 patients with normal renal function and for 17 of the 38 hemodialysis patients. These specimens were evaluated for the presence of beta 2-microglobulin (beta 2m) amyloid by Congo red and immunohistochemical staining. Two ultrasonographic findings were selectively observed in the dialysis patients with clinical and histologic evidence of beta 2m amyloid in comparison with patients with normal renal function and no evidence of amyloid: rotator cuffs greater than 8 mm in thickness and echogenic pads between muscle groups of the rotator cuff. The presence of at least 1 of these 2 findings corresponded to the presence of clinically and histologically evident beta 2m amyloid with a sensitivity of 79% and a specificity of 100%. When additional patients without surgical specimens for histologic confirmation of amyloidosis were included, the sensitivity of these 2 sonographic findings was 72% and the specificity was 97%. Real-time, high-resolution ultrasound is a relatively sensitive and highly specific noninvasive adjunct to the clinical diagnosis of beta 2m amyloidosis in patients receiving long-term hemodialysis."}
{"id": "1620858", "title": "MR imaging of the normal shoulder: variants and pitfalls.", "content": "MR imaging of the normal shoulder: variants and pitfalls. In 30 volunteers with normal shoulders, the following conclusions were made with regard to normal anatomic features at magnetic resonance (MR) imaging: (a) The supraspinatus tendon has low signal intensity, except for a 1-cm area with intermediate signal intensity in the region of the \"critical zone.\" (b) The deltoid tendon attachment on the inferior surface of the acromion may simulate a subacromial spur if not imaged in continuity. (c) Fluid in the long head of the biceps tendon sheath is normal if not completely surrounding the tendon. (d) The anterolateral branch of the anterior humeral circumflex vessels in the proximal bicipital groove adjacent to the biceps tendon mimics fluid in the tendon sheath. (e) Continuity or obliteration of the subacromial-subdeltoid bursal fat plane is an unreliable diagnostic sign since the fat plane is often focally absent. (f) Fluid is not detected in subacromial-subdeltoid bursae. (g) Undercutting of the anterior glenoid labrum by hyaline cartilage or a closely apposed middle glenohumeral ligament may simulate an anterior labral tear."}
{"id": "1509033", "title": "[Magnetic resonance tomographic diagnosis of internal lesions of the shoulder following luxation. A comparison with arthroscopic findings].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance tomographic diagnosis of internal lesions of the shoulder following luxation. A comparison with arthroscopic findings]. Fifteen patients with a recurrent dislocation of the glenohumeral joint were preoperatively investigated by MRI. We created a special protocol with axial T1-, T2-, proton-density- and sagittal T1-weighted images. MRI findings such as defects of the glenoid labrum and Hill-Sachs compression fractures proved to be correct during surgery. In the chosen protocol the diagnostic imaging of rotator cuff lesions was not specific. In 10 cases lesions were seen but in only 5 patients did these findings prove to be correct during surgery. However, MRI imaging of glenohumeral joints is a reliable non-invasive diagnostic method."}
{"id": "1590124", "title": "MR imaging of the shoulder: appearance of the supraspinatus tendon in asymptomatic volunteers.", "content": "MR imaging of the shoulder: appearance of the supraspinatus tendon in asymptomatic volunteers. MR imaging has been shown to be accurate in the diagnosis of rotator cuff disruption and tear. Uncertainty remains about the significance of increased signal intensity in the critical zone of the supraspinatus tendon without visible disruption of tendon fibers and about the significance of other secondary findings commonly encountered with rotator cuff abnormalities, such as musculotendinous retraction or obliteration and fluid in the subacromial space. We evaluated proton density-weighted and T2-weighted coronal images (obtained on a 1.5-T superconductive MR imager) of 55 shoulders in 32 asymptomatic volunteers for signal intensity in the supraspinatus tendon, location of the musculotendinous junction, fluid in the subacromial-subdeltoid space, and appearance of the fat plane. In 89% of shoulders, the supraspinatus tendon showed focal, linear, or diffuse increased signal intensity with or without loss of the low-signal-intensity tendon margin on proton density-weighted images. None of these findings were confirmed on T2-weighted images. The musculotendinous junction was always located within an area 15 degrees medial to 30 degrees lateral to the highest point (12 o'clock) on the humeral head convexity. A peribursal fat plane was poorly defined or absent in 49%, and fluid in the subacromial-subdeltoid space was found in 20%. Increased signal intensity in the supraspinatus tendon on proton density-weighted images without a corresponding increase on T2-weighted images, the presence of small amounts of fluid in the subacromial space, and the lack of preservation of the subdeltoid fat plane are common findings in asymptomatic shoulders and by themselves are poor predictors of rotator cuff disease."}
{"id": "1642033", "title": "[Arthroscopy and MRT of the shoulder--a comparative retrospective analysis].", "content": "[Arthroscopy and MRT of the shoulder--a comparative retrospective analysis]. MR Imaging is proving to an effective means for evaluating the shoulder. The use of a surface coil and high resolution scanning techniques have allowed detailed analysis of normal anatomy and suspected pathology of the shoulder. On the other way arthroscopic inspection provides a more extensive visualization of the joint in different positions. 31 patients, well documented, were studied with MR Imaging and correlated with findings in arthroscopy and open revision in some cases. The MR studies were retrospective interpreted without the knowledge of the results of other diagnostic procedures. For the evaluation of rotator cuff tears MRI proved to have a sensitivity of 83.3% and an accuracy of 90.3%. When Arthroscopy was correlated with open revision the sensitivity was 61.8% and the accuracy 78%. Labral pathology and Hill-Sachs lesions will be better evaluated in arthroscopy as in MRI (sensitivity of arthroscopy 100% and of MRI 69%, accuracy of arthroscopy 100% and of MRI 87.1%). With the high resolution scanning technique and a surface coil MRI has been shown to be useful in the evaluation of rotator cuff tears and impingement syndrome but not in diagnosis of labral pathology and Hill-Sachs lesions."}
{"id": "1636859", "title": "Evaluation of ultrasonography as a diagnostic technique in the assessment of rotator cuff tendon tears.", "content": "Evaluation of ultrasonography as a diagnostic technique in the assessment of rotator cuff tendon tears. In this study we assessed the clinical usefulness of ultrasonography as a modality in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. One hundred twenty patients with preoperative ultrasonography were analyzed by diagnostic arthroscopy to evaluate rotator cuff integrity. Two groups, 61 patients with a positive ultrasonogram and 59 patients with a negative ultrasonogram, were analyzed. The 61 patients with a positive ultrasonogram preoperatively were found to have 42 full-thickness tears and 19 partial-thickness tears. Diagnostic arthroscopy confirmed a sensitivity of 95% for the full-thickness tears and 41% for the partial-thickness tears. In the 59 patients with negative ultrasonography, the specificity for full-thickness tears was 93% and in the 19 partial-thickness tears it was 91%. Our conclusion is that ultrasonography is an effective modality for the assessment of full-thickness tears, but not partial-thickness tears."}
{"id": "1613616", "title": "Painful shoulder syndromes: diagnosis and management.", "content": "Painful shoulder syndromes: diagnosis and management. Painful shoulder conditions are common primary care problems. Providers should learn the topographical landmarks about the shoulder and understand shoulder mechanics. A careful clinical evaluation will usually provide a likely diagnosis. In unclear cases with marked pain, weakness, and reduced mobility, or with a suspected rotator cuff tear or rupture, arthrography or MRI will usually establish a diagnosis. Therapy of bursitis/tendinitis consists of a steroid injection into the inflamed subacromial area or a 14-day trial of an NSAID. Therapy of bicipital tendinitis, largely empiric because definitive studies are unavailable for any specific treatment, includes judicious peritendinous steroid injections and avoiding aggravating activities. In the management of patients with suspected tendon tears or rupture, primary care practitioners can confirm the diagnosis by ordering MRI or arthrography before referring these patients to an orthopedist for definitive surgical therapy. Optimal management of adhesive capsulitis remains unclear, but an intraarticular steroid injection appears beneficial at least in temporarily diminishing pain. Pendular motion exercising is also an integral part of therapy. Deleterious effects of peribursal or intraarticular steroid infiltration appear minimal; but injections into the tendon or frequent, repetitive injections are contraindicated. Each shoulder condition has a variable course, depending on the structure(s) and extent of involvement."}
{"id": "1587891", "title": "Clinical diagnosis of tears of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Clinical diagnosis of tears of the rotator cuff. We have studied the reported clinical assessment of the presence and extent of a rotator cuff tear in 42 patients presenting to a special shoulder clinic. This pre-operative diagnosis was compared with the findings at operation. The clinical tests had a sensitivity of 91% and a specificity of 75%. It is important to exploit clinical examination before resorting to costly and sometimes harmful special investigations."}
{"id": "1563433", "title": "Shoulder MRI: the subacromial/subdeltoid bursa fat stripe in healthy and pathologic conditions.", "content": "Shoulder MRI: the subacromial/subdeltoid bursa fat stripe in healthy and pathologic conditions. The MRI appearance of the subacromial/subdeltoid (SA-SD) bursa is described here in both healthy and pathological conditions. Based on one case of rotator cuff tear and intrabursal fluid outlined by two adjacent fat stripes we reviewed 20 shoulder MR examinations to define the normal and abnormal appearance of the peribursal fat. We found four pathological patterns: lateral displacement, tear-drop configuration, obliteration and double fat stripe."}
{"id": "1583043", "title": "The normal glenohumeral relationships. An anatomical study of one hundred and forty shoulders.", "content": "The normal glenohumeral relationships. An anatomical study of one hundred and forty shoulders. We measured the dimensions of the humeral and glenoid articular surfaces in 140 shoulders that were representative of a given population of patients, and also evaluated several glenohumeral relationships. Ninety-six measurements were made in the shoulders of cadavera and forty-four, on magnetic resonance-imaging studies of living patients. Eighty-five per cent of the humeral measurements fell within eight fixed combinations of the radius of curvature and the thickness of the humeral head, in two-millimeter increments. The average radius of curvature of the humeral head in the coronal plane was 24 +/- 2.1 millimeters (range, nineteen to twenty-eight millimeters). The average thickness of the humeral head was 19 +/- 2.4 millimeters (range, fifteen to twenty-four millimeters). There was a wide variability in the size of the humeral head and a direct correlation between the differences in size and the heights in both men and women. The humeral articular surface was spherical in the center; however, the peripheral radius was two millimeters less in the axial plane than in the coronal plane. Thus, the peripheral contour of the articular surface was elliptical (ratio, 0.92). The radius of curvature of the glenoid, measured in the coronal plane, was an average of 2.3 +/- 0.2 millimeters greater than that of the humeral head. The average dimensions of the glenoid in the superior-inferior and anterior-posterior (lower half) directions were 39 +/- 3.5 millimeters (range, thirty to forty-eight millimeters) and 29 +/- 3.2 millimeters (range, twenty-one to thirty-five millimeters). The anterior-posterior dimension of the glenoid was pear-shaped, the lower half being larger than the top half. The ratio of the lower half to the top half was 1:0.80 +/- 0.01. There was a strong linear correlation between the lateral humeral offset and the size of the humeral head (radius of curvature and thickness). The average lateral humeral offset was 56 +/- 5.7 millimeters (range, forty-three to sixty-seven millimeters). The superior most point on the humeral articular surface was an average of 8 +/- 3.2 millimeters (range, three to twenty millimeters) cephalad to the top of the greater tuberosity. Our data show that reconstruction of the lateral humeral offset is important in optimization of the moment arm of the deltoid and rotator cuff and of the normal tension of the soft tissue after prosthetic reconstruction."}
{"id": "1581153", "title": "Periarticular soft tissue conditions causing pain in the shoulder.", "content": "Periarticular soft tissue conditions causing pain in the shoulder. Pain originating in periarticular soft tissues of the shoulder is a common clinical problem among the aged patients of both sexes, but it has become increasingly frequent in young individuals because of a health-oriented life style. In the past year, a considerable progress has been made in diagnosing these conditions, especially with the aid of magnetic resonance imaging. Our understanding of the pathogenesis of these conditions, however, has advanced very little, and we hope that more efforts will be devoted in the future to elucidate how the periarticular soft tissues of the shoulder react to diverse injuries they are exposed to."}
{"id": "1560504", "title": "Ultrasonographic guidance of needle placement for shoulder arthrography.", "content": "Ultrasonographic guidance of needle placement for shoulder arthrography. We describe a technique using high resolution ultrasonography for needle placement for shoulder arthrography employing the posterior approach, which to our knowledge has not been reported previously. Twenty-four patients with clinical suspicion of rotator cuff lesion underwent shoulder arthrography under sonographic control. Patients ranged in age from 26 to 72 years (mean, 57 years). Accuracy of the needle placement using this technique was 100%. There were no injuries to adjacent structures and no extravasation outside the joint. Although fluoroscopic control of needle placement during shoulder arthrography is the technique of choice, sonographic control using the posterior approach may be useful in certain situations (e.g., if the patient is concerned about radiation dose or if there is soft tissue injury at the anterior of the shoulder."}
{"id": "1553762", "title": "[Ultrasonography of the rotator cuff of the shoulder].", "content": "[Ultrasonography of the rotator cuff of the shoulder]. Clinical examination for rotator cuff (RC) tear is rarely conclusive. Arthrography has been considered the standard diagnostic procedure for detection of rotator cuff tears. Ultrasonography (US) is less time-consuming and less expensive than arthrography and is, in addition, noninvasive. During recent years, many reports concerning US evaluation of RC tears have been published, but with different results about the diagnostic value of the examination. Recently, some authors have pointed out the ability of US in visualizing degenerative changes in the RC and that it is difficult to differentiate between tears and degenerative changes. By review of the English literature, we conclude that the experienced examiner with proper equipment can confidently differentiate between normal and pathological RC an that in quite a number of cases it is possible to differentiate tears from degenerative changes. In case of doubt, the examination should be supplemented by shoulder arthrography. In the hands of an experienced examiner with proper equipment US seems to be suitable as the initial imaging modality for evaluation of RC."}
{"id": "1739001", "title": "CT and MR evaluation of the labral capsular ligamentous complex of the shoulder.", "content": "CT and MR evaluation of the labral capsular ligamentous complex of the shoulder. Stability of the glenohumeral articulation is dependent on the integrity of the rotator cuff, labrum, glenohumeral ligaments, capsular elements, and bony glenoid. The importance of the soft-tissue elements in maintaining stability has been well documented in the surgical literature but has only recently been introduced into the radiologic literature. The purpose of this essay is to illustrate the normal labrum, capsular complex, and glenohumeral ligaments, including common congenital variations as depicted by CT arthrography and MR imaging, and to describe the pathologic findings leading to shoulder instability."}
{"id": "1585252", "title": "[Isolated injury of the subscapular muscle tendon].", "content": "[Isolated injury of the subscapular muscle tendon]. Avulsion of the subscapularis tendon is caused by a combined abduction and external rotation trauma of the upper limb. Weakness of internal rotation and a positive apprehension test are clinical signs of the injury. A fracture of the lesser tuberosity in the x-ray film or a disruption of the subscapularis tendon documented in dynamic sonography of the shoulder clarify the diagnosis. Operative treatment is indicated of prevent weakness of internal rotation as well as anterior instability. This recommendation is supported by four cases with full range of motion and good anterior stability after surgery."}
{"id": "1585250", "title": "[Nuclear magnetic resonance tomography and sonography in diagnosis of lesions of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[Nuclear magnetic resonance tomography and sonography in diagnosis of lesions of the rotator cuff]. The diagnostic value of MRI and ultrasound in the examination of 37 patients with chronic shoulder pain is compared. All the results were controlled or by arthroscopy/arthrotomy or by arthrography. Ruptures and degenerative changes of the rotator cuff and degenerative lesions could be detected with a high sensibility. The ultrasound examination as a fast, reproducible diagnostic method has now become part of the routine diagnosis. The MRI produces exacter information about the extent of the lesions; but it will be reserved for special questions."}
{"id": "1561057", "title": "[MR imaging of rotator cuff tears].", "content": "[MR imaging of rotator cuff tears]. A total of 115 patients with clinical symptoms and signs suggesting rotator cuff tears underwent MR imaging with a 1.5-Tesla system. The body coil was used as the receiver coil in 24 patients and a single 10 cm surface coil in 91. Arthrography or MR imaging with intra-articular Gd-DTPA (MR arthrography) was performed in 95 of the 115. T2-weighted images with the body coil showed high signal intensity lesions in rotator cuffs in only seven of the 10 patients who had tears demonstrated by arthrography or MR arthrography. On the other hand, T2-weighted images with the surface coil demonstrated high signal intensity lesions in cuffs in all 27 patients who were diagnosed to have tears by arthrography or MR arthrography. In 12 patients, T2-weighted images with the surface coil showed high signal intensity lesions in cuffs, while arthrography and MR arthrography did not show tears. Surgery was performed in four of the 12 patients and partial tears were confirmed. A single 10 cm surface coil, 3 mm slice thickness and 2.5 second repetition time seem to account for the fine visualization of cuff tears by the T2-weighted images. These results suggest that T2-weighted images obtained with the surface coil are superior to arthrography and MR arthrography."}
{"id": "1729796", "title": "Full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff of the shoulder: diagnosis with MR imaging.", "content": "Full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff of the shoulder: diagnosis with MR imaging. The purpose of this study was to describe MR findings in full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff. Of 102 shoulders examined by MR imaging, 31 were found to have a full-thickness tendon tear at arthroscopy/bursoscopy (five shoulders) or open surgery (26 shoulders). All shoulders were imaged in oblique coronal and axial planes. MR images of the 102 shoulders were evaluated for (1) the presence of fluid in the subacromial and subdeltoid bursae; (2) abnormal signal of the supraspinatus, subscapularis, infraspinatus, and teres minor tendons; (3) interruption of tendon continuity and thinning of the tendon; and (4) proximal retraction of the junction of the muscle and tendon. The presence or absence of each finding was determined by consensus of two radiologists, who interpreted the images without knowledge of the surgical findings. Results in those 31 shoulders with proved full-thickness tears were: fluid in the subacromial bursae (29 shoulders), interruption of tendinous continuity (22 shoulders), focally increased signal of the tendon equivalent to that of water (27 shoulders), and musculotendinous retraction (24 shoulders). The finding of subacromial fluid was a sensitive indicator (93%) of a full-thickness tear, and interruption of tendinous continuity was a specific finding (96%) in diagnosing a full-thickness tear. Our experience shows interruption of tendon continuity is the most specific MR finding of full-thickness rotator cuff tears, while subacromial fluid is the most common finding."}
{"id": "1489363", "title": "Rotator cuff disease: assessment with MR arthrography versus standard MR imaging in 36 patients with arthroscopic confirmation.", "content": "Rotator cuff disease: assessment with MR arthrography versus standard MR imaging in 36 patients with arthroscopic confirmation. Standard proton-density- and T2-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and MR arthrography were used to depict rotator cuff disease in 36 shoulders in 36 patients; the findings were compared with arthroscopic findings in every patient. In 19 rotator cuffs normal at arthroscopy, MR arthrography revealed no tear in 16 patients, a partial tear in one patient, and a full-thickness tear in two patients. Standard proton-density- and T2-weighted images were normal in 15 of these patients and revealed a partial tear in two patients and a full-thickness tear in two patients. In 13 partial tears found at arthroscopy, MR arthrography showed a partial tear in six patients, no tear in five patients, and a full-thickness tear in two patients; standard MR imaging revealed a partial tear in one patient, no tear in 10 patients, and a full-thickness tear in two patients. All four full-thickness tears proved with arthroscopy were correctly diagnosed with both MR imaging methods. The main advantage of MR arthrography was better depiction of partial tears in the articular surface."}
{"id": "1304715", "title": "Rotator cuff disease: current trends in orthopedic management.", "content": "Rotator cuff disease: current trends in orthopedic management. Rotator cuff disease is a clinical entity that is frequently encountered in the typical primary care office. Of particular importance to the chiropractic physician is the close proximity of the shoulder joint to the cervical spine. Due to the relatively high level of morbidity in the population, rotator cuff disease should be looked at carefully on both the physical and advanced diagnostic level. Several factors contributing to rotator cuff pathology include subacromial impingement, the relative microvascular pattern of the cuff mechanism and prior trauma. The natural history of attrition and aging also play a role in rotator cuff disease. Advanced disease is successfully diagnosed through the efficient utilization and proper sequencing of advanced orthopedic imaging studies."}
{"id": "1729292", "title": "Shoulder MRI: arthroscopic correlation with emphasis on partial tears.", "content": "Shoulder MRI: arthroscopic correlation with emphasis on partial tears. In 28 patients the preoperative MR results and arthroscopic examination findings, in which both sides of the rotator cuff were systematically examined, were compared. The interpretive MR criteria were both sensitive and specific for detection of full thickness tears: 100% (5 of 5) and 100% (23 of 23), respectively. Criteria were insensitive in 71% (10 of 14) but specific in 93% (13 of 14) for detection of all tears; 4 of 9 partial thickness tears were not detected of MR. The potential significance of these tears and the use of fat suppression MR sequences to improve detection and depiction of rotator cuff abnormalities are discussed."}
{"id": "1727282", "title": "Nondisplaced fractures of the greater tuberosity of the humerus: sonographic detection.", "content": "Nondisplaced fractures of the greater tuberosity of the humerus: sonographic detection. In this retrospective study, the sonographic appearance of fracture of the greater tuberosity of the humerus was evaluated in 17 men and 14 women aged 20-69 years with acute, semiacute, or remote shoulder trauma in whom results of rotator cuff sonography had suggested the diagnosis of such a fracture. Clinical data, radiologic reports, sonograms, and initial plain radiographs of the shoulder were analyzed; clinical follow-up information was assessed in 22 patients. Sonography showed discontinuity and irregularity of the humeral cortex in all patients. In 25 patients (81%), displaced fracture fragments could be seen. Sonographic findings were suggestive of, but not specific for, fracture. Cortical abnormalities of the humerus were identified without modification of standard scanning protocols. A humeral fracture was confirmed with radiography in 24 patients; in 10 of them, the fracture had been missed initially on plain radiographs. It is concluded that, in evaluation of soft tissues in shoulder trauma, sonography may define rotator cuff abnormalities and occasionally help in detection of occult humeral fractures."}
{"id": "1550656", "title": "Arthroscopy of the shoulder joint.", "content": "Arthroscopy of the shoulder joint. Arthroscopy is without doubt the most comprehensive procedure for shoulder lesions, providing even better inspection of the interior of the joint than conventional open procedures. In 174 diagnostic arthroscopies, it proved more reliable than the computed tomography scan, ultrasound, or arthrography. The results of ultrasonography proved disappointing despite the enthusiastic reports on this technique, probably due to imperfections of equipment and lack of expertise rather than any inherent defect in the method. Arthrography seems to have a high incidence of false results. Though an invasive method requiring anesthesia, arthroscopy offers many diagnostic advantages such as an assessment of the role of the long biceps tendon and glenohumeral ligaments in recurrent or ordinary dislocation and the recognition of rotator cuff lesions not detectable at arthrography. It is also possible to assess the nature of shoulder instability and so to plan the appropriate operative procedure. A major advantage of arthroscopy is the possibility of carrying out treatment in the same session, though many of the suggested procedures are very demanding in terms of technical skill and time; the complication rate is often excessive. It is therefore best to restrict operative arthroscopy to simpler procedures such as irrigation in joint infections, the trimming of infolded flaps of labrum or stubs of biceps tendon, and the removal of loose bodies, where results are excellent. Arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff or stapling of the labrum are more questionable regarding successes, complications, and recurrence. The equipment for arthroscopic operations needs improvement. Perhaps the major advantage of arthroscopic diagnosis is that it directs open procedures to the essential, thus minimizing operative trauma."}
{"id": "1544313", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder. The authors have reviewed the field of magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder. This review includes abnormalities of the rotator cuff mechanism and glenoid labrum, and other disorders."}
{"id": "1366290", "title": "[Magnetic imaging of patients with neck and upper extremity symptoms].", "content": "[Magnetic imaging of patients with neck and upper extremity symptoms]."}
{"id": "1348555", "title": "[Ultrasonic examination of soft tissue injuries in the shoulder region].", "content": "[Ultrasonic examination of soft tissue injuries in the shoulder region]. Authors call attention with the demonstration of pictures of a few cases of their own to the significance of the ultrasound examination in cases of shoulder injuries. They stress that beside the demonstration of rotator cuff injuries the examination of the surrounding muscles and the labrum glenoidale should not be forgotten either. The modernization of the ultrasound devices, the improvement of the methods of examination and the obtaining of the necessary practice ensure a more and more important place to echography in the diagnosis of traumas of the motion organs."}
{"id": "1292554", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder joint.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder joint. Because the shoulder is the most mobile joint in the body, it is naturally predisposed to several disorders. The most commonly encountered disorders requiring diagnostic imaging are rotator cuff disease and glenohumeral instability. Plain film radiography and arthrography have for many years been the mainstays of shoulder imaging. CT added a third dimension to shoulder imaging, improving its sensitivity with respect to glenoid labral pathology. Ultrasonography of the rotator cuff showed early promise in noninvasive evaluation of cuff tears, but it did not gain universal acceptance because of various negative factors, including inadequate visualization of the cuff, poor results regarding partial tears, and most importantly, operator dependency. The development of MR imaging afforded the radiologist improved comprehensive visualization of the shoulder joint in a noninvasive manner."}
{"id": "1288377", "title": "[Contribution of gradient-echo MRI in the study of subacromial pathology: correlation between surgery and arthrography].", "content": "[Contribution of gradient-echo MRI in the study of subacromial pathology: correlation between surgery and arthrography]. 30 asymptomatic volunteer subjects and more than 400 patients with suspected rotator cuff lesions were examined by MRI at 0.5 T using T2*-PD weighted gradient echo (T2-GEI) sequences. Its superiority over T2 spin echo imaging was established in previous studies. The results were compared to those of surgery in 87 cases and arthrography in 233 cases (associated with CT arthrography in 70 cases). In the operated patients, T2-GEI and arthrography correctly diagnosed 49 complete ruptures (CR). T2-GEI was found to be superior to arthrography for defining the real extent of the rupture, the degree of tendon retraction and the local muscular trophicity, essential information to define the therapeutic indications. In contrast, among 22 lesions of the long biceps tendon, correctly demonstrated by arthrography or CT arthrography, 5 intracapsular lesions were not detected by MRI. MRI was able to detect 8 lesions of the anterior labrum associated with a CR not demonstrated by arthrography. Lastly, among the 18 cases of partial inferior rupture (PIR), 6 partial superficial ruptures and 14 cases of inflammatory changes, correctly diagnosed by MRI, only 8 PIR were also demonstrated by arthrography. For the non-operated patients investigated by the two modalities (146 cases), T2-GEI and arthrography were concordant in 43 cases. In contrast, 103 intact cuffs on arthrography showed features on T2-GEI compatible with tendinopathy without rupture, bursitis and degenerative changes. In the absence of very fine surgical or histological correlations for these small lesions, it is impossible, at the present time, to determine the real sensitivity and specificity of MRI."}
{"id": "1288376", "title": "[Ultrasonography of the shoulder: diagnosis of rupture of tendons of the rotator muscles].", "content": "[Ultrasonography of the shoulder: diagnosis of rupture of tendons of the rotator muscles]. After a short historical review of the use of ultrasonography to study shoulder rotator tendons, the technique of the investigation is described, as well as the main landmarks, findings indicative of complete rotator cuff tear, and limitations of ultrasonography in this indication. A number of issues concerning the preoperative workup are discussed. Results in a prospective study of 24 patients are reported. Findings upon ultrasonography, arthrography, and surgical exploration in these patients are analyzed comparatively. Sensitivity and specificity of ultrasonography for the diagnosis of complete rotator cuff tear (RCT) were 95% and 100%, respectively. These data show that ultrasonography is a reliable investigation for confirming, detecting, and evaluating RCT, although extensive experience with the technique is required."}
{"id": "1288375", "title": "[Radiological exploration of the shoulder rotator cuff].", "content": "[Radiological exploration of the shoulder rotator cuff]. Plain X-rays and Lecler's manoeuvre constitute the essential basic assessment in the diagnostic approach to lesions of the rotator cuff. The preoperative assessment of the lesions and the search for associated lesions are based on more or less invasive investigations. For many years, arthrography was the reference examination to establish a precise assessment, but was sometimes insufficient for the diagnosis of small partial non-communicating lesions and certain longstanding massive ruptures. Ultrasonography is an attractive non-invasive technique, but the quality of the results depends on the operator's experience. Although computed tomography and CT arthrography provide a perfect analysis of the anterior aspect of the cuff and evaluate the trophicity of the muscles, they are difficult to interpret, irradiating and sometimes incomplete. MRI, a non-invasive and non-irradiating technique, is the modality of choice due to its excellent contrast resolution and the possibility of multidirectional studies and a spatial resolution which is continually improved by new acquisition sequences and the use of better adapted surface coils."}
{"id": "1284020", "title": "Compartment syndrome of the scapula. Definition on clinical, neurophysiological and magnetic resonance data.", "content": "Compartment syndrome of the scapula. Definition on clinical, neurophysiological and magnetic resonance data. Compartment syndromes of the scapula and pelvic girdle have received scant attention in the literature. In 1938, Comolli first described a clinical sign which he considered specific to fracture of the scapula. We report data on two patients, one presenting with prolonged pressure on the posterior surface of the scapula and the other with symptoms associated with scapular fracture. In one of these patients we were able to measure pressures around the scapula, perform neurophysiological assessment of nerve function and produce magnetic resonance images of the area. In the other case, surgical exploration revealed an established ischaemic contracture of the infraspinatus muscle within its compartment. These findings suggest that the muscles around the scapula are vulnerable to the development of compartment syndrome."}
{"id": "1796284", "title": "[Sources of error in sonographic diagnosis of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[Sources of error in sonographic diagnosis of the rotator cuff]. Sonography of the shoulder joint has developed into an established examination technique in the diagnosis of periarticular lesions of the shoulder. Sonographic diagnosis of the rotator cuff in particular contains a multitude of possible errors, which are gone into by this study by means of 149 clinically, radiologically and sonographically examined shoulder patients with an average age of 50.5 years. Besides errors made by wrong examination technique such of the transducer as incorrect adjustment of the equipment, insufficient contact of the transducer with the skin and unsuitable choice of the examination plane, there are sources of errors in the interpretation of the sonogram caused by lack of knowledge about physically caused artifacts and sonoanatomical qualities of the shoulder joint. Calcification inside the rotator cuff and the so-called \"sonographic inhomogeneity of the rotator cuff\" are numbered among the sources of error particular to the shoulder joint. Most errors in sonographic diagnosis of the rotator cuff can be avoided by careful examination of both shoulder joints with an exactly tuned ultrasound device, taking into account the sonoanatomical and ultrasonic qualities. Radiological examination of the affected shoulder joint cannot be replaced by ultrasound."}
{"id": "1788428", "title": "[The significance of echographic signs in pathology of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[The significance of echographic signs in pathology of the rotator cuff]. Fifty-two patients, 17 acute and 35 chronic, underwent US of the shoulder. The first class of patients had clinical history of blunt trauma occurred 2 to 30 days before examination. The second class of patients included 15 patients with history of trauma occurred 3 months (or more) before examination and 20 patients affected with impingement syndrome. As to the US signs of rotator cuff tear reported in the literature, the results of the study, supported by arthrographic (21 cases), MR (2 cases) and surgical (24 cases) findings, indicate that their presence and significance differ in the acute and in the chronic patient and that: 1) Focal discontinuity, appearing as a hypoechoic area, is demonstrable only in the acute patient. The sign is due to a tear filled with blood and/or bursal liquid and holds high diagnostic accuracy. It is rare that an acute lesion appears as a hyperechoic linear density--which has doubtful diagnostic accuracy. 2) Non-visualization of the cuff is observable in both the acute and the chronic patient and indicates rupture in both of them. This sign has high diagnostic accuracy. 3) Thinning of the cuff is also observable both in the acute and in the chronic patient. Nevertheless, while in the former the sign can be regarded with confidence as indicating a tear in almost all cases, in the latter it may be due either to a tear or to degeneration. Arthrography or MR Imaging are therefore advisable in this group of patients, especially if surgical treatment is considered."}
{"id": "1939766", "title": "Double-echo MPGR imaging of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Double-echo MPGR imaging of the rotator cuff. T2-weighted gradient recalled (T2*) sequences are often used in place of T2 sequences when imaging the shoulder. The main advantages of these sequences are the decreased imaging time, the better demonstration of cartilage disorders, and the added tissue information that can be garnered due to the increased sensitivity to magnetic susceptibility with T2* sequences. Unfortunately, one drawback of T2* sequences that is less apparent with spin-echo techniques is the sensitivity of tissue close to the surface coil to undergo diffusely increased signal throughout an area in close proximity to the coil (coil-burnout). This phenomenon is a very bothersome artifact that can obscure tissue differentiation in this area. Fluid detection, especially in the subacromial bursa, can be especially difficult to diagnose in the presence of coil-burnout. We describe MR imaging of the shoulder using double-echo T2-weighted multiplanar gradient recalled sequences, which allow better evaluation of shoulder pathology."}
{"id": "1753360", "title": "[Scapulo-humeral periarthritis. From the clinical to the imaging aspect].", "content": "[Scapulo-humeral periarthritis. From the clinical to the imaging aspect]."}
{"id": "1945355", "title": "[Ultrasonic examination of the shoulder joint].", "content": "[Ultrasonic examination of the shoulder joint]. The anatomical basis of the application of ultrasonography to the examination of the shoulder joint and the diagnostic information gained by the technical possibilities of it are discussed. The author claims that by means of ultrasonic examination it is possible to judge the fact and localization of the rotatory cuff, the lesions of the tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle and inflammation of the joint, as well as certain lesions of the soft parts. In addition, it is possible to form by means of ultrasonography an objective judgement of the result of reconstructive joint operations. The values of the information gained by ultrasonic examination is compared to that of arthrography, computertomography and magnetic resonance examination. The author is of the opinion that of all these methods ultrasonic examination should be applied first."}
{"id": "1950493", "title": "Sonography for diagnosis of rotator cuff tear. Comparison with observations at surgery in 58 shoulders.", "content": "Sonography for diagnosis of rotator cuff tear. Comparison with observations at surgery in 58 shoulders. To investigate the correlation between ultrasonographic and anatomic changes of the rotator cuff of the shoulder, we studied the findings in 58 surgical cases. Fifteen cases had a full thickness tear, 10 of which had a positive and 5 a negative ultrasonogram. Nine cases had partial tears of the cuff on the bursal side. Ultrasonographically, 3 of these were normal. Among the 34 cases that proved to be normal at surgery, 9 had positive ultrasonograms. The predictive value of a negative examination was 0.8, whereas the predictive value of a positive examination was 0.6. A cautious attitude towards ultrasonography for evaluation of the rotator cuff seems appropriate."}
{"id": "1934094", "title": "Imaging techniques of the shoulder: present perspectives.", "content": "Imaging techniques of the shoulder: present perspectives. Through its ability to evaluate the individual components of the rotator cuff, the labral-capsular complex, the subacromial and subdeltoid spaces, and the glenoid, humerus, clavicle, and acromion, MRI provides a means of comprehensively evaluating the shoulder. Further advances in the use of intra-articular MRI contrast agents will undoubtedly enhance the role of MRI in the evaluation of subtle labralcapsular pathology. Although they are experimental, kinematic studies of the shoulder may provide valuable insight into the pathogenesis of disorders such as impingement syndrome. The ability of MRI to provide detailed pathologic information about individual components of the shoulder, particularly the rotator cuff, presents a challenge to shoulder surgeons. Patient symptomatology should be correlated with MRI findings and the clinical significance attached to different pathologies reevaluated. Through rigorous confirmation of MRI findings, dedicated therapeutic algorithms can be established based on detailed clinicopathologic data. Present and future surgical and nonsurgical management of the shoulder will undoubtedly be shaped by MRI."}
{"id": "1934091", "title": "Current concepts and recent advances in the athlete's shoulder.", "content": "Current concepts and recent advances in the athlete's shoulder. The demands placed on the shoulder girdle during athletics can often exceed its physiologic limits and result in significant injury. The goal of orthopedists, therapists, trainers, and ancillary personnel who care for athletes involved in sports which require extreme demands of the shoulder is to enhance athletic performance, extend their longevity, and prevent injury. With the new concepts available from basic science and clinical research, a clear understanding of normal architecture and biomechanical function of the shoulder girdle is better appreciated. A greater understanding of sporting activities and their physiologic demands on the shoulder are also more clear. The future of all this research seems to be pointing toward maintenance and restoration of normal anatomy and physiology about the shoulder girdle."}
{"id": "1887045", "title": "Effect of arm rotation on MR imaging of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Effect of arm rotation on MR imaging of the rotator cuff. The effect of humeral rotation on the appearance of the rotator cuff tendon in oblique coronal magnetic resonance images was evaluated in 70 such images. Internal rotation produced overlap of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons with soft-tissue interposition or apparent discontinuity of the tendon in 22 cases, including 14 of 15 shoulders positioned in the first 30 degrees between extreme internal and external rotation. Imaging in internal rotation makes assessment of the tendon difficult and should be avoided."}
{"id": "1767556", "title": "[Radiologic and sonographic screening study of shoulder joints of patients with rheumatoid arthritis].", "content": "[Radiologic and sonographic screening study of shoulder joints of patients with rheumatoid arthritis]. In the course of a prospective study at our department the shoulder joints of 50 RA-patients were examined. Two criteria have been applied: only righthanded patients have been examined in order to ascertain any prevalence of changes in the dominant extremity, and only patients who were primarily admitted to our department because of complaints other than those of the shoulder. Examination consisted of anamnesis, clinical tests, radiography and sonography. Reports in the literature concerning involvement of 60%. This percentage was confirmed in our clinical and radiological examinations. If, however, sonography is used, it increases to 96%. Lesions of the rotator cuff can be demonstrated, beginning on the synovial side above bone erosions, without any clinical signs or radiographic changes. Radiographic changes have been rated according to Larsen stages 0-5. Upward migration of the humeral head already before massive bone destruction of the shoulder seems to confirm an early involvement of the rotator cuff. Involvement of the acromioclavicular joint begins with Larsen stage 2 and often includes a distension of the joint cavity. The dominant extremity was not found to be affected predominantly. The therapeutic consequences resulting from this examination are discussed."}
{"id": "1759157", "title": "[Routine ultrasound diagnosis of the shoulder. A simplified examination procedure].", "content": "[Routine ultrasound diagnosis of the shoulder. A simplified examination procedure]. With increasing use of ultrasonography at the shoulder, a confusing number of transducer positions have been recommended. At the shoulder, however, dynamic examination yields more information than fixed transducer orientations. In our examination routine, the transducer is guided across the shoulder following the shape of a triangle. Orientation is secured by palpable, bony structures. The clinically relevant parts of the rotator cuff and the long biceps tendon are investigated, first medially and laterally in a transverse projection and then longitudinally. Dynamic examination is provided by moving the transducer as well as the shoulder joint. In a time-saving examination routine, all important soft tissue structures of the shoulder are visualized."}
{"id": "1745539", "title": "[Examination of the non-injured shoulder].", "content": "[Examination of the non-injured shoulder]. Modern imaging methods are undeniably very attractive. They should make possible an easy study of the musculotendinous rotator cuff of the shoulder joint, lesions of which are the cause of most painful or stiff shoulder syndromes. However, not all shoulder symptoms are due to rotator cuff lesions. Also, not all methods of imaging are equally suited to showing the different cuff lesions. Further, one cannot consider the treatment of a symptomatic shoulder without having an assessment of the present condition upon which to gauge the functional improvement due to the treatment. Hence clinical examination of the painful shoulder remains essential. This makes it possible (1) to exclude an extra-articular pathology, (2) to choose the method of imaging most suited to showing the suspected lesion, and finally (3) to quantify the functional state of the shoulder."}
{"id": "1910827", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of shoulder impingement.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of shoulder impingement. MRI is an accurate technique for diagnostic evaluation of a broad spectrum of shoulder pathology. In particular, rotator cuff injuries are a frequent cause of pain and disability. The mechanism of injury to the supraspinatus tendon usually begins with microscopic tears of fibers of the triple helix collagen molecule. This leads to increased motion of the bound water within the collagen molecule that lengthens the effective T2 of the tendon, allowing short TE imaging sequences to detect signal in abnormal tendons. Clinically significant disease probably does not occur without frank collagen rupture, and the associated collection of free water within the severely diseased tendon presents as high signal on long TE images. Thus, the clinical significance of tendon disease is best evaluated on long TR, long TE image acquisitions. Any process that accelerates microscopic tear formation or delays repair can increase a patient's risk of supraspinatus tendon tears. Impingement is the most important process accelerating microscopic tear formation. MRI's multiplanar, tomographic imaging ability markedly improves the ability to sensitively and specifically detect bony impingement. Hopefully, this will allow earlier arthroscopic decompression and improved patient prognosis with impingement."}
{"id": "2068322", "title": "Medial dislocation of the biceps brachii tendon: appearance at MR imaging.", "content": "Medial dislocation of the biceps brachii tendon: appearance at MR imaging. Abnormalities of the long tendon of the biceps brachii muscle commonly accompany other lesions about the shoulder, especially rotator cuff rupture, and are a frequent cause of a painful shoulder. The spectrum of abnormalities associated with medial displacement of the biceps tendon seen at magnetic resonance (MR) imaging was reviewed in six patients. MR imaging was performed on a 1.5-T system with use of a dedicated surface coil. The findings at MR imaging were correlated with those at surgery. Two types of medial displacement of the biceps tendon were identified. More frequently observed was a defect in the subscapularis apparatus that allowed intraarticular entrapment of the biceps tendon. Less commonly observed was incomplete dislocation, with the biceps tendon lying between a partially disrupted subscapularis tendon. MR imaging enabled accurate identification of medial dislocation of the biceps tendon and entrapment of the tendon within the glenohumeral joint. MR imaging also demonstrated the associated disruption of the subscapularis tendon that must be present to allow the biceps tendon access to the joint space."}
{"id": "1947305", "title": "Imaging evaluation of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Imaging evaluation of rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "1947299", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder. Magnetic resonance imaging is an effective means for evaluating the painful shoulder. It has been shown to display accurately pathology associated with impingement syndrome and is useful in the detection of tears of the glenoid labrum. The role of magnetic resonance imaging in evaluation of synovial pathology has not yet been defined. Additional work is needed in this area."}
{"id": "1942229", "title": "Unsuspected humeral head fracture diagnosed by ultrasound.", "content": "Unsuspected humeral head fracture diagnosed by ultrasound."}
{"id": "1874784", "title": "Repairs of the rotator cuff. Correlation of functional results with integrity of the cuff.", "content": "Repairs of the rotator cuff. Correlation of functional results with integrity of the cuff. We evaluated the results of 105 operative repairs of tears of the rotator cuff of the shoulder in eighty-nine patients at an average of five years postoperatively. We correlated the functional result with the integrity of the cuff, as determined by ultrasonography. Eighty per cent of the repairs of a tear involving only the supraspinatus tendon were intact at the time of the most recent follow-up, while more than 50 per cent of the repairs of a tear involving more than the supraspinatus tendon had a recurrent defect. Older patients and patients in whom a larger tear had been repaired had a greater prevalence of recurrent defects. At the time of the most recent follow-up, most of the patients were more comfortable and were satisfied with the result of the repair, even when they had sonographic evidence of a recurrent defect. The shoulders in which the repaired cuff was intact at the time of follow-up had better function during activities of daily living and a better range of active flexion (129 +/- 20 degrees compared with 71 +/- 41 degrees) compared with the shoulders that had a large recurrent defect. Similar correlations were noted for the range of active external and internal rotation and for strength of flexion, abduction, and internal rotation. In the shoulders in which the cuff was not intact, the degree of functional loss was related to the size of the recurrent defect.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1868561", "title": "Rotator cuff lesions. Acute and chronic.", "content": "Rotator cuff lesions. Acute and chronic. The complex anatomy of the shoulder often impedes the orthopedic surgeon's evaluation and understanding of injuries to the shoulder joint, particularly the rotator cuff muscle-tendon complex. Arthroscopy, MRI, and digital data analysis are several techniques now at the surgeon's disposal. This article reviews the application of these techniques in the evaluation of rotator cuff injuries."}
{"id": "2045395", "title": "Evaluation of the painful shoulder. A prospective comparison of magnetic resonance imaging, computerized tomographic arthrography, ultrasonography, and operative findings.", "content": "Evaluation of the painful shoulder. A prospective comparison of magnetic resonance imaging, computerized tomographic arthrography, ultrasonography, and operative findings. Twenty-one patients who had had pain in the shoulder for more than three months were evaluated with ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging followed by computerized tomographic arthrography. The results of the imaging studies were then compared with the operative findings. Magnetic resonance imaging was found to be the most useful modality for establishment of the etiology of pain in the shoulder due to disease of the rotator cuff, instability associated with abnormality of the glenoid labrum, subacromial impingement, stenosis of the coracoacromial arch, and osteoarthrosis of either the glenohumeral or the acromioclavicular joint. The accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging was found to depend on both the operator and the technique and was decreased in extremely obese patients, due to difficulties in positioning, and in patients who had had a previous operation. Magnetic resonance imaging was more accurate than either computerized tomographic arthrography or ultrasonography in identifying partial-thickness tears (intrasubstance changes in the rotator cuff). Magnetic resonance imaging provided the same level of accuracy as computerized tomographic arthrography in the detection of abnormalities of the glenoid labrum."}
{"id": "2045394", "title": "Evaluation of degenerative lesions of the rotator cuff. A comparison of arthrography and ultrasonography.", "content": "Evaluation of degenerative lesions of the rotator cuff. A comparison of arthrography and ultrasonography. A prospective study was performed to determine the accuracy of arthrography compared with ultrasonography in the evaluation of thirty-two patients who had a degenerative lesion of the rotator cuff. Both tests were done preoperatively, and the condition of the rotator cuff was determined intraoperatively. Arthrography was accurate in the diagnosis of twenty-eight (87 per cent) of the thirty-two patients (twenty who had a full-thickness tear, seven who had a partial-thickness tear, and five who had an untorn rotator cuff and tendinitis), while ultrasonography was diagnostic in only twelve (37 per cent). In this specific population of patients, arthrography was found to be superior to ultrasonography."}
{"id": "2027968", "title": "Biceps tendon dislocation: evaluation with MR imaging.", "content": "Biceps tendon dislocation: evaluation with MR imaging. The magnetic resonance (MR) images from six patients with biceps tendon dislocation--two in whom it was surgically proved and four in whom it was suspected--were retrospectively evaluated. The dislocated tendon can be identified medial to the bicipital groove, best seen on the axial and oblique coronal and sagittal images. Associated abnormalities of the biceps tendon include thickening (n = 3), high signal intensity (n = 3), and surrounding fluid (n = 4). The factors thought to contribute to dislocation can also be well seen on MR images. These include abnormal shape of the bicipital groove (n = 2), disruption of the coracohumeral ligament (n = 6), disruption (n = 4) and thinning (n = 1) of the subscapularis tendon, and supraspinatus tendon tear (n = 4). Since MR imaging is becoming the modality of choice for the evaluation of shoulder derangements, familiarity with the appearance of biceps tendon dislocation on MR images is important."}
{"id": "1802153", "title": "MR imaging of shoulder injuries in professional baseball players.", "content": "MR imaging of shoulder injuries in professional baseball players. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging was used to evaluate the shoulders of 10 symptomatic professional baseball players and one asymptomatic player, with surgical correlation in six cases and arthrographic correlation in two cases. Seven small rotator cuff tears measuring 0.5-1 cm were identified on MR images, with arthrographic and surgical confirmation of these findings in two patients and surgical confirmation only in three patients. Cortical irregularity and/or subchondral cyst formation at the posterior aspect of the greater tuberosity near the insertion site of the infraspinatus tendon was found in five of the seven players with rotator cuff tears. Similar findings were noted in the asymptomatic volunteer and in one of the three players without cuff tear, who also had irregular thickening of the posterior capsule. These findings are believed to represent chronic avulsive changes resulting from the deceleration stresses of the follow-through motion."}
{"id": "2036757", "title": "MRI and sonography of the shoulder.", "content": "MRI and sonography of the shoulder. We prospectively evaluated the diagnostic value of sonography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in 24 shoulders in 23 patients with suspected rotator cuff tears using arthrography as gold standard. Sonography demonstrated 14 of 15, MRI 10 of 15 rotator cuff tears, respectively. Sonography diagnosed seven of nine intact rotator cuffs correctly, MRI eight of nine. In a retrospective study we reviewed the diagnostic value of sonography and MRI in other pathologies of the shoulder including intra-articular pathology, humeral head and acromioclavicular joint pathology, and calcification. We conclude that with regard to cost and patient compliance, sonography should be the first radiologic examination in suspected rotator cuff tears if performed by an experienced sonographer. MRI is superior in depicting additional pathology and is less operator dependent. It may thus become the method of choice for the evaluation of the rotator cuff and related pathology in the future."}
{"id": "1670434", "title": "Isolated rupture of the tendon of the subscapularis muscle. Clinical features in 16 cases.", "content": "Isolated rupture of the tendon of the subscapularis muscle. Clinical features in 16 cases. Traumatic rupture of the tendon of the subscapularis muscle was documented as an isolated lesion in the shoulders of 16 men. The injury was caused either by forceful hyperextension or external rotation of the adducted arm. The patients complained of anterior shoulder pain and weakness of the arm when it was used above and below the shoulder level. They did not experience shoulder instability. The injured shoulders exhibited increased external rotation and decreased strength of internal rotation. A simple clinical manoeuvre called the 'lift-off test', reliably diagnosed or excluded clinically relevant rupture of the subscapularis tendon. Confirmation of the clinical diagnosis was best achieved by ultrasonography or MRI, but arthrography or CT arthrography were also useful. Surgical exploration confirmed the diagnosis in every case. Repair of the ruptured tendon was technically demanding and required good exposure to identify and protect the axillary nerve."}
{"id": "2014724", "title": "Shoulder surgery for rotator cuff tears. Ultrasonographic 3-year follow-up of 97 cases.", "content": "Shoulder surgery for rotator cuff tears. Ultrasonographic 3-year follow-up of 97 cases. We reexamined 97 of 116 shoulders operated on for rotator cuff lesions after an average follow-up time of 37 months. Seventy percent had a good or excellent clinical result, and 14 percent were graded as poor. Upon ultrasonographic examination of the 97 shoulders, 37 had a normal rotator cuff, 31 had thinning and/or hyperdensity, and 29 had a complete rupture of the cuff. Patients with concomitant anterior acromioplasties did better than those without. There was a poor correlation between clinical and ultrasonographic results. We recommend that rotator cuff tears should be closed only if this can be achieved without undue tension. If extensive tissue mobilization or coverage with alloplastic material or with regional muscle flaps is required, the lesion should be debrided and left open, and only an anterior acromioplasty should be performed."}
{"id": "2009680", "title": "Advances in imaging of rheumatoid arthritis.", "content": "Advances in imaging of rheumatoid arthritis. Several new imaging modalities have been found useful in clinical evaluation of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging has proven to be an excellent noninvasive method to evaluate the spine, shoulder, hip, and knees; its use for the evaluation of smaller joints is still being investigated. In patients with RA, MR imaging has been used to evaluate cervical spine instability, rotator cuff tear, osteonecrosis, and osteomyelitis. Patients with RA may have advanced osteoporosis, predisposing to insufficiency fractures. This includes fractures associated with increased activity after hip or knee arthroplasty. Newer methods for measuring the degree of osteoporosis include single photon absorptiometry, dual photon absorptiometry, quantitative computed tomography (CT), and dual-energy projection radiography. It has not yet been determined which of these methods will be most widely used in the future, but quantitative CT and dual-energy projection radiography currently show the most promise. Ultrasonography provides an excellent noninvasive method for the diagnosis of popliteal cysts, and color Doppler sonography can differentiate cyst and popliteal aneurysm. As compared to radiography or conventional CT, high-resolution CT provides an improved method to detect the early changes of RA in the lung parenchyma."}
{"id": "2057868", "title": "[Nuclear magnetic resonance tomography of changes in the supraspinatus tendon in impingement syndrome of the athlete].", "content": "[Nuclear magnetic resonance tomography of changes in the supraspinatus tendon in impingement syndrome of the athlete]. In 13 athletes with impingement-syndrome we evaluated the shoulder joints by MRI. We found significant changes at the bone-tendon junction of the supraspinatus tendon at the major tubercle. There were no intratendinous ruptures. The site of the pathologic changes at the insertion of the supraspinatus tendon may be caused by a tendinosis. Other reasons for the impingement-syndrome are discussed. According to our results an insertional tendinosis may be the reason for impingement-syndromes in athletes. Differentiation of impingement-syndrome may lead to a therapy based on the pathology. A subacromial decompression with resection of the coracoacromial ligament and anterior acromioplasty may not be of benefit to patients with insertional tendinosis of the supraspinatus tendon."}
{"id": "1847536", "title": "[The place of magnetic resonance tomography in the diagnosis of diseases of the shoulder joint].", "content": "[The place of magnetic resonance tomography in the diagnosis of diseases of the shoulder joint]. In a prospective study 43 patients with shoulder pain were examined by sonography and MRI. The findings were controlled by plain radiography, arthrography, and CT arthrography. Joint effusions and humeral head defects were equally identified by MR and sonography. In the diagnosis of labrum lesions, rotator cuff lesions, subacromial spurs, and synovial inflammatory disease sonography was not as accurate as MR. A special MR scoring system improved the diagnosis of an impingement syndrome."}
{"id": "2011836", "title": "[Diagnosis of arthritis with the aid of imaging methods].", "content": "[Diagnosis of arthritis with the aid of imaging methods]. Among imaging techniques plain radiographs still play an outstanding role in the assessment of osteoarthrosis. Main diagnostic features comprise joint space narrowing (often segmental in the initial phase), subchondral sclerosis and cyst formation (both predominantly in the stressed area of the joint), and osteophytes at areas of low stress, often at joint margins. Anatomy and stress characteristics of the joint involved decide upon pattern and extent of the degenerative changes. The most common sites of osteoarthrosis include the interphalangeal joints, often in combination with the first carpometacarpal and trapezio-scaphoid joints, hip, knee, and first metatarsophalangeal joint of the foot. For assessment of these easily accessible joints, conventional radiographic techniques usually provide sufficient information. In special situations where differential diagnostics are important, methods such as computerized tomography or scintigraphy may prove very helpful. In the hands of experienced users ultrasonography is able to depict accompanying soft tissue changes such as rotator cuff ruptures or cysts. Magnetic resonance imaging represents a promising tool for detection of very early osteoarthrosis; small areas of cartilage damage can be assessed adequately. Although this method will certainly give new insight into aspects of early degenerative disease, its use is still confined to research-oriented applications with respect to osteoarthrosis."}
{"id": "1985990", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder. Sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder. Sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value. The sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value of magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of lesions of the rotator cuff, glenohumeral capsule, and glenoid labrum were evaluated in ninety-one patients and fifteen asymptomatic volunteers. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated 100 per cent sensitivity and 95 per cent specificity in the diagnosis of complete tears, and it consistently predicted the size of the tear of the rotator cuff. There was a definite correlation between atrophy of the supraspinatus muscle and the size of a complete, chronic tear of the rotator cuff. The sensitivity and specificity of magnetic resonance imaging in the differentiation of tendinitis from degeneration of the cuff were 82 and 85 per cent, and in the differentiation of a normal tendon from one affected by tendinitis with signs of impingement the sensitivity and specificity were 93 and 87 per cent. The formation of spurs around the acromion and acromiocalvicular joint correlated highly with increased age of the patient and with chronic disease of the rotator cuff. The sensitivity and specificity of magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of labral tears associated with glenohumeral instability were 88 and 93 per cent. The study showed that high-resolution magnetic-resonance imaging is an excellent non-invasive tool in the diagnosis of lesions of the rotator cuff and glenohumeral instability."}
{"id": "1927353", "title": "[Gradient-echo MRI of subacromial pathology].", "content": "[Gradient-echo MRI of subacromial pathology]."}
{"id": "1927352", "title": "MRI and ultrasound evaluation of the shoulder.", "content": "MRI and ultrasound evaluation of the shoulder."}
{"id": "1842954", "title": "[Contribution of echogradient magnetic resonance imaging in the study of subacromial diseases. Surgical and arthrographic correlations].", "content": "[Contribution of echogradient magnetic resonance imaging in the study of subacromial diseases. Surgical and arthrographic correlations]. Fifteen asymptomatic volunteers and 300 patients with suspected lesions of the rotator cuff were examined with T2*- and proton density-weighted gradient echo (T2*-Rho-GEI) MRI sequences (500-700 ms/30 ms/30 degrees) with a 0.5 T (GE-CGR) system and an adapted surface coil. For the patients, the findings were compared with those of arthrography in 130 cases and of surgery in 42 cases. For the operated patients, T2*-Rho-GEI and arthrography allowed correctly diagnosing 31 complete ruptures (CR). However, surgical exploration of the ruptures showed that T2*-Rho-GEI showed the actual extent of the rupture and the degree of tendon retraction better than arthrography. T2*-Rho-GEI also provides information about the thickness and trophicity of the remaining cuff and on local muscle trophicity. T2*-Rho-GEI allows directly evaluating the tendon of the long head of the biceps both in its extra-articular and its intra-articular parts. In 3 cases of complete cuff rupture, MRI allowed detecting 3 associated lesions of the anterior labrum, which had not been suspected on the clinical examination and had not been demonstrated by conventional arthrography. Lastly, out of 12 cases of deep incomplete rupture (n = 12) correctly diagnosed with MRI, 5 had been undetected on arthrography. Similarly, 8 cases of inflammatory alterations suspected with T2*-Rho-GEI and confirmed by surgery had not been recognized with arthrography. For the non-operated patients, T2*-Rho-GEI and arthrography had corresponding results for the diagnosis of CR (8 cases), of DIR (6 cases) and of intact cuff (6 cases).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1812516", "title": "[Contribution of MRI to the preoperative evaluation of rotator cuff tears].", "content": "[Contribution of MRI to the preoperative evaluation of rotator cuff tears]. The authors report a series of 38 patients who had been examined by MRI and then operated for a rotator cuff syndrome. The correlation between the description of the cuff lesions after MRI and the surgical observations were excellent for 37 patients. In one case MRI showed a false image of tear of the supra spinatus m. on its anterior edge. This was due to a bad knowledge of the anatomy of the muscle and tendon and to a poor orientation of the frontal cut plane. This study was completed with MRI and anatomic study of 12 non embalmed cadaveric shoulders. The results showed that MRI was very sensitive (0.93) and specific (0.94) for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. MRI allowed also to show partial tears of the tendons of the rotator cuff. The authors propose a MRI classification of cuff lesions which permits to establish a good surgical planning."}
{"id": "2243995", "title": "Rotator cuff lesions: signal patterns at MR imaging.", "content": "Rotator cuff lesions: signal patterns at MR imaging. The signal intensity patterns of rotator cuff lesions at magnetic resonance (MR) imaging were evaluated in 80 patients who had surgical correlation and in 13 asymptomatic individuals (14 shoulders). Six cadaver shoulders were examined with MR, and histologic correlation was obtained in four. All studies were performed at 1.5 T with a flexible circular surface coil. The accuracy of MR imaging in detection of full-thickness cuff tears (31 patients) was 0.95 and of partial thickness tears (16 patients), 0.84. The most common and accurate pattern for full-thickness cuff tears (22 of 31 tears) was a region of intense signal seen on T2-weighted images. Less often the torn region consisted of an extremely degenerated and attenuated tendon with moderate signal intensity or was obscured by low-signal-intensity scar. The intense signal pattern on T2-weighted images was also accurate, although a less common finding (seven of 16 cases), in the diagnosis of partial tears. Tendinitis was recognized as focal or diffuse regions of increased signal intensity or a nonhomogeneous pattern of increased signal often associated with tendinous enlargement. In some patients, manifestations of subacromial-subdeltoid bursitis was present. Tendon degeneration was also manifested as regions of increased signal intensity. Some similarity and overlap of signal patterns of partial interstitial tears, tendinitis, and tendon degeneration are observed."}
{"id": "2176328", "title": "[The sonography of rotator cuff ruptures. The correlation of the sonographic, arthrographic and intraoperative findings in rotator cuff ruptures].", "content": "[The sonography of rotator cuff ruptures. The correlation of the sonographic, arthrographic and intraoperative findings in rotator cuff ruptures]. We have compared the findings of sonography, arthrography and at surgery in 66 cases of rotator cuff rupture in order to clarify the sonographic and radiological signs. Preoperative sonography was better than arthrography at demonstrating a partial rupture and at showing the extent of the lesion."}
{"id": "2267376", "title": "[Comparative arthrographic and echographic study of degenerative lesions of the rotator cuff of the shoulder].", "content": "[Comparative arthrographic and echographic study of degenerative lesions of the rotator cuff of the shoulder]. Sonography is a simple technique which is currently employed in the study of rotator cuff lesions in the shoulder. A comparative US and arthrographic study was carried out on 52 patients with a \"painful shoulder\", to evaluate US yield in this pathologic condition. Arthrography was positive for a rotator cuff lesion in 31/52 cases (25 full-thickness and 6 incomplete lesions) and demonstrated associated conditions (capsulitis, chondral lesions, lesions of the long head of biceps, capsulo-ligamentous hypotonia, effusions) in 11 case. Arthrographic findings were negative in 10 cases. US demonstrated a lesion in 25/31 of positive arthrographic cases, and it was negative in 3/6 incomplete lesions. In 7/11 patients US yielded additional information as to associated conditions. US false-positives were 3/10, while in the extant 7/10 cases US was negative too. Thanks to its high sensitivity and specificity (80% and 70%, respectively, in our series), US appears as a valuable diagnostic complement to arthrography; the former may even replace the latter in those cases where conservative treatment is expected."}
{"id": "2229570", "title": "MR evaluation of chest wall involvement in malignant lymphoma.", "content": "MR evaluation of chest wall involvement in malignant lymphoma. Chest CT and magnetic resonance (MR) examinations of 28 patients with newly diagnosed or recurrent lymphoma involving the mediastinum were retrospectively evaluated for evidence of chest wall involvement. Computed tomography demonstrated seven sites of chest wall involvement in four patients; whereas MR demonstrated 14 sites in seven patients, including all sites shown by CT. Eight chest wall lesions were located in the extranodal soft tissues (three sites were contiguous with anterior mediastinal lymphadenopathy; three sites were contiguous with pleural/parenchymal disease; and one each involved the breast and multiple vertebral bodies). Six sites involved lymph nodes in the interpectoral (n = 4), submammary (n = 1), and infraspinatus (n = 1) areas. Lesion conspicuity in the chest wall was better on T2- than T1-weighted sequences and was best on short inversion time inversion recovery. Detection of chest wall lymphoma may alter staging; when present in this group of patients, it influenced management in two of the seven patients."}
{"id": "2119117", "title": "MR arthrography of the shoulder: comparison with conventional MR imaging.", "content": "MR arthrography of the shoulder: comparison with conventional MR imaging. Twenty-three patients underwent both conventional MR imaging of the shoulder and MR shoulder arthrography for clinically suspected labral or rotator cuff abnormalities. Images obtained before and after contrast administration were studied independently, and without knowledge of clinical findings, by two radiologists for the presence of abnormalities of the glenoid labrum or rotator cuff. Results were correlated with surgical findings in all patients. Nine patients had surgically proved labral tears. MR arthrography detected all nine labral abnormalities, while six of the nine were missed on conventional MR imaging. Fourteen patients had surgically proved rotator cuff tears. MR arthrography detected 11 of the 14 tears and missed three partial tears on the bursal surface. Conventional MR imaging detected nine cuff tears and missed five tears; two of these were complete rotator cuff tears and three were partial tears of the undersurface of the rotator cuff. Our results suggest that MR arthrography enhances the accuracy of MR in the evaluation of the glenoid labrum and rotator cuff tendon."}
{"id": "2266516", "title": "[MRI in subacromial pathology. Report of 20 cases].", "content": "[MRI in subacromial pathology. Report of 20 cases]. The authors report the results of MRI performed in 20 patients presenting clinical symptoms of subacromial pathology. The MRI results are correlated to the results of arthrography or arthro CT scan and also to surgical results. MRI is an excellent technique if a precise protocol with T2 weighted images is respected in order to visualize tears or minor perforations of the supraspinatus muscle."}
{"id": "2203144", "title": "[Value of diagnostic measures in soft tissue diseases and soft tissue lesions of the shoulder joint].", "content": "[Value of diagnostic measures in soft tissue diseases and soft tissue lesions of the shoulder joint]. Calcifying tendinitis, acute tendinitis, frozen shoulder, rotator cuff rupture, subluxation of the gleno-humeral joint and injury of the biceps tendon are commonly classed under the blanket term \"peri-arthropathy of the shoulder\". It is now possible to make a precise diagnosis of these shoulder disorders by means of a clinical examination supported by X-ray examination, ultrasonography, arthrography, computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and arthroscopy. Calcifying tendinitis is diagnosed by consideration of the patient's history, followed by clinical examination and X-ray examination. Acute tendinitis is a clinical diagnosis, as is frozen shoulder. Ruptures of the rotator cuff can be detected by ultrasonography, which is a screening method; such ruptures can also be detected by arthrography. The localization and extent of the defect are best estimated by arthroscopy. Shoulder instability is another clinical diagnosis. Bony defects of the humeral head (Hill-Sachs lesion) or the glenoid rim are revealed by computed tomography (CT). CT arthrography reveals the presence of any Broca-Hartman lesion in the anterior inferior part of the anterior capsular mechanism. Rupture, subluxation or luxation of the biceps tendon are diagnosed either by clinical examination or by arthroscopy. Knowledge of the sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of the diagnostic procedures makes it possible to carry them out in a standardized, logical sequence. Arthroscopy allows a decidedly more accurate diagnosis than any of the other methods, but as it is an invasive procedure it should be kept until last when diagnosis of disorders of the gleno-humeral joint is required."}
{"id": "2367103", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder. The shoulder is now accessible to MRI owing to recent technical advances. The major advantages of this modality include its noninvasive nature, lack of ionizing radiation, excellent contrast and anatomic resolution, multiplanar imaging capability, and ability as a single imaging modality to evaluate simultaneously for a wide variety of pathologic processes. It is proving its utility particularly in the evaluation of the painful shoulder and the diagnosis of glenohumeral instability, rotator cuff impingement, tendinitis, and tear. We believe that with greater experience and large comparative studies, MRI will clearly demonstrate its superiority in evaluation of the shoulder and will almost entirely replace arthrography, as has occurred with the knee."}
{"id": "2200127", "title": "[Clinical management of lesions of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[Clinical management of lesions of the rotator cuff]. Lesions of the rotator cuff are caused in most cases by degenerative changes in the critical area around the tuberosities of the humerus. Clinical examination reveals atrophy of the supra- and infraspinatus muscles, a painful arc of movement and, especially, pain at night. There are many clinical tests that can be helpful in the diagnosis. Both ultrasonography and arthrography have proved to be very sensitive methods for the detection of rotator cuff tears. Ultrasonography allows determination of the size and location in addition. Conservative treatment includes rest, physical therapy and anti-inflammatory medication. In many cases the symptoms are improved by many weeks of conservative treatment alone. Operative treatment becomes necessary when no pain relief and no satisfactory movement can be achieved. Complete correction of the tendon defect is important for postoperative care. Passive exercise must allow the tendon repair to remain intact without subjecting it to undue stress."}
{"id": "2195474", "title": "The use of magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "The use of magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. One hundred consecutive patients with symptoms of chronic subacromial impingement syndrome were evaluated by both arthrography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques. By comparing intermediate and T2 weighted images, the ability to identify the normal and abnormal anatomy of the rotator cuff with the MRI was excellent. All 51 patients with arthrogram-proven rotator cuff tears had abnormal MRI scans (100% sensitivity). However, six of the 49 patients with normal arthrograms had abnormal MRI scans (88% specificity). At arthroscopy, four of these patients were found to have moderate to severe partial thickness rotator cuff tears. These findings indicate that in patients with longstanding subacromial impingement syndrome the MRI has an exceptionally high sensitivity for damage to the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "2188354", "title": "[MRI indications in the diagnosis of joint diseases].", "content": "[MRI indications in the diagnosis of joint diseases]. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the method of choice in depicting avascular bone necrosis, occult fractures, and internal lesions of the knee. MRI is a complementary examination in other pathologies of the joints such as rotator cuff tears, limbus lesions, carpal tunnel syndrome, and traumatic or inflammatory lesions of hand and foot ligaments."}
{"id": "2341451", "title": "Haemophilic arthropathy of the shoulder.", "content": "Haemophilic arthropathy of the shoulder. Among 41 adult haemophiliacs 15 suffered from shoulder symptoms. We examined 12 patients by radiography and ultrasound. Four had bilateral symptoms making a total of 16 symptomatic shoulders. Of these, 10 had abnormal ultrasound scans with eight having evidence of rotator cuff tears. Evidence of bicipital tendonitis was found in two. Pain with loss of range of movement and a positive impingement sign was the most reliable clinical indicator of a cuff tear. Joint incongruity and superior migration of the humeral head were the best radiographic indicators. Rotator cuff tears are a common component of haemophilic arthropathy of the shoulder."}
{"id": "2182260", "title": "Diagnosis and treatment of incomplete rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Diagnosis and treatment of incomplete rotator cuff tears. The histopathologic changes leading to rotator cuff rupture are gradual and progressive. Incomplete tears can be observed in the articular or bursal surface. These partial lesions are infrequently demonstrated with arthrography or bursography. Although structural variations in cuff integrity can be demonstrated with ultrasound or magnetic resonance imaging, precise definition of partial tears is difficult. The exact location and extent of incomplete tears can be documented with shoulder arthroscopy. Anterior acromioplasty, either open or arthroscopic, is indicated for the treatment of chronic mechanical impingement refractory to conservative management. When a sizable partial defect is identified at open surgery, the degenerated tissue is excised and the tendon is reattached to bone or repaired with side-to-side suture. Arthroscopic treatment consists of debridement of the torn cuff margins, followed by arthroscopic subacromial decompression (ASD). When the incomplete tear in an active individual involves more than one-half the cuff thickness, arthroscopic and open techniques can be combined. Twenty partial-thickness tears were encountered among 130 patients who had ASD for chronic impingement. Fifteen had a satisfactory result, but five required additional surgery. A system of grading partial-thickness tears based on location, depth, and area is presented in an effort to standardize the observations of various investigators and to permit comparison of the results of arthroscopic treatment."}
{"id": "2160695", "title": "[Magnetic resonance tomography of the shoulder. Possibilities of over interpretation of normal findings].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance tomography of the shoulder. Possibilities of over interpretation of normal findings]. In order to test the criteria for abnormalities of the shoulder as seen on MR, 30 normal shoulders were examined. The examination included T1, proton and T2-weighted SE sequences and T2*-weighted FE sequences, using transverse, oblique coronary and oblique sagittal planes. In 57% there was increased signal intensity in the tendon of the rotator cuff; this might have been interpreted as a rupture of the cuff or tendinitis. Anatomical examination suggests that the finding is due to a normal layer between the long head of the biceps and the tendon joint complex. The anterior glenoid labrum could not be clearly delineated in 57% and the posterior labrum in 5%. In two cases there was a superior, postero-lateral defect in the head of the humerus. The currently accepted criteria for the MRT diagnosis of shoulder abnormalities need to be critically re-evaluated."}
{"id": "2188343", "title": "[Imaging of the shoulder in orthopedic pathology].", "content": "[Imaging of the shoulder in orthopedic pathology]. Radiological examination of an unstable shoulder relies on straight X-ray images which are better than CT scans to detect bone lesions consecutive to anterior destabilizing accidents. The indications of CT arthrography are very limited. Radiological studies of the rotator cuff must necessarily include a standard radiological examination. Contrast arthrography is used either to find out whether or not the cuff is damaged, or when the tear is thought to be small. Arthropneumotomography is useful in the preoperative assessment of severe postero-superior tears. CT arthrography is very good to explore the subscapular muscle and to detect medial dislocation of the biceps long head tendon. The first results of MRI are encouraging, and when the cost of this method is reduced it might replace arthrography."}
{"id": "2188339", "title": "[Rupture of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[Rupture of the rotator cuff]. Spontaneous or traumatic ruptures almost always occur in a cuff that has degenerated due to overuse. Despite the lack of absolute anatomico-clinical correlation, two clinical types can be described: a conflictual, often hyperalgesic shoulder with its painful arch corresponding to a small anterosuperior rupture, or a pseudo-paralytic shoulder betraying a major posterosuperior rupture. Standard radiography with Leclercq's manoeuvre is performed primarily to find out whether the cuff is continent or incontinent. Modern medical imaging (ultrasonography or MRI) adds precision to the lesions when surgery is contemplated. When medical treatment has failed, partial ruptures are treated by arthrolysis; ruptures of the superficial and deep layers of the cuff without calcification benefit from endoscopy; ruptures involving tendons or associated with calcifications are treated by surgery. Small and medium ruptures with a continent cuff require endoscopic or surgical anterior decompression combined, in cases where the intra-articular long head of the biceps is exposed, with repair, usually by suture. Extensive ruptures with an incontinent cuff are treated by muscle transfer alone of combined with arthroplasty, or by semi-constrained total prosthesis when arthrosis of the humeral joint is present."}
{"id": "2180600", "title": "A comparative study of ultrasonography and arthrography in evaluation of the rotator cuff.", "content": "A comparative study of ultrasonography and arthrography in evaluation of the rotator cuff. Fifty patients with signs and symptoms of chronic impingement syndrome and/or rotator cuff tear were evaluated with shoulder arthrograms and ultrasonography. Ninety asymptomatic shoulders of a comparable age had ultrasonography to serve as a control group. All controls had normal ultrasonograms with no hypoechoic or sonolucent areas. The 50 symptomatic shoulder patients had the following: 28 had a normal arthrogram with either normal ultrasonograms or buckling of the supraspinatus tendon; eight had normal arthrograms, but ultrasonography indicated a thin (less than 4 mm) irregular supraspinatus tendon; 11 had complete rotator cuff tears visualized on both arthrography and ultrasonography (nine of these 11 patients had surgery confirming complete tears in all); two had a false-positive sonogram, and one had a false-negative sonogram. Thus, the ultrasonography's overall positive predictive value to detect a full-thickness rotator cuff tear was 85%, its negative predictive value was 97%, its sensitivity was 92%, and its specificity was 95%. Real-time ultrasonography is a diagnostically sensitive and specific noninvasive method to evaluate patients with shoulder impingement syndrome, leading to the recommendation that it be used as a primary imaging technique to obviate or supplement arthrography in evaluating rotator cuff disease. However, static ultrasonographic pictures, without real-time ultrasonography as a supplement, were not helpful."}
{"id": "2408095", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder. Magnetic resonance imaging is rapidly becoming the procedure of choice to evaluate the shoulder. This article reviews the relevant technical, anatomic, and pathologic features important in imaging the joint with magnetic resonance, with an emphasis on rotator cuff disease and shoulder instability."}
{"id": "2191826", "title": "[Use of digital subtraction arthrography in lesions of the rotator cuff--comparison with ultrasound].", "content": "[Use of digital subtraction arthrography in lesions of the rotator cuff--comparison with ultrasound]. 60 patients with suspected lesion of the rotator cuff were examined by digital subtraction arthrography and the results were compared to ultrasound. The dynamic study of digital subtraction arthrography visualised in 22 of 23 complete or incomplete cuff tears the exact location of the extravasation of the contrast medium. All diagnoses were confirmed by surgery. Problems of conventional arthrography were not seen by the digital method."}
{"id": "2181580", "title": "[Paraclinical diagnostic procedures in micro- and macrotraumas of the shoulder. Indications for echography and CT scanning].", "content": "[Paraclinical diagnostic procedures in micro- and macrotraumas of the shoulder. Indications for echography and CT scanning]. A careful physical examination is absolutely necessary as a first evaluation of all disorders of the shoulder before performing any imaging technique that must be chosen according to the kind of suspected pathology. The best indications for performing an arthroscanner are the intraarticular lesions such as injuries of the glenoid labrum and of the articular capsule. Echography is the most performing technique for bicipital and rotator cuff tendinitis. CT scan helps to understand the antero-internal retro-coracoidal impingment syndromes as well as uninterpretable bone lesions at standard radiography. Arthrography and arthro-pneumo-tomography are very useful for presurgical assessment of rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "2321039", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging in acute and chronic rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging in acute and chronic rotator cuff tears. Magnetic resonance imaging has been assessed in patients with acute rotator cuff tears and normal radiographs (9 cases) and those with chronic tears and changes of cuff arthropathy (9 cases). All images were obtained using a low field strength system (FONAR 0.3 T). Particular attention was placed on the appearances of the tendon and the cuff muscles themselves. Six complete acute tears were clearly identified, but MRI failed to demonstrate two partial tears. Muscle bulk was preserved in all patients in this group. In contrast, all patients with cuff arthropathy had complete tears of the supraspinatus tendon with marked tendon retraction and associated muscle atrophy: these changes precluded primary surgical repair. MRI should be used to assess muscle atrophy preoperatively in those patients with acute tears. When plain radiographs demonstrate cuff arthropathy, the MRI appearances are predictable and primary repair is unlikely to be successful. Further imaging is therefore not indicated."}
{"id": "2104694", "title": "Rotator cuff tears: diagnosis with sonography.", "content": "Rotator cuff tears: diagnosis with sonography. The purpose of this study was to determine the accuracy of sonography in the detection of rotator cuff tears. Eighty-one patients were referred by orthopedic specialists because of a clinical suspicion of rotator cuff tear. The standards of comparison were arthrography in 79 cases and surgery in two cases. The sonographic technique used was based on a review of the literature and experience gained by scanning normal subjects. The sonographic criteria for the diagnosis of a complete rotator cuff tear were a focal defect in the cuff or complete absence or nonvisualization of the cuff. All sonograms were interpreted prospectively without knowledge of arthrographic or surgical results. With arthrography as the standard of comparison for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tear, sonographic results included 15 true-positives, 52 true-negatives, eight false-negatives, and four false-positives. With surgery as the standard of comparison, the results were one true-positive and one true-negative sonogram. The sensitivity of sonography in detecting rotator cuff tear was 0.67, the specificity was 0.93, and the accuracy was 0.85. Our study found lower sensitivity and accuracy results for shoulder sonography than have been previously reported."}
{"id": "2076917", "title": "Spontaneous rupture of the infraspinatus muscle. A case report.", "content": "Spontaneous rupture of the infraspinatus muscle. A case report. Rupture of the infraspinatus muscle is rare and we have not been able to find any previous reports. We describe a case of complete rupture at the scapular insertion in a young female athlete."}
{"id": "2688240", "title": "[Ultrasonic diagnosis of the locomotor system. A review].", "content": "[Ultrasonic diagnosis of the locomotor system. A review]. The purpose of this overview is to discuss the numerous potential applications of diagnostic ultrasound in the evaluation of diseases affecting the musculoskeletal system. Traumatic and inflammatory conditions of tendons, intraarticular effusions and synovial thickening, derangement of articular cartilage, meniscal tears, rotator-cuff lesions and hip anomalies in neonates can be detected by sonography. In addition, hematomas, abscesses, cysts, soft tissue neoplasms and foreign bodies are readily identified using this technique. Sonography is noninvasive, readily accepted by the patients, relatively inexpensive and widely available. In future, further expansion of its role in the diagnostic work-up of musculoskeletal disorders is to be anticipated."}
{"id": "2694670", "title": "[So-called humero-scapular periarthropathy--classification and analysis based on 1,266 cases].", "content": "[So-called humero-scapular periarthropathy--classification and analysis based on 1,266 cases]. 1266 cases of Periarthropathia humeroscapularis (PHS) were analyzed according to their clinical and sonographic findings. We found in 32.8% a PHS simplex (simple tendinitis), in 12.6% a PHS adh\u00e4siva (stiff and painful shoulder with intact cuff), in 17% a PHS calcarea (calcareous tendinitis) and in 33.3% a PHS destructiva (rotator cuff lesions). Isolated tendinitis of long head of biceps was rare (0.7%). Frozen shoulder (adhaesive capsulitis) was differentiated from PHS adh\u00e4siva and accounted of 1.9%. 33.3% of frozen shoulder patients suffered from type I Diabetes mellitus. Women were more affected by PHS calcarea and Frozen Shoulder. The average age of patients with PHS adh\u00e4siva and PHS destructiva was definitely higher than that of PHS simplex cases. PHS adh\u00e4siva and Frozen Shoulder had an even distribution of affected sides, whereas the right side was favoured from 1.7:1 (PHS calcarea and PHS destructiva) to 3.5:1 (isolated bicipital tendinitis). Cases of rotator cuff tears were stiff in 33.7%, and had active limited motion (pseudoparalysis) in 28.5%."}
{"id": "2693553", "title": "[Morphological and clinical study of shoulder joint diseases by ultrasonography].", "content": "[Morphological and clinical study of shoulder joint diseases by ultrasonography]. The usefulness of ultrasonography in the diagnosis of shoulder diseases was evaluated from both basic and clinical viewpoints. The Yokogawa Medical System U-SONIC RT2600 (7.5 MHz probe) was employed for the study. Four-directional scanning of shoulder joints using the water immersion method was performed, and the results were confirmed by surgery. The average thickness of the supraspinatus tendon in the control group was 5.6 mm, increasing with aging after the forties. In the groups with diseases, the ultrasonographic changes were detected to be mild in the rotator cuff at the site uncovered by the acromion and to be remarkable in the long head tendon of the biceps and the head of the humerus were detected, and similar changes were confirmed by surgery. The above results suggested that the changes in the rotator cuff or its surrounding tissues, undetectable by conventional examination, could be demonstrated by ultrasonography and that this method is clinically very useful for the diagnosis of shoulder diseases."}
{"id": "2692080", "title": "[Magnetic resonance of the shoulder: technic, anatomy ana clinical results].", "content": "[Magnetic resonance of the shoulder: technic, anatomy ana clinical results]. MR imaging was employed in 232 patients with traumatic or degenerative lesions of the shoulder. MR diagnosis was compared with arthrotomic findings in 19 cases, and with arthroscopic results in 3 cases. MR technique is here presented and the choice of scanning planes is discussed, together with the sequences of image acquisition and with the features of the surface coil employed. Axial, sagittal, and coronal scans were used in all cases. Both sagittal and coronal planes were performed obliquely on the basis of precise anatomical structures. T1-weighted sequences were used for they are reliable in locating the various anatomical structures and efficient in defining the several different pathologic conditions. The role of T2-weighted sequences was complementary, and they were employed in selected cases only. A surface coil is presented with a particular configuration of easy clinical use and with such technical features as to allow reduced fields to be imaged, with good spatial resolution. MR imaging could demonstrate with equal accuracy both skeletal-cartilage components and capsulo-ligamentous structures, thus defining associated lesions and small tears. In both degenerative and traumatic lesions of the rotator cuff, MR imaging showed both extent and entity of the pathologic process, with high accuracy in defining the impingement syndrome. MR imaging allowed the depiction of the anterior and posterior glenoid labra, even without intraarticular contrast media. Moreover, MR imaging made it possible to recognize both fractures and degenerative processes within the glenoid labrum on the basis of their signal intensities. This preliminary experience allows the authors to conclude that MR imaging is an accurate and non-invasive diagnostic method for the study of traumatic lesions and of degenerative changes of the shoulder."}
{"id": "2685890", "title": "[The importance of imaging technics in the diagnosis of sports related periarticular shoulder lesions].", "content": "[The importance of imaging technics in the diagnosis of sports related periarticular shoulder lesions]. Numerous kinds of sports lead to lesions of the periarticular tissue of the shoulder, which can result in the supraspinatus syndrome or incomplete and complete rupture of the rotator cuff. Standard radiography is of limited use in the diagnosis of periarticular diseases of the shoulder. Osseous alterations in the greater tubercle and undersurface of the acromion can be explained as a supraspinatus syndrome or a long-standing rupture of the rotator cuff in connection with high positioning of the head of the humerus. A rupture of the rotator cuff is demonstrated by arthrography of the shoulder joint, a diagnostic method that we think is necessary despite regular examinations with ultrasonography."}
{"id": "2678248", "title": "Rotator cuff sonography: a reassessment.", "content": "Rotator cuff sonography: a reassessment. This study is both a retrospective and prospective evaluation of the clinical usefulness of shoulder sonography. Ninety-eight patients suspected of having rotator cuff tears underwent sonography of both shoulders. Sixty-two patients underwent double-contrast arthrography performed on the same day as sonography, and 38 patients underwent surgery after sonography. A comparison of the results from ultrasound and arthrography, using published diagnostic criteria, demonstrated a sensitivity of 75% and a specificity of 43% for detection of a rotator cuff tear. In this study, use of more restricted criteria, a subset of the published criteria, yielded a sensitivity of 68% and a specificity of 90%. A comparison of sonography with surgery, using this study's criteria, demonstrated a sensitivity of 57% and a specificity of 76%. This report shows that shoulder sonography is less reliable than previously reported and appears to have a very limited role in the evaluation of rotator cuff injuries."}
{"id": "2678247", "title": "Rotator cuff tear: clinical experience with sonographic detection.", "content": "Rotator cuff tear: clinical experience with sonographic detection. Between June 1986 and April 1988, 86 sonographic examinations of the shoulder were performed on patients suspected of having rotator cuff tears. Major sonographic diagnostic criteria included (a) a well-defined discontinuity usually visible as a hypoechoic focus within the cuff, (b) nonvisualization of the cuff and (c) an echogenic focus within the cuff. Seventy-five patients underwent both sonography and arthrography. Compared with arthrography alone, ultrasound examinations enabled detection of 92% of rotator cuff tears (24 of 26 tears), with a specificity of 84% and a negative predictive value of 95%. Correlation was obtained in 30 of these patients who underwent surgery for rotator cuff tear or other soft-tissue abnormality. In this group, the sensitivity of sonography for detection of a tear was 93%, with a specificity of 73%, while for arthrography sensitivity was 87% and specificity was 100%. These data indicate that sonography is a useful, noninvasive screening procedure for patients suspected of having rotator cuff injury."}
{"id": "2678244", "title": "Status of rotator cuff sonography.", "content": "Status of rotator cuff sonography."}
{"id": "2678284", "title": "[Rotator cuff lesions: evaluation with RM and US].", "content": "[Rotator cuff lesions: evaluation with RM and US]. Physical and instrumental examination of the patients with an \"aching shoulder\" is often difficult and a positive out-come of surgical treatment may be impaired by the late diagnosis of long-standing rotator cuff lesions causing tendon adhesions and muscle atrophy. The authors report the results obtained in 25 selected patients with an aching shoulder examined with arthrography, real-time ultrasound (US) with a 5 MHz linear probe, and high-field (1.5 T) Magnetic Resonance (MR) imaging. Arthrography was able to demonstrate a cuff tear in 14/25 cases; US detected signs of tear in 14/25 (1 false negative); MR imaging showed a cuff lesion in 16/25 patients, and in one case allowed a partial cuff tear to be demonstrated, which had not been visualized with arthrography. MR imaging could also demonstrate other signs of periarticular pathologies (tendinitis, longhead of biceps inflammation, and bursitis) that may represent the early stages of the inflammatory-degenerative process underlying most of cuff lesions. The high diagnostic accuracy of US (95%) is stressed in the detection of cuff tears, in patients with an aching shoulder; as for questionable cases at US, MR imaging is indicated as a valid alternative to arthrography, which is more invasive and less accepted by the patients."}
{"id": "2552528", "title": "[Lesions of the long head of the biceps--their pathogenesis and demonstration by imaging procedures (sonography, x-ray, arthrography and computed tomography)].", "content": "[Lesions of the long head of the biceps--their pathogenesis and demonstration by imaging procedures (sonography, x-ray, arthrography and computed tomography)]. Because of unusual anatomy and function the long head of the biceps brachii (LHB) is often subject to pathologic changes. On reviewing 354 sonographies of the shoulder (7.5 MHz), it was found that 61 (= 17%) abnormal findings of the LHB were reported such as degenerative changes accompanying impingement stadium II and III (atrophy, hypertrophy, effusion), intracapsular ruptures, acute isolated tenosynovitis and bony changes of the sulcus (bony spurs, shallow and dysplastic sulcus with subluxation of the LHB). Each abnormal finding was confirmed by x-ray and arthrography (some via CT) and compared with sonographic report. There seems to be a strikingly high percentage of rotator cuff tears connected with lesions of the LHB and the reduced filling of the sheath of the LHB, if combined lesions were apparent elsewhere in the shoulder. We consider sonography to be the method of choice in the assessment of LHB injuries; in case of verified lesion of the LHB, other pathologic conditions elsewhere in the shoulder are likely."}
{"id": "2678466", "title": "[Possibilities of sonography in the diagnosis of instabilities of the shoulder joint].", "content": "[Possibilities of sonography in the diagnosis of instabilities of the shoulder joint]. We present ultrasound investigation as a diagnostic tool for shoulder instability. The following structures are visible in the posterior transversal plane: subcutis, deltoid muscle, infraspinatus muscle, infraspinatus tendon, humeral head, scapula, dorsal glenoid rim, dorsal labrum, and the joint capsule. The relation of the humeral head to the glenoid can be judged statically and dynamically. Anterior and posterior instabilities and secondary signs of dislocation such as Hill-Sachs lesion and effusion can be seen. This technique is easy to learn. By comparing the injured with the normal shoulder the examiner can control his diagnosis. There is no need for positioning the patient in a special way. Sonographic evaluation is non-invasive and inexpensive."}
{"id": "2740508", "title": "Rotator cuff tears: diagnostic performance of MR imaging.", "content": "Rotator cuff tears: diagnostic performance of MR imaging. To determine the diagnostic performance of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in the evaluation of suspected rotator cuff tears, eight asymptomatic volunteers and 32 patients with rotator cuff tendonopathy who underwent surgery were examined with MR imaging. Twenty-four of these patients also underwent contrast arthrography. The ability of MR imaging to depict the size of cuff tears and the quality of torn tendon edges was also evaluated. The MR imaging and arthrographic studies were reviewed without knowledge of surgical results or of the other studies. A scoring system was developed and a score assigned to each patient's MR study. The sensitivity of MR imaging for all tears (partial and full thickness) was 0.91, and the specificity was 0.88; whereas the sensitivity and specificity of arthrography were each 0.71. The scoring system improved the sensitivity to 1.0 and the specificity to 0.92. Linear regression analysis showed excellent correlation between preoperative assessment of the size of rotator cuff tears and measurement at surgery (r = .95)."}
{"id": "2663290", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is proving to be an effective means for evaluating the shoulder. The use of a surface coil and high resolution scanning techniques have allowed detailed analysis of the normal anatomy of the shoulder. When evaluating for shoulder pathology, the choice of imaging plane and pulse sequencing will be determined by the suspected pathology. In patients with impingement syndrome, subacromial bursitis, supraspinatus tendinitis, and supraspinatus tendon tear can be differentiated, and the offending component of the subacromial are traumatizing these soft tissues can be identified. MRI is also useful in determining the extent of retraction of the supraspinatus musculotendinous junction and the amount of muscle atrophy in cases of massive, chronic tears. Labral tear or attenuation due to glenohumeral instability can be imaged without the injection of contrast material, and MRI can identify those patients with multidirectional instability. Because of the ability to directly depict bone marrow, MRI is the imaging method of choice for the evaluation of early ischemic necrosis of the humeral head."}
{"id": "2660541", "title": "Rotator cuff tears: prospective comparison of MR imaging with arthrography, sonography, and surgery.", "content": "Rotator cuff tears: prospective comparison of MR imaging with arthrography, sonography, and surgery. Thirty-eight patients with suspected rotator cuff tears were examined at 1.5 T by using a loop-gap resonator surface coil. The MR findings were compared prospectively in a blinded fashion with the results from double-contrast arthrography in all 38 patients, high-resolution sonography in 23 patients, and surgery in 16 patients. In the total group of 38 patients, MR imaging detected 22 of 22 tears and 14 of 16 intact cuffs as determined by arthrography. In the 16 surgically proved cases, MR and arthrography showed identical results, with 92% sensitivity in the diagnosis of 12 tears and 100% specificity in the diagnosis of four intact cuffs. In a subgroup of 23 patients, sonography detected nine of 15 tears and seven of eight intact cuffs as determined by comparison with arthrography. In 10 surgically proved cases, sonography was 63% sensitive in the diagnosis of eight rotator cuff tears and 50% specific in the diagnosis of two intact cuffs. For the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears, MR imaging is comparable to arthrography in both sensitivity and specificity. In this study, sonography was not as accurate in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears as were the other two techniques. These results suggest that MR imaging should be considered the noninvasive test of choice for patients with suspected rotator cuff disease."}
{"id": "2749464", "title": "[Complete rotator cuff lesions in athletes].", "content": "[Complete rotator cuff lesions in athletes]. The causal etiologies of complete rotator cuff lesions are described. Handball, volleyball, rugby, throwing and putting disciplins, but also tennis, swimming, golf and artistic gymnastics are regarded as sports especially straining the periarticular structures of the shoulder joints. In the period from November 1980 to April 1986, 72 shoulder joints with complete rotator cuff lesions were treated surgically (bilaterally in three cases). The 69 patients comprised 16 recreational and 11 competitive sportsmen. An average of 2.4 years after the operation, 66 shoulder joints (91.6%) could followed up clinically and sonographically with simultaneous use of a 100-point-score. Good and very good results were shown in 70% of the cases."}
{"id": "2544937", "title": "[Computed tomography of the rotator cuff--a comparison with other imaging technics].", "content": "[Computed tomography of the rotator cuff--a comparison with other imaging technics]. We consider CT to be suitable for investigating the following lesions of the rotator cuff: 1) tendopathia calcarea. 2) Rotator cuff atrophy suitable for surgery. 3) Bone defects. 4) Inflammatory changes with effusions. For demonstrating rotator cuff defects that might require surgery, we recommend CT arthrography, if possible with sagittal sections. This is particularly the case for younger patients with a history of trauma and evidence of a complex shoulder injury and in cases with persistent symptoms after surgical intervention of ineffective conservative treatment. CT, however, is only indicated if sonography supplies limited information or if sonography is negative with positive clinical findings."}
{"id": "2727354", "title": "MRI demonstration of radiographically occult fractures: what have we been missing?", "content": "MRI demonstration of radiographically occult fractures: what have we been missing? During the course of MRI examinations of the knee for possible internal derangement, the hip for avascular necrosis, and the shoulder for rotator cuff tears, we have encountered many examples of unsuspected fractures of the tibial plateau, femoral condyles, pelvis, hip and proximal humerus. These fractures were either radiographically inapparent or demonstrated very subtle abnormalities that were missed on prospective interpretation. In addition, a large number of patients have been found to demonstrate evidence of intraosseous trabecular disruption, or edema and hemorrhage of medullary bone, or stress type injuries, all of which are radiographically occult. The clinical significance of these osseous abnormalities varies and is dependent upon the degree of injury. It is believed that an awareness of these osseous abnormalities will improve the accuracy of MRI interpretation, will heighten an appreciation of the subtle radiographic abnormalities that may be present, and will improve patient evaluation and management."}
{"id": "2660887", "title": "Ultrasonography in lesions of the rotator cuff and biceps tendon.", "content": "Ultrasonography in lesions of the rotator cuff and biceps tendon. Ultrasonography (US) of the shoulder joint was performed in 88 patients, 15 of whom were referred for surgery. US was made with a real-time linear-array scanner, provided with a transducer of 7.5 MHz. Subsequently, all patients underwent single-contrast arthrography of the shoulder. When compared with the arthrographic findings, diagnosis by US showed 21 true positive, 3 false positive, 57 true negative and 7 false negative cases of a full-thickness tear of the rotator cuff. Small tears (2 cm or less in diameter) may be the most difficult to assess. US readily revealed biceps tendinitis and rupture of the biceps tendon, as well as fluid collection in the bursae above the rotator cuff tendons."}
{"id": "2655152", "title": "[Sonography of the shoulder].", "content": "[Sonography of the shoulder]. Sonography is a valuable method for the detection of rotator cuff tears. A high resolution transducer and an experienced examiner are necessary. The rotator cuff is not visible in large tears and has a convex outer border in small tears. Sonography reveals pathology of the subacromial bursa, joint effusions, inflammatory tissue in rheumatoid arthritis and often also bony erosions and tendon calcifications. Arthrography is still indicated in equivocal cases. Arthro-CT is the method of choice for the diagnosis of limbus and capsular pathology, but not for rotator cuff tears. MRI shows promising results in rotator cuff tears, but its role has not been definitively assessed."}
{"id": "2652050", "title": "Arthroscopy update #3. Chronic impingement syndrome. The role of ultrasonography and arthroscopic anterior acromioplasty.", "content": "Arthroscopy update #3. Chronic impingement syndrome. The role of ultrasonography and arthroscopic anterior acromioplasty. Diagnosis of advanced rotator cuff impingement syndrome has been difficult due to dependence on plain radiographs and arthrography, which in the absence of complete tears are frequently inconclusive. Advances in ultrasonography have enabled accurate diagnosis of the more enigmatic partial thickness tears of the rotator cuff. Until recently, advanced impingement syndrome resistant to conservative therapy has been managed by open anterior acromioplasty as described by Neer. This has required a prolonged postoperative rehabilitation program before return to normal activities of daily living and athletic participation. Precise diagnosis with ultrasonography and refined arthroscopic techniques have enabled us to identify 50 patients with resistant impingement syndrome and partial thickness tears of the rotator cuff, and surgically decompress the subacromial space via arthroscopic resection of the coracoacromial ligament and anterior-inferior leading edge of the acromion. Postoperatively there has been minimal pain. Return of nearly full passive range of motion has been achieved in all but two patients within the first week. Active range of motion exercises are begun on the first postoperative day and resistive exercises commence two weeks after surgery. Mean return of normal functioning in activities of daily living has been two months, while return to prior level of athletic activity has averaged five months."}
{"id": "2659355", "title": "Ultrasonography of the tendons of the shoulder.", "content": "Ultrasonography of the tendons of the shoulder. The purpose of the present study was to compare ultrasonographic signs with macroscopic and histological findings in lesions of the rotator cuff and the biceps tendon. Twenty-six shoulder joints from 10 male and 3 female cadavers, ranging in age from 40 to 89 years (mean 65.9), were examined with a linear array real-time ultrasonographic scanner provided with a 7.5 MHz transducer. Arthrotomy and histological preparations were made after ultrasonography. Thinning and discontinuity of echogenic homogenicity of the tendons of the rotator cuff were the most reliable ultrasonographic signs of a total tear of the tendon, but focal hyper- and hypo-echogenic changes of the tendons of the rotator cuff were unreliable criteria. Partial tears of the rotator cuff were difficult to determine with static ultrasonograms. Ultrasonography readily revealed discontinuity of echogenic homogenicity of the biceps tendon as a sign of a rupture of the tendon, which was commonly associated with rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "2648745", "title": "Sonography in soft-tissue trauma of the shoulder.", "content": "Sonography in soft-tissue trauma of the shoulder. Seventy-five patients with soft-tissue trauma in the shoulder region were examined by ultrasonography. Normal conditions were found in 21 patients, distension of the acromioclavicular joint in 17, muscle hematoma or edema in 9, biceps tendinitis in 8, hematoma or partial rupture of the biceps tendon in 5, rupture of the biceps tendon in 1, and supraspinatus tendinitis or partial rupture in 14. A correlation was found between the sonography and clinical course; normal sonography was consistent with recovery in less than 1 week, whereas patients with pathologic changes in the supraspinatus or biceps tendon generally had symptoms for at least 1 month. We concluded that sonography is a useful diagnostic tool for evaluation of soft-tissue trauma in the shoulder."}
{"id": "2675745", "title": "[Modern imaging in radioanatomic study of the shoulder].", "content": "[Modern imaging in radioanatomic study of the shoulder]. The authors describe the most appropriate imaging technique or techniques for assessment of each anatomical structure in the shoulder: the head of the humerus, socket, acromion, joint space, labrum, musculotendinous structures of the supraspinatus, subscapularis and long biceps muscles. The techniques used are the most useful view of standard X-rays, as well as arthropathy, CT scan, arthroscan, ultrasonography and MRI. This is a preliminary study to assessment of shoulder lesions. In the shoulder, radiologists are frequently required to identify the anatomical disorder as exactly as possible without falling into the traps associated with all forms of imaging even the most sophisticated."}
{"id": "2665103", "title": "Limited sensitivity of ultrasound for the detection of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Limited sensitivity of ultrasound for the detection of rotator cuff tears. Bilateral rotator cuff sonography was performed on 56 patients referred for shoulder arthrography to detect rotator cuff tears. Since one patient had bilateral arthrography there were 57 arthrograms. Twenty-seven shoulders had rotator cuff tears shown on arthrography, 15 of which were detected by sonography. Eleven were false negative by sonography, and one was indeterminate. Of the 30 shoulders with negative arthrograms, 28 had normal sonograms and two were false positive. Sensitivity was 58%, specificity was 93% and overall accuracy was 77%. The positive and negative predictive values were 88% and 72%. These results suggest that sonography has limited value in screening patients for rotator cuff tears and that a positive sonographic reading is more reliable than a negative one. Theories relating to the variable anatomic configuration of a tear are postulated to explain these results, which differ from those previously reported."}
{"id": "3055040", "title": "Rotator cuff tears: correlation of sonographic and surgical findings.", "content": "Rotator cuff tears: correlation of sonographic and surgical findings. High-resolution, real-time sonography of the rotator cuff was performed in 51 shoulders, and the results were correlated with findings obtained during subsequent surgery. Prospective sensitivity of sonography in detection of a tear was 100%; specificity, 75%; and accuracy, 92%. Retrospective estimation of tear size on sonograms correlated well with the intraoperative measurements for small and moderate lesions. Large lesions were often underestimated sonographically. Retrospectively, partial tears were correctly diagnosed in seven patients, and bursal thickening was recognized in 17 patients. Sonography of the shoulder proved to be an accurate, noninvasive method for the diagnosis of complete rotator cuff tears. It is useful for estimating tear size and location and may be useful in recognizing partial tears."}
{"id": "3183135", "title": "The painful shoulder: MR imaging of the glenohumeral joint.", "content": "The painful shoulder: MR imaging of the glenohumeral joint. We used magnetic resonance imaging in 41 patients with shoulder pain. Magnetic resonance was found useful in depicting the spectrum of rotator cuff abnormalities associated with mechanical impingement including both large and small rotator cuff tears as well as tendinitis. Abnormalities of the capsular mechanism, osseous tumors, osteonecrosis, and injuries to the supporting musculature are also well depicted."}
{"id": "3142923", "title": "Clinical significance of sonographic findings in the abnormal but intact rotator cuff: a preliminary report.", "content": "Clinical significance of sonographic findings in the abnormal but intact rotator cuff: a preliminary report. Shoulder pain is a common orthopedic problem. Clinical examination is often nonspecific and arthrography is normal in those patients with the most frequent cause of shoulder pain--noncalcific tendonitis secondary to impingement. Ultrasonography has recently shown itself to be of value in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. In addition to the diagnosis of tears, however, sonography can demonstrate abnormalities within the intact rotator cuff tendon. These abnormalities consist of changes in echogenicity and thickness of the tendon. The patterns of abnormality demonstrated correlate with pathologic changes seen in tendonitis. This preliminary study suggests that the ability to demonstrate an abnormal rotator cuff tendon has potential for becoming a valuable aid to the orthopedist in allowing confident diagnosis of rotator cuff disease in the presence of nonspecific symptomatology and an intact tendon."}
{"id": "3262276", "title": "MR imaging diagnosis of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "MR imaging diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. Thirty-one symptomatic patients were studied with MR imaging to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of shoulder MR in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. Correlative studies included arthroscopy in 19 patients and arthrography in 12 patients. Images were obtained on either a 0.5- or 1.5-T Philips superconducting magnet using spin-echo pulse sequences (650-850/30 [TR, TE], 2000/30, 100) with 5-mm slices oriented in an oblique coronal plane perpendicular to the glenohumeral joint. The MR studies were initially interpreted without knowledge of the results of other diagnostic procedures. The MR diagnosis of cuff tear was made when irregularity, discontinuity, and increased signal were identified in the rotator cuff. MR images showed tears in 10 patients (32%) and were negative for tear in 21 patients (68%). MR correlated with arthroscopy and arthrography in 17 of 18 normal patients, in eight of 10 patients with complete tears, and in one of three patients with partial tears. For complete rotator cuff tears, the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy were 80%, 94%, and 89%, respectively. For all tears (partial and complete), the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy were 69%, 94%, and 84%, respectively. These data suggest that MR imaging is an accurate procedure for the diagnosis of complete rotator cuff tears. The number of partial tears (three) in this series is too small to evaluate the value of MR imaging in the diagnosis of partial tears."}
{"id": "2845510", "title": "[Sonographic evaluation of the rotator cuff following reconstruction of complete ruptures].", "content": "[Sonographic evaluation of the rotator cuff following reconstruction of complete ruptures]. This is a report on the results of a clinical and sonographical re-examination of 66 shoulder joints after reconstruction of complete rotator cuff tears. One-third of the patients were asymptomatic, in more than half of them pre-operatively existing complaints had improved, and in 15% no improvement was seen. Clinical findings were without abnormalities in half of the patients. In as many patients indications were found of a still existing rotator cuff syndrome. Sonographically, in 49 out of 66 cases the continuity of the rotator cuff was maintained. In 17 cases indications of tears were found. Remarkable features were, in rotator cuffs with maintained tendon continuity, in 50% of the shoulder joints a thinning out of the tendon and/or echogenic patterns. Tears in the non-operated opposite side were found in 7 cases and thinning out and/or enhanced echogenicity in 12 cases."}
{"id": "3406398", "title": "Shoulder instability: evaluation with MR imaging.", "content": "Shoulder instability: evaluation with MR imaging. Instability of the glenohumeral joint is a common cause of chronic shoulder pain and disability. One or more episodes of subluxation or dislocation may result in a tear, detachment, or attenuation of the glenoid labrum, stripping of the joint capsule from the scapula, or trauma to the tendons or muscles of the rotator cuff. A series of 27 shoulders examined with magnetic resonance (MR) imaging showed changes of glenohumeral instability, which were confirmed with open or arthroscopic surgery. MR imaging was capable of displaying common types of pathologic conditions resulting from instability, including labral trauma, capsular detachment, and retraction of the subscapularis muscle. MR imaging is a valuable diagnostic tool for the evaluation of glenohumeral instability."}
{"id": "3071007", "title": "[Sonographic assessment of typical lesions in shoulder dislocation].", "content": "[Sonographic assessment of typical lesions in shoulder dislocation]. The traumatic dislocation of the shoulder joint is the most often joint luxation. The involved patients are often sporting and between the age of 20 to 40 years. The therapeutic and prognostic point of interest is to recognize and reconstruct injured structures. Among the soft tissue injuries the Bankart lesions, among the osseous injuries the Hill-Sachs defect are numeric well to the fore. Hitherto existing diagnostic methods for these injuries are either invasive or with X-rays. Its is demonstrated, that dynamic ultrasonography examination of the shoulder joint can visualize besides the rotator cuff abnormalities of the labrum glenoidale and the caput humeri outline."}
{"id": "3044661", "title": "Sonographic evaluation of the rotator cuff. Accuracy in patients without prior surgery.", "content": "Sonographic evaluation of the rotator cuff. Accuracy in patients without prior surgery. Since 1982 a sonographic technique has been devised to evaluate the integrity of the rotator cuff. In a series of 139 shoulders in 134 consecutive patients without prior surgery, sonographic results were correlated with surgical findings and/or arthrography. When sonography was compared with surgical findings (n = 90 shoulders), the overall accuracy was 95%. The sonographic diagnosis was the same as the arthrographic diagnosis in 91% of the cases (n = 50). Cuff lesions were also created in two cadavers, and images were made to confirm sonographic appearances. Because in the authors' experience sonography is accurate, safe, painless, rapid, and inexpensive, it has now been adopted as the primary study for the examination of the rotator cuff at the authors' institution. Arthrography is recommended in cases in which sonography is negative but there is significant clinical evidence of rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "3152389", "title": "Ultrasonography of rotator cuff tears: a review of 500 diagnostic studies.", "content": "Ultrasonography of rotator cuff tears: a review of 500 diagnostic studies. Ultrasonography of the rotator cuff has been shown to be of value in diagnosing rotator cuff tears. This report summarizes our experience with our first 500 diagnostic examinations. All patients were examined in the hyperextended internal rotation view with commercially available high-resolution real-time ultrasound equipment. Patients were diagnosed as having a rotator cuff tear if a focal echogenic lesion or a defect within the rotator cuff was identified. This study confirmed the value of ultrasonography for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. Accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity all exceeded 90%, and correlated with surgical findings. This was better than arthrography in the same patient population. Ultrasound is an accurate noninvasive method of examining the rotator cuff for the presence of tears. We suggest that rotator cuff ultrasonography is the procedure of choice for the diagnosis of tears if adequate instrumentation is available."}
{"id": "3289928", "title": "Value of ultrasonography in preoperative diagnosis of rotator cuff tears and postoperative follow-up.", "content": "Value of ultrasonography in preoperative diagnosis of rotator cuff tears and postoperative follow-up. Four hundred and six patients presenting with shoulder pain underwent bilateral shoulder ultrasonography. Rotator cuff lesions were diagnosed in 197 patients. In 155 of the 308 patients who had additional arthrographic examinations, the arthrogram documented rotator cuff tears. Sixty-eight patients underwent surgery. There was good correlation between the ultrasonographic and arthrographic findings as well as the surgical results, with a sensitivity of 91% for each examination technique. Thirty-six postoperative patients were studied ultrasonographically; a minor to marked increase in rotator cuff echogenicity was demonstrated in them all. Its high predictive value makes ultrasonography the method of choice in diagnosing rotator cuff tears. Based on the evaluation of particular criteria, rotator cuff tears (greater than 1 cm) are commonly documented by ultrasonography. Only in patients with indeterminate or negative ultrasonograms in whom there is a high index of clinical suspicion, should arthrography be performed as a complementary imaging test. In postoperative follow-up the degree of scar formation at the reinsertion of the tendon is adequately documented by ultrasonography."}
{"id": "3282405", "title": "Sonography of the postoperative shoulder.", "content": "Sonography of the postoperative shoulder. Fifty-three patients with 60 symptomatic shoulders underwent shoulder sonography for recurrent postoperative symptoms after either acromioplasty (10 shoulders) or repair of a full-thickness rotator cuff tear in addition to acromioplasty (50 shoulders). Because surgery distorts landmarks, an understanding of the surgical procedures and their characteristic sonographic appearances is essential. After acromioplasty, the characteristic sharp margination or the acromion was replaced by a less distinct, irregular surface. After repair of a cuff tear, characteristic sonographic appearances included visualization of a reimplantation trough and loss of the echogenic subdeltoid bursa. When the cuff was intact after surgery, echogenicity was abnormal in all cases (17 shoulders). Sonography accurately diagnosed recurrent cuff tears in all 26 shoulders in which surgical proof was available and confirmed an intact cuff in 10 of 11 cases. In one shoulder, a cuff hematoma was incorrectly interpreted as a full-thickness tear. These findings suggest that sonography is an effective procedure for evaluating a postoperative patient with recurrent shoulder symptoms."}
{"id": "3363114", "title": "[Possibilities of magnetic resonance tomography in diagnostic imaging of the shoulder joint].", "content": "[Possibilities of magnetic resonance tomography in diagnostic imaging of the shoulder joint]. By virtue of its multiplanar representation, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) allows clear visualization of the complex anatomical relationships of the shoulder joint. In addition to axial planes, slices perpendicular and parallel to the glenoid cavity are used to good advantage. In tears of the rotator cuff an increase in signal intensity within the cuff is recognized in T2- and proton-density-weighted images. Lesions of the glenoid labrum following luxations of the glenohumeral joint can be detected and classified using MRI. The diagnostic value of MRI as compared with other imaging modalities will have to be evaluated in larger series with operative verification."}
{"id": "3363113", "title": "[Significance of a transthoracic imaging technic in shoulder arthrography].", "content": "[Significance of a transthoracic imaging technic in shoulder arthrography]. Even in this era of sonography, arthrography of the shoulder is an important diagnostic investigation, making it possible to exclude unrecognized connective tissue lesions in patients with chronic shoulder pain resistant to therapy. Sometimes standard X-ray techniques do not yield all the information the surgeon needs about ventral or dorsal localization of a rotator-cuff rupture. An additional approach to the joint is needed: a transthoracic lateral-view X-ray provides the surgeon with adequate information to help in selection of the most appropriate operative approach to the shoulder."}
{"id": "3283828", "title": "[Sonography of the shoulder joint. Study technic, sonomorphology and diagnostic significance].", "content": "[Sonography of the shoulder joint. Study technic, sonomorphology and diagnostic significance]. In the evaluation of the impingement syndrome, conventional radiography can only show secondary bony changes. Sonography is able to demonstrate the anatomy of the musculotendinous structure of the rotator cuff. Lesions can be detected with the same accuracy and specificity as by contrast arthrography. As sonography is a non-invasive method, it should be used routinely to test rotator cuff integrity. Joint effusions and proliferative synovial changes are easily demonstrated by sonography. It is thus possible to perform follow-up studies in a pre-erosive stage of rheumatoid arthritis."}
{"id": "3257322", "title": "Shoulder impingement syndrome: MR findings in 53 shoulders.", "content": "Shoulder impingement syndrome: MR findings in 53 shoulders. The shoulder impingement syndrome refers to a condition in which the supraspinatus tendon and subacromial bursa are chronically entrapped between the humeral head inferiorly and either the anterior acromion itself, spurs of the anterior acromion or acromioclavicular joint, or the coracoacromial ligament superiorly. As a result, the space for the bursa and tendon is reduced, and repeated trauma to these structures leads to bursitis and rotator cuff injury. Although pain and limitation of motion are common early findings, the diagnosis is often delayed until a complete tear of the rotator cuff has occurred. In an attempt to determine if MR can be used to depict the abnormalities associated with impingement syndrome (subacromial bursitis, supraspinatus tendinitis, and rotator cuff tear), we reviewed 107 MR scans of painful shoulders. Changes consistent with impingement syndrome were found in 53 patients (50%), 32 of whom underwent subsequent arthrography or surgery. MR was found capable of depicting several soft-tissue and bony abnormalities that have been clinically described in impingement syndrome. In regions of inflammation, we found that the supraspinatus tendon and/or the subacromial bursa were compressed by spurs (25 shoulders), capsular hypertrophy of the acromioclavicular joint (six shoulders), and/or low-lying acromion (14 shoulders). While T1-weighted MR imaging was highly sensitive to abnormalities of the supraspinatus tendon, tendinitis could be differentiated from a small tear of the supraspinatus tendon only with T2-weighted imaging. Large, full-thickness tears, especially if chronic, produced characteristic MR findings on both T1- and T2-weighted images. We conclude that MR can be used to detect several abnormalities associated with the shoulder impingement syndrome."}
{"id": "3336681", "title": "Rotator cuff impingement syndrome: MR imaging.", "content": "Rotator cuff impingement syndrome: MR imaging. Ten patients with clinically suspected rotator cuff impingement syndrome were evaluated with magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, double contrast arthrography, and conventional radiography. An area of increased signal intensity in the tendinous portion of the rotator cuff was seen in eight of ten patients on images obtained with a short repetition time (TR) and short echo time (TE) and those obtained with a long TR and long TE with spin-echo sequences. Microscopic findings, available in five patients, indicated that these areas of increased intensity corresponded to degeneration and inflammation of the rotator cuff. A previously injected long-acting steroid preparation combined with a local anesthetic, which also produces an area of increased signal intensity on long TR, long TE images, can cause problems with image interpretation. No tears of the rotator cuff were detected with MR imaging. However, a full-thickness cuff tear was detected with arthrography in three patients. Although based on a relatively small group of patients, these preliminary findings suggest that MR imaging is capable of demonstrating rotator cuff abnormalities in patients with impingement syndrome."}
{"id": "3282806", "title": "Current concepts in the radiographic evaluation of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Current concepts in the radiographic evaluation of the rotator cuff. This review discusses the disease of the rotator cuff and evaluates our current tools for imaging it. The rotator cuff consists of the cojoined tendons of the short rotator muscles of the shoulder. Derangements of the cuff, which can result from degeneration, trauma, or overuse, are frequent causes of shoulder pain. Until the present decade, imaging of the cuff depended on injection of contrast into either the underlying joint (arthrogram) or overlying bursa (bursogram). Computed tomography (CT) has added additional dimensions to arthrography but has not played a major role in the diagnosis of cuff pathology. Ultrasonography (US) has been shown to be of diagnostic value in imaging cuff tears and has shown promise in defining pathology in the intact cuff. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has the potential for imaging the cuff; its roles here are not yet defined."}
{"id": "3281690", "title": "Sonographic evaluation of the rotator cuff: correlation with arthroscopy.", "content": "Sonographic evaluation of the rotator cuff: correlation with arthroscopy. High-resolution real-time sonography has been reported as a non-invasive means of evaluating the integrity of the rotator cuff. Fifty-two patients underwent both sonographic and arthroscopic evaluation of the rotator cuff. There were 42 men and 10 women with an average age of 47 years (range 28-71 years). The duration of shoulder pain averaged 24 months (range 3 months to 9 years). Thirty-five rotator cuff tears were noted arthroscopically. Twenty-seven of the tears were diagnosed by sonography for a sensitivity rate of 77%. Eleven of the 17 intact rotator cuffs were normal by sonography for a specificity rate 65%. The overall accuracy of sonography was 73% and the predictive value of a positive sonogram was 82%. Sonography appears to be a good initial screening examination in evaluating the integrity of the rotator cuff. It is noninvasive and relatively inexpensive. Technical limitations of this technique as well as the experience of the radiologist in performing and interpreting the examination play a major role in the accuracy of this test. As instrumentation improves and as experience in using this technique increases, we expect the accuracy of sonography in detecting tears of the rotator cuff to continue to improve."}
{"id": "3275956", "title": "Sonographic evaluation of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Sonographic evaluation of the rotator cuff. This article emphasizes the utility of ultrasound examination in the diagnosis of rotator cuff disease. A complete description is given of the way in which ultrasound examination of the shoulder is performed, the illustrations demonstrating normal anatomy as well as staging of the disease. The use of ultrasound in this setting can help to prevent a great deal of the pain associated with shoulder injury by establishing the nature and stage of injury before rotator cuff tear occurs."}
{"id": "3068723", "title": "[Repair of severe ruptures of the rotator cuff of the shoulder].", "content": "[Repair of severe ruptures of the rotator cuff of the shoulder]."}
{"id": "3317534", "title": "[Ultrasonics of the shoulder. Diagnostic possibilities in lesions of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[Ultrasonics of the shoulder. Diagnostic possibilities in lesions of the rotator cuff]. Twenty five healthy people and 25 patients with shoulder pain underwent US control over a 12-month period: 24 patients with shoulder pain had rotator cuff and/or biceps tendon lesions. The US findings on rotator cuff and biceps tendon lesions are compared with those of arthrography and/or surgery (96% sensitivity). US is rapid, safe, non invasive, inexpensive and often more accurate, and its use is recommended for the routine examination of the shoulder joint instead of arthrography."}
{"id": "3496760", "title": "MR imaging of the shoulder: diagnosis of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "MR imaging of the shoulder: diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. Twenty-five patients with known or suspected tears of the rotator cuff in 26 shoulders underwent MR imaging. All patients also underwent arthrography or surgery. MR visualized abnormalities consistent with a tear in 20 of the 22 tears diagnosed by arthrography or surgery. In most cases, tears were seen as regions of increased signal intensity within the cuff on long-TR pulse sequences, although two cases simply showed an almost complete absence of normal cuff. The MR appearance of the two cases with partial tears was similar to that of full-thickness tears. Of the four cases with normal arthrograms, one case had MR findings consistent with a tear. We conclude that MR has good potential for the noninvasive diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. Its ultimate role in this diagnosis must await prospective studies comparing its accuracy with that of sonography, CT, and arthrography."}
{"id": "3327026", "title": "Ultrasonography of the shoulder. Static and dynamic imaging.", "content": "Ultrasonography of the shoulder. Static and dynamic imaging. High-resolution, real-time ultrasonography is an effective diagnostic technique for evaluating rotator cuff movements and is useful in detecting aberrations that correlate with rotator cuff biomechanics and impingement syndrome."}
{"id": "3134443", "title": "The hyperextended internal rotation view in rotator cuff ultrasonography.", "content": "The hyperextended internal rotation view in rotator cuff ultrasonography."}
{"id": "3299961", "title": "[Sonography as a screening method in suspected rupture of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[Sonography as a screening method in suspected rupture of the rotator cuff]. We have found ultrasonography of the shoulder in differentiating between normal rotator cuff and rotator cuff lesion according to trauma a very helpful method. In comparison to arthrography it is a quick and painless method without any risk. Whereas other authors report a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 94% in shoulder disease we recommend ultrasonography in acute shoulder trauma as a screening method. Pathological findings in ultrasonography will make the decision for arthrography easy. The major diagnostic pitfall is the calcified tendon of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "3310221", "title": "[Sonography of the rotator cuff].", "content": "[Sonography of the rotator cuff]."}
{"id": "3695819", "title": "The rotator cuff tear: MR evaluation.", "content": "The rotator cuff tear: MR evaluation. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is evolving as a particularly valuable diagnostic procedure in the evaluation of musculoskeletal pathology. To assess the role of MRI as applied to the shoulder, we examined eight normal volunteers, six patients with seven arthrographically proven rotator cuff tears and two patients with impingement symptomatology but with negative double contrast conventional and computed tomographic arthrography. The studies were performed on a 1-Tesla magnet operating at 0.5 Tesla. Coronal T1-weighted images were obtained in all cases and coronal spin density and T2-weighted pulse sequences were employed in two cases. In the normal individuals, the supraspinatus muscle and tendon could be consistently demonstrated. The proximal humeral marrow, the superior glenoid labrum, and the acromioclavicular joint could also be examined. Findings in patients with rotator cuff tears included: (1) hypointense gap within the supraspinatus muscle-tendon complex on T1-weighted sequences, (2) absence of a demonstrable supraspinatus tendon with narrowing of the subacromial space secondary to elevation of the humeral head, and (3) increased signal within the supraspinatus tendon on T2-weighted images. In the patients with impingement syndrome and negative arthrography, MR demonstrated elevation of the supraspinatus tendon with subacromial impingement in one case and a normal supraspinatus tendon in the other. Impingement on the coracoacroaminal arch causes progressive fibrosis, atrophy, and eventual tear of the rotator cuff. The potential applications of MRI relative to the shoulder include assessment of tendon retraction in patients with supraspinatus tears and noninvasive evaluation of patients with impingement syndrome, permitting etiologic determinations, hopefully before irreversible tendon injury has occurred."}
{"id": "3616667", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of glenohumeral joint diseases.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of glenohumeral joint diseases. Through the application of oblique planes and flexible surface coil techniques, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) promises to be of great clinical value in the evaluation of a variety of pathologic conditions affecting the shoulder. In patients with joint effusions, the tendinous portion of the rotator cuff, glenoid labrum, and bicipital tendon can be readily visualized. This capability has particular relevance in patients with inflammatory disease and traumatic conditions. Rotator cuff atrophy and impingement of the coracoacromial arc upon the supraspinatus muscle and tendon can also be demonstrated. MRI is also useful in the evaluation of shoulder instability."}
{"id": "3737908", "title": "Rotator cuff tears: preliminary application of high-resolution MR imaging with counter rotating current loop-gap resonators.", "content": "Rotator cuff tears: preliminary application of high-resolution MR imaging with counter rotating current loop-gap resonators. A new class of radio frequency (RF) coils for magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and spectroscopy is introduced. The coils consist of two loop-gap resonators of equal diameters positioned along a common axis. They are tuned to the mode in which the current in the two loops flows in opposite directions. These coils are \"decoupled\" from a uniform excitation field of arbitrary orientation (including circularly polarized fields) by intrinsic decoupling and by means of back-to-back fast recovery diodes. Measurements made with the coils and a phantom saline tank indicate that the signal-to-noise ratio obtainable with these coils is almost identical to that obtained with single loops. Imaging of several anatomic areas, including knee, wrist, and shoulder, has been performed with a 1.5-T MR system that uses circularly polarized RF. A small series of patients with torn rotator cuffs underwent imaging. Difficulties in establishing the diagnosis with MR imaging because of anatomic complexity are illustrated. The value of pulse sequences with long repetition times to increase the signal intensity of fluid in the joint is shown."}
{"id": "3535080", "title": "[Sonography of the shoulder in rotator cuff defects. Technic and clinical value].", "content": "[Sonography of the shoulder in rotator cuff defects. Technic and clinical value]."}
{"id": "3534994", "title": "[Rotator cuff ruptures of the shoulder joint. Sonography--arthrography].", "content": "[Rotator cuff ruptures of the shoulder joint. Sonography--arthrography]. 47 patients suspected of rupture of the rotator cuff were sonographed and arthrographed. Rupture of the rotator cuff was diagnosed in 12 cases, both diagnostic methods yielding the same result. In 29 patients sonography and arthrography did not reveal any abnormal findings. Six ruptures evident in sonography were not confirmed by arthrography and were considered false positive. Direct pointers towards rupture of the cuff would be: echoless defects, cuff cannot be visualised fully or in part, irregularities of movement during dynamic examination. Echoless \"cystic\" areas in the periarticular soft parts must be considered an indirect pointer. Echorich focal findings in the echopoor cuff represent a differential diagnostic problem and we cannot give a final assessment as yet. Shoulder sonography is justified as a screening method in suspicion of rotator cuff rupture before initiating arthrography. If sonography reveals no abnormal findings, shoulder arthrography need not be performed."}
{"id": "3526850", "title": "Sonographic and arthrographic assessment of the shoulder after operative repair of a torn rotator cuff.", "content": "Sonographic and arthrographic assessment of the shoulder after operative repair of a torn rotator cuff."}
{"id": "3020631", "title": "[Sonography as a new diagnostic procedure for resolving shoulder problems].", "content": "[Sonography as a new diagnostic procedure for resolving shoulder problems]. Eighty-one sonographic examinations of patients with complaints relating to the shoulder joint have shown that this is the method next in value to radiological examination. So far, lesions of the rotator cuff and of the long head of the biceps could only be demonstrated by invasive procedures such as arthrography or arthroscopy. In these situations, sonography attains a similar accuracy. Diffuse lesions can also be diagnosed correctly, making arthrography and arthroscopy unnecessary. In addition, sonography can demonstrate inflammatory and degenerative changes and incomplete sub-acromial and intermediary tears of the rotator cuff, unlike conventional diagnostic methods. In future, arthrography and arthroscopy will only be necessary as additional diagnostic methods if sonography remains inconclusive."}
{"id": "3512571", "title": "Ultrasonographic evaluation of the rotator cuff and biceps tendon.", "content": "Ultrasonographic evaluation of the rotator cuff and biceps tendon. Ultrasonography of the rotator cuff and biceps tendon was investigated in 106 patients who had been referred for arthrography of the shoulder. Both the sensitivity and the specificity of ultrasound in detecting a tear of the rotator cuff were 91 per cent. The predictive value of a negative sonogram was 95 per cent and the predictive value of a positive sonogram was 84 per cent. Ultrasonography proved to be superior to arthrography in the examination of the normal and abnormal biceps tendon. Sonographically detectable effusions from the tendon sheath of the biceps were present in 19 per cent of this population of patients. This finding was statistically highly associated (90 per cent) with rotator cuff tears and other soft-tissue abnormalities of the shoulder. Based on these results, it appears that ultrasonography can be used as the initial imaging test for many patients with suspected abnormalities of the rotator cuff or biceps tendon."}
{"id": "3511640", "title": "Sonography of the postoperative rotator cuff.", "content": "Sonography of the postoperative rotator cuff. In experienced hands, high-resolution real-time sonography has been shown to be an accurate noninvasive method for diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. The sonographic appearance of the postoperative rotator cuff has not been previously reported. Forty postoperative patients were studied sonographically 1 week to 6 years after rotator cuff repair. The postoperative rotator cuff is abnormally echogenic and can be very similar in appearance to a small rotator cuff tear in a nonoperated patient. Soft-tissue planes about the tendon are distorted or absent. Criteria for diagnosis of retear must be different from those used in detecting new tears in a nonoperated cuff. Postoperative echogenicity is normal, but the finding of a defect or gap within the rotator cuff tendon is the only accurate sign of a recurrent rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "3511639", "title": "Pitfalls of rotator cuff sonography.", "content": "Pitfalls of rotator cuff sonography. Experience with rotator cuff sonography in 106 patients was analyzed to identify the causes of scan misinterpretation. Possible interpretive errors may be classified into four categories: those from failure to recognize normal anatomy, those caused by soft-tissue abnormalities, those caused by bony abnormalities, and those caused by technical limitations of the study. Errors in recognition of normal anatomy are easily overcome by experience and comparison to the normal, contralateral rotator cuff. Errors resulting from soft-tissue abnormalities were seen in two patients with calcific tendinitis simulating rotator cuff tears. Problems in interpretation resulting from fractures in two patients and inferior glenohumeral subluxation in two other patients could have been avoided by review of the plain films before performing sonography. The major technical limitation of the study arises from the inability to image the rotator cuff beneath the acromion. Fortunately, rotator cuff tears are rarely isolated in this location, and passive maneuvers often allow otherwise hidden parts of the cuff to be imaged."}
{"id": "3551477", "title": "[Lesions of the rotator cuff: the specific value of echography].", "content": "[Lesions of the rotator cuff: the specific value of echography]."}
{"id": "3514025", "title": "Diagnostic value of sonography in lesions of the biceps tendon.", "content": "Diagnostic value of sonography in lesions of the biceps tendon. Lesions of the biceps tendon have been studied with plain radiographs and arthrograms of the intertubercular groove. Sometimes, however, especially when the rotator cuff has a full-thickness tear anteriorly, the sheath of the biceps tendon fails to fill with contrast medium, thus preventing diagnosis of dislocation of the tendon. To solve this problem the authors have tried sonography of the biceps tendon. The suitability of sonography for examining the intertubercular groove and the biceps tendon was assessed in ten volunteers. Thirty patients with chronic shoulder pain were subsequently studied by radiography, arthrography, and sonography. The observations made with these examinations were compared, and in 21 of the patients who were treated by operation with the surgical observations as well. Sonography seemed to provide accurate information about the configuration of the intertubercular groove and the position of the biceps tendon. The technique could be used to show dislocation of the tendon in cases in which the tendon sheath is not visualized in arthrography. Tenderness and the site of this in relation to the anterior upper end of the humerus could also be verified with sonography."}
{"id": "3916822", "title": "Ultrasonography of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Ultrasonography of the rotator cuff. The authors suggest that sonography may be the best screening study for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "3898216", "title": "US evaluation of the rotator cuff.", "content": "US evaluation of the rotator cuff. Ultrasonographic (US) evaluation of the moving shoulder is a new method for evaluating the integrity of the rotator cuff. In the past, contrast arthrography has provided the only nonoperative technique for demonstrating defects in the rotator cuff. We present the details of this new technique and describe 79 patients whose US results were correlated with the findings at arthrography and/or surgery. US allows evaluation of both shoulders at once, an advantage over arthrography, where usually only one side is evaluated at a single sitting. Improvements in US instrumentation, especially the introduction of high-resolution linear-array devices and the use of experienced ultrasonographers, have improved the accuracy of US. Because US is rapid, safe, noninvasive, and inexpensive, we advocate its use instead of arthrography as the routine test of rotator cuff integrity."}
{"id": "3897119", "title": "Ultrasonography of the rotator cuff. Normal and pathologic anatomy.", "content": "Ultrasonography of the rotator cuff. Normal and pathologic anatomy. Forty-eight patients with shoulder pain and 15 normal volunteers underwent rotator cuff imaging using high resolution real time ultrasound. The potential diagnostic value of sonography in detecting rotator cuff tears was evaluated by correlating ultrasound findings with surgical findings in 19 patients, 12 of whom also underwent preoperative arthrography. The preoperative ultrasound diagnosis was correct in 18 of the 19 patients undergoing surgery for possible rotator cuff tears. In the group of 12 surgical patients undergoing both preoperative arthrography and sonography, ultrasound correctly predicted the presence of a rotator cuff tear in 12 of 12 patients, while arthrography predicted cuff tears in only nine of 12. Good anatomic definition of the rotator cuff was obtained in both symptomatic and asymptomatic groups. The characteristic appearance of the normal and pathologic rotator cuff is described. Rotator cuff sonography promises to be a valuable new diagnostic tool for evaluating patients with suspected rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "3880983", "title": "Sonographic detection of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Sonographic detection of rotator cuff tears. Thirty-nine consecutive patients referred for shoulder arthrography underwent shoulder sonography to determine the ability of sonography to detect rotator cuff tears. Fifteen patients had arthrographically proven rotator cuff tears. Of these, 14 were detected by sonography, for a sensitivity of 93%. The three sonographic criteria indicative of rotator cuff tear were (1) discontinuity in the normal homogeneous echogenicity of the rotator cuff; (2) replacement of the normal homogeneous echogenicity by a central echogenic band; and (3) nonvisualization of the cuff. Twenty patients had normal sonographic examinations, 19 of which were normal by arthrography. Therefore, the predictive value of a negative sonogram was 95%. On the basis of these findings, sonography can provide a noninvasive means of screening patients with suspected rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "6436327", "title": "Ultrasonography of the rotator cuff: surgical correlation.", "content": "Ultrasonography of the rotator cuff: surgical correlation. Rotator cuff tears are a common orthopedic problem. The portions of the cuff most commonly torn are accessible to sonographic examination with appropriate positioning of the shoulder. This study was undertaken to correlate the sonographic appearance of the pathologic rotator cuff with findings at the time of surgical repair. Rotator cuff tears are readily seen with high-resolution real-time sonography. Sonography can demonstrate tears not demonstrated arthrographically. In the appropriate clinical setting arthrography may not be necessary if the sonogram demonstrates characteristic findings."}
{"id": "9697646", "title": "Impingement syndrome in the athletic shoulder.", "content": "Impingement syndrome in the athletic shoulder. The repetitive overhead use of the arm required by many sports may lead to impingement in the vulnerable avascular region of the supraspinatus and biceps tendons. The impingement syndrome may spill over at any time to involve the adjacent biceps tendon, subacromial bursa, and acromioclavicular joint and, as a continuum, with the passage of time, may eventuate in degeneration and partial, even complete thickness, rotator cuff tears later in life. Physical findings, particularly a positive impingement sign, confirm the diagnosis. In the young competing athlete, therapeutic measures consist of careful warm-up exercises, occasional rest by avoidance of the offending movement, and local modalities of ice, ultrasound, and transcutaneous stimulation along with anti-inflammatory medications. Surgical decompression achieved by resecting the coracoacromial ligament or a more definitive anterior acromioplasty may rarely be indicated."}
{"id": "7377445", "title": "Impingement syndrome in athletes.", "content": "Impingement syndrome in athletes. Athletes, particularly those who are involved in sporting activities requiring repetitive overhead use of the arm (for example, tennis players, swimmers, baseball pitchers, and quarterbacks), may develop a painful shoulder. This is often due to impingement in the vulnerable avascular region of the supraspinatus and biceps tendons. With the passage of time, degeneration and tears of the rotator cuff may result. Pathologically the syndrome has been classified into Stage I (edema and hemorrhage), Stage II (fibrosis and tendonitis), and Stage III (tendon degeneration, bony changes, and tendon ruptures). The impingement syndrome may be a problem for the young, active, and competitive athlete as well as the casual weekend athlete. The \"impingement sign\" which reproduces pain and resulting facial expression when the arm is forceably forward flexed (jamming the greater tuberosity against the anteroinferior surface of the acromion) is the most reliable physical sign in establishing the diagnosis. Flexibility exercises, strengthening programs, and special training techniques are a preventive and treatment requirement. Rest and local modalities such as ice, ultrasound, and antiinflammatory agents are usually effective to lessen the inflammatory reaction. Surgical decompression by resecting the coracoacromial ligament or a more definitive anterior acromioplasty may rarely be indicated."}
{"id": "6036453", "title": "An exercise program for shoulder disability.", "content": "An exercise program for shoulder disability. In disabling conditions of the shoulder the involvement is either primary or secondary in origin. The primary disabilities are usually caused by sudden direct trauma or repeated minor traumata. Bursitis, tendonitis, and minor tears of the rotator cuff may result. The disabilities which arise secondarily are more difficult to treat and may have prolonged sequelae. Cervical radiculitis, infectious mononeuritis, cardiac disease, and cerebrovascular disease are common sources for secondary shoulder involvement. Pain and limitation of motion with loss of function are the presenting symptoms. The selection of a proper program of therapy is determined by the diagnosis. Primary conditions are responsive to the usual physical measures of moist heat, ultrasound, and the common exercises. Injections of local anesthestics or steroids and use of deep x-ray therapy may also be effective. The disabilities which arise secondarily are more difficult to treat and often become chronic and intolerably painful. In the author's experience, the most effective treatment for the secondarily induced shoulder problem is the combined use of moist heat of mild intensity, manual mobilization, neuromuscular facilitation, and a suitable home program of appropriate exercise."}
