{"id": "16396700", "title": "Prevalence of musculoskeletal conditions in an Italian population sample: results of a regional community-based study. I. The MAPPING study.", "content": "Prevalence of musculoskeletal conditions in an Italian population sample: results of a regional community-based study. I. The MAPPING study. The objective of the MAPPING study was to estimate the prevalence of musculoskeletal conditions in an Italian population sample. Questionnaires were sent to a random sample of 3664 individuals aged 18 years and over, stratified for age and gender, selected from the practice lists of 16 general practices. Trained rheumatologists carried out structured visits in which subjects were asked about musculoskeletal symptoms and socio-demographic characteristics, and underwent a standardized physical examination. Cases were defined by previously validated criteria. A total of 2155 subjects participated in the study (response rate 58.8%). The overall prevalence of musculoskeletal conditions in the general adult population was 26.7% (95% CI 25.4-28.5), being significantly higher among women than men (p < 0.0001). Disease prevalence increased significantly with age (p < 0.0001). The most common disease group was symptomatic peripheral osteoarthritis (SPOA), with a prevalence of 8.95% (95% CI 6.81-10.7), followed by soft tissue disorders--STD (8.81%; 95% CI 7.16-10.29), low back pain--LBP (5.91%; 95% CI 4.89-6.89), and inflammatory rheumatic disease--IRD (3.06%; 95% CI 2.38-3.93). The estimated rates of disease prevalence were as follows: rheumatoid arthritis: 0.46% (95% CI 0.33-0.59); psoriatic arthritis: 0.42% (95% CI 0.31-0.61); ankylosing spondylitis: 0.37% (95% CI 0.23-0.49); polymyalgia rheumatica: 0.37% (95% CI 0.29-0.44); undifferentiated connective tissue disease: 0.14% (95% CI 0.09-0.21); crystal arthropathies, including gout 0.46% (95% CI 0.34-0.57) and chondrocalcinosis: 0.42% (95% CI 0.33-0.58); symptomatic knee osteoarthritis (OA): 5.39% (95% CI 3.41-7.99); hip-OA: 1.61% (95% CI 1.39-1.87); hand-OA: 1.95 (95% CI 1.22-2.48); fibromyalgia: 2.22% (95% CI 1.36-3.19); shoulder tendinitis/adhesive capsulitis: 3.06% (95% CI 2.11-4.09); carpal tunnel syndrome: 1.90% (95% CI 1.06-2.29), localized regional pain syndromes of the neck: 0.88% (95% CI 0.561.29), and lateral epicondylitis 0.74% (95% CI 0.47-1.33). The MAPPING study indicates that musculoskeletal conditions are common in the general adult population of Italy. These data are useful in planning the provision of healthcare."}
{"id": "16539812", "title": "Ultrasound imaging for the rheumatologist. I. Ultrasonography of the shoulder.", "content": "Ultrasound imaging for the rheumatologist. I. Ultrasonography of the shoulder. Ultrasonography (US) has proved to be a useful diagnostic tool in patients with shoulder pain and/or limited range of motion. It allows careful assessment of a wide range of changes involving many different anatomic structures of the shoulder girdle, such as the rotator cuff tendons (tendonitis, tendon tears and calcific deposits), the long head of the biceps tendon (tenosynovitis, tendonitis, tears, rupture and displacement), the bursae (bursitis), the soft tissues of the gleno-humeral (synovial proliferation, joint effusion) and acromioclavicular joints (synovial proliferation and joint effusion). In addition, it is also a reliable tool in the evaluation of bony profiles detecting the presence of erosions and osteophytes. The use of high quality equipment and the application of a standard scanning protocol are mandatory for reliable US assessment of shoulder pathology."}
{"id": "17543142", "title": "Cross-cultural adaptation, reliability and validity of the Patient Rated Elbow Evaluation (PREE) for German-speaking patients.", "content": "Cross-cultural adaptation, reliability and validity of the Patient Rated Elbow Evaluation (PREE) for German-speaking patients. Patient-orientated questionnaires are important instruments for the assessment of outcome in the clinical environment and in musculoskeletal research. The objective of this study was to cross-culturally adapt the Patient Rated Elbow Evaluation (PREE) into German (PREE-G) and to test its reliability, validity and psychometric properties. The PREE was cross-culturally adapted for the German language, according to established guidelines. Fifty-six patients who had undergone elbow arthroplasty for osteoarthritis or chronic polyarthritis, on average 11 years previously, were assessed using the PREE-G, the Short Form 36 (SF-36), the Disabilities of Arm, Shoulder, Hand (DASH) and the modified American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (mASES) clinical evaluation. The test-retest reliability (intraclass correlation coefficient) of the PREE-G was 0.80, and the internal consistency 0.96. The PREE-G correlated with the DASH (r = 0.73) and the physical component summary of the SF-36 (r = 0.57) but not with the mental component summary (r = -0.02). The PREE-G correlated moderately with certain clinical findings (mASES) (r = 0.36-0.54; p < 0.01). The PREE-G represents a reliable and valid instrument to evaluate subjective outcome in German speaking patients with elbow pathology."}
{"id": "19210869", "title": "The patient-rated wrist evaluation (PRWE): cross-cultural adaptation into German and evaluation of its psychometric properties.", "content": "The patient-rated wrist evaluation (PRWE): cross-cultural adaptation into German and evaluation of its psychometric properties. To cross-culturally adapt the Patient-Rated Wrist Evaluation form (PRWE) into German (PRWE-G) and to evaluate its reliability and validity. A cross-cultural adaptation of the PRWE was carried out, according to established guidelines. 103 patients, who had undergone resection interposition arthroplasty (RIAP) for carpometacarpal osteoarthritis approximately 6.2 years earlier, completed a questionnaire booklet containing the PRWE-G, the Short Form 36 (SF-36), the Disabilities of Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (DASH); they also underwent clinical assessment with the Hand Function Index (HFI, Keitel) and Custom Score including grip and pinch strength tests. The results were used to assess the criterion and construct validity of the PRWE-G. To measure the re-test reliability, 51 patients completed a second PRWE-G within 2 weeks. The test-retest reliability of the PRWE-G was acceptable for the pain and function sub-scales and for the global score, with intraclass correlation coefficients of 0.78-0.87. The PRWE-G showed a high internal consistency (Cronbach's alphas of 0.92-0.97 for the scales and the total score). The typical error of measurement for the global score was 8.1 points, giving a minimal detectable change (MDC<inf>95%</inf>) of approximately 22.5 points. The PRWE-G scores correlated well with those of the DASH (r=0.82, p<0.001) but less well with those of the physical component summary of the SF-36 (r=0.53, p<0.001) and not at all with the mental component summary scores of the SF-36 (r=0.04, p>0.05). The PRWE-G scores correlated moderately with certain clinical findings of the HFI, Custom Score, and grip/pinch strength tests (r=0.30-0.59, p<0.001). The PRWE-G represents a valid and reliable instrument to evaluate self-rated outcome in German-speaking patients with hand and wrist pathology."}
{"id": "15971426", "title": "Use of air-steroid-saline mixture as contrast medium in greyscale ultrasound imaging: experimental study and practical applications in rheumatology.", "content": "Use of air-steroid-saline mixture as contrast medium in greyscale ultrasound imaging: experimental study and practical applications in rheumatology. To investigate experimentally the echogenicity of air, a steroid suspension and physiological saline mixed with water in order to find the best contrast medium for injections. To show the practical applications of an airsteroid-saline mixture as a contrast medium in rheumatology. In vitro. First, quality assurance measurements were conducted twice on the ultrasound (US) equipment. Subsequently air, a steroid suspension, or physiological saline mixed with water, first alone and then in different combinations, were examined with US using quantitative image analysis. Clinical. The effectiveness of an air-steroid-saline mixture as contrast medium in ultrasonography was tested in joint, bursa and tendon sheath injections. In vitro. Based on the quality assurance measurements the physical performance of the US equipment was excellent. Verified visually and quantitatively the mixture of air, steroid and saline produced the best contrast on US. The importance of air bubbles producing contrast was obvious. Clinical application. Firstly, visualisation of the contrast medium with US made it possible to follow in real-time the passage of a drug to the target area. Secondly, the use of the contrast method verified the presence of steroid in the synovial target intended after a blind injection. Thirdly, anatomical and pathologic anatomical connections could be visualized using this contrast medium in the wrist, shoulder, knee, ankle and foot joint Verification of US system performance by quality assurance measurement is essential for US imaging. The air-steroid-saline contrast medium method of ultrasound scanning is a somewhat invasive, but inexpensive and rapid method. It can verify the existence or non-existence of an air-steroid-saline contrast medium in the desired place and in adjacent structures, thus showing possible pathologic anatomic connections. The method has a diagnostic and therapeutic value, and expands the interventional spectrum of sonographic imaging."}
{"id": "19130160", "title": "Clinical presentation of patients with symptomatic anterior hip impingement.", "content": "Clinical presentation of patients with symptomatic anterior hip impingement. Femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) is considered a cause of labrochondral disease and secondary osteoarthritis. Nevertheless, the clinical syndrome associated with FAI is not fully characterized. We determined the clinical history, functional status, activity status, and physical examination findings that characterize FAI. We prospectively evaluated 51 patients (52 hips) with symptomatic FAI. Evaluation of the clinical history, physical exam, and previous treatments was performed. Patients completed demographic and validated hip questionnaires (Baecke et al., SF-12, Modified Harris hip, and UCLA activity score). The average patient age was 35 years and 57% were male. Symptom onset was commonly insidious (65%) and activity-related. Pain occurred predominantly in the groin (83%). The mean time from symptom onset to definitive diagnosis was 3.1 years. Patients were evaluated by an average 4.2 healthcare providers prior to diagnosis and inaccurate diagnoses were common. Thirteen percent had unsuccessful surgery at another anatomic site. On exam, 88% of the hips were painful with the anterior impingement test. Hip flexion and internal rotation in flexion were limited to an average 97 degrees and 9 degrees, respectively. The patients were relatively active, yet demonstrated restrictions of function and overall health. These data may facilitate diagnosis of this disorder."}
{"id": "19721141", "title": "Six-year experience with the Delta III reverse shoulder prosthesis.", "content": "Six-year experience with the Delta III reverse shoulder prosthesis. To report the clinical and radiographic results and complications of the Delta III reverse prosthesis. 24 women and 2 men aged 62 to 84 (mean, 75) years underwent total shoulder replacement using the Delta III reverse prosthesis. Patient diagnoses were massive rotator cuff tear (n=20), disabling sequelae of proximal humeral fractures (n=3), and failure of an unconstrained arthroplasty (n=3). Clinical and functional results were assessed using the Constant scale. Active range of motion (ROM) was measured. Scapular notching and radiolucent lines around the humeral component were evaluated using radiographs. Patient satisfaction of the treatment was evaluated by a direct interview. 23 patients were followed up for 26 to 84 (mean, 42) months. Two patients had loosening of the glenoid component (at 6 months and 5 years) and underwent revision surgery. There were no instances of infection, instability, or acromial fracture. Only active elevation improved significantly after surgery, as did both the absolute and adjusted Constant scores. 12 patients were completely pain-free, 9 complained of slight pain, and one of moderate pain. The severity of scapular notching progressed with time. 15 patients were satisfied with the treatment, 6 were partially satisfied, and 2 were not satisfied. The Delta III prosthesis restores shoulder function but has biomechanical limits. Its use should be limited to elderly patients with severe impairment of the glenohumeral joint. Scapular notching is a main concern for the long-term survival of the implant."}
{"id": "17761004", "title": "Efficacy and cost-effectiveness of a physiotherapy program for chronic rotator cuff pathology: a protocol for a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.", "content": "Efficacy and cost-effectiveness of a physiotherapy program for chronic rotator cuff pathology: a protocol for a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Chronic rotator cuff pathology (CRCP) is a common shoulder condition causing pain and disability. Physiotherapy is often the first line of management for CRCP yet there is little conclusive evidence to support or refute its effectiveness and no formal evaluation of its cost-effectiveness. This randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial will involve 200 participants with CRCP recruited from medical practices, outpatient departments and the community via print and radio media. Participants will be randomly allocated to a physiotherapy or placebo group using concealed allocation stratified by treating physiotherapist. Both groups will receive 10 sessions of individual standardised treatment over 10 weeks from one of 10 project physiotherapists. For the following 12 weeks, the physiotherapy group will continue a home exercise program and the placebo group will receive no treatment. The physiotherapy program will comprise shoulder joint and spinal mobilisation, soft tissue massage, postural taping, and home exercises for scapular control, posture and rotator cuff strengthening. The placebo group will receive inactive ultrasound and gentle application of an inert gel over the shoulder region. Blinded assessment will be conducted at baseline and at 10 weeks and 22 weeks after randomisation. The primary outcome measures are self reported questionnaires including the shoulder pain and disability index (SPADI), average pain on an 11-point numeric rating scale and participant perceived global rating of change. Secondary measures include Medical Outcomes Study 36-item short form (SF-36), Assessment of Quality of Life index, numeric rating scales for shoulder pain and stiffness, participant perceived rating of change for pain, strength and stiffness, and manual muscle testing for shoulder strength using a handheld dynamometer. To evaluate cost-effectiveness, participants will record the use of all health-related treatments in a log-book returned to the assessor monthly. To test the effect of the intervention using an intention-to-treat analysis, linear regression modelling will be applied adjusting for baseline outcome values and other demographic characteristics. Participant measures of perceived change will be compared between groups by calculating the relative risks and their 95% confidence intervals at each time point using log binomial regression. Results from this trial will contribute to the evidence regarding the effectiveness of a physiotherapy program for the management of CRCP."}
{"id": "19735563", "title": "Adhesive capsulitis and dynamic splinting: a controlled, cohort study.", "content": "Adhesive capsulitis and dynamic splinting: a controlled, cohort study. Adhesive Capsulitis (AC) affects patient of all ages, and stretching protocols are commonly prescribed for this condition. Dynamic splinting has been shown effective in contracture reduction from pathologies including Trismus to plantar fasciitis. The purpose of this study was to examine the efficacy of dynamic splinting on patients with AC. This controlled, cohort study, was conducted at four physical therapy, sports medicine clinics in Texas and California. Sixty-two patients diagnosed with Stage II Adhesive Capsulitis were grouped by intervention. The intervention categories were as follows: Group I (Control); Group II (Physical Therapy exclusively with standardized protocols); Group III; (Shoulder Dynasplint system exclusively); Group IV (Combined treatment with Shoulder Dynasplint and standardized Physical Therapy). The duration of this study was 90 days for all groups, and the main outcome measures were change in active, external rotation. Significant difference was found for all treatment groups (p < 0.001) following a one-way ANOVA. The greatest change with the smallest standard deviation was for the combined treatment group IV, (mean change of 29 degrees ). The difference for the combined treatment group was attributed to patients' receiving the best PT combined with structured \"home therapy\" that contributed an additional 90 hours of end-range stretching. This adjunct should be included in the standard of care for adhesive Capsulitis. NCT00873158."}
{"id": "19755551", "title": "Radial extracorporeal shockwave treatment compared with supervised exercises in patients with subacromial pain syndrome: single blind randomised study.", "content": "Radial extracorporeal shockwave treatment compared with supervised exercises in patients with subacromial pain syndrome: single blind randomised study. To compare the effectiveness of radial extracorporeal shockwave treatment with that of supervised exercises in patients with shoulder pain. Single blind randomised study. Outpatient clinic of physical medicine and rehabilitation department in Oslo, Norway. 104 patients with subacromial shoulder pain lasting at least three months. Radial extracorporeal shockwave treatment: one session weekly for four to six weeks. Supervised exercises: two 45 minute sessions weekly for up to 12 weeks. Primary outcome measure Shoulder pain and disability index. A treatment effect in favour of supervised exercises at 6, 12, and 18 weeks was found. The adjusted treatment effect was -8.4 (95% confidence interval -16.5 to -0.6) points. A significantly higher proportion of patients in the group treated with supervised exercises improved-odds ratio 3.2 (1.3 to 7.8). More patients in the shockwave treatment group had additional treatment between 12 and 18 weeks-odds ratio 5.5 (1.3 to 26.4). Supervised exercises were more effective than radial extracorporeal shockwave treatment for short term improvement in patients with subacromial shoulder pain. Clinical trials NCT00653081."}
{"id": "19916693", "title": "Do Bankart lesions heal better in shoulders immobilized in external rotation?", "content": "Do Bankart lesions heal better in shoulders immobilized in external rotation? Immobilization in external rotation (ER) for shoulder dislocation has been reported to improve the coaptation of Bankart lesions to the glenoid. We compared the position of the labrum in patients treated with immobilization in ER or internal rotation (IR). A secondary aim was to evaluate the rate of Bankart lesions. 55 patients with primary anterior shoulder dislocation, aged between 16 and 40 years, were randomized to immobilization in ER or IR. Computer tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were performed shortly after the injury. After the immobilization, MRI arthrography was performed. We evaluated the rate of Bankart lesions and measured the separation and displacement of the labrum as well as the length of the detached part of the capsule on the glenoid neck. Immobilization in ER reduced the number of Bankart lesions (OR = 3.8, 95% CI: 1.1 -13; p = 0.04). Separation decreased to a larger extent in the ER group than in the IR group (mean difference 0.6 mm, 95% CI: 0.1 - 1.1, p = 0.03). Displacement of the labrum and the detached part of the capsule showed no significant differences between the groups. Immobilization in ER results in improved coaptation of the labrum after primary traumatic shoulder dislocation."}
{"id": "16529658", "title": "All-arthroscopic versus mini-open repair of small or moderate-sized rotator cuff tears: a protocol for a randomized trial [NCT00128076].", "content": "All-arthroscopic versus mini-open repair of small or moderate-sized rotator cuff tears: a protocol for a randomized trial [NCT00128076]. Rotator cuff tears are the most common source of shoulder pain and disability. Only poor quality studies have compared mini-open to arthroscopic repair, leaving surgeons with inadequate evidence to support optimal, minimally-invasive repair. This randomized, multi-centre, national trial will determine whether an arthroscopic or mini-open repair provides better quality of life for patients with small or moderate-sized rotator cuff tears. A national consensus meeting of investigators in the Joint Orthopaedic Initiative for National Trials of the Shoulder (JOINTS Canada) identified this question as the top priority for shoulder surgeons across Canada. The primary outcome measure is a valid quality-of-life scale (Western Ontario Rotator Cuff (WORC)) that addresses 5 domains of health affected by rotator cuff disease. Secondary outcomes will assess rotator cuff functionality (ROM, strength, Constant score), secondary dimensions of health (general health status (SF-12) and work limitations), and repair integrity (MRI). Outcomes are measured at baseline, at 6 weeks, 3, 6, 12, and 24 months post-operatively by blinded research assistants and musculoskeletal radiologists. Patients (n = 250) with small or medium-sized cuff tears identified by clinical examination and MRI who meet eligibility criteria will be recruited. This sample size will provide 80% power to statistically detect a clinically important difference of 20% in WORC scores between procedures after controlling for baseline WORC score (alpha = 0.05). A central methods centre will manage randomization, data management, and monitoring under supervision of experienced epidemiologists. Surgeons will participate in either conventional or expertise-based designs according to defined criteria to avoid biases from differential surgeon expertise. Mini-open or all-arthroscopic repair procedures will be performed according to a standardized protocol. Central Adjudication (of cases), Trial Oversight and Safety Committees will monitor trial conduct. We will use an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), where the baseline WORC score is used as a covariate, to compare the quality of life (WORC score) at 2 years post-operatively. As a secondary analysis, we will conduct the same statistical test but will include age and tear size as covariates with the baseline score. Enrollment will require 2 years and follow-up an additional 2 years. The trial will commence when funding is in place. These results will have immediate impact on the practice behaviors of practicing surgeons and surgical trainees at JOINTS centres across Canada. JOINTS Canada is actively engaged in knowledge exchange and will publish and present findings internationally to facilitate wider application. This trial will establish definitive evidence on this question at an international level."}
{"id": "20173149", "title": "Acetabular labral tears and cartilage lesions of the hip: indirect MR arthrographic correlation with arthroscopy--a preliminary study.", "content": "Acetabular labral tears and cartilage lesions of the hip: indirect MR arthrographic correlation with arthroscopy--a preliminary study. The purpose of this study was to assess the diagnostic correlation between indirect MR arthrography, conventional MRI, and arthroscopy in acetabular labral and cartilage lesions of the hip. Fourteen patients who underwent conventional and indirect MR arthrography with arthroscopic correlation were studied over the course of 18 months. MR studies were performed on a 1.5-T magnet. Sequences consisted of unilateral sagittal turbo spin-echo proton density fat-suppressed, axial turbo spin-echo T2 fat-saturated, and coronal turbo spin-echo proton density fat-saturated images. Whole-pelvis coronal T1 and STIR sequences were also performed. Patients received IV gadolinium contrast material and exercised for 15 minutes. Gadolinium-enhanced fat-saturated T1 sequences were obtained in three planes. Arthroscopy was performed by two orthopedic surgeons who specialize in treating hip disorders. Cases were then retrospectively reviewed by two experienced musculoskeletal radiologists who were blinded to the arthroscopic findings. Cases were examined for acetabular labral tears and chondral lesions. Extraarticular findings of femoral acetabular impingement were recorded. Unenhanced and gadolinium-enhanced images of the labrum were compared for differences and changes in diagnosis. Comparison was made between the arthroscopic and MR findings for analysis of the results. Of the 13 labral tears found at arthroscopy, 85% were detected by conventional MRI, whereas 100% were identified via indirect MR arthrography. Seventy percent of the labral tears identified on conventional MRI were better delineated by indirect MR arthrography. Identification of chondral abnormalities was not improved via indirect MR arthrography over conventional MRI. IV contrast-enhanced indirect MR arthrography appears to be an effective means of hip evaluation for labral tears. It does not appear to improve detection of cartilage abnormalities when compared with conventional MRI."}
{"id": "20159134", "title": "Evaluating displacement of the coracoacromial ligament in painful shoulders of overhead athletes through dynamic ultrasonographic examination.", "content": "Evaluating displacement of the coracoacromial ligament in painful shoulders of overhead athletes through dynamic ultrasonographic examination. To evaluate displacement of the coracoacromial ligament (CAL), using dynamic ultrasonography (US), for detecting instability-related impingement caused by overhead activities. Between-group survey. Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation in a tertiary care center. Volunteer high school volleyball players with unilateral shoulder pain (n=10) and volunteer asymptomatic high school volleyball players with identical training activities as control subjects (n=16). Not applicable. The displacement of the CAL was measured during throwing simulation using dynamic US. Both shoulders of all subjects were evaluated. During throwing simulation, the displacement of the CAL in the painful shoulders of overhead athletes increased significantly greater than the displacement in the asymptomatic shoulder (3.0+/-0.7 mm and 2.2+/-0.4 mm, respectively; P=.017). No difference was identified between the displacements of the CALs of bilateral shoulders of the control group subjects. Dynamic US, by measuring the displacement of the CAL during simulation of throwing, may be helpful in detecting abnormal humeral head upward migration in overhead athletes."}
{"id": "20141988", "title": "Consensus statement on shoulder instability.", "content": "Consensus statement on shoulder instability. The understanding and treatment of shoulder instability comprise a rapidly evolving area of interest in orthopaedics. Evaluation methods are becoming more specific in showing the exact pathologies causing the symptoms. Magnetic resonance arthrography and arthroscopy have contributed to this development. The patient with an unstable shoulder should be thoroughly evaluated through their history and specific clinical tests of the shoulder as well as the scapulothoracic joint. Often, shoulder instability can be classified after this primary evaluation. Magnetic resonance arthrography and arthroscopy are the gold standards in soft-tissue evaluation, whereas specialized radiographic examinations and computed tomography scans are used to assess bony defects. Patients are treated according to the pathology found on preoperative or pretreatment evaluation. Multiple factors need to be considered before the treatment program is instituted, including the patient's age, activity demands, associated pathology and dysfunction, soft-tissue pathology, degree of instability, direction, frequency, and etiology. Treatment can be nonoperative or arthroscopic or open repair. Soft-tissue pathology and bony defects should be addressed, and the surgeon's preferred method and skills are important in choosing the right treatment for the patient. The patient should be informed about possible complications, restrictions during the treatment period, and the prognosis for the particular type of instability. To improve progress in shoulder orthopaedics, one of the most important factors can be a universal agreement on an outcome measurement tool that is well designed and validated."}
{"id": "20124055", "title": "Minimal clinically important differences in ASES and simple shoulder test scores after nonoperative treatment of rotator cuff disease.", "content": "Minimal clinically important differences in ASES and simple shoulder test scores after nonoperative treatment of rotator cuff disease. The minimal clinically important difference is the smallest difference in an outcome score that a patient perceives as beneficial. The purpose of this study was to determine the minimal clinically important difference in the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) score and in the Simple Shoulder Test (SST) score for patients treated nonoperatively for rotator cuff disease. Eighty-one patients with tendinitis or a tear of the rotator cuff were treated with nonoperative modalities. Evaluation with the ASES score and the SST was performed at baseline and at a minimum of six weeks after treatment. At the follow-up evaluation, the minimal clinically important difference was estimated for the two scores with use of an anchor-based approach involving fifteen-item (pain and function) and four-item improvement questions. The fifteen-item function and four-item assessments indicated, respectively, that a 2.05-point (p = 0.02) and 2.33-point (p = 0.0009) change in the SST score from baseline represented a minimal clinically important difference. The fifteen-item function, fifteen-item pain, and four-item assessments indicated that a 12.01-point (p = 0.03), 16.92-point (p = 0.004), and 16.72-point (p < 0.0001) change in the ASES score from baseline represented a minimal clinically important difference. Age, sex, initial baseline scores, and hand dominance had no effect on the minimal clinically important differences (p > 0.05). A longer duration of follow-up after treatment was associated with a greater minimal clinically important difference in the ASES score (p < 0.05), although the duration of follow-up had no effect on the minimal clinically important difference in the SST score. Patients with rotator cuff disease who are treated without surgery and have a 2-point change in the SST score or a 12 to 17-point change in the ASES score experience a clinically important change in self-assessed outcome. These minimal clinically important differences can provide the basis for determining if significant differences in outcomes after treatment are clinically relevant."}
{"id": "20118325", "title": "Single-row versus double-row rotator cuff repair: techniques and outcomes.", "content": "Single-row versus double-row rotator cuff repair: techniques and outcomes. Double-row rotator cuff repair techniques incorporate a medial and lateral row of suture anchors in the repair configuration. Biomechanical studies of double-row repair have shown increased load to failure, improved contact areas and pressures, and decreased gap formation at the healing enthesis, findings that have provided impetus for clinical studies comparing single-row with double-row repair. Clinical studies, however, have not yet demonstrated a substantial improvement over single-row repair with regard to either the degree of structural healing or functional outcomes. Although double-row repair may provide an improved mechanical environment for the healing enthesis, several confounding variables have complicated attempts to establish a definitive relationship with improved rates of healing. Appropriately powered rigorous level I studies that directly compare single-row with double-row techniques in matched tear patterns are necessary to further address these questions. These studies are needed to justify the potentially increased implant costs and surgical times associated with double-row rotator cuff repair."}
{"id": "20117638", "title": "Abdominal fluid extravasation during hip arthroscopy.", "content": "Abdominal fluid extravasation during hip arthroscopy. Hip arthroscopy has gained popularity in recent years as an alternative to open treatment for several conditions including bursitis, acetabular labral tears, synovitis, arthritis, extraction of loose bodies, and femoroacetabular impingement. Complications during hip arthroscopy are rare in the current literature, but reports include venous thromboembolism, peripheral nerve injury, septic arthritis, instrument failure, and various problems associated with joint traction. Extravasation of fluid into the abdomen during hip arthroscopy is another rare but known complication. We report an occurrence of extravasation of fluid into the abdomen during arthroscopic treatment of femoroacetabular impingement and our management of the condition postoperatively."}
{"id": "20117637", "title": "Abdominal compartment syndrome after hip arthroscopy.", "content": "Abdominal compartment syndrome after hip arthroscopy. As hip arthroscopy becomes a more common procedure, more complications may occur. We present a case of abdominal compartment syndrome resulting from fluid extravasation in a 42-year-old man who underwent routine hip arthroscopy for femoral acetabular impingement. He had not had previous surgeries to that hip, and arthroscopy was performed in the supine position. After adequate distraction, arthroscopy was performed with an automated pressure- and flow-controlled pump with the pressure maintained between 40 and 60 mm Hg. We performed debridement of a degenerative tear of the anterosuperior labrum, removal of a pincer lesion, and a psoas tenotomy through a capsular window. A distended abdomen was noted on drape removal, and the patient required decompressive laparotomy for abdominal compartment syndrome. Extravasation of arthroscopy fluid is a potentially devastating complication during hip arthroscopy, and there should be careful monitoring by the surgeons, anesthesiologists, and operating room staff."}
{"id": "20117623", "title": "Abnormal translation in SLAP lesions on magnetic resonance imaging abducted externally rotated view.", "content": "Abnormal translation in SLAP lesions on magnetic resonance imaging abducted externally rotated view. The purpose of this study was to measure in vivo axial-plane translation of the glenohumeral joint by use of magnetic resonance imaging in patients with and without SLAP lesions between the conventional adducted neutral rotation (AD) view and an abducted externally rotated (ABER) view. Seven patients with an intraoperative SLAP lesion that was unstable and required repair were selected into the SLAP group. Although they did not have normal shoulders, 15 patients were selected into the control or comparison group, most of whom had rotator cuff pathology. The glenohumeral contact point (CP) and humeral head center (HHC) were calculated and compared with the glenoid surface as a relative anterior or posterior translation. The relative posterior translation between the ABER and AD views for each patient was calculated as Delta CP and Delta HHC. These values were compared between the SLAP and control groups. There was a significant difference in Delta CP between the SLAP and control groups (3.62 v 0.79 mm of relative posterior translation, P = .005). There was not a similar significant difference found in Delta HHC between the SLAP and control groups (3.19 mm v 1.48 mm of relative posterior translation, P = .14). There was a significant difference between the mean translations of the SLAP-ABER group and the SLAP-AD group for both CP (-3.65 mm v -0.04 mm, P = .008) and HHC (-2.22 mm v +0.97 mm, P = .03). The difference between the control-ABER group and the control-AD group was not as pronounced. The magnetic resonance imaging ABER view in patients with unstable SLAP lesions requiring repair showed in vivo glenohumeral posterior translation relative to the adducted neutral rotation view of greater than 3 mm. This finding furthers the understanding of the pathokinematics in SLAP lesions."}
{"id": "20113764", "title": "Reliability of scapular positioning measurement procedure using the palpation meter (PALM).", "content": "Reliability of scapular positioning measurement procedure using the palpation meter (PALM). Observation and measurement of the static position of the scapula is important for investigating both shoulder and neck pathology. Measurement of scapular position is complex and lacks a clinically useful instrument. The objective of this study was to investigate the reliability of the Palpation Meter (PALM) for measuring scapular position when the glenohumeral joint is held in various positions. Thirty normal subjects were recruited for a test-retest reliability study. Three raters conducted measurements on two different occasions to estimate intra- and inter-rater reliability. The scapular positions evaluated in this study were: (1) the horizontal distance between the scapula and the spine in the scapular resting position and during elevation of the arm in the scapular plane; and (2) the vertical distance between C(7) and the acromion (C(7)-A). Intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC), standard error of measurement (SEM) and Bland and Altman limits of agreement were calculated. Reliability values for measurements of the horizontal distance between the scapula and the spine were generally good for both intra-rater (ICC 0.81 to 0.89; SEM 0.56 to 1.17cm) and inter-rater (ICC 0.67 to 0.89; SEM 0.59 to 0.98cm) evaluation. Reliability values of measurement of depression of the acromion were also good for both intra-rater (ICC 0.72 to 0.78; SEM 0.66 to 0.79) and inter-rater (ICC 0.76; SEM 0.64) evaluation. No systematic bias was observed with Bland and Altman analysis. The PALM is a reliable tool for the measurement of scapular positioning in a healthy sample. Future studies should be conducted to further investigate the clinometric properties of the PALM in patient populations before its clinical usefulness for measuring scapular position can be established."}
{"id": "20103576", "title": "The value of physical tests for subacromial impingement syndrome: a study of diagnostic accuracy.", "content": "The value of physical tests for subacromial impingement syndrome: a study of diagnostic accuracy. To determine the diagnostic accuracy of commonly used physical tests for subacromial impingement syndrome, using ultrasound as the reference standard. A cross-sectional study of 59 participants with chronic shoulder pain of more than four months duration with a referral for diagnostic ultrasound scanning were invited to participate in the study. Thirty-four participants met the inclusion criteria and had an ultrasound scan followed immediately by application of the following tests: Neer's sign, Hawkins and Kennedy test, painful arc of abduction, empty and full can tests, resisted isometric shoulder abduction and resisted isometric shoulder external rotation. Using the two-way contingency table method sensitivity, specificity, likelihood ratios and overall accuracy were calculated for each physical test. Diagnostic values for each test varied considerably. The Hawkins and Kennedy test was the most accurate test for diagnosing any degree of subacromial impingement syndrome (71.0%). The most accurate tests for diagnosing subcategories of impingement were pain on resisted external rotation and weakness during the full can test (63.6%) for presence of subdeltoid fluid, pain on resisted external rotation (58.8%) for partial thickness tears and the painful arc test (62.1%) for full thickness tears. As the predictive values of these tests are shown to be variable in this study it indicates that the clinical tests identified have limited use in informing diagnosis. Emphasis on the management of dysfunction may be more appropriate rather than reliance on clinical tests with inconclusive sensitivity and specificity if ultrasound scanning is not available."}
{"id": "20099338", "title": "High resolution noncontrast MRI of the hip.", "content": "High resolution noncontrast MRI of the hip. The relatively thin cartilage of the hip joint, as well as its complex geometry, poses challenges for standardized, reproducible assessment of cartilage and the acetabular labrum. With appropriate pulse sequence parameters, however, accurate, reproducible assessment of cartilage and the labrum is feasible. More detailed evaluation of cartilage biochemistry may be obtained with techniques aimed at noninvasively evaluating the integrity of collagen and/or proteoglycan components in the articular cartilage. One of the benefits of noncontrast techniques lie in the ability to visualize the native synovium, and thereby detect the presence of synovial proliferative disorders, the clinical symptoms of which may mimic a labral tear or traumatic cartilage injury. Standard cartilage evaluation allows for the detection of surface delamination and osteoarthritis in the setting of femoroacetabular impingement, as well as subtle areas of subchondral collapse and secondary delamination of cartilage in the setting of osteonecrosis. This preserves the use of hip arthroscopy as a therapeutic rather than a diagnostic tool."}
{"id": "20093612", "title": "Imaging of anterior cruciate ligament repair and its complications.", "content": "Imaging of anterior cruciate ligament repair and its complications. This article provides a review of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction procedures and their normal postoperative appearance. Then, we review commonly encountered complications: those associated with decreased range of motion (impingement, arthrofibrosis, intraarticular bodies, ganglion cysts) and those associated with laxity (graft tearing, graft stretching). Finally, we review some miscellaneous complications. Given the number of patients undergoing ACL reconstruction, it is important for radiologists to be familiar with the different reconstruction surgeries and their common complications."}
{"id": "20092372", "title": "Acromial shape in asymptomatic subjects: a study of 305 shoulders in different age groups.", "content": "Acromial shape in asymptomatic subjects: a study of 305 shoulders in different age groups. It has been reported that acromial morphology and age have an independent association with rotator cuff pathology. In a recent study, we found the acromial angle of patients with stage III impingement syndrome (tear in the rotator cuff, according to the Neer classification of shoulder impingement syndrome) to be significantly greater than the acromial angle of their age-matched healthy controls. To find out if acromial shape also changes, i.e., becomes more curved with age, in shoulders without any rotator cuff problems or previous shoulder surgery. Standard supraspinatus outlet view (SOV) was obtained from both shoulders of healthy persons with no shoulder-related problems or previous shoulder surgery (n = 305; 36 SOVs for subjects aged 21-30 years, 60 for 31-40 years, 67 for 41-50 years, 52 for 51-60 years, 48 for 61-70 years, and 42 for over 71 years of age). Acromial angle, tilt, and the type of the acromion were evaluated. There were no statistically significant differences in the evaluated morphological parameters between the different age groups. Our results suggest that the shape of the acromion does not change with age in individuals who do not have any rotator cuff pathology. According to our results, the changes in acromial morphology seem to be similar in each age group."}
{"id": "20082510", "title": "Peripheral nerve entrapment and injury in the upper extremity.", "content": "Peripheral nerve entrapment and injury in the upper extremity. Peripheral nerve injury of the upper extremity commonly occurs in patients who participate in recreational (e.g., sports) and occupational activities. Nerve injury should be considered when a patient experiences pain, weakness, or paresthesias in the absence of a known bone, soft tissue, or vascular injury. The onset of symptoms may be acute or insidious. Nerve injury may mimic other common musculoskeletal disorders. For example, aching lateral elbow pain may be a symptom of lateral epicondylitis or radial tunnel syndrome; patients who have shoulder pain and weakness with overhead elevation may have a rotator cuff tear or a suprascapular nerve injury; and pain in the forearm that worsens with repetitive pronation activities may be from carpal tunnel syndrome or pronator syndrome. Specific history features are important, such as the type of activity that aggravates symptoms and the temporal relation of symptoms to activity (e.g., is there pain in the shoulder and neck every time the patient is hammering a nail, or just when hammering nails overhead?). Plain radiography and magnetic resonance imaging are usually not necessary for initial evaluation of a suspected nerve injury. When pain or weakness is refractory to conservative therapy, further evaluation (e.g., magnetic resonance imaging, electrodiagnostic testing) or surgical referral should be considered. Recovery of nerve function is more likely with a mild injury and a shorter duration of compression. Recovery is faster if the repetitive activities that exacerbate the injury can be decreased or ceased. Initial treatment for many nerve injuries is nonsurgical."}
{"id": "20082183", "title": "Calcifying tendonitis of the shoulder joint : predictive value of pretreatment sonography for the response to low-dose radiotherapy.", "content": "Calcifying tendonitis of the shoulder joint : predictive value of pretreatment sonography for the response to low-dose radiotherapy. Calcifying tendonitis is a degenerative inflammatory joint disorder. Pain relief can be successfully achieved with low-dose radiotherapy. It is actually unknown which types of calcifying tendonitis respond to radiotherapy and which do not. The authors tried to get predictive objectives for the response to radiotherapy on the basis of different morphological patterns of calcifications evaluated by X-ray and ultrasound. Between August 1999 and September 2002, a total of 102 patients with 115 painful shoulder joints underwent low-dose radiotherapy. At the beginning of radiotherapy, every shoulder joint was examined with a radiograph in two planes. In addition, sonography was performed before and during therapy. This examination was repeated 6 and 18 months after irradiation. Radiotherapy consisted of two series with a total dose of 6.0 Gy. 29 joints with calcifying tendonitis could be further divided using the sonographic and radiographic classification according to Farin and G\u00e4rtner, respectively. Pain relief was achieved in 94/115 joints (82%) at a follow-up of 18 months (median). A different response to radiotherapy was found using the sonographic classification of Farin: calcifying tendonitis type III (n = 18) responded well in contrast to a significantly worse result in type I (n = 11). The radiologic classification did not provide a predictive value. Sonographic classification of calcifying tendonitis is predictive for the outcome after radiotherapy. Especially patients with Farin type III calcification will benefit from low-dose radiotherapy."}
{"id": "20055356", "title": "Solitary osteochondroma of the proximal femur and femoral acetabular impingement.", "content": "Solitary osteochondroma of the proximal femur and femoral acetabular impingement. Although osteochondromas can be present within the context of multiple hereditary exostosis, these tumors are overwhelmingly found as isolated lesions. Increased exostotic load associated with multiple hereditary exostosis can lead to limb-length discrepancy, increased femoral anteversion, valgus angulation, and acetabular dysplasia. Despite these observations, the relationship of more common isolated exostoses near the proximal femur and their role in femoral acetabular impingement has never been depicted. Although solitary osteochondromas have been linked with bursal inflammation and pain, compression on neurovascular structures, and malignant degeneration, they have not previously been associated with femoral acetabular impingement. This article presents a novel case of a proximal femoral osteochondroma of the greater trochanter leading to the development and associated symptoms and radiographic findings consistent with hip impingement. A 24-year-old man presented with groin and lower extremity pain thought to be due to an exostosis of the proximal femur. Following surgical excision and persistence of anterior groin pain, the patient was found to display a presentation and radiographic findings consistent with femoral acetabular impingement. He successfully underwent a hip arthroscopy, femoroacetabular osteochondroplasty, and labral repair. Postoperatively, his symptoms improved significantly, and he returned to normal activity. The presence of a proximal femoral exostosis can be associated with the development of femoral acetabular impingement. Awareness of this relationship may lead to a better understanding of patient symptoms and expectations associated with treatment."}
{"id": "20055350", "title": "The strength and effects of humeral rotation on single- versus double-row repair techniques in small rotator cuff tears.", "content": "The strength and effects of humeral rotation on single- versus double-row repair techniques in small rotator cuff tears. With advanced surgical techniques, instrumentation, and implants, arthroscopic rotator cuff repair has become increasingly popular. As the techniques continue to evolve, so do the methods by which the repairs are tested. Cyclic loading has shown to better replicate postoperative motion after cuff repair. Recently, cyclic loading with dynamic external rotation has been studied for large rotator cuff repairs. Our study applies this concept to small, isolated supraspinatus tears, comparing single- vs double-row repair techniques. A 1.5-cm rotator cuff tear was created in cadaveric specimens and repaired with single-and double-row repair techniques. With cyclic loading and dynamic external rotation, gap formation and ultimate pullout strength were determined and found to be equivalent. This study demonstrates no significant difference in single- vs double-row repairs for small, isolated supraspinatus tears when tested with cyclic loading and dynamic external rotation."}
{"id": "20052957", "title": "Helpful tips for performing musculoskeletal injections.", "content": "Helpful tips for performing musculoskeletal injections. Injections are valuable procedures for managing musculoskeletal conditions commonly encountered by family physicians. Corticosteroid injections into articular, periarticular, or soft tissue structures relieve pain, reduce inflammation, and improve mobility. Injections can provide diagnostic information and are commonly used for postoperative pain control. Local anesthetics may be injected with corticosteroids to provide additional, rapid pain relief. Steroid injection is the preferred and definitive treatment for de Quervain tenosynovitis and trochanteric bursitis. Steroid injections can also be helpful in controlling pain during physical rehabilitation from rotator cuff syndrome and lateral epicondylitis. Intra-articular steroid injection provides pain relief in rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis. There is little systematic evidence to guide medication selection for therapeutic injections. The medication used and the frequency of injection should be guided by the goal of the injection (i.e., diagnostic or therapeutic), the underlying musculoskeletal diagnosis, and clinical experience. Complications from steroid injections are rare, but physicians should understand the potential risks and counsel patients appropriately. Patients with diabetes who receive periarticular or soft tissue steroid injections should closely monitor their blood glucose for two weeks following injection."}
{"id": "20048092", "title": "Prevalence of rotator cuff tear in paraplegic patients compared with controls.", "content": "Prevalence of rotator cuff tear in paraplegic patients compared with controls. Musculoskeletal injuries of the shoulder in paraplegic patients with long-term survival can result from overuse and/or inappropriate use of wheelchairs. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the prevalence and risk of pathological changes in the weight-bearing shoulder girdle of paraplegic patients who have been wheelchair-dependent for more than thirty years in comparison with able-bodied volunteers. One hundred paraplegic patients were matched for sex and age with a group of 100 able-bodied volunteers. Two hundred shoulders from each group were evaluated with use of magnetic resonance imaging. Collected outcome measures included a standardized clinical examination protocol, the Constant score, and a visual analog score for pain intensity. Shoulder function according to the Constant score was significantly worse in the paraplegic patients than in the able-bodied volunteers. Similarly, the visual analog scale pain scores were significantly worse for the paraplegic patients. Magnetic resonance imaging showed that the prevalence of rotator cuff tears in either shoulder was significantly higher in the paraplegic patients than in the able-bodied volunteers (63% compared with 15%), resulting in a tenfold higher risk of rotator cuff rupture among paraplegic patients. The present study demonstrates that the structural and functional changes of the shoulder joint are more severe and the risk of development of shoulder girdle damage is significantly higher in individuals with long-term paraplegia than in age-matched controls."}
{"id": "20044683", "title": "A double-blind randomised controlled study comparing subacromial injection of tenoxicam or methylprednisolone in patients with subacromial impingement.", "content": "A double-blind randomised controlled study comparing subacromial injection of tenoxicam or methylprednisolone in patients with subacromial impingement. We have carried out a prospective double-blind randomised controlled trial to compare the efficacy of a single subacromial injection of the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, tenoxicam, with a single injection of methylprednisolone in patients with subacromial impingement. A total of 58 patients were randomly allocated into two groups. Group A received 40 mg of methylprednisolone and group B 20 mg of tenoxicam as a subacromial injection along with lignocaine. The Constant-Murley shoulder score was used as the primary outcome measure and the Disability of Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) and the Oxford Shoulder Score (OSS) as secondary measures. Six weeks after injection the improvement in the Constant-Murley score was significantly greater in the methylprednisolone group (p = 0.003) than in the tenoxicam group. The improvement in the DASH score was greater in the steroid group and the difference was statistically significant and consistent two (p < 0.01), four (p < 0.01) and six weeks (p < 0.020) after the injection. The improvement in the OSS was consistently greater in the steroid group than in the tenoxicam group. Although the difference was statistically significant at two (p < 0.001) and four (p = 0.003) weeks after the injection, it was not at six weeks (p = 0.055). Subacromial injection of tenoxicam does not offer an equivalent outcome to subacromial injection of corticosteroid at six weeks. Corticosteroid is significantly better than tenoxicam for improving shoulder function in tendonitis of the rotator cuff after six weeks."}
{"id": "20032738", "title": "Acetabular cartilage and labral damage observed during surgical hip dislocation for stable slipped capital femoral epiphysis.", "content": "Acetabular cartilage and labral damage observed during surgical hip dislocation for stable slipped capital femoral epiphysis. Surgical hip dislocation allows the surgeon full visualization of the proximal femur and acetabulum. It also makes it possible to directly observe the pathologic relationship between the proximal femur and acetabular rim with hip motion. The purpose of this study is to classify acetabular cartilage and labral damage that is present at the time of surgical hip dislocation for the treatment of symptomatic stable slipped capital femoral epiphysis (SCFE) hips. A retrospective study was performed at 2 North American centers on patients with a stable SCFE who had a surgical hip dislocation for chronic symptoms. The severity of SCFE (slip angle) was measured as mild (0-30 degrees), moderate (30-60 degrees), and severe (60-90 degrees). The degree of acetabular and labral damage was classified in each patient according to the Beck classification used for femoroacetabular impingement. Thirty-nine hips in 36 patients that underwent open surgical dislocation for diagnosis of stable SCFE were included. The breakdown of the radiographic severity of the SCFE was 8 mild, 20 moderate, and 11 severe. Labral injury was observed in 34 of 39 hips. Using the Beck classification for labral injury, there were 21 type 1 injuries, 9 type 2 injuries, and 4 type 3 injuries. Cartilage injury was present in 33 of 39 hips. Using Beck classification for cartilage damage, there were 6 grade 0, 5 grade 1, 10 grade 2, 4 grade 3, 10 grade 4, and 4 grade 5 injuries. The average depth of cartilage damage was 5 mm (range, 2-10 mm). In this study, significant chondromalacia and labral injury was observed in hips afflicted with SCFE. Surgical hip dislocation allowed direct confirmation of the impingement of the prominent metaphysis on the acetabular labrum and cartilage."}
{"id": "20010297", "title": "Evidence supporting the use of physical modalities in the treatment of upper extremity musculoskeletal conditions.", "content": "Evidence supporting the use of physical modalities in the treatment of upper extremity musculoskeletal conditions. To evaluate recent trials and reviews of physical modalities and conservative treatments for selected upper extremity musculoskeletal conditions for evidence supporting their use. Recent evidence suggests that many localized tendinopathies are related more to degenerative than inflammatory processes. With this realization, there is increased emphasis on finding new modalities to treat tendinopathies and other localized musculoskeletal conditions that rely on other than anti-inflammatory mechanisms. Although there is good evidence to support the short-term benefits of corticosteroid injections, convincing evidence in support of other conservative treatments and modalities is generally lacking. Extracorpal shock wave therapy may have significant clinical benefit for calcific tendinitis; however, it requires intravenous sedation in most cases and does not appear to be effective in lateral epicondylitis. The most consistent positive treatment effects for rotator cuff tendinitis were achieved by ultrasound-guided subacromial corticosteroid injection as well as manual therapy in conjunction with therapeutic exercise. Although there is evidence supporting the use of several different physical modalities and conservative treatments for upper extremity musculoskeletal conditions, there is a strong need for larger, higher quality randomized controlled trials. Although most studies are able to demonstrate short-term benefits, there is a lack of high-quality data demonstrating that these conservative treatments have long-term benefits, particularly, with regard to functional outcomes."}
{"id": "20001474", "title": "Magnetic resonance arthrography including ABER view in diagnosing partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff: accuracy, and inter- and intra-observer agreements.", "content": "Magnetic resonance arthrography including ABER view in diagnosing partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff: accuracy, and inter- and intra-observer agreements. Partial-thickness tear of the rotator cuff is a common cause of shoulder pain. Magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography has been described as a useful measure to diagnose rotator cuff abnormalities. To determine the reliability and accuracy of MR arthrography with abduction and external rotation (ABER) view for the diagnosis of partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff. Among patients who underwent MR arthrographies, 22 patients (12 men, 10 women; mean age 45 years) who had either partial-thickness tear or normal tendon on arthroscopy were included. MR images were independently scored by two observers for partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff. Interobserver and intraobserver agreements for detection of partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff were calculated by using kappa coefficients. The differences in areas under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were assessed with a univariate Z-score test. Differences in sensitivity and specificity for interpretations based on different imaging series were tested for significance using the McNemar statistic. Sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of each reader on MR imaging without ABER view were 83%, 90%, and 86%, and 83%, 80%, and 82%, respectively, whereas on overall interpretation including ABER view, the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of each reader were 92%, 70%, and 82%, and 92%, 80%, and 86%, respectively. Including ABER view, interobserver agreement for partial-thickness tear increased from kappa=0.55 to kappa=0.68. Likewise, intraobserver agreements increased from kappa=0.79 and 0.53 to kappa=0.81 and 0.70 for each reader, respectively. The areas under the ROC curves for each reader were 0.96 and 0.90, which were not significantly different. Including ABER view in routine sequences of MR arthrography increases the sensitivity, and inter- and intraobserver agreements for detecting partial-thickness tear of rotator cuff tendon."}
{"id": "19997667", "title": "Long-term follow-up after arthroscopic tenotomy for partial rupture of the biceps brachii tendon.", "content": "Long-term follow-up after arthroscopic tenotomy for partial rupture of the biceps brachii tendon. To report the long-term clinical outcomes and radiographic results in dogs diagnosed with partial bicipital rupture and treated by arthroscopic tenotomy. The medical records of dogs that had undergone arthroscopic tenotomy were retrospectively reviewed. Inclusion criteria for this study were: performance of an arthroscopic tenotomy between August 1999 and July 2007, availability of arthroscopic records data for review, and ability to obtain follow-up data for more than one year after arthroscopic tenotomy. In all cases, owners were interviewed during follow-up appointments or via telephone to determine perceived outcome after surgery. Forty-seven arthroscopic tenotomies were performed on 40 dogs without any major surgical complications. Long-term follow-up examinations, ranging from 12 months to 48 months (mean 26 months) after the tenotomy, were obtained for 24 dogs (25 shoulders). Clinical outcome was assessed as excellent in 22 shoulders, with each dog showing a full return of limb function. A total of 10 dogs (11 joints) were evaluated radiographically; six joints revealed no progression of pathology, and five joints showed a limited progression of pathology. Arthroscopic tenotomy in the treatment of bicipital partial rupture yields favourable long-term clinical results and a high degree of owner satisfaction. The feasibility of this technique and the long-term clinical and radiographic outcome from our study indicate that this technique can be considered a reliable and safe treatment for partial bicipital rupture."}
{"id": "19995682", "title": "In vitro biomechanical comparison of three different types of single- and double-row arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs: analysis of continuous bone-tendon contact pressure and surface during different simulated joint positions.", "content": "In vitro biomechanical comparison of three different types of single- and double-row arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs: analysis of continuous bone-tendon contact pressure and surface during different simulated joint positions. We assessed bone-tendon contact surface and pressure with a continuous and reversible measurement system comparing 3 different double- and single-row techniques of cuff repair with simulation of different joint positions. We reproduced a medium supraspinatus tear in 24 human cadaveric shoulders. For the 12 right shoulders, single-row suture (SRS) and then double-row bridge suture (DRBS) were used. For the 12 left shoulders, DRBS and then double-row cross suture (DRCS) were used. Measurements were performed before, during, and after knot tying and then with different joint positions. There was a significant increase in contact surface with the DRBS technique compared with the SRS technique and with the DRCS technique compared with the SRS or DRBS technique. There was a significant increase in contact pressure with the DRBS technique and DRCS technique compared with the SRS technique but no difference between the DRBS technique and DRCS technique. The DRCS technique seems to be superior to the DRBS and SRS techniques in terms of bone-tendon contact surface and pressure."}
{"id": "19966099", "title": "Correction of posterior shoulder tightness is associated with symptom resolution in patients with internal impingement.", "content": "Correction of posterior shoulder tightness is associated with symptom resolution in patients with internal impingement. Glenohumeral internal rotation deficit (GIRD) and posterior shoulder tightness have been linked to internal impingement. To determine if improvements in GIRD and/or decreased posterior shoulder tightness are associated with a resolution of symptoms. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 3. Passive internal rotation and external rotation (ER) range of motion (ROM) at 90 degrees of shoulder abduction and posterior shoulder tightness (cross-chest adduction in side lying) were assessed in 22 patients with internal impingement (11 men, 11 women; age 41 +/- 13 years). Treatment involved stretching and mobilization of the posterior shoulder. The Simple Shoulder Test (SST) was administered on initial evaluation and discharge. Changes in GIRD, ER ROM, and posterior shoulder tightness were compared between patients with complete resolution of symptoms versus patients with residual symptoms using independent t tests. Patients had significant GIRD (35 degrees), loss of ER ROM (23 degrees), and posterior shoulder tightness (35 degrees) on initial evaluation (all P < .01). Physical therapy (7 +/- 2 weeks; range, 3-12 weeks) improved GIRD (26 degrees +/- 14 degrees; P < .01), ER ROM loss (14 degrees +/- 20 degrees), and posterior shoulder tightness (27 degrees +/-19 degrees). The SST improved from 5 +/- 3 to 11 +/- 1 (P < .01). A greater improvement in posterior shoulder tightness was seen in patients with complete resolution of symptoms (n = 12) compared with patients with residual symptoms (35 degrees vs 18 degrees; P < .05). Improvements in GIRD and ER ROM loss were not different between groups (GIRD, 25 degrees vs 28 degrees, P = .57; ER ROM, 14 degrees vs 15 degrees, P = .84). Resolution of symptoms after physical therapy treatment for internal impingement was related to correction of posterior shoulder tightness but not correction of GIRD."}
{"id": "19959652", "title": "Some factors predict successful short-term outcomes in individuals with shoulder pain receiving cervicothoracic manipulation: a single-arm trial.", "content": "Some factors predict successful short-term outcomes in individuals with shoulder pain receiving cervicothoracic manipulation: a single-arm trial. It has been reported that manipulative therapy directed at the cervical and thoracic spine may improve outcomes in patients with shoulder pain. To date, limited data are available to help physical therapists determine which patients with shoulder pain may experience changes in pain and disability following the application of these interventions. The purpose of this study was to identify prognostic factors from the history and physical examination in individuals with shoulder pain who are likely to experience rapid improvement in pain and disability following cervical and thoracic spine manipulation. This was a prospective single-arm trial. This study was conducted in outpatient physical therapy clinics. The participants were individuals who were seen by physical therapists for a primary complaint of shoulder pain. Participants underwent a standardized examination and then a series of thrust and nonthrust manipulations directed toward the cervicothoracic spine. Individuals were classified as having achieved a successful outcome at the second and third sessions based on their perceived recovery. Potential prognostic variables were entered into a stepwise logistic regression model to determine the most accurate set of variables for prediction of treatment success. Data for 80 individuals were included in the data analysis, of which 49 had a successful outcome. Five prognostic variables were retained in the final regression model. If 3 of the 5 variables were present, the chance of achieving a successful outcome improved from 61% to 89% (positive likelihood ratio=5.3). A prospective single-arm trial lacking a control group does not allow for inferences to be made regarding cause and effect. The statistical procedures used may result in \"overfitting\" of the model, which can result in low precision of the prediction accuracy, and the bivariate analysis may have resulted in the rejection of some important variables. The identified prognostic variables will allow clinicians to make an a priori identification of individuals with shoulder pain who are likely to experience short-term improvement with cervical and thoracic spine manipulation. Future studies are necessary to validate these findings."}
{"id": "19945585", "title": "Evaluation, diagnosis, and treatment of shoulder injuries in athletes.", "content": "Evaluation, diagnosis, and treatment of shoulder injuries in athletes. The shoulder remains one of the more challenging joints for clinicians to clearly identify, diagnose, and treat within the athletic population. Its complexities involving the glenohumeral, acromioclavicular, sternoclavicular, and scapulothoracic joints moving in tandem require the physician and rehabilitation specialist to have a comprehensive understanding of the biomechanics and arthrokinematics associated with athletic activity. This chapter focuses on the evaluation, classification, mechanism of injury, and initial treatment of widespread shoulder injuries involved in sports."}
{"id": "19941361", "title": "Investigation of the static and dynamic musculotendinous architecture of supraspinatus.", "content": "Investigation of the static and dynamic musculotendinous architecture of supraspinatus. To date, the architecture of supraspinatus (SP) and its relation to joint position has not been investigated. The purpose of this study was to quantify the dynamic architecture of the distinct regions of SP using ultrasound (US). Seventeen subjects (8 M/9 F), mean age 36.4 +/- 12.7 years, without tendon pathology were recruited. The SP was scanned in relaxed and contracted states. For the contracted state, SP was scanned with the shoulder actively abducted to 60 degrees and the glenohumeral joint in neutral rotation; 80 degrees external rotation; 80 degrees internal rotation. Fiber bundle length (FBL) and pennation angle (PA) of distinct regions, and muscle thickness were computed. Measurements of the posterior region were limited because of acromion shadowing. Parameters between regions and changes between relaxed and contracted states were analyzed using paired t-tests and repeated measures ANOVA (P < 0.05). On contraction in the anterior region, mean percentage of FBL shortening ranged between 9% and 21%. However, in the posterior region, shortening of approximately 2% only occurred in two of the three positions; lengthening of approximately 2.5% occurred in internal rotation. For the anterior region, the mean PA increased the least in the externally rotated position, and the mean PA of the middle part was smaller than the deep part for all states. Findings suggest changes in the architecture are not uniform throughout the muscle and joint position may play an important role in force production. The US protocol may serve as an outcome measure of adaptive changes of muscle function following surgery, training, and rehabilitation."}
{"id": "19940295", "title": "Outcomes after arthroscopic revision rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Outcomes after arthroscopic revision rotator cuff repair. Although a number of reports have documented outcomes after open revision rotator cuff repair, there are few studies reporting results after arthroscopic revision. Arthroscopic repair of failed rotator cuff results in significant improvement in shoulder functional outcome and pain relief. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Multiple variables including demographic data, the number of prior ipsilateral shoulder surgeries, and tear size were recorded from chart review. An independent examiner then measured shoulder strength, range of motion, and shoulder functional outcome scores including American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score, Simple Shoulder Test, and visual analog pain scale. Paired t tests were performed to compare preoperative and postoperative measures. Additionally, contingency table analysis was performed to identify prognostic factors for failure of repair requiring further surgery and American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score less than 50. Fifty-four patients (88.5%) were available for follow-up evaluation with a mean age of 54.9 +/- 10.1 years (range, 22.7-82.5 years) and a mean follow-up of 31.1 +/- 11.9 months. American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores improved from 43.8 +/- 5.7 (mean +/- 95% confidence interval) before revision to 68.1 +/- 7.2 at final follow-up (P = .0039). The Simple Shoulder Test improved significantly from 3.56 +/- 0.8 before surgery to 7.5 +/- 1.1 at most recent follow-up (P < .0001). Visual analog pain scale scores improved from 5.17 +/- 0.8 to 2.75 +/- 0.8 (P = .03), and forward elevation increased from 121.0 degrees +/- 12.3 degrees to 136 degrees +/- 11.8 degrees postoperatively (P = .025). Greater than 1 prior shoulder surgery was associated with cases that required additional surgery (P = .031). Female gender (P = .007) and preoperative abduction less than 90 masculine (P = .009) were associated with American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores less than 50. Arthroscopic revision rotator cuff repair may be a reasonable treatment option even after prior open repairs and provides both improved pain relief and shoulder function. Nonetheless, results are not completely optimal. Female patients and those who have undergone more than 1 ipsilateral shoulder surgery are at increased risk for poorer results."}
{"id": "19937459", "title": "Joint position sense and vibratory perception sense in patients with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type III (hypermobility type).", "content": "Joint position sense and vibratory perception sense in patients with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type III (hypermobility type). Neurophysiological deficits could make patients with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) type III (hypermobility type) more vulnerable to musculoskeletal problems, particularly to joint instability. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether joint position sense (JPS) and vibratory perception sense (VPS) in EDS type III patients in the knee and shoulder joints are impaired. Thirty-two female EDS type III patients as defined by the Villefranche criteria and 32 individually gender- and age-matched healthy control subjects were included in the study. Range of motion was determined using a goniometer, passive and active JPS were assessed with an isokinetic dynamometer system, and the VPS was measured by a biothesiometer. Daily physical activity was evaluated by the Baecke questionnaire. The EDS type III group showed significantly larger ranges of movement (P < 0.05) and lower levels of sport physical activity (SPA) compared to the control group (P = 0.023). Considering SPA as covariate, the EDS type III group demonstrated a significant impairment in knee joint reposition compared to the control group (P = 0.018). No significant differences were found for shoulder JPS. The VPS was not significantly different in the EDS type III group compared to the control group. In addition, no significant correlation was found between JPS and VPS, neither at the knee nor at the shoulder joint. This is the first study examining proprioception deficits in EDS type III patients as defined by the Villefranche criteria. Further research on the neurophysiological dysfunctions and mechanisms in this pathologic entity is needed."}
{"id": "19898856", "title": "Degenerative changes of the deltoid muscle have impact on clinical outcome after reversed total shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Degenerative changes of the deltoid muscle have impact on clinical outcome after reversed total shoulder arthroplasty. Despite a high complication rate, subjective and objective results of reversed shoulder arthroplasty for severe rotator cuff lesions associated with osteoarthritis, fracture sequelae, or revision of hemiarthroplasty are favorable. However, whether the changes in biomechanics of the joint may lead to structural changes in the remaining rotator cuff and the deltoid muscle, and may thereby alter the clinical result, has rarely been described. This study investigates the context between postoperative fatty infiltration of the remaining rotator cuff and the deltoid muscle, and the clinical outcome after reversed shoulder arthroplasty. Twenty-three patients with an average age of 73.1 +/- 5.6 years were evaluated at an average of 26 +/- 16.8 months. Evaluation included assessment of Constant Score, disabilities of the arm, shoulder and hand score, radiographic evaluation with measurement of the humeral lengthening and medialization of the center of rotation, and magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography to classify changes in the rotator cuff and the deltoid muscle. Results There was a significant correlation between fatty infiltration of the deltoid muscle and the clinical score results. Patients with a longer follow-up showed a higher amount of degenerative changes of the deltoid than patients with a shorter follow-up. Degenerative changes of the rotator cuff showed no significant correlation to clinical results. The amount of arm lengthening, medialization of the center of rotation, and scapula notching showed no correlation to clinical results or degenerative changes of the deltoid and the rotator cuff. These data show that degeneration of the deltoid muscle is of impact for clinical outcome. Although other factors like disuse or pain as a reason for muscular changes cannot be fully excluded, this degeneration might occur after time due to biomechanical changes after reversed arthroplasty. However, prospective studies with longer follow-up periods and repetitive assessment of muscle quality are necessary to further support these results."}
{"id": "19843625", "title": "Structural characteristics of the subscapularis muscle in children with medial rotation contracture of the shoulder after obstetric brachial plexus injury.", "content": "Structural characteristics of the subscapularis muscle in children with medial rotation contracture of the shoulder after obstetric brachial plexus injury. The aim of this study was to obtain a better understanding of the cause of the medial rotation contracture of the shoulder after obstetric brachial plexus lesions by studying the morphology of the shortened subscapularis muscle. Muscle biopsy specimens were harvested from 13 children with obstetric brachial plexus palsy who underwent corrective surgery for the rotation contracture. The majority of the subscapularis muscle biopsy samples had an essentially normal morphology and showed a predominance of type I myosin heavy chain isoform, while one biopsy showed signs of marked fibrosis and a predominance of type II myosin heavy chain isoform. The findings support the assumption that shortening of the subscapularis is caused primarily by the nerve injury, which weakens the antagonistic lateral rotators, but that direct injury to the muscle might be a contributory factor."}
{"id": "19800263", "title": "Radiologic course of the calcific deposits in calcific tendinitis of the shoulder: does the initial radiologic aspect affect the final results?", "content": "Radiologic course of the calcific deposits in calcific tendinitis of the shoulder: does the initial radiologic aspect affect the final results? Although conservative treatment is the first option for the treatment of calcific tendinitis, only a few reports have described its results, without documenting the radiologic changes over time of calcific deposits. We hypothesized that conservative treatment for calcific tendinitis of the shoulder would produce good clinical results in most patients and that the initial radiologic appearance of calcific deposits would not affect the final results. The study enrolled 87 consecutive patients (92 shoulders) who were diagnosed with calcific tendinitis and underwent conservative treatment. The mean age at the time of first visit was 53.2 years. The mean follow-up period was 16.1 months. At the final follow-up, the Constant score increased to 83.64 points from a mean of 76.17 points at initial visit (P < .001). The score on the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) Shoulder Rating Scale improved from 23.42 to 29.69 points (P < .001), and there were 7 excellent (8%), 59 good (64%), and 26 poor (28%) results. Eleven shoulders (12%) revealed complete resolution of calcific deposits; 46 (50%) decreased in size; 18 (20%) had no change in size; and 17 (18%) increased in size. Most patients in calcific tendinitis require treatment due to very severe shoulder pain, and conservative treatment may take precedence over operative treatment. Radiologic changes of calcific deposits report varying results depending on treatment methods. This study suggested that good radiologic results may be expected without performing special therapies. Conservative treatment for calcific tendinitis of the shoulder showed clinically significant improvement, with 72% of excellent or good results regardless of the location, radiologic type and size, and initial symptoms of calcific deposits. By radiologic type, 46% of the calcific deposits had a tendency to become more cloudy and inhomogeneous than initial findings, and 62% presented complete resolution or decrease in the size."}
{"id": "19796962", "title": "Complex space-filling procedures for intrathoracic infections - personal experience with 76 consecutive cases.", "content": "Complex space-filling procedures for intrathoracic infections - personal experience with 76 consecutive cases. The objective of our article is to analyse the results of complex space-filling procedures for chronic intrathoracic suppurations. We performed a retrospective analysis of 76 consecutive patients operated in our unit between 1 January 2003 and 31 December 2008, who presented pleural and/or pulmonary suppurations not amenable to decortication or resection; 36 patients (47%) had tuberculosis (TB) lesions (28 with positive cultures at the moment of surgery, seven with multi-drug-resistant (MDR) infections), 13 patients (17%) had postoperative empyema, 18 patients (24%) presented with frank intrapleural rupture of a pulmonary cavity and 26 patients (34%) presented with bronchial fistula. In these patients, we performed a combination of thoracoplasty (5.3+/-1.3 resected ribs) and intrathoracic transposition of extrathoracic muscles - 148 flaps (60 serratus anterior, 55 latissimus dorsi, 27 pectoralis and 6 subscapularis) with an average of 1.9 flaps per patient; in all patients, we used a closed-circuit irrigation-aspiration system and primary closure of the wound. The overall mortality was 5% (four patients) and four other patients (5%) presented recurrence of infection requiring a modified open-window thoracostomy; other local complications included minor skin necrosis solved through excision (three cases) and external thoracic fistula closed through local lavages (two cases). Postoperative hospitalisation ranged between 4 and 180 days, with an average of 40+/-5 days; all patients were discharged with healed wounds. Statistical analysis performed with the Fischer's exact test suggested that the flap or combination of flaps used to obliterate the space did not influence the rate of recurrence or the incidence of other major postoperative complications (p>0.05). Mild impairment of shoulder function was encountered in five patients. A comparative evaluation of the pre- and postoperative VC and forced expiratory volume of 1s (FEV1) showed no statistically significant difference (Wilcoxon signed-rank test -p>0.05). Patients with complex intrathoracic suppurations not amenable to decortication or lung resection require complex space-filling procedures to achieve complete obliteration of the infected space. The association between thoracoplasty and intrathoracic muscle transposition is a safe and simple solution allowing a quick recovery with good functional and aesthetic postoperative outcome."}
{"id": "19788959", "title": "Voluntary activation of the infraspinatus muscle in nonfatigued and fatigued states.", "content": "Voluntary activation of the infraspinatus muscle in nonfatigued and fatigued states. Failure of voluntary activation is an important source of weakness in several different muscles after injury or surgery. Despite the high prevalence of shoulder rotator cuff disorders and associated weakness, no test currently exists to identify voluntary activation deficits for the rotator cuff. The purpose of this study was to develop a test to quantify voluntary activation of the infraspinatus. We hypothesized that there would be a consistent relationship between the voluntary activation level and different force levels and that reduced voluntary activation would partially account for reduced force with fatigue. Twenty healthy volunteers underwent assessment of voluntary activation using an electrical stimulus applied to the infraspinatus muscle during active isometric external rotation. Voluntary activation was assessed across several levels of external rotation effort and during fatigue. The voluntary activation-percent force relationship was best fit using a curvilinear model, and the fatigue test reduced both force and voluntary activation by 46%. In the nonfatigued state, the voluntary activation-percent force relationship is similar to that reported for the quadriceps. After fatigue, however, greater failure of voluntary activation was observed compared with reported values for other upper and lower extremity muscles, which may have implications for the understanding and treatment of rotator cuff pathology. A measure of voluntary activation for the infraspinatus varied with the percent maximum force in a predictable manner that is consistent with the literature. The infraspinatus may be more susceptible to failure of voluntary activation during fatigue than other muscles."}
{"id": "19788957", "title": "Range of motion limitation after rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Range of motion limitation after rotator cuff repair. This study was conducted to identify preoperative factors correlating with limited motion after rotator cuff repair (RCR) and to evaluate the affect of loss of motion on outcome. We hypothesized that patients with preoperative ROM loss, diabetes, and workman's compensation claims would exhibit postoperative ROM loss at 3 months. Preoperative and postoperative evaluations, including outcomes assessment and physical examination parameters, were reviewed for 345 patients who underwent RCR. Correlations between demographic, physical examination, and surgical variables and postoperative limitation of motion and need for capsular release were determined. At 3-month follow-up, mean active forward elevation (AFE), active external rotation (AER), and passive internal rotation (PIR) were 90%, 78%, and 80% of the contralateral side. Limitation of preoperative motion correlated with limitation of postoperative AFE, AER, and PIR (P < .001). Forty-seven patients considered clinically stiff were followed at 1 year postoperatively. Three patients required arthroscopic capsular release for persistent range of motion loss. Early postoperative limitation of motion after RCR is associated with restricted preoperative motion. Other factors, including diabetes mellitus and worker's compensation claim, are also associated with range of motion loss. Most shoulders with early motion loss recover motion and rarely require capsular release."}
{"id": "19756589", "title": "Intra and inter-examiner reliability of the subacromial impingement index.", "content": "Intra and inter-examiner reliability of the subacromial impingement index. The present study aimed to assess the reliability of intra and inter-examiner subacromial impingement index (SII) measures obtained from radiographs. Thirty-six individuals were enrolled and divided into two groups: control group, composed of 18 volunteers in good general health without shoulder problems, and a group of 18 patients with subacromial impingement syndrome (SIS). Radiographic images were taken with the dominant upper limb in neutral rotation, while the volunteers held their arm at 90 degrees of abduction in the frontal plane. The beam of radiation at 30 degrees craniocaudal inclination was used to provide an antero-posterior image view. Three blinded examiners each performed three measurements from the subacromial space (SS) and the anatomical neck of the humerus (NH). The SII was calculated as the ratio of the SS and the NH measures. The mean values of SII were compared using t-tests. The intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC) was used to assess intra- and inter-examiner reliability of the measures. The mean values of SII were greater for the control group (0.12) than for the SIS group (0.08; p = 0.0071). SII measurements showed excellent intra (0.96-0.99) and inter-examiner reliability (0.94) for both the control and SIS group. The results of this study show the potential use of the SII; a greater mean value for the control group compared to the SIS group and excellent reliability for intra- and inter-examiner measurement. Validation studies of the index should be conducted to correlate the index with clinical findings from subacromial impingement syndrome."}
{"id": "19733487", "title": "Shoulder kinematics during the wall push-up plus exercise.", "content": "Shoulder kinematics during the wall push-up plus exercise. The push-up plus exercise is a common therapeutic exercise for improving shoulder function and treating shoulder pathology. To date, the kinematics of the push-up plus exercise have not been studied. Our hypothesis was that the wall push-up plus exercise would demonstrate increased scapular internal rotation and increased humeral anterior translation during the plus phase of the exercise, thereby potentially impacting the subacromial space. Bone pins were inserted in the humerus and scapula in 12 healthy volunteers with no history of shoulder pathology. In vivo motion during the wall push-up plus exercise was tracked using an electromagnetic tracking system. During the wall push-up plus exercise, from a starting position to the push-up plus position, there was a significant increase in scapular downward rotation (P < .05) and internal rotation (P < .05). The pattern of glenohumeral motion was humeral elevation (P < .05) and movement anterior to the scapular plane (P < .05), with humeral external rotation remaining relatively constant. We found that during a wall push-up plus exercise in healthy volunteers, the scapula was placed in a position potentially associated with shoulder impingement. Because of the shoulder kinematics of the wall push-up plus exercise, utilization of this exercise without modification early on in shoulder rehabilitation, especially in patients with subacromial impingement, should be considered cautiously."}
{"id": "19730855", "title": "MRI findings associated with luxatio erecta humeri.", "content": "MRI findings associated with luxatio erecta humeri. Luxatio erecta humeri is a rare type of inferior glenohumeral dislocation with a unique radiographic appearance; however, the magnetic resonance imaging findings associated with this dislocation have not been described in the radiology literature. The purpose of this study is to identify magnetic resonance imaging findings associated with this uncommon type of glenohumeral dislocation. The magnetic resonance imaging features of four patients with clinical and radiographic evidence of luxatio erecta humeri were reviewed retrospectively by two musculoskeletal-trained radiologists. The reported mechanism of injury in all four patients was falling. The MR imaging examinations were evaluated for the presence of rotator cuff and biceps tendon pathology, glenoid labrum pathology, joint capsule and glenohumeral ligament injury, fractures and bone marrow contusions, articular cartilage injury, and joint effusions. All four patients demonstrated pathology of the glenohumeral joint. Three of the four patients demonstrated rotator cuff tears, including large full thickness tears of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons in two patients, and small full thickness tear of the supraspinatus tendon with partial thickness tear of the infraspinatus tendon in the third patient. In the two patients with large full thickness tears of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons, one patient demonstrated tearing of the subscapularis tendon with dislocation of a partially torn long head of the biceps tendon, and the second patient demonstrated full thickness tearing of the intra-articular biceps tendon. All four patients demonstrated injuries to the glenoid labrum and both anterior and posterior bands of the inferior glenohumeral ligament. Contusions or fractures of the humeral head were seen in two of the patients. Three of the four patients demonstrated cartilage abnormalities including a focal cartilage defect in the anterior inferior glenoid in one patient, and cartilage surface irregularity of the glenoid in the other two patients. Common magnetic resonance imaging findings in patients with a prior luxatio erecta humeri dislocation include rotator cuff tears, injury to the glenoid labrum, and injury to both the anterior and posterior bands of the inferior glenohumeral ligament. These findings are compatible with the mechanism of dislocation in luxatio erecta, and noting these findings on magnetic resonance imaging may suggest that the patient has sustained a prior inferiorly directed glenohumeral dislocation such as luxatio erecta."}
{"id": "19727754", "title": "Detection of rotator cuff tears: the value of MRI following ultrasound.", "content": "Detection of rotator cuff tears: the value of MRI following ultrasound. To evaluate the need for additional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) following ultrasound (US) in patients with shoulder pain and/or disability and to compare the accuracy of both techniques for the detection of partial-thickness and full-thickness rotator cuff tears (RCT). In 4 years, 5,216 patients underwent US by experienced musculoskeletal radiologists. Retrospectively, patient records were evaluated if MRI and surgery were performed within 5 months of US. US and MRI findings were classified into intact cuff, partial-thickness and full-thickness RCT, and were correlated with surgical findings. Additional MR imaging was performed in 275 (5.2%) patients. Sixty-eight patients underwent surgery within 5 months. US and MRI correctly depicted 21 (95%) and 22 (100%) of the 22 full-thickness tears, and 8 (89%) and 6 (67%) of the 9 partial-thickness tears, respectively. The differences in performance of US and MRI were not statistically significant (p = 0.15). MRI following routine shoulder US was requested in only 5.2% of the patients. The additional value of MRI was in detecting intra-articular lesions. In patients who underwent surgery, US and MRI yielded comparably high sensitivity for detecting full-thickness RCT. US performed better in detecting partial-thickness tears, although the difference was not significant."}
{"id": "19727741", "title": "Inter- and intraobserver variability of MR arthrography in the detection and classification of superior labral anterior posterior (SLAP) lesions: evaluation in 78 cases with arthroscopic correlation.", "content": "Inter- and intraobserver variability of MR arthrography in the detection and classification of superior labral anterior posterior (SLAP) lesions: evaluation in 78 cases with arthroscopic correlation. The purpose of this study was to determine inter- and intraobserver variability of MR arthrography of the shoulder in the detection and classification of superior labral anterior posterior (SLAP) lesions. MR arthrograms of 78 patients who underwent MR arthrography before arthroscopy were retrospectively analysed by three blinded readers for the presence and type of SLAP lesions. MR arthrograms were reviewed twice by each reader with a time interval of 4 months between the two readings. Inter- and intraobserver agreement for detection and classification of SLAP lesions were calculated using kappa coefficients. Arthroscopy confirmed 48 SLAP lesions: type I (n = 4), type II (n = 37), type III (n = 3), type IV (n = 4). Sensitivity and specificity for detecting SLAP lesions with MR arthrography for each reader were 88.6%/93.3%, 90.9%/80.0% and 86.4%/76.7%. MR arthrographic and arthroscopic grading were concurrent for 72.7%, 68.2% and 70.5% of SLAP lesions for readers 1-3, respectively. Interobserver agreement was excellent (kappa = 0.82) for detection and substantial (kappa = 0.63) for classification of SLAP lesions. For each reader intraobserver agreement was excellent for detection (kappa = 0.93, kappa = 0.97, kappa = 0.97) and classification (kappa = 0.94, kappa = 0.84, kappa = 0.93) of SLAP lesions. MR arthrography allows reliable and accurate detection of SLAP lesions. In addition, SLAP lesions can be diagnosed and classified with substantial to excellent inter- and intraobserver agreement."}
{"id": "19709709", "title": "Effects of rotator cuff ruptures on the cellular and intracellular composition of the human supraspinatus muscle.", "content": "Effects of rotator cuff ruptures on the cellular and intracellular composition of the human supraspinatus muscle. Ruptures of the rotator cuff tendons of the human shoulder are a common incidence and lead to functional impairment of the four muscles connected to the cuff, entailing profound changes of their cellular tissue composition. Most importantly, such tendon tears lead to atrophy, fatty degeneration and fibrosis of the corresponding muscles. The muscle most commonly affected with such changes is the M. supraspinatus. The present study uses biopsy samples from the supraspinatus muscle of 12 elderly patients and 6 controls to examine the rupture-induced muscle change at both the cellular and the intracellular (ultrastructural) levels. Amounts of fatty tissue, connective tissue and muscle were assessed by light microscopy-based morphometry and stereology. Stereology of electron micrographs was employed to determine volume densities of muscle fibre mitochondria, myofibrils and intracellular lipid. Results demonstrate that the supraspinatus muscles of patients with a massive rupture contain significantly higher amounts not only of fatty tissue but also of intracellular lipid than those of control subjects. These patients further exhibit a major decrease in relative amounts of myofibrils, thus confirming that change of intracellular composition is a major component of the observed muscle degeneration. The results contribute to establish the true spectrum of supraspinatus muscle damage in humans induced by tendon rupture."}
{"id": "19574063", "title": "Cost-effectiveness of open versus arthroscopic rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Cost-effectiveness of open versus arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. Economic evaluation of surgical procedures is necessary in view of more expensive newer techniques emerging in an increasingly cost-conscious health care environment. This study compares the cost-effectiveness of open rotator cuff repair with arthroscopic repair for moderately size tears. This was a prospective study of 30 consecutive patients, of whom 15 had an arthroscopic repair and 15 had an open procedure. Clinical effectiveness was assessed using Oxford and Constant shoulder scores. Costs were estimated from departmental and hospital financial data. At last follow-up, no difference Oxford and Constant shoulder scores was noted between the 2 methods of repair. There was no significant difference between the groups in the cost of time in the operating theater, inpatient time, amount of postoperative analgesia, number of postoperative outpatient visits, physiotherapy costs, and time off work. The incremental cost of each arthroscopic rotator cuff repair was pound675 ($1248.75) more than the open procedure. This was mainly in the area of direct health care costs, instrumentation in particular. Health care policy makers are increasingly demanding evidence of cost-effectiveness of a procedure. This study showed both methods of repair provide equivalent clinical results. Open cuff repair is more cost-effective than arthroscopic repair and is likely to have lower cost-utility ratio. In addition, the tariff for the arthroscopic procedure in some health care systems is same as open repair."}
{"id": "19557486", "title": "Fenestrated cannulae with outflow reduces fluid gain in shoulder arthroscopy.", "content": "Fenestrated cannulae with outflow reduces fluid gain in shoulder arthroscopy. Soft tissue fluid retention is a common problem after arthroscopy, with as much as 2% of patients having complications develop. A fenestrated outflow cannula has been introduced to reduce interstitial swelling. We tested the ability of this outflow cannula design to reduce fluid weight gain. We enrolled 28 patients undergoing shoulder arthroscopy and randomized them into two groups using fenestrated outflow versus conventional cannulae. The conventional group had greater weight gain as a function of the procedure duration than the fenestrated outflow group (slope = 0.542 +/- 1.160 kg/hour versus 0.0144 +/- 0.932 kg/hour). The conventional group also had greater weight gain as a function of fluid volume than the fenestrated outflow group (slope = 0.022 +/- 0.038 kg/L versus 0.002 +/- 0.341 kg/L). Compared with conventional nonoutflow cannulae, fenestrated outflow cannulae with negative pressure reduced weight gain associated with longer arthroscopic surgeries and increased arthroscopic fluid volume. Level I, therapeutic study. See Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "19557410", "title": "Magnetic resonance appearance of posterosuperior labral peel back during humeral abduction and external rotation.", "content": "Magnetic resonance appearance of posterosuperior labral peel back during humeral abduction and external rotation. To describe the magnetic resonance appearance of posterosuperior labral peel back and determine the reliability of MR in the abducted and externally rotated (ABER) position for the prospective diagnosis of arthroscopically proven cases of posterosuperior labral peel back. After approval by the institutional review board (IRB) of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, USA, databases of patients who underwent arthroscopy over a 2-year period for one of three clinical diagnoses [suspected type 2 superior labrum anterior to posterior (SLAP) tears, posterior instability, or multidirectional instability] were reviewed after anonymization by an honest broker. Sixty-three cases were selected by the following inclusion criteria: operative report documenting labral peel back in the ABER position, age <40 years, and preceding MR arthrogram evaluations with images in the ABER position (n=34). Inclusion criteria for the control group differed from those for the case group insofar as the operative note documented the absence of posterosuperior labral peel back (n=29). Cases and controls were randomized in one list and evaluated independently by two fellowship-trained musculoskeletal radiologists unaware of the surgical results and using a three-point grading system (0 = posterosuperior labrum normally positioned lateral/craniad to glenoid articular plane in ABER; 1 = posterosuperior labral tissue flush with the glenoid articular plane in ABER; 2 = posterosuperior labral tissue identified medial/caudal to glenoid articular plane in ABER). Only one image in ABER showing abnormal posterosuperior labral position was required for a grade of 1 or 2 to be assigned. Sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive value were calculated as well as the level of agreement between readers (kappa). Both readers assigned a grade of 2 to 25 of 34 patients with surgically proven labral peel back. Of the patients with surgically proven SLAP tears with peel back in ABER, reader A assigned a grade of 1 to seven patients and a grade of 0 to two patients, while reader B assigned a grade of 1 to eight patients and a grade of 0 to one patient. In the control group of 29 patients, reader A assigned 28 patients a grade of 0, one patient a grade 1, and no patients a grade 2. Reader B assigned 27 patients a grade of 0, two a grade 1, and no patients a grade 2. After the data had been dichotomized, with grade 1 and 0 cases both being regarded as negative, the MR criteria showed a sensitivity of 73%, specificity of 100%, positive predictive value of 100%, and negative predictive value of 78%. The kappa coefficient of inter-rater agreement was excellent at 0.9, with disagreement in only four of 63 cases. In five of the 34 cases with peel back, a labral tear, defined by imbibition of contrast agent within a gap between labrum and underlying glenoid bone, could not be identified in standard planes in the neutral position. The use of the glenoid articular plane as a reference line to evaluate labral peel back in the abducted and externally rotated position is a fairly accurate and highly precise method for detection of posterosuperior labral peel back. Raising the possibility of labral peel back may help alert the arthroscopist to the presence of superior labral instability while the arm is abducted and externally rotated."}
{"id": "19556150", "title": "Effectiveness of multidetector computed tomography arthrography for the diagnosis of shoulder pathology: comparison with magnetic resonance imaging with arthroscopic correlation.", "content": "Effectiveness of multidetector computed tomography arthrography for the diagnosis of shoulder pathology: comparison with magnetic resonance imaging with arthroscopic correlation. This study evaluated the diagnostic efficacy of computed tomography arthrography (CTA) in the assessment of various shoulder pathologies with arthroscopic correlation. We hypothesized that CTA would be cost-effective and effectively comparable with magnetic resonance arthrography (MRA) for assessing labral detachments and full-thickness rotator cuff tears. A musculoskeletal radiologist interpreted CTAs for 78 patients and MRAs for 70 patients. Each imaging study was evaluated for the presence of bony (Hill-Sachs) or labral (Bankart or superior labrum anteroposterior [SLAP]) lesions, and rotator cuff disorder (full- or partial-thickness tears). All patients subsequently underwent arthroscopic surgery. Detailed arthroscopic findings were reported and compared with CTA and MRA findings. The sensitivity, specificity, kappa coefficients, and the area under the receiver operating characteristic (AUROC) curve were calculated. The sensitivity, specificity, and agreement were comparable in each imaging study for Bankart, SLAP, and Hill-Sachs lesions, and full-thickness rotator cuff tears, but those of CTA were significantly lower than MRA for partial-thickness cuff tears. The AUROC curve for CTA and MRA were not significantly different for any of the pathologies, except partial-thickness cuff tears. Our data suggest that CTA is a cost-effective, useful method in the preoperative evaluation of labral abnormalities, such as Bankart and SLAP lesions. It may also be useful for the detection of full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Level I; Diagnostic study."}
{"id": "19556149", "title": "Loss of the sclerotic line of the glenoid on anteroposterior radiographs of the shoulder: a diagnostic sign for an osseous defect of the anterior glenoid rim.", "content": "Loss of the sclerotic line of the glenoid on anteroposterior radiographs of the shoulder: a diagnostic sign for an osseous defect of the anterior glenoid rim. The integrity of the glenoid defines the surgical treatment in anterior shoulder instabilities. The reliability of plain radiographs to detect anterior glenoid rim deficiencies was determined. The anterior sclerotic glenoid line (SGL) was assessed on anteroposterior radiographs of 86 shoulders (34 anterior instabilities, 15 posterior instabilities, 37 stable) and compared with computed tomography (CT) scans (gold standard). A loss of the SGL (LSGL) was defined as a positive LSGL sign. On CT scans, 25 of 34 shoulders (74%) with anterior instabilities showed a defect of the anterior glenoid rim. No defects were found in shoulders without anterior instabilities. LSGL correctly predicted an anterior glenoid rim lesion in 16 (examiner A) or 14 (examiner B) of the 25 anterior instabilities (sensitivity, 64% and 56%), without a false-positive diagnosis (specificity, 100%). The LSGL on anteroposterior radiographs is a moderately sensitive but highly specific finding for anterior glenoid rim defects. Level 4; Diagnostic study, case control study."}
{"id": "19556147", "title": "Measurement of the acromiohumeral interval on standardized anteroposterior radiographs: a prospective study of observer variability.", "content": "Measurement of the acromiohumeral interval on standardized anteroposterior radiographs: a prospective study of observer variability. An acromiohumeral interval narrower than 6 mm has been considered pathologic and strongly indicative for rotator cuff tears by numerous authors. This prospective study assessed interobserver and intraobserver variability in the radiographic measurement of the acromiohumeral interval. Five board-certified orthopedic surgeons independently reviewed 58 blinded, standardized anteroposterior shoulder radiographs. The acromiohumeral interval was measured in millimeters. The 5 investigators classified each image a second time in random order. After the same 58 radiographs had been evaluated by the 5 investigators at both examination time points, no significant differences were noted in the interobserver and intraobserver measurements (P < .05). The respective maximum interobserver and intraobserver differences were 4 and 3 mm (range, 0-4 mm). The assessment of the acromiohumeral interval using standardized anteroposterior radiographs is a reliable and reproducible method of measurement. Level 1; Investigating a diagnostic test."}
{"id": "19556145", "title": "Fewer rotator cuff tears fifteen years after arthroscopic subacromial decompression.", "content": "Fewer rotator cuff tears fifteen years after arthroscopic subacromial decompression. A successful clinical result is reported in 75% to 85% of impingement patients after arthroscopic subacromial decompression. The result is maintained over time, but few studies have investigated the integrity of the rotator cuff in these patients. Using ultrasonography, we examined the integrity of the rotator cuff in 70 patients 15 years after arthroscopic subacromial decompression. All patients had an intact rotator cuff at the index procedure. Tendons were still intact in 57 patients (82%), 10 (14%) had partial-thickness tears, and 3 (4%) had full-thickness tears. The total number of 18% tears (partial and full thickness) in this study, including patients clinically diagnosed with subacromial impingement at a mean age of 60 years, is unexpectedly low compared with 40% degenerative tears reported in asymptomatic adults of the same age. Arthroscopic subacromial decompression seems to reduce the prevalence of rotator cuff tears in impingement patients. This appears attributable to elimination of extrinsic factors such as mechanical wear and bursitis. The potential effect of surgery on intrinsic cuff degeneration is unknown, but intrinsic factors may explain tears still developing despite decompression. Level III, therapeutic study."}
{"id": "19543862", "title": "Is humeral segmental defect replacement device a stronger construct than locked IM nailing?", "content": "Is humeral segmental defect replacement device a stronger construct than locked IM nailing? Intramedullary (IM) nailing is currently the most common method for treating patients with impending pathologic humeral fractures; however, this treatment is associated with known complications primarily owing to violation of the rotator cuff during insertion. A better option is needed. To determine if a humeral segmental replacement prosthesis would provide a stronger construct compared with an IM nail in this setting, we compared the mechanical properties of these two devices in a cadaver model simulating an impending pathologic fracture. In each of nine matched pairs of fresh human humeri one was randomly selected to undergo a 50% lateral middiaphyseal defect simulating an impending pathologic fracture and subsequent fixation with an IM nail and bone cement. The contralateral humerus underwent fixation using a humeral segmental defect prosthesis. We determined T-scores using DEXA. Each specimen subsequently was tested in torsion to failure. Peak torque and peak rotation at failure were greater for the prosthesis specimens whereas torsional stiffness was greater for the IM nail specimens. We found a linear relationship between peak torque and T-score for each device with the slopes of the lines suggesting the construct with the prosthesis can withstand greater forces than the IM nail and the differences between devices were greater in weaker bones."}
{"id": "19540777", "title": "Prevalence and risk factors of a rotator cuff tear in the general population.", "content": "Prevalence and risk factors of a rotator cuff tear in the general population. Little information is available about the epidemiology of rotator cuff tears in a population-based study. The purpose of this study was to elucidate the true prevalence of rotator cuff tears regardless of the presence or absence of symptoms in the general population and to assess the relationship between tears and their backgrounds. A medical check-up was conducted for residents of a mountain village in Japan. The subjects consisted of 683 people (total of 1,366 shoulders), including 229 males and 454 females with a mean age of 57.9 years (range, 22-87). We examined their background factors, physical examinations and ultrasonographic examinations on both shoulders. Rotator cuff tears were present in 20.7% and the prevalence increased with age. Thirty-six percent of the subjects with current symptoms had rotator cuff tears, while 16.9% of the subjects without symptoms also had rotator cuff tears. Rotator cuff tears in the general population were most commonly associated with elderly patients, males, affected the dominant arm, engaged in heavy labor, having a history of trauma, positive for impingement sign, showed lesser active forward elevation and weaker muscle strength in abduction and external rotation. A logistic regression analysis revealed the risk factors for a rotator cuff tear to be a history of trauma, dominant arm and age. 20.7% of 1,366 shoulders had full-thickness rotator cuff tears in the general population. The risk factors for rotator cuff tear included a history of trauma, dominant arm and age. Level 3."}
{"id": "19471947", "title": "Comparison of arthroscopic capsular release in diabetic and idiopathic frozen shoulder patients.", "content": "Comparison of arthroscopic capsular release in diabetic and idiopathic frozen shoulder patients. The clinical results of arthroscopic capsular release for frozen shoulder in diabetic (group 1) and idiopathic (group 2) patients were compared. Surgery was performed on 28 shoulders of 26 patients (24 women, 2 men) with frozen shoulder unresponsive to conservative treatment. The mean age was 50 (range 40-65). A total of 14 patients were included in group 1, and 12 were in group 2. The average duration of complaints was 10 and 7 months in groups 1 and 2, respectively. The evaluation of shoulder functions was made according to the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) and Constant Scoring Systems. Duration of complete pain relief and for regaining range of motion (ROM) after surgery were also noted in their final follow-up examination. The mean follow-up period was 48.5 and 60.2 months in group 1 and group 2, respectively. There was no significant difference between the two groups in terms of the postoperative duration of complete pain relief and that for regaining ROM (P > 0.05). The duration of complete pain relief was 2.6 and 2.5 months, and regaining of ROM was 1.6 and 1.5 months for groups 1 and 2, respectively. The postoperative UCLA and Constant scores had significant increases in both groups compared to the preoperative ones (P < 0.05). There was a significant difference between the groups in terms of Constant scores (P < 0.05) while there was no difference in terms of UCLA scores (P > 0.05). There was a statistically significant difference in shoulder abduction and internal rotation degrees between the groups (P < 0.05). The results of arthroscopic capsular release for frozen shoulder in diabetic patients had less good results in terms of range of motion and Constant-Score. There was no significant difference between the two groups in terms of the duration of pain relief and that of regaining the ROM."}
{"id": "19221749", "title": "Short-term results after reversed shoulder arthroplasty (Delta III) in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and irreparable rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Short-term results after reversed shoulder arthroplasty (Delta III) in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and irreparable rotator cuff tear. The purpose of this study was to describe the outcome after reversed Delta III shoulder prosthesis in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and irreparable rotator cuff tear. Fifteen patients (17 joints) were prospectively analysed using the Constant-Murley score (CS). Comprehensive outcome measure was carried out by means of four widely used questionnaires as well as clinical and radiographic examinations at an average of 24.3 months postoperatively. The CS improved significantly from 19 to 59.5 points. The mental (MSC) and physical (PCS) component summary score of the Short Form 36 (SF-36) reached 108% and 77%, respectively, while the DASH (Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand) was 58% of a comparative norm population. Remaining deficits were documented by SPADI (Shoulder Pain and Disability; 54.4 points) and ASES (clinical and patient-orientated American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons; 84.3 and 61.3 points, respectively). No radiological signs of loosening were found, but scapular notching occurred in four cases. Reversed arthroplasty provides a substantial improvement of shoulder function in patients with RA. The high incidence of notching is of concern."}
{"id": "19214508", "title": "A symptom-based classification for shoulders with massive rotator cuff defects.", "content": "A symptom-based classification for shoulders with massive rotator cuff defects. The aim of this prospective study was to propose a classification for shoulders with massive rotator cuff defects based on patients' clinical symptoms. A total of 100 shoulders with massive rotator cuff tears were evaluated clinically using the Constant score (CS) and with radiographs in two planes. Three types were defined and correlated with radiographic findings: (1) the arthritic type (type I), (2) the non-reactive type (type II) and (3) the necrotic type (type III). Significant differences in the overall CS (type I: 28.6 points, range: 4 - 61; type II: 18.8 points, range: 6 - 52; type III: 15.5 points, range: 6 - 31) and its subgroups and in shoulder motion were found between types I and II and between types I and III (p < 0.05). This classification may be helpful for the decision-making process with regard to the appropriate form of shoulder replacement surgery in patients with massive rotator cuff defects."}
{"id": "19184069", "title": "Ventricular tachycardia during arthroscopic shoulder surgery: a report of two cases.", "content": "Ventricular tachycardia during arthroscopic shoulder surgery: a report of two cases. We routinely have performed arthroscopic shoulder surgery under general anesthesia in the beach chair position using epinephrine (0.33 mg/L) saline irrigation. At a 2-week interval, two patients, a 19-year-old man scheduled to undergo an arthroscopic Bankart repair for left traumatic anterior instability and a 49-year-old woman scheduled for an arthroscopic rotator cuff repair for a left rotator cuff tear, were resuscitated by chest compression and defibrillation due to a sudden developed cardiogenic shock following ventricular tachycardia at the time of arthroscopic shoulder surgery. They were transferred to the intensive care unit because their emergent echocardiogram showed significantly decreased cardiac functions. They were fully recovered and then discharged. Epinephrine was considered to be the cause of ventricular tachycardia because the two patients showed no anaphylactic reaction to drugs or symptoms of air embolism related to the beach chair position. In addition, according to our observation of epinephrine flow patterns, it was more likely that highly concentrated epinephrine was rapidly infused into the body. This complication is very rare. However, thorough understanding of the side effects and their development of epinephrine during arthroscopic shoulder surgery should neither be overemphasized nor disregarded."}
{"id": "18463295", "title": "Shoulder pain in elite swimmers: primarily due to swim-volume-induced supraspinatus tendinopathy.", "content": "Shoulder pain in elite swimmers: primarily due to swim-volume-induced supraspinatus tendinopathy. Shoulder pain in elite swimmers is common, and its pathogenesis is uncertain. HYPOTHESIS/STUDY DESIGN: The authors used a cross-sectional study design to test Jobe's hypothesis that repetitive forceful swimming leads to shoulder laxity, which in turn leads to impingement pain. Eighty young elite swimmers (13-25 years of age) completed questionnaires on their swimming training, pain and shoulder function. They were given a standardised clinical shoulder examination, and tested for glenohumeral joint laxity using a non-invasive electronic laxometer. 52/80 swimmers also attended for shoulder MRI. 73/80 (91%) swimmers reported shoulder pain. Most (84%) had a positive impingement sign, and 69% of those examined with MRI had supraspinatus tendinopathy. The impingement sign and MRI-determined supraspinatus tendinopathy correlated strongly (r(s)=0.49, p<0.00001). Increased tendon thickness correlated with supraspinatus tendinopathy (r(s)=0.37, p<0.01). Laxity correlated weakly with impingement pain (r(s)=0.23, p<0.05) and was not associated with supraspinatus tendinopathy (r(s)=0.14, p=0.32). The number of hours swum/week (r(s)=0.39, p<0.005) and weekly mileage (r(s)=0.34, p=0.01) both correlated significantly with supraspinatus tendinopathy. Swimming stroke preference did not. These data indicate: (1) supraspinatus tendinopathy is the major cause of shoulder pain in elite swimmers; (2) this tendinopathy is induced by large amounts of swimming training; and (3) shoulder laxity per se has only a minimal association with shoulder impingement in elite swimmers. These findings are consistent with animal and tissue culture findings which support an alternate hypothesis: the intensity and duration of load to tendon fibres and cells cause tendinopathy, impingement and shoulder pain."}
{"id": "20166353", "title": "Improved range of motion after medial-based T capsular shift for recurrent post-traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation.", "content": "Improved range of motion after medial-based T capsular shift for recurrent post-traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation. Postoperative function and recurrence rates are reportedly similar following open and arthroscopic procedures for recurrent anterior instability of the shoulder. However, various studies have reported greater restriction of shoulder mobility with open stabilisation. Sixty-two patients with post-traumatic recurrent anterior instability of the shoulder underwent anatomic reconstruction of the capsular-labral complex using a medial-based T capsular shift. They were investigated preoperatively and 53 of them were reexamined at an average of 41.5 months after operation. Function and stability improved: the Rowe score increased from 33.2 to 80.6, the Constant score from 81.5 to 89.8 points. Pre- and post-operative mobility of the affected shoulder was reduced in all planes of movement compared to the contralateral side. Passive mobility did not deteriorate in any direction with surgery. Passive adduction, forward flexion and external rotation in 90 degrees abduction of the arm improved significantly and active mobility rose to the values of the contralateral side. The restriction of mobility noted postoperatively thus appears as a consequence of the underlying pathology rather than of the surgical procedure. The recurrence rate after primary stabilisation was 1.6%. Based on these findings, the medial-based T capsular shift remains an appropriate surgical option in the treatment of chronic post-traumatic anterior instability of the shoulder."}
{"id": "20108852", "title": "Establishing normative data on scapulothoracic musculature using handheld dynamometry.", "content": "Establishing normative data on scapulothoracic musculature using handheld dynamometry. Scapular strength deficits have been linked to shoulder dysfunction. To establish normative data on the scapulothoracic musculature in normal subjects using a handheld dynamometer. Descriptive normative data study. Field research. 172 subjects with varying levels of overhead activity. A handheld dynamometer was used to test the upper, middle, and lower trapezius; rhomboids; and serratus anterior. A 2-factor ANOVA was performed for each of the muscles by activity level and unilateral ratio by activity-level analyses. Post hoc analysis included multiple pairwise comparisons, using the Dunn-Bonferroni correction method. Activity level did not significantly affect the unilateral ratios: Elevation:depression was 2.5:1, upward:downward rotation was 1.5:1, and protraction:retraction was 1.25:1. A rank order from strongest to weakest was established through significant comparisons. The unilateral ratios along with the rank order should be considered when discussing scapular rehabilitation protocols."}
{"id": "20108851", "title": "Acute effects of scapular mobilization in shoulder dysfunction: a double-blind randomized placebo-controlled trial.", "content": "Acute effects of scapular mobilization in shoulder dysfunction: a double-blind randomized placebo-controlled trial. The aim of this study was to evaluate the initial effects of scapular mobilization (SM) on shoulder range of motion (ROM), scapular upward rotation, pain, and function. Pretest-posttest for 3 groups (SM, sham, and control). A double-blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled trial was conducted to evaluate the initial effect of the SM at a sports physiotherapy clinic. 39 subjects (22 women, 17 men; mean age 54.30 +/- 14.16 y, age range 20-77 y). A visual analog scale, ROM, scapular upward rotation, and function were assessed before and just after SM. SM (n = 13) consisted of the application of superoinferior gliding, rotations, and distraction to the scapula. The sham (n = 13) condition replicated the treatment condition except for the hand positioning. The control group (n = 13) did not undergo any physiotherapy and rehabilitation program. Pain severity was assessed with a visual analog scale. Scapular upward rotation was measured with a baseline digital inclinometer. Constant Shoulder Score (CSS) was used to measure shoulder function. After SM, we found significant improvements for shoulder ROM, scapular upward rotation, and CSS between pretreatment and posttreatment compared with the sham and control groups. In the sham group, shoulder-ROM values increased or decreased for the shoulder and scapular upward rotation was not changed. Pain, ROM, and physical function of the shoulder were not significantly different in the sham group than in controls (P > .05). SM may be a useful manual therapy technique to apply to participants with a painful limitation of the shoulder. SM increases ROM and decreases pain intensity."}
{"id": "20049352", "title": "Porcine small intestine submucosa xenograft augmentation in repair of massive rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Porcine small intestine submucosa xenograft augmentation in repair of massive rotator cuff tears. In this prospective study, we evaluated the efficacy of using porcine small intestine submucosa (SIS) xenograft to augment the repair of massive rotator cuff tears. Our hypothesis was that SIS xenograft would help restore tendon tissue in the human model, as has been shown in several animal studies. Eleven patients were followed clinically for a mean of 26 months (range, 14-38 months). Mean University of California Los Angeles end-result scores improved from 13.9 before surgery to 25.7 after surgery, American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores improved from 36.3 to 71.8, and the visual analog scale pain score decreased from 6.6 to 2.0. All findings were statistically significant (P<.01). At a mean of 25 months after surgery, magnetic resonance arthrography (MRA) showed the repairs partially or completely intact in 44% of shoulders. Intact repairs were thin and wispy. There were 3 complications, which included 1 infection and 2 localized skin reactions that resolved spontaneously. SIS xenograft did not reconstitute rotator cuff tissue or add to the quality of the rotator cuff repair. Given clinical concerns about localized reactions in this series and suboptimal MRA findings, use of SIS xenograft to augment rotator cuff repairs is not recommended."}
{"id": "20048492", "title": "Upper extremity injuries in golf.", "content": "Upper extremity injuries in golf. Golf is an asymmetric sport with unique patterns of injury depending upon the skill level. Higher handicap players typically experience injuries that result from swing mechanics, whereas lower handicap and professional players have overuse as the major cause of their injuries. The majority of shoulder injuries affecting golfers occur in the nondominant shoulder. Common shoulder injuries include subacromial impingement, rotator cuff pathology, glenohumeral instability, and arthritis involving the acromioclavicular and/or glenohumeral joints. Lead arm elbow pain resulting from lateral epicondylosis (tennis elbow) is the leading upper extremity injury in amateur golfers. Tendon injury is the most common problem seen in the wrist and forearm of the golfer. Rehabilitation emphasizing improvement in core muscle streng is important in the treatment of golf injury. Emerging treatments for tendinopathy include topical nitrates, ultrasound-guided injection of therapeutic substances, and eccentric rehabilitation. There is evidence supporting physiotherapy, and swing modification directed by a teaching professional, for treatment of upper extremity golf injuries. This article focuses on upper extremity injuries in golf, including a discussion of the epidemiology, causes, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of injuries occurring in the shoulder, elbow, wrist, and hand."}
{"id": "20041388", "title": "Femoro-acetabular impingement: can indirect MR arthrography be considered a valid method to detect endoarticular damage? A preliminary study.", "content": "Femoro-acetabular impingement: can indirect MR arthrography be considered a valid method to detect endoarticular damage? A preliminary study. To assess the effectiveness of indirect Magnetic Resonance arthrography (i-MRa) in the detection of chondral and labral lesions related to femoro-acetabular impingement (FAI) a series of 21 hip joints in 17 patients with a clinical diagnosis of FAI were examined either with standard MR imaging, i-MRa and direct-MR arthrography (d-MRa). Sensitivity and accuracy of i-MRa in detecting chondral, labral and tardive lesions were calculated and compared with standard MR. The agreement in detecting endoarticular damage between i-MRa and d-MRa and the interobserver agreement was assessed by K statistic (p<0.05). Finally the presence of trocanteric bursitis was evaluated. I-MRa showed higher values of both sensivity and accuracy than standard MR in detecting chondral damage, with an increase to 92% for the first item and 95% for the second. The same was noticed in labrum evaluation with an increase to 88% and 90% respectively. The level of agreement between i-MRa and d-MRa in detection of chondral lesions was excellent, substantial for the labral damage and absolute for early osteoarthritic changes. An excellent interobserver agreement resulted in detection of both chondral and labral damages with i-MRa. In 6 hips (28,5%) we also found the presence of peri-trochanteric soft tissue inflammation that indicated the possibility of extrarticular involvement in FAI. Indirect-MRa can be considered a valid method of assessing endoarticular damage related to FAI, in comparison to d-MRa. It should be performed instead of standard MR if d-MRa is not available."}
{"id": "20025761", "title": "The prevalence of neovascularity in patients clinically diagnosed with rotator cuff tendinopathy.", "content": "The prevalence of neovascularity in patients clinically diagnosed with rotator cuff tendinopathy. Shoulder dysfunction is common and pathology of the rotator cuff tendons and subacromial bursa are considered to be a major cause of pain and morbidity. Although many hypotheses exist there is no definitive understanding as to the origin of the pain arising from these structures. Research investigations from other tendons have placed intra-tendinous neovascularity as a potential mechanism of pain production. The prevalence of neovascularity in patients with a clinical diagnosis of rotator cuff tendinopathy is unknown. As such the primary aim of this pilot study was to investigate if neovascularity could be identified and to determine the prevalence of neovascularity in the rotator cuff tendons and subacromial bursa in subjects with unilateral shoulder pain clinically assessed to be rotator cuff tendinopathy. The secondary aims were to investigate the association between the presence of neovascularity and pain, duration of symptoms, and, neovascularity and shoulder function. Patients with a clinical diagnosis of unilateral rotator cuff tendinopathy referred for a routine diagnostic ultrasound (US) scan in a major London teaching hospital formed the study population. At referral patients were provided with an information document. On the day of the scan (on average, at least one week later) the patients agreeing to participate were taken through the consent process and underwent an additional clinical examination prior to undergoing a bilateral grey scale and colour Doppler US examination (symptomatic and asymptomatic shoulder) using a Philips HDI 5000 Sono CT US machine. The ultrasound scans were performed by one of two radiologists who recorded their findings and the final assessment was made by a third radiologist blinded both to the clinical examination and the ultrasound examination. The findings of the radiologists who performed the scans and the blinded radiologist were compared and any disagreements were resolved by consensus. Twenty-six patients agreed to participate and formed the study population. Of these, 6 subjects were not included in the final assessment following the pre-scan clinical investigation. This is because one subject had complete cessation of symptoms between the time of the referral and entry into the trial. Another five had developed bilateral shoulder pain during the same period. The mean age of the 20 subjects forming the study population was 50.2 (range 32-69) years (SD = 10.9) and the mean duration of symptoms was 22.6 (range .75 to 132) months (SD = 40.1). Of the 20 subjects included in the formal analysis, 13 subjects (65%) demonstrated neovascularity in the symptomatic shoulder and 5 subjects (25%) demonstrated neovascularity in the asymptomatic shoulder. The subject withdrawn due to complete cessation of symptoms was not found to have neovascularity in either shoulder and of the 5 withdrawn due to bilateral symptoms; two subjects were found to have signs of bilateral neovascularity, one subject demonstrated neovascularity in one shoulder and two subjects in neither shoulder. This study demonstrated that neovascularity does occur in subjects with a clinical diagnosis of rotator cuff tendinopathy and to a lesser extent in asymptomatic shoulders. In addition, the findings of this investigation did not identify an association between the presence of neovascularity; and pain, duration of symptoms or shoulder function. Future research is required to determine the relevance of these findings."}
{"id": "20023356", "title": "Osteopoikilosis: a case with osteopenia.", "content": "Osteopoikilosis: a case with osteopenia. Osteopoikilosis is a benign osteosclerotic dysplasia of unknown origin, which is an inherited autosomal disorder. It is usually asymptomatic and may only be recognized on radiological examination. We report a 20-year-old man who suffers from back and shoulder pain during the routine physical examinations performed prior to the military recruitment. Numerous symmetric, small, ovoid and circular sclerotic bone lesions were found on the X-rays of the spine and shoulder. Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) examination revealed osteopenia. In conclusion, typical radiographic examination of osteopoikilosis is usually diagnostic. However, it may sometimes be difficult to rule out the other diseases like osteoblastic metastatic lesions as it is an uncommon disease. Physicians should be aware of possible coexisiting osteopenia or osteoporosis as reported in our case."}
{"id": "20016342", "title": "Adhesive capsulitis: a case study.", "content": "Adhesive capsulitis: a case study. Adhesive capsulitis (AC), also known as frozen shoulder, is a common and painful musculoskeletal disorder. The shoulder is a complex joint comprising 3 bones and multiple muscle groups, ligaments, and tendons. Accompanying the inflammation of the joint is stiffness that greatly restricts the patient's motion and strength. AC is a treatable condition requiring months of daily physical therapy. The reports that 1 in 7 Americans has a musculoskeletal impairment including shoulder problems that accounted for 14 million visits to physicians' offices in 2003. It is imperative that practitioners accurately assess and diagnose the patient with shoulder pain to facilitate an appropriate plan of care. This paper will discuss the case of a patient with AC including differential diagnoses, pathophysiology, and treatment options."}
{"id": "20015356", "title": "The relationship between chronic type III acromioclavicular joint dislocation and cervical spine pain.", "content": "The relationship between chronic type III acromioclavicular joint dislocation and cervical spine pain. This study was aimed at evaluating whether or not patients with chronic type III acromioclavicular dislocation develop cervical spine pain and degenerative changes more frequently than normal subjects. The cervical spine of 34 patients with chronic type III AC dislocation was radiographically evaluated. Osteophytosis presence was registered and the narrowing of the intervertebral disc and cervical lordosis were evaluated. Subjective cervical symptoms were investigated using the Northwick Park Neck Pain Questionnaire (NPQ). One-hundred healthy volunteers were recruited as a control group. The rate and distribution of osteophytosis and narrowed intervertebral disc were similar in both of the groups. Patients with chronic AC dislocation had a lower value of cervical lordosis. NPQ score was 17.3% in patients with AC separation (100% = the worst result) and 2.2% in the control group (p < 0.05). An inverse significant nonparametric correlation was found between the NPQ value and the lordosis degree in the AC dislocation group (p = 0.001) wheras results were not correlated (p = 0.27) in the control group. Our study shows that chronic type III AC dislocation does not interfere with osteophytes formation or intervertebral disc narrowing, but that it may predispose cervical hypolordosis. The higher average NPQ values were observed in patients with chronic AC dislocation, especially in those that developed cervical hypolordosis."}
{"id": "20001935", "title": "Proximal biceps tendon--a biomechanical analysis of the stability at the bicipital groove.", "content": "Proximal biceps tendon--a biomechanical analysis of the stability at the bicipital groove. The subscapularis tendon, coracohumeral ligament, and transverse humeral ligament are all believed to contribute to biceps tendon stability within the bicipital groove. In order to examine the relative contribution of these soft tissue structures to proximal biceps tendon stability, 11 fresh frozen cadaveric shoulder specimens were prepared and mounted onto a custom jig. A three-dimensional digitizer was utilized to record biceps tendon excursion in various shoulder positions. In sequential order, these structures were then sectioned, and biceps tendon excursion was again recorded. We found that sectioning of the subscapularis tendon significantly increased biceps tendon excursion, compared to intact specimens (8.1 +/- 4.1 mm vs. 4.3 +/- 3.6 mm; p < 0.006). In contrast, isolated sectioning of the transverse humeral ligament or the coracohumeral ligament did not significantly increase biceps excursion (5.4 +/- 2.5 mm, p = 0.26; 5.6 +/- 1.3 mm, p = 0.24). When two structures were sectioned, significant excursion in the biceps tendon only occurred in specimens where the subscapularis tendon was one of the sectioned structures. The preliminary data suggest that, of the three tested soft tissue structures, the subscapularis tendon is the most important stabilizer of the proximal biceps and that clinically significant lesions of the proximal biceps tendon may be associated with a defect in the subscapularis tendon."}
{"id": "20000305", "title": "Hip impingement: identifying and treating a common cause of hip pain.", "content": "Hip impingement: identifying and treating a common cause of hip pain. Femoroacetabular impingement, also known as hip impingement, is the abutment of the acetabular rim and the proximal femur. Hip impingement is increasingly recognized as a common etiology of hip pain in athletes, adolescents, and adults. It injures the labrum and articular cartilage, and can lead to osteoarthritis of the hip if left untreated. Patients with hip impingement often report anterolateral hip pain. Common aggravating activities include prolonged sitting, leaning forward, getting in or out of a car, and pivoting in sports. The use of flexion, adduction, and internal rotation of the supine hip typically reproduces the pain. Radiography, magnetic resonance arthrography, and injection of local anesthetic into the hip joint confirm the diagnosis. Pain may improve with physical therapy. Treatment often requires arthroscopy, which typically allows patients to resume premorbid physical activities. An important goal of arthroscopy is preservation of the hip joint. Whether arthroscopic treatment prevents or delays osteoarthritis of the hip is unknown."}
{"id": "19999868", "title": "A comparative clinical evaluation of arthroscopic single-row versus double-row supraspinatus tendon repair.", "content": "A comparative clinical evaluation of arthroscopic single-row versus double-row supraspinatus tendon repair. Cadaveric studies and commercial pressure have initiated a strong trend towards double-row repair in arthroscopic cuff surgery. The objective of this study was to evaluate if the biomechanical advantages of a double-row supraspinatus tendon repair would result in superior clinical outcome and higher abduction strength. A retrospective study of two groups of 32 single-row and 33 double-row repairs of small to medium cuff tears was performed. The Simple Shoulder Test (SST) and a visual analog scale for pain were used to evaluate the outcome. The participation rate was 100%. A subset of patients was further investigated with the Constant Score (CS) including electronic strength measurement. The double-row repair patients had significantly more (p = 0.01) yes answers in the SST than the single-row group, and pain reduction was slightly better (p = 0.03). No difference was found for the relative CS (p = 0.86) and abduction strength (p = 0.74). Patient satisfaction was 100% for double-row and 97% for single-row repair. Single- and double-row repairs both achieved excellent clinical results. Evidence of superiority of double-row repair is still scarce and has to be balanced against the added complexity of the procedure and higher costs."}
{"id": "19995498", "title": "Copeland EAS hemi-resurfacing arthroplasty for rotator cuff tear arthropathy: preliminary results.", "content": "Copeland EAS hemi-resurfacing arthroplasty for rotator cuff tear arthropathy: preliminary results. Hemiarthroplasty is a common form of treatment for rotator cuff tear arthropathy. Clinical outcomes of the bone-sparing Copeland Extended Articular Surface (EAS) hemi-resurfacing arthroplasty for rotator cuff tear arthropathy have not been reported in the literature. This article presents the authors' preliminary results in this study. Six patients treated with this prosthesis were retrospectively reviewed and the preoperative and postoperative scores for range of motion and outcomes as assessed by the disabilities of the arm, shoulder, and hand (DASH) questionnaire and visual analog scale for pain were compared. Significant improvements were found in function, with DASH scores decreasing from an average of 55 to 22, pain improving from 8.83 to 4.5, and external rotation improving from 49; to 67;. Five of the six patients were satisfied with the outcome of the procedure. This level IV therapeutic study concluded that the bone-sparing Copeland EAS hemi-resurfacing arthroplasty is a viable alternative to stemmed hemiarthroplasty for the treatment of rotator cuff tear arthropathy in younger, more active patients in whom future revision is a likely possibility."}
{"id": "19995495", "title": "Neck and shoulder pain: differentiating cervical spine pathology from shoulder pathology.", "content": "Neck and shoulder pain: differentiating cervical spine pathology from shoulder pathology. Problems of the cervical spine and shoulder frequently have very similar presentations and can be difficult to differentiate. However, with a careful history, physical exam, imaging studies, and judicious use of diagnostic injections, the true source of a patient's symptoms can be deciphered and treated. Cervical spondylosis not only causes pain in the neck and shoulder area, but can also cause radiating pain in the arm and forearm that can be confused with rotator cuff pathology, nerve compression in the shoulder area, or brachial neuritis."}
{"id": "19969160", "title": "Randomized controlled trial for efficacy of intra-articular injection for adhesive capsulitis: ultrasonography-guided versus blind technique.", "content": "Randomized controlled trial for efficacy of intra-articular injection for adhesive capsulitis: ultrasonography-guided versus blind technique. Lee H-J, Lim K-B, Kim D-Y, Lee K-T. Randomized controlled trial for efficacy of intra-articular injection for adhesive capsulitis: ultrasonography-guided versus blind technique. To evaluate the clinical effect of ultrasonography (US)-guided intra-articular injections compared with a blind (unguided) technique for the treatment of adhesive capsulitis. Randomized controlled trial. Outpatient rehabilitation clinic. Patients (N=43) diagnosed as having adhesive capsulitis after clinical examinations and radiologic and ultrasonographic study. Under either US-guided or a blind technique, patients received a 20-mg intra-articular injection of triamcinolone mixed with 1.5mL 2% lidocaine and 4mL normal saline in the first week followed by 5 weekly injections of sodium hyaluronate. A visual analog scale for pain intensity, range of motion (ROM) of the shoulder (flexion, abduction, external rotation, and internal rotation), and general shoulder function during daily activities at preinjection as a baseline and then every week after injection for 6 weeks for each patient. Twenty patients out of 22 in the blind injection group and 20 out of 21 in the US-guided group finished the entire 6-week study period. The improvement in pain intensity, ROM, and shoulder function score was significantly greater in the US-guided injection group than in the blind injection group by the second week postinjection (P<.05). However, there were no further significant differences in the improvement between the 2 groups beyond the third week. US-guided intra-articular injections may offer advantages over a blind technique for the treatment of adhesive capsulitis and may deliver clinical benefits during the first few weeks of treatment. This finding suggests that the improved targeting to the intra-articular space by using US can result in better treatment of adhesive capsulitis."}
{"id": "19968873", "title": "Performance adaptive training control strategy for recovering wrist movements in stroke patients: a preliminary, feasibility study.", "content": "Performance adaptive training control strategy for recovering wrist movements in stroke patients: a preliminary, feasibility study. In the last two decades robot training in neuromotor rehabilitation was mainly focused on shoulder-elbow movements. Few devices were designed and clinically tested for training coordinated movements of the wrist, which are crucial for achieving even the basic level of motor competence that is necessary for carrying out ADLs (activities of daily life). Moreover, most systems of robot therapy use point-to-point reaching movements which tend to emphasize the pathological tendency of stroke patients to break down goal-directed movements into a number of jerky sub-movements. For this reason we designed a wrist robot with a range of motion comparable to that of normal subjects and implemented a self-adapting training protocol for tracking smoothly moving targets in order to facilitate the emergence of smoothness in the motor control patterns and maximize the recovery of the normal RoM (range of motion) of the different DoFs (degrees of Freedom). The IIT-wrist robot is a 3 DoFs light exoskeleton device, with direct-drive of each DoF and a human-like range of motion for Flexion/Extension (FE), Abduction/Adduction (AA) and Pronation/Supination (PS). Subjects were asked to track a variable-frequency oscillating target using only one wrist DoF at time, in such a way to carry out a progressive splinting therapy. The RoM of each DoF was angularly scanned in a staircase-like fashion, from the \"easier\" to the \"more difficult\" angular position. An Adaptive Controller evaluated online performance parameters and modulated both the assistance and the difficulty of the task in order to facilitate smoother and more precise motor command patterns. Three stroke subjects volunteered to participate in a preliminary test session aimed at verify the acceptability of the device and the feasibility of the designed protocol. All of them were able to perform the required task. The wrist active RoM of motion was evaluated for each patient at the beginning and at the end of the test therapy session and the results suggest a positive trend. The positive outcomes of the preliminary tests motivate the planning of a clinical trial and provide experimental evidence for defining appropriate inclusion/exclusion criteria."}
{"id": "19968228", "title": "Femoroacetabular impingement due to synovial chondromatosis of the hip joint.", "content": "Femoroacetabular impingement due to synovial chondromatosis of the hip joint. This article describes a rare case of primary synovial chondromatosis of the hip associated with classical femoroacetabular impingement. A 38-year-old man presented with left hip pain of 3 years' duration and range of motion (ROM) limitations. Flexion abduction external rotation and impingement tests were positive and preoperative Harris Hip Score was 68. Radiographs showed multiple loose bodies, a calcified labrum, and a bump at the head-neck junction. Computed tomography (CT) confirmed the findings. Acetabular overcoverage and the crossing over sign were present. The lateral center edge angle was 48 degrees, acetabular roof angle was +2 degrees, alpha angle was 80 degrees, triangular index was 2 mm more than the radius of the femoral head, and anterior offset was 4.5 mm. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed an acetabular labral tear, impaction on the femoral head-neck junction, and mild synovial hypertrophy with no acetabular cartilage damage. Loose body removal along with a total synovectomy, excision of the calcified labrum, and osteochondroplasty of the head-neck junction were performed after safe surgical dislocation. At 6-month follow-up, the patient was doing well with a Harris Hip Score of 96, improved ROM, and negative flexion abduction external rotation and impingement tests. Early diagnosis of synovial chondromatosis and impingement can be made by MRI and CT. Clinically, flexion abduction external rotation and impingement tests are positive in 99% and 97% of cases, respectively. Although arthroscopy management has been described for both the entities separately, it has drawbacks. With an open procedure, debridement of the hip joint and excision of femoral and acetabular impingement deformities are possible at the same time."}
{"id": "19962062", "title": "The passive distraction test: a new diagnostic aid for clinically significant superior labral pathology.", "content": "The passive distraction test: a new diagnostic aid for clinically significant superior labral pathology. The purpose of this report is to present a new provocative maneuver, the passive distraction test (PDT), as an examination tool to be used in the evaluation of patients thought to have a SLAP lesion and to compare its accuracy, precision, and reproducibility alone and in conjunction with previously published maneuvers. A retrospective analysis of 319 consecutive arthroscopies performed between May 2001 and November 2003 was performed. A total of 65 cases were excluded, 53 because of limitation of elevation to less than 150 degrees or pain in the starting test position and 12 who had previous shoulder procedures performed by the senior author, leaving 254 cases for review. A thorough history was obtained and a thorough physical examination performed with a focus on the involved shoulder including specific provocative maneuvers for the clinical diagnosis of a SLAP lesion. The active compression test, the anterior slide test, and the PDT were used to clinically diagnose a SLAP lesion. The results from the 3 provocative maneuvers were compared with the arthroscopic findings to determine the sensitivity, specificity, negative predictive value (NPV), and positive predictive value of each test alone and in a logical combination. Of 254 shoulder arthroscopies, 61 had a clinically significant SLAP lesion, for an incidence of 24%. The sensitivity and specificity for the PDT were 53% and 94%, respectively, with an NPV of 87% and positive predictive value of 72%. In combination, the PDT and the active compression test yielded an NPV of 90.5%. The PDT can be used alone or in combination to aid in the clinical evaluation and diagnosis of a SLAP lesion. Level IV, retrospective, diagnostic, sensitivity-specificity study."}
{"id": "19956481", "title": "Acetabular labral tears in patients with sports injury.", "content": "Acetabular labral tears in patients with sports injury. We wanted to investigate acetabular labral tears and their correlation with femoroacetabular impingement in patients with sports injury. Among 111 patients who were diagnosed with the acetabular labral tears after arthroscopic treatment from January 2004 to December 2007, we selected 41 patients with sports injury. There were 12 cases of Taekwondo injury, 5 of golf injury, 4 of soccer injury, 3 of gymnastics injury, 2 of Hapkido injury, 2 of aerobics injury, 2 of rock-climbing injury, 2 of fitness training injury and 9 of other sports injuries. We checked the subtypes of acetabular labral tears and the accompanying femoroacetabular impingement. For the cases with accompanying femoroacetabular impingement, we investigated the subtypes according to the types of sports, gender and age. At last follow-up, we checked the Harris Hip Score (HHS), the Hip Outcome Score (HOS) sports scale and the percentage of patients who returned to their sports activity. The average age of symptomatic onset was 26 years (range, 12 to 65 years). The ratio of males to females was 29 : 12. An average duration of the hip pain was 17 months (range, 1 to 60 months). The degenerative type of acetabular labral tears was the most prevalent with 32 cases (78%), and there were 9 cases (22%) of the partial tear type. Thirty cases (73%) were accompanied by femoroacetabular impingement. The average age of the 23 cases (56%) of the cam-type was 23 years (range, 12 to 48 years), and it was more likely to occur in men (87%) and for people practicing martial arts such as Taekwondo or Hapkido. An average age of the 5 cases (12%) of the pincer-type was 26 (range, 16 to 43 years), it usually occurred in women (60%) and for non-martial arts such as golf and gymnastics. There were 2 cases of the mixed type (cam + pincer-type). At 27 months follow-up, the HHS was 61 to 92 points, the HOS sports scale increased 43 to 75%, and the rate of returning to sports was 71%. In spite of the early expression of symptoms and the short duration of the acetabular labral tears, the high rate of degenerative acetabular labral tears in sports patients is likely associated with repetitive injury after the expression of symptoms. Femoroacetabular impingement in sports patients is seemed to be a cause of the early occurrence of acetabular labral tears. Because the possibility of acetabular labral tears is high in femoroacetabular impingement, sports patients may need to undergo early screening for the diagnosis and care of femoroacetabular impingement."}
{"id": "19956476", "title": "The diagnosis and prognosis of impingement syndrome in the shoulder with using quantitative SPECT assessment: a prospective study of 73 patients and 24 volunteers.", "content": "The diagnosis and prognosis of impingement syndrome in the shoulder with using quantitative SPECT assessment: a prospective study of 73 patients and 24 volunteers. Diagnosing impingement syndrome without rotator cuff tear usually depends on the physical examination and roentgenography, and obtaining objective evidence for this condition is at best difficult. The purpose of this study was to ascertain whether quantitatively assessing this condition with using single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) can diagnose impingement syndrome and predict the postoperative results. Before executing arthroscopic or open treatment, SPECT was performed on 73 patients and 24 volunteers and these people were followed up for 2 years. Any increased uptake on SPECT was investigated by using the axial view, which demonstrated the greatest uptake for the acromion, distal clavicle, greater tuberosity, lesser tuberosity and the coracoid process of the operated and non-operated sides. The patients who were diagnosed as having impingement syndrome with or without rotator cuff tear showed increased uptake on the operative side compared to the non-operated side in the assessed locations. The greater tuberosity of the humerus could be used for quantitative measurement as a postoperative prognostic factor. The bone SPECT method is useful for making the diagnosis of patients with impingement syndrome, and the results of quantitative assessment at the greater tuberosity can be used for evaluating the prognosis following the operation."}
{"id": "19954099", "title": "Early outcomes of reverse total shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Early outcomes of reverse total shoulder arthroplasty. The utilization of different reconstructive techniques for rotator cuff arthropathy, complex fractures of the proximal humerus and pathologies that involve the glenohumeral joint, has become a controversial issue in orthopaedic surgery nowadays. The purpose of the current study was to evaluate early outcomes of reverse total shoulder arthroplasty for primary osteoarthritis with a rotator cuff tear, rotator cuff arthropathy three and four part humerus fractures and proximal comminuted displaced humerus fractures in a group of Latin-American patients. Between July 2006 and February 2008, fourteen patients underwent reverse total shoulder arthroplasty with the use of Delta III shoulder prosthesis (Depuy France, Saints Priest, France) at the Hospital Buen Samaritano in Puerto Rico. All patients were evaluated by an independent examiner who performed a clinical pre-operative and post-operative evaluation with the use of the Constant & Murley (ref) and the UCLA (ref) scores, as well as measuring active shoulder range of motion. All fourteen patients were seen at clinics. The mean duration of follow up was 9.5 months [+/- 6 S.D.] with a range of 1 month to 20 months of follow up. In our study we have shown that the reverse total shoulder replacement is a successful surgery, the mean improvement in the outcome scores have been significant in all patients, been the greatest improvement in the arthropathy groip. (Table II and Table III)."}
{"id": "19952240", "title": "Arthroscopic repair of circumferential lesions of the glenoid labrum.", "content": "Arthroscopic repair of circumferential lesions of the glenoid labrum. Symptomatic pan-labral or circumferential (360 degrees ) tears of the glenohumeral labrum are an uncommon injury. The purpose of the present study was to report the results of surgical treatment of circumferential lesions of the glenoid labrum with use of validated outcome instruments. From July 2003 to May 2006, forty-one shoulders in thirty-nine patients (thirty-four men and five women) with a mean age of 25.1 years were prospectively enrolled in a multicenter study and were managed for a circumferential (360 degrees ) lesion of the glenoid labrum. All patients had a primary diagnosis of pain and recurrent shoulder instability, and all underwent arthroscopic repair of the circumferential labral tear with a mean of 7.1 suture anchors. The outcomes for thirty-nine of the forty-one shoulders were assessed after a mean duration of follow-up of 31.8 months on the basis of the rating of pain and instability on a scale of 0 to 10, a physical examination, and three outcome instruments (the Single Assessment Numeric Evaluation score, the modified American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score, and the Short Form-12 score). Significant improvement was noted in terms of the mean pain score (from 4.3 to 1.1), the mean instability score (from 7.3 to 0.2), the mean modified American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score (from 55.5 to 89.6), the mean Short Form-12 score (from 75.7 to 90.0), and the mean Single Assessment Numeric Evaluation score (from 36.7 to 88.5). Six shoulders required revision surgery because of recurrent instability (two), recalcitrant biceps tendinitis (two), or postoperative tightness (two). All patients returned to their preinjury activity level. Pan-labral or circumferential lesions are an uncommon yet extensive injury of the glenohumeral joint that may result in recurrent instability and pain. The present study demonstrates that arthroscopic capsulolabral repair with suture anchor fixation can restore the stability of the glenohumeral joint and can provide a reliable improvement in subjective and objective outcome measures."}
{"id": "19949122", "title": "The level of vitamin D in the serum correlates with fatty degeneration of the muscles of the rotator cuff.", "content": "The level of vitamin D in the serum correlates with fatty degeneration of the muscles of the rotator cuff. This study examined the role of vitamin D as a factor accounting for fatty degeneration and muscle function in the rotator cuff. There were 366 patients with disorders of the shoulder. A total of 228 patients had a full-thickness tear (group 1) and 138 patients had no tear (group 2). All underwent magnetic resonance arthrography and an isokinetic muscle performance test. The serum concentrations of vitamin D (25(OH)D(3)) were measured. In general, a lower serum level of vitamin D was related to higher fatty degeneration in the muscles of the cuff. Spearman's correlation coefficients were 0.173 (p = 0.001), -0.181 (p = 0.001), and -0.117 (p = 0.026) for supraspinatus, infraspinatus and subscapularis, respectively. In group 1, multivariate linear regression analysis revealed that the serum level of vitamin D was an independent variable for fatty degeneration of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus. The serum vitamin D level has a significant negative correlation with the fatty degeneration of the cuff muscle and a positive correlation with isokinetic muscle torque."}
{"id": "19940315", "title": "Biomechanical analysis of a knotless transtendon interimplant mattress repair for partial-thickness articular-sided rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Biomechanical analysis of a knotless transtendon interimplant mattress repair for partial-thickness articular-sided rotator cuff tears. A transtendon interimplant mattress repair along the medial row for partial-thickness rotator cuff repairs has been described with clinical success. However, the biomechanical characteristics for such a repair have not been elucidated. A knotless interimplant mattress repair may show improved or equivalent load and strain characteristics, compared with a repair using isolated mattress repairs over each of 2 anchors. Controlled laboratory study. Seven matched pairs of human cadaveric shoulders were dissected. Articular-sided tears were created involving 50% of the supraspinatus footprint. In 7 shoulders, repairs were performed with mattress configurations isolated over each of 2 anchor sites (control group). In 7 contralateral shoulders, a knotless interimplant mattress suture configuration was employed creating bridging sutures between implants. For all specimens, a materials-testing machine was used to cyclically load each repair from 10 to 180 N for 30 cycles; each repair was then loaded to failure. A deformation rate of 1 mm per second was employed for all tests. A video-digitizing system was employed to quantitatively measure the gap formation and strain on the footprint area of the repair. For detecting gap formation, 7 matched pairs were necessary for achieving a power of at least 90%. During cyclic loading, gap formation at the anterior tendon was significantly lower in the control group (P < .05) but did not exceed 0.5 mm. There were no significant differences for linear stiffness, hysteresis, and strain between the 2 constructs. During tensile load-to-failure testing, there were no significant differences at yield load between the control and knotless techniques (293.90 + or - 132.72 N and 320.38 + or - 237.01 N, respectively; P > .05). There were no differences for stiffness, ultimate load, and energy absorbed to failure between the 2 repairs (P > .05). Gap formation in 3 regions was not significantly different between groups at yield and ultimate loads (P > .05). The anterior regions of the repair were the first to fail in all constructs. A transtendon interimplant mattress rotator cuff repair for partial articular-sided tendon tears involving 50% of the footprint has biomechanical characteristics similar to those of a repair employing 2 isolated mattress configurations. An interim-plant mattress repair can protect tendon strain; it also exhibits yield loads that exceed those typically experienced in the early postoperative period. A medial-row interimplant mattress repair configuration that is knotless may facilitate repair without compromising biomechanical characteristics."}
{"id": "19934137", "title": "Towards evidence based emergency medicine: best BETs from the Manchester Royal Infirmary. BET 1: which is the best clinical test for diagnosing a full thickness rotator cuff tear?", "content": "Towards evidence based emergency medicine: best BETs from the Manchester Royal Infirmary. BET 1: which is the best clinical test for diagnosing a full thickness rotator cuff tear?"}
{"id": "19933654", "title": "Cysts within and adjacent to the lesser tuberosity and their association with rotator cuff abnormalities.", "content": "Cysts within and adjacent to the lesser tuberosity and their association with rotator cuff abnormalities. The purpose of our study was to determine the incidence of cysts in and adjacent to the lesser tuberosity and their association with rotator cuff abnormalities and subcoracoid impingement. A retrospective review of 1,000 consecutive MRI examinations of the shoulder was performed by consensus of two radiologists. Cysts were grouped by location into one of two groups: those within the lesser tuberosity and those adjacent to the lesser tuberosity. The rotator cuff was defined as intact, partial tear or tendinosis, or full-thickness tear. The shortest distance from the coracoid to the humeral head was measured on axial images. Forty-eight patients (26 women, 22 men; age range, 35-79 years; mean age, 61 years) had cysts adjacent to or within the lesser tuberosity. Thirty-two patients (67%) had cysts just superior to the tuberosity and 16 (33%) had cysts in the lesser tuberosity, resulting in an incidence of 3.2% and 1.6%, respectively. All 16 patients (100%) with lesser tuberosity cysts had subscapularis and supraspinatus tendon abnormalities including 11 (69%) full-thickness supraspinatus tears. Patients with cysts superior to the tuberosity had 20 (63%, p = 0.004) abnormal subscapularis tendons and 28 (88%) abnormal supraspinatus tendons, including six (19%) full-thickness tears (p = 0.002). The coracohumeral distance was noted to be less than 10 mm in 10 patients (63%) with lesser tuberosity cysts as compared with 10 patients (31%, p = 0.06) with cysts superior to the tuberosity. Cysts located within the lesser tuberosity are rare and are indicative of subscapularis and supraspinatus tendon abnormalities."}
{"id": "19930909", "title": "Roles of radiograph, magnetic resonance imaging, three-dimensional computed tomography in early diagnosis of femoro-acetabular impingement in 17 cases.", "content": "Roles of radiograph, magnetic resonance imaging, three-dimensional computed tomography in early diagnosis of femoro-acetabular impingement in 17 cases. To evaluate the roles of radiograph, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), three-dimensional computed tomography (3-D CT) in early diagnosis of femoro-acetabular impingement (FAI) in 17 cases. Plain radiographs of the pelvis, 3-D CT, and MRI of the hip were made on 17 patients with groin pain, which was worse with prolonged sitting (i.e. hip flexion). There was no history of trauma or childhood hip disorders in the patients who did not complain of any other joint problems or neurologic symptoms. All patients had positive anterior or posterior impingement test. Plain radiographs included an antero-posterior (AP) view of the hip and a cross table lateral view with slight internal rotation of the hip. CT scan was performed with the Lightspeed 16 row spiral (General Electric Company, USA) at 1.25 mm slice reconstruction. MRI scan was performed on the Siemens Avanto (Siemens Company, Germany)1.5T supraconduction magnetic resonance meter. The CT and MRI scans were taken from 1 cm above the acetabulum to the lesser trochanter in 5 series. The plain radiographs of the pelvis showed that among the 17 patients, 12 (70.59%) had \"Cam\" change of the femoral head, 6 (35.29%) had positive \"cross-over\" sign, and 17 (100%) had positive \"pincer\" change of the acetabulum. The 16 row spiral CT noncontrast enhanced scan and 3-D reconstruction could discover minus femoral offset and ossification and osteophyte of the acetabulum labrum in all the 17 cases (100%). The MRI noncontrast enhanced scan could discover more fluid in the hip joint in 15 cases (88.33%), subchondral ossification in 3 cases (17.6%), and labrum tears in 3 cases (17.6%). Plain radiographs can provide the initial mainstay for the diagnosis of FAI, 3-D CT can tell us the femoral offset, while MRI can show labrum tears in the very early stage of FAI. Basically, X-ray examination is enough for the early diagnosis of FAI, but 3-D CT and MRI may be useful for the treatment."}
{"id": "19911087", "title": "Glenohumeral rotational range of motion in collegiate overhead-throwing athletes during an athletic season.", "content": "Glenohumeral rotational range of motion in collegiate overhead-throwing athletes during an athletic season. Repetitive throwing at high velocities leads to altered range of motion (ROM) in the dominant shoulder compared with the nondominant shoulder in overhead-throwing athletes. Loss of glenohumeral internal rotation (IR), or glenohumeral internal-rotation deficit (GIRD), is associated with shoulder injuries. Therefore, GIRD should be evaluated during the clinical examination of the thrower's shoulder. To assess glenohumeral ROM in competitive baseball and softball athletes at 3 intervals over the course of an athletic season in order to (1) examine changes in ROM over time and (2) monitor the prevalence of GIRD. Observational, repeated-measures study. Collegiate athletic training room. Forty-eight healthy National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I or Division II athletes (age = 19 + or - 1 years, height = 174 + or - 14 cm, mass = 77.8 + or - 18.1 kg; 19 softball, 29 baseball players). We measured glenohumeral IR, external rotation (ER), total arc (ER + IR), and GIRD at 3 times: prefall, prespring, and postspring. We calculated GIRD in 2 ways: as the difference in IR between dominant and nondominant shoulders and as the percentage of the total arc. In the dominant shoulder, ER increased during the season (F(2,96) = 17.433, P < .001), but IR remained the same (F(2,96) = 1.839, P = .17). The total arc in the dominant shoulder increased between time intervals (F(2,96) = 14.030, P < .001); the mean difference between prefall and postspring measurements was 9.694 degrees (P < .001), and the mean difference between prefall and postspring measurements was 10.990 degrees (P < .001). In the nondominant shoulder, ER increased over the season (F(2,96) = 23.395, P < .001), but IR did not change over the season (F(2,96) = 0.087, P = .90). The total arc in the nondominant shoulder increased between prefall and prespring measurements and between prefall and postspring measurements (F(2,96) = 18.552, P < .001). No changes were noted in GIRD over time. However, more athletes with GIRD were identified with the GIRD (IR difference) calculation in prefall (n = 6) than in prespring (n = 1) and postspring (n = 4) (Cochran Q = 5.2, P = .07). In addition, more athletes with GIRD were identified with the GIRD (% total arc) calculation in postspring (n = 6) than in prefall (n = 5) or prespring (n = 4) (Cochran Q = 2.6, P = .27). Healthy NCAA Division I and Division II athletes did not display changes in glenohumeral IR over an athletic season. However, they gained in ER and total arc during the season in both shoulders. Future researchers should investigate changes over multiple seasons. The 2 methods of calculating GIRD identified different athletes as having GIRD, indicating that additional investigation is warranted to determine the clinical benefits of each method."}
{"id": "19908421", "title": "Dynamic tracking of the scapula using skin-mounted markers.", "content": "Dynamic tracking of the scapula using skin-mounted markers. The shoulder complex is prone to numerous pathologies and instabilities due to its large range of motion. The extent of injury is assessed through a series of observations and physical examinations. It is hypothesized that objective kinematic analysis of the shoulder could yield useful functional insights to aid clinical practice. Non-invasive motion analysis techniques to monitor shoulder function have been developed using passive markers; however, accurate measurement of scapula kinematics is problematic because of overlying tissue. The scapula locator is the accepted standard by which alternative non-invasive techniques of scapula tracking are validated. In this study, the viability of using skin-mounted markers to measure dynamic scapula movement is determined. Complete kinematic descriptions of ten healthy shoulders were obtained. Elevations of the glenohumeral joint were similar with both techniques, indicating that the skin marker method is suitable for gathering functional glenohumeral data. The main differences of note are seen at the scapulothoracic articulation where the skin marker method underestimated lateral rotation by more than 50 degrees at maximum elevation. However, the correlation between the two approaches is greater than 0.7, suggesting that it may be possible to derive linear regression models to predict dynamic scapulothoracic lateral rotation accurately using skin-mounted scapula markers."}
{"id": "19896047", "title": "Strength of single- versus double-anchor repair of type II SLAP lesions: a cadaveric study.", "content": "Strength of single- versus double-anchor repair of type II SLAP lesions: a cadaveric study. This study was designed to examine whether there was a difference in pullout strength along with the mode of failure between 1 suture anchor and 2 suture anchors. Ten matched pairs of cadaveric shoulders were used in the study. A type II SLAP lesion, according to the classification of Snyder et al., was created. In 10 shoulders 1 anchor with 2 sutures was used to repair the lesion. In the other group of 10 matched shoulders, fixation was done with 2 anchors, with each anchor having only 1 suture. An Instron servohydraulic test machine (Instron, Canton, MA) was used to pull the long head of the biceps tendon until failure occurred. The single-anchor group failed at a mean load of 278.5 +/- 101.5 N. The double-anchor group failed at 242.5 +/- 96.5 N. A paired 2-sample Student t test showed that there was no significant difference in pullout strength between the 2 groups (P = .090). The most common mode of failure was soft-tissue failure. There was 1 anchor pullout in the single-anchor group and 2 anchor pullouts in the double-anchor group. The results of this study imply that using 1 anchor with 2 sutures is biomechanically equivalent to 2 anchors with 1 suture each for repairing type II SLAP lesions. Using 1 suture anchor is sufficient to repair a type II SLAP lesion."}
{"id": "19887296", "title": "MR imaging of overuse injuries of the hip.", "content": "MR imaging of overuse injuries of the hip. The aim of this article is to emphasize the importance of MR imaging in the evaluation of chronic hip pain and overuse injuries. Image interpretation of the hip can be difficult because of the complex anatomy and the varied pathology that athletes can present with, such as labral and cartilaginous injuries, surrounding soft tissue derangement involving muscles or tendons, and osseous abnormalities. The differential diagnosis in adults is diverse and includes such common entities as stress fracture, avulsive injuries, snapping-hip syndrome, iliopsoas bursitis, femoroacetabular impingement syndrome, tendinosis, and tears of the gluteal musculature."}
{"id": "19887292", "title": "Imaging shoulder instability in the athlete.", "content": "Imaging shoulder instability in the athlete. Athletes who partake in overhead or throwing activities frequently suffer from shoulder pain. Glenohumeral instability plays an important role in sports-related shoulder pain. Shoulder instability can be traumatic, atraumatic, or microtraumatic in origin. In athletes, atraumatic and microtraumatic instabilities can lead to secondary impingement and chronic damage to intra-articular structures. MR arthrography is the modality of choice for assessing glenohumeral instability and diagnosing labroligamentous injuries. This article reviews imaging of instability-related injuries in athletes, with special emphasis on MR imaging."}
{"id": "19887291", "title": "Overuse and impingement syndromes of the shoulder in the athlete.", "content": "Overuse and impingement syndromes of the shoulder in the athlete. Overuse and impingement syndromes in the shoulders of athletes are predominantly caused by instability of the glenohumeral joint. Glenohumeral joint instability is usually acquired from repetitive overuse of the rotator cuff and shoulder girdle muscles, or injury of the static and dynamic stabilizers of the glenohumeral joint. Congenital hypermobility of the joint may also contribute to these syndromes in some individuals. The throwing action may lead to a cascade of injuries to the static and dynamic stabilizers of the posterosuperior glenohumeral joint, caused by the repetitive, high-energy nature of the action rather than a specific injury. Injury to the anterosuperior stabilizers of the glenohumeral joint may also lead to anterosuperior impingement syndrome. The role of MR in overuse and impingement syndromes of the shoulder is to accurately diagnose the underlying structural changes and serves to assist the clinician in instituting the appropriate conservative or surgical treatment for individual athletes."}
{"id": "19887215", "title": "Reliability and diagnostic accuracy of 5 physical examination tests and combination of tests for subacromial impingement.", "content": "Reliability and diagnostic accuracy of 5 physical examination tests and combination of tests for subacromial impingement. To investigate the reliability and diagnostic accuracy of individual tests and combination of tests for subacromial impingement syndrome (SAIS). A prospective, blinded study design. Orthopedic surgeon shoulder clinic. Patients with shoulder pain (n=55, mean age=40.6y). Patients were evaluated with 5 physical examination tests for SAIS: Neer, Hawkins-Kennedy, painful arc, empty can (Jobe), and external rotation resistance tests. Surgical diagnosis was the reference standard. Diagnostic accuracy calculated with a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and sensitivity, specificity, positive likelihood ratio (+LR), and negative likelihood ratio (-LR). A forward stepwise binary logistic regression analysis was used to determine the best test combination for SAIS. An ROC curve analysis was also used to determine the cut point of the number of tests discriminating between the presence and absence of SAIS. Kappa coefficients and percent agreement assessed interrater reliability. The ROC analyses revealed a significant area under the curve (AUC) (AUC=.67-.72, P<.05) for all tests, except for the Hawkins-Kennedy. The tests with a +LR greater than or equal to 2.0 were the painful arc (+LR=2.25; 95% CI, 1.33-3.81), empty can (+LR=3.90; 95% CI, 1.5-10.12), and the external rotation resistance tests (+LR=4.39; 95% CI, 1.74-11.07). Tests with -LR less than or equal to 0.50 were the painful arc (-LR=.38; 95% CI, .16-.90), external rotation resistance (-LR=.50; 95% CI, .28-.89), and Neer tests (-LR=.35; 95% CI, .12-.97). The regression analysis had no specific test combinations for confirming or ruling out SAIS. The ROC analysis was significant (AUC=.79, P=.001), with a cut point of 3 positive tests out of 5 tests. Reliability was moderate to substantial agreement (kappa=.45-.67) for the painful arc, empty can, and external rotation resistance tests and fair strength of agreement (kappa=.39-.40) for the Neer and Hawkins-Kennedy tests. The single tests of painful arc, external rotation resistance, and Neer are useful screening tests to rule out SAIS. The single tests of painful arc, external rotation resistance, and empty can are helpful to confirm SAIS. The reliability of all tests was acceptable for clinical use. Based on reliability and diagnostic accuracy, the single tests of the painful arc, external rotation resistance, and empty can have the best overall clinical utility. The cut point of 3 or more positive of 5 tests can confirm the diagnosis of SAIS, while less than 3 positive of 5 rules out SAIS."}
{"id": "19885050", "title": "Treatment of femoroacetabular impingement with surgical dislocation.", "content": "Treatment of femoroacetabular impingement with surgical dislocation. The authors report the results of femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) treated with a surgical dislocation. From April 2005 to May 2007, 15 FAI hips were treated with a surgical dislocation. The male/female ratio, mean age and mean symptom duration was 12/2, 35.8 years and 2.3 years, respectively. Radiographs and MR arthrograms were taken. The clinical evaluation involved changes in the pre- and postoperative Harris hip score (HHS). There were 12 hips (80%) with at least one structural abnormality in the radiographs, with 11 (79%) labral tears and 8 (73%) abnormally high angles in the MR arthrograms. We performed 15 osteochondroplasties, 12 labral repairs, 12 acetabuloplasty, and 3 debridements. The mean HHS improved from 76 to 93 points. Three non-unions of the trochanteric osteotomy sites were encountered as complications. Radiographs and MR arthrograms are important for making a proper diagnosis of FAI and planning treatment. A surgical dislocation can be used to treat FAI but further technical improvements will be needed for fixation of the greater trochanteric osteotomy sites."}
{"id": "19884997", "title": "Comparison of analgesic efficacy between single interscalene block combined with a continuous intra-bursal infusion of ropivacaine and continuous interscalene block after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Comparison of analgesic efficacy between single interscalene block combined with a continuous intra-bursal infusion of ropivacaine and continuous interscalene block after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. This study evaluated the effectiveness of a continuous interscalene block (CISB) by comparing it with that of a single interscalene block combined with a continuous intra-bursal infusion of ropivacaine (ISB-IB) after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. Patients who had undergone CISB (CISB group; n = 25) were compared with those who had undergone ISB-IB (ISB-IB group; n = 25) for more than 48 hours after surgery. The visual analog scale (VAS) for pain, motor and/or sensory deficit, supplementary analgesics and adverse effects were recorded. There were no significant differences between the postoperative VAS of the CISB and ISB-IB groups, except at 1 hour after surgery. Their supplementary analgesics of the two groups were similar. Transient motor weakness (52%) and sensory disturbance (40%) of the affected arm were observed in patients in the CISB group. The catheters came out accidentally in 22% of the CISB group but in only 4% of the ISB-IB group. ISB-IB provides similar analgesia to CISB. However, the ISB-IB group had a lower incidence of neurological deficits and better catheter retention."}
{"id": "19880677", "title": "Suprascapular neuropathy.", "content": "Suprascapular neuropathy. Suprascapular neuropathy is a relatively uncommon but significant cause of shoulder pain and dysfunction. The suprascapular nerve follows a tortuous course from the neck to the posterior shoulder. There are several potential causes of nerve entrapment along this path, particularly at the vulnerable suprascapular and spinoglenoid notches, where nerve excursion is limited by bony and ligamentous constraints. Additional extrinsic compression may be caused by glenohumeral joint-related ganglion cysts or soft-tissue masses. Traction neuropathy may occur following excessive nerve excursion during overhead sports or as a result of massive, retracted rotator cuff tears in older patients. Diagnosis is based on a careful history, physical examination, focused imaging, and electrodiagnostic studies. In the absence of a clear structural compression or overtensioning of the nerve, treatment initially should be nonsurgical, with activity modification and physical therapy. Discrete nerve compression or failure of nonsurgical measures warrants early surgical intervention. Arthroscopic alternatives to the traditional open suprascapular and/or spinoglenoid notch decompressions have the benefit of simultaneously diagnosing and addressing intra-articular and/or subacromial pathology while minimizing morbidity. In most patients, both open and arthroscopic approaches provide reliable pain relief and improvements in function; return of strength and muscle bulk is less predictable."}
{"id": "19863417", "title": "Tears of the supraspinatus tendon: assessment with indirect magnetic resonance arthrography in 67 patients with arthroscopic correlation.", "content": "Tears of the supraspinatus tendon: assessment with indirect magnetic resonance arthrography in 67 patients with arthroscopic correlation. Magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography is generally regarded as the gold standard for shoulder imaging. As an alternative to direct MR arthrography, the less invasive indirect MR arthrography technique was proposed, offering logistic advantages because fluoroscopic or ultrasonographic guidance for joint injection is not required. To assess the diagnostic performance of indirect MR arthrography in the diagnosis of full- and partial-thickness supraspinatus tears in a symptomatic population. Two radiologists with different levels of experience independently and retrospectively interpreted indirect MR (1.5T) arthrograms of the shoulder obtained in 67 symptomatic patients who underwent subsequent arthroscopy. On MR, the supraspinatus tendon was evaluated for full- or partial-thickness tear. With arthroscopy as the standard of reference, sensitivity, specificity, and diagnostic accuracy of indirect MR arthrography in the detection of full- and partial-thickness tears of the supraspinatus tendon was calculated. Kappa (kappa) statistics were used for the assessment of the agreement between arthroscopic and imaging findings and for the assessment of interobserver agreement. For full-thickness tears of the supraspinatus tendon, sensitivities, specificities, and accuracies exceeded 90% for both observers, with excellent interobserver agreement (kappa = 0.910). For partial-thickness tears, sensitivities (38-50%) and accuracies (76-78%) were poor for both reviewers, and interobserver agreement was moderate (kappa = 0.491). Discrepancies between MR diagnosis and arthroscopy were predominantly observed with small partial-thickness tears. Indirect MR arthrography is highly accurate in the diagnosis of full-thickness rotator cuff tears. However, the diagnosis of partial-thickness tears with indirect MR arthrography remains faulty, because exact demarcation of degenerative change and partial rupture is difficult. On the basis of the above findings, we do not recommend indirect MR arthrography on patients for whom rotator cuff disease is suspected clinically."}
{"id": "19857179", "title": "Shoulder rhythm in patients with impingement and in controls: dynamic RSA during active and passive abduction.", "content": "Shoulder rhythm in patients with impingement and in controls: dynamic RSA during active and passive abduction. Impingement syndrome is probably the most common cause of shoulder pain. Abnormal abduction and proximal humeral translation are associated with this condition. We evaluated whether the relative distribution between glenohumeral and scapular-trunk motions (the scapulohumeral rhythm) and the speed of motion of the arm differed between patients with impingement and a control group without shoulder symptoms. 30 patients with shoulder impingement (Neer stage 2) and 11 controls were studied during active abduction and 21 patients and 9 controls were studied during passive abduction. Dynamic RSA at a speed of 2 simultaneous exposures per second was used to record the shoulder motions for 5-6 seconds. Within the interval statistically evaluated (observations between 20-55 degrees of relative active abduction in the glenohumeral joint), the patient group showed more scapular and trunk motions (p = 0.04), especially at up to 40 degrees. The pattern of motion at passive abduction was somewhat similar to that in the controls. Both controls and patients showed an increasing absolute (i.e. global) proximal displacement of the center of the humeral head with increasing active and passive abduction of the glenohumeral joint and humerus, without any certain difference between the groups. The mean maximum absolute proximal displacement in the patient and control groups amounted to about 30 mm and 20 mm, respectively. The corresponding relative displacement (with fixed scapula) was only 2.0 and 0.5 mm. Active abduction was initiated with angular velocity of about 50 and 80 degrees per second, respectively, in the patients and the controls. In both groups it decreased with progressing abduction down to about 20 degrees per second (controls) after 3 seconds without there being any statistically significant difference. The angular velocities at passive abduction showed a similar pattern, still without any difference. In both groups, the speed of proximal translation during active abduction peaked 0.5-1 second later than the speed of rotation and remained relatively even for about 1 second, followed by a deceleration. We found that the glenohumeral-thoracoscapular ratio during abduction of the arm in our study, measured as the distribution of motion between the glenohumeral joint and the trunk in both controls and patients with impingement, was less than or equal to 1:1. This finding differs from earlier results, probably due to the use of a method with high resolution and small influence of motions out of the frontal plane. The reason for reduced glenohumeral motions in the early phase of active abduction in the patient group is uncertain, but pain or avoidance of pain elicited by the motion was probably of importance."}
{"id": "19841837", "title": "Effects of physiotherapy in patients with shoulder impingement syndrome: a systematic review of the literature.", "content": "Effects of physiotherapy in patients with shoulder impingement syndrome: a systematic review of the literature. To critically summarize the effectiveness of physio-therapy in patients presenting clinical signs of shoulder impingement syndrome. Systematic review. Randomized controlled trials were searched electronically and manually from 1966 to December 2007. Study quality was independently assessed by 2 reviewers using the Physiotherapy Evidence Database (PEDro) scale. If possible, relative risks and weighted mean differences were calculated for individual studies, and relative risks or standardized mean differences for pooled data, otherwise results were summarized in a best evidence synthesis. Sixteen studies were included, with a mean quality score of 6.8 points out of 10. Many different diagnostic criteria for shoulder impingement syndrome were applied. Physio-therapist-led exercises and surgery were equally effective treatments for shoulder impingement syndrome in the long term. Also, home-based exercises were as effective as combined physiotherapy interventions. Adding manual therapy to exercise programmes may have an additional benefit on pain at 3 weeks follow-up. Moderate evidence exists that passive treatments are not effective and cannot be justified. This review shows an equal effectiveness of physiotherapist-led exercises compared with surgery in the long term and of home-based exercises compared with combined physiotherapy interventions in patients with shoulder impingement syndrome in the short and long term; passive treatments cannot be recommended for shoulder impingement syndrome. However, in general, the samples were small, and different diagnostic criteria were applied, which makes a firm conclusion difficult. More high-quality trials with longer follow-ups are recommended."}
{"id": "19834364", "title": "Transfer of a fascicle from the posterior cord to the suprascapular nerve after injury of the upper roots of the brachial plexus: technical case report.", "content": "Transfer of a fascicle from the posterior cord to the suprascapular nerve after injury of the upper roots of the brachial plexus: technical case report. A new nerve transfer technique using a healthy fascicle of the posterior cord for suprascapular nerve reconstruction is presented. This technique was used in a patient with posttraumatic brachial plexopathy resulting in upper trunk injury with proximal root stumps that were unavailable for grafting associated with multiple nerve dysfunction. A 45-year-old man sustained a right brachial plexus injury after a bicycle accident. Clinical evaluation and electromyography indicated upper trunk involvement. Trapezius muscle function and triceps strength were normal on physical examination. The patient underwent a combined supra- and infraclavicular approach to the brachial plexus. A neuroma-in-continuity of the upper trunk and fibrotic C5 and C6 roots were identified. Electrical stimulation of the phrenic and spinal accessory nerves produced no response. The suprascapular nerve was dissected from the upper trunk, transected, and rerouted to the infraclavicular fossa. A healthy fascicle of the posterior cord to the triceps muscle was transferred to the suprascapular nerve. At the time of the 1-year follow-up evaluation, arm abduction against gravity and external rotation reached 40 and 34 degrees, respectively. The posterior cord can be used as a source of donor fascicle to the suprascapular nerve after its infraclavicular relocation. This new intraplexal nerve transfer could be applied in patients with isolated injury of the upper trunk and concomitant lesion of the extraplexal nerve donors usually used for reinnervation of the suprascapular nerve."}
{"id": "19833290", "title": "Double-row vs single-row rotator cuff repair: a review of the biomechanical evidence.", "content": "Double-row vs single-row rotator cuff repair: a review of the biomechanical evidence. A review of the current literature will show a difference between the biomechanical properties of double-row and single-row rotator cuff repairs. Rotator cuff tears commonly necessitate surgical repair; however, the optimal technique for repair continues to be investigated. Recently, double-row repairs have been considered an alternative to single-row repair, allowing a greater coverage area for healing and a possibly stronger repair. We reviewed the literature of all biomechanical studies comparing double-row vs single-row repair techniques. Inclusion criteria included studies using cadaveric, animal, or human models that directly compared double-row vs single-row repair techniques, written in the English language, and published in peer reviewed journals. Identified articles were reviewed to provide a comprehensive conclusion of the biomechanical strength and integrity of the repair techniques. Fifteen studies were identified and reviewed. Nine studies showed a statistically significant advantage to a double-row repair with regards to biomechanical strength, failure, and gap formation. Three studies produced results that did not show any statistical advantage. Five studies that directly compared footprint reconstruction all demonstrated that the double-row repair was superior to a single-row repair in restoring anatomy. The current literature reveals that the biomechanical properties of a double-row rotator cuff repair are superior to a single-row repair. Basic Science Study, SRH = Single vs. Double Row RCR."}
{"id": "19824592", "title": "Upper airway compromise by extravasated fluid: a rare complication after arthroscopic repair of atrophic cuff tear.", "content": "Upper airway compromise by extravasated fluid: a rare complication after arthroscopic repair of atrophic cuff tear. During arthroscopic procedures, leakage of irrigation fluid into surrounding tissue planes is a frequently noticed phenomenon usually clinically asymptomatic and resolving within 12 hours postoperatively. Although rare, this fluid may produce life-threatening complications such as airway compromise. This article describes a case of upper airway obstruction in a 60-year-old man undergoing arthroscopic repair for an atrophic rotator cuff tear. The patient presented with a 6-month history of pain and weakness in the left shoulder. Magnetic resonance imaging studies revealed a massive rotator cuff tear with significant retraction and fatty degeneration of cuff musculature. Perioperatively, all vital cardiorespiratory parameters were within normal limits. Postoperatively, immediately on extubation, he was dyspneic, and examination revealed a diffuse swelling extending from the left shoulder up to the neck and face. He was reintubated and sent to the recovery room, where he recovered 12 hours later. This article highlights the possibility of respiratory compromise due to the extravasation of irrigation fluid into the neck and chest during arthroscopic repair of massive and atrophied cuff tears, even with shorter surgical time as is this case. The widened suprascapular space will offer less resistance to the spread of fluid into the neck and chest from the shoulder. We advocate monitoring the patient continuously to prevent this serious complication from becoming life-threatening."}
{"id": "19818700", "title": "Musculotendinous infraspinatus ruptures: an overview.", "content": "Musculotendinous infraspinatus ruptures: an overview. Musculotendinous infraspinatus ruptures belong to the category of \"muscle strain injuries\". They differ from a classic rotator cuff tear by the following features: tendon attachment remains intact and the acute initial stage typically undergoes an intense muscular edema, replaced, 6 to 12 months later, by complete and permanent fatty infiltration of this muscle. Between 1993 and 2007, we prospectively identified 59 musculotendinous ruptures of the infraspinatus muscle tendon complex. Fifty-eight percent of these patients were females. The average age at presentation was 50 years old. Onset was non traumatic in 78% of these cases. Twenty-nine patients were seen at the acute lesion stage with pain and, on T2 fat saturated MRI sequences, muscular edema. A second group of 30 patients presented with a stage 4 fatty infiltration of the infraspinatus muscle associated with a musculotendinous disruption. Twenty-three patients underwent EMG testing which was normal in all cases. None of these patients had a full thickness tear of the rotator cuff tendons, 21% of the patients presenting in the acute phase had a partial thickness tear of the supraspinatus, which increased to 70% in patients presenting in the chronic phase suggesting a more degenerative etiology. Calcific tendonitis was seen in 61% of patients. Twenty-four patients underwent surgery, while the remaining 35 were treated conservatively. The average follow-up, for all of them, was 46 months (12-125). The Constant score increased from 51.7 to 69.4 (p<0.001). There was no significant difference between the operated and the non-operated groups (p=0.325). All the patients seen at the acute painful edematous stage progressed to stage 4 complete fatty infiltrations, irrespective of selected treatment. None of the patients who underwent surgery had any regression of their fatty infiltration. Early diagnosis of this lesion can be made using T2 fat saturated MRI imaging. We hypothesize that early tendon repair which restores muscle tension in the infraspinatus may halt the progression of this entity and prevent complete functional loss of this muscle. Level IV: Therapeutic study."}
{"id": "19811715", "title": "Shoulder impingement syndrome: outcome of arthroscopic subacromial decompression.", "content": "Shoulder impingement syndrome: outcome of arthroscopic subacromial decompression. To describe the outcome of cases with subacromial impingement syndrome managed with arthroscopic subacromial decompression. Quasi-experimental study. Section of Orthopaedics, Department of Surgery, The Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi from April 2005 to March 2006. Thirty patients with impingement syndrome who underwent arthroscopic subacromial decompression after failed conservative treatment were included. The Constant and Murley shoulder scoring system was used for the clinical assessment of pain and function pre-operatively and 1, 6 and 24 weeks postoperatively. The postoperatively significant improvement was observed in the Constant and Murley scores in all the patients (by mean 40 points, p < 0.01), which was progressive over six months. Lower scores were noted in patients over 40 years of age, with advanced stage of impingement and partial tears of the rotator cuff. Arthroscopic subacromial decompression was effective in reducing pain and improving function in the studied patients with subacromial impingement syndrome."}
{"id": "19805691", "title": "Comparison of iodine-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) scan and [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography to evaluate response after iodine-131 MIBG therapy for relapsed neuroblastoma.", "content": "Comparison of iodine-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) scan and [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography to evaluate response after iodine-131 MIBG therapy for relapsed neuroblastoma. Children with relapsed neuroblastoma have poor survival. It is crucial to have a reliable method for evaluating functional response to new therapies. In this study, we compared two functional imaging modalities for neuroblastoma: metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) scan for uptake by the norepinephrine transporter and [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) uptake for glucose metabolic activity. Patients enrolled onto a phase I study of sequential infusion of iodine-131 ((131)I) MIBG (NANT-2000-01) were eligible for inclusion if they had concomitant FDG-PET and MIBG scans. (131)I-MIBG therapy was administered on days 0 and 14. For each patient, we compared all lesions identified on concomitant FDG-PET and MIBG scans and gave scans a semiquantitative score. The overall concordance of positive lesions on concomitant MIBG and FDG-PET scans was 39.6% when examining the 139 unique anatomic lesions. MIBG imaging was significantly more sensitive than FDG-PET overall and for the detection of bone lesions (P < .001). There was a trend for increased sensitivity of FDG-PET for detection of soft tissue lesions. Both modalities showed similar improvement in number of lesions identified from day 0 to day 56 scan and in semiquantitative scores that correlated with overall response. FDG-PET scans became completely negative more often than MIBG scans after treatment. MIBG scan is significantly more sensitive for individual lesion detection in relapsed neuroblastoma than FDG-PET, though FDG-PET can sometimes play a complementary role, particularly in soft tissue lesions. Complete response by FDG-PET metabolic evaluation did not always correlate with complete response by MIBG uptake."}
{"id": "19801287", "title": "Rotator cuff integrity after arthroscopic repair for large tears with less-than-optimal footprint coverage.", "content": "Rotator cuff integrity after arthroscopic repair for large tears with less-than-optimal footprint coverage. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical results and healing status of rotator cuff repairs with less than 50% footprint coverage. During the 18-month period from October 2005 to March 2007, 89 large to massive rotator cuff tears were arthroscopically repaired. Among them, 23 consecutive large to massive rotator cuff tears were repaired completely but with less than 50% of the original footprint. All tears were arthroscopically repaired with suture anchors. Preoperative and postoperative clinical assessments were performed with the Constant score, American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score, and pain visual analog scale. The healing status of repaired tendon was evaluated by postoperative magnetic resonance imaging with a focus on tendon integrity, muscle fatty degeneration, and muscle atrophy. The mean follow-up period was 30.2 months (range, 24 to 41 months). At final follow-up visits, American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score, Constant score, and score on pain visual analog scale were found to have improved significantly from 40.1, 35.9, and 57.7 to 82.4, 86.6, and 12.3, respectively (P < .01). The overall retear rate was 45.5% (10 cases). However, clinical results showed no difference between the retear group and no retear group. Furthermore, rerupture size was smaller than original tear size in all 10 patients, and no significant progression of fatty degeneration or muscle atrophy of rotator cuff muscles was observed. Less-than-optimal coverage of the original greater tuberosity footprint during arthroscopic repair of large to massive rotator cuff tears was found to be associated with a relatively high retear rate (45.5%). However, clinical results improved significantly, and no significant difference was observed in the clinical results between the retear and no retear groups. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "19801286", "title": "Biomechanical comparison of knotless anchor repair versus simple suture repair for type II SLAP lesions.", "content": "Biomechanical comparison of knotless anchor repair versus simple suture repair for type II SLAP lesions. The purpose of this study was to evaluate glenohumeral motion after knotless anchor repair of type II SLAP lesions versus repair with simple suture arthroscopic knot-tying techniques and to compare the initial fixation strength of the 2 repair techniques. Six matched-pair cadaveric shoulders were tested in an uninjured condition, after creation of a type II SLAP tear, and after repair with either a knotless repair with two 3.5-mm Bio-PushLock anchors (Arthrex, Naples, FL) or a simple suture repair with two 3.0-mm Bio-SutureTak anchors (Arthrex) placed anterior and posterior to the biceps tendon. Glenohumeral rotation, translation, and kinematics were measured. The SLAP repairs were then loaded to failure perpendicular to the glenoid face. Glenohumeral rotation increased after creation of a type II SLAP lesion and was restored to the intact state after both repairs. There was no significant difference in glenohumeral translation or kinematics with SLAP lesion or either repair technique. There was no significant difference between stiffness, yield load, or ultimate load of the 2 repairs. Simple suture repairs failed most commonly by knot breakage, and knotless repairs failed by suture slippage around the anchor. Knotless anchor repairs of type II SLAP lesions restore glenohumeral rotation as well as simple suture arthroscopic repair techniques without overconstraining the shoulder. In addition, the initial fixation strength of knotless anchor repairs of type II SLAP lesions is similar to that of simple suture repairs. Knotless anchor repairs of type II SLAP lesions restore capsulolabral anatomy without overconstraining the shoulder."}
{"id": "19800279", "title": "Comments on review by Beaudreuil et al. \"Contribution of clinical tests to the diagnosis of rotator cuff disease: a systematic review\".", "content": "Comments on review by Beaudreuil et al. \"Contribution of clinical tests to the diagnosis of rotator cuff disease: a systematic review\"."}
{"id": "19794220", "title": "Superior labral tears of the shoulder: pathogenesis, evaluation, and treatment.", "content": "Superior labral tears of the shoulder: pathogenesis, evaluation, and treatment. Lesions of the superior glenoid labrum and biceps anchor are a well-recognized cause of shoulder pain. Advances in shoulder arthroscopy have led to improvements in recognizing and managing superior labral anterior-posterior (SLAP) tears. Recent biomechanical studies have postulated several theories for the pathogenesis of SLAP tears in throwing athletes and the effect of these injuries on normal shoulder kinematics. Advances in soft-tissue imaging techniques have resulted in improved accuracy in diagnosing SLAP tears. However, the diagnosis of clinically relevant SLAP tears remains challenging because of the lack of specific examination findings and the frequency of concomitant shoulder injuries. Definitive diagnosis of suspected SLAP tears is confirmed on arthroscopic examination. Advances in surgical techniques have made it possible to achieve secure repair in selected patterns of injury. Recent outcomes studies have shown predictably good functional results and an acceptable rate of return to sport and/or work with arthroscopic treatment of SLAP tears."}
{"id": "19794168", "title": "Does arthroscopic acromioplasty provide any additional value in the treatment of shoulder impingement syndrome?: a two-year randomised controlled trial.", "content": "Does arthroscopic acromioplasty provide any additional value in the treatment of shoulder impingement syndrome?: a two-year randomised controlled trial. We report a randomised controlled trial to examine the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of arthroscopic acromioplasty in the treatment of stage II shoulder impingement syndrome. A total of 140 patients were randomly divided into two treatment groups: supervised exercise programme (n = 70, exercise group) and arthroscopic acromioplasty followed by a similar exercise programme (n = 70, combined treatment group). The main outcome measure was self-reported pain on a visual analogue scale of 0 to 10 at 24 months, measured on the 134 patients (66 in the exercise group and 68 in the combined treatment group) for whom endpoint data were available. An intention-to-treat analysis disclosed an improvement in both groups but without statistically significant difference in outcome between the groups (p = 0.65). The combined treatment was considerably more costly. Arthroscopic acromioplasty provides no clinically important effects over a structured and supervised exercise programme alone in terms of subjective outcome or cost-effectiveness when measured at 24 months. Structured exercise treatment should be the basis for treatment of shoulder impingement syndrome, with operative treatment offered judiciously until its true merit is proven."}
{"id": "19790063", "title": "Prognostic factors in nonoperative therapy for chronic symptomatic calcific tendinitis of the shoulder.", "content": "Prognostic factors in nonoperative therapy for chronic symptomatic calcific tendinitis of the shoulder. To define prognostic factors in chronically symptomatic patients with calcific tendinitis of the shoulder. We evaluated 420 patients (488 shoulders) in the context of a prospective cohort study. Epidemiologic data were assessed. The radiographic and sonographic appearance of the calcific deposits was classified. The mean period of nonoperative therapy was 4.4 years (range 0.5-13.7 years). After referral to our institution, standardized nonoperative therapy was continued for a minimum of 3 months. Failure of nonoperative therapy was defined as the persistence of symptomatic calcific tendinitis of the shoulder after a minimum of 6 months. Prognostic factors (determined at P < 0.05 by chi-square test) were analyzed by logistic regression. Of the 420 patients, 269 (64%) were women, 151 (36%) were men. The mean age of the patients was 51.3 years (range 28-84 years). Occurrence of calcific tendinitis of the shoulder was unilateral in 84% and bilateral in 16%. G\u00e4rtner type I calcific deposits were found in 37%, type II in 32%, and type III in 31%. Failure of nonoperative therapy was observed in 114 patients (27%). Negative prognostic factors were bilateral occurrence of calcific tendinitis of the shoulder, localization to the anterior portion of the acromion, medial (subacromial) extension, and high volume of the calcific deposit. Positive prognostic factors were a G\u00e4rtner type III deposit and a lack of sonographic sound extinction of the calcific deposit. Our findings demonstrate the existence of prognostic factors in the nonoperative treatment of chronic symptomatic calcific tendinitis of the shoulder. Guidelines for optimal treatment can be implemented according to these factors to avoid a long-term symptomatic disease course."}
{"id": "19787502", "title": "Risk of musculoskeletal disorders among females and males in repetitive/constrained work.", "content": "Risk of musculoskeletal disorders among females and males in repetitive/constrained work. This paper combines epidemiological data on musculoskeletal morbidity in 40 female and 15 male occupational groups (questionnaire data 3720 females, 1241 males, physical examination data 1762 females, 915 males) in order to calculate risk for neck and upper limb disorders in repetitive/constrained vs. varied/mobile work and further to compare prevalence among office, industrial and non-office/non-industrial settings, as well as among jobs within these. Further, the paper aims to compare the risk of musculoskeletal disorders from repetitive/constrained work between females and males. Prevalence ratios (PR) for repetitive/constrained vs. varied/mobile work were in neck/shoulders: 12-month complaints females 1.2, males 1.1, diagnoses at the physical examination 2.3 and 2.3. In elbows/hands PRs for complaints were 1.7 and 1.6, for diagnoses 3.0 and 3.4. Tension neck syndrome, cervicalgia, shoulder tendonitis, acromioclavicular syndrome, medial epicondylitis and carpal tunnel syndrome showed PRs > 2. In neck/shoulders PRs were similar across office, industrial and non-office/non-industrial settings, in elbows/hands, especially among males, somewhat higher in industrial work. There was a heterogeneity within the different settings (estimated by bootstrapping), indicating higher PRs for some groups. As in most studies, musculoskeletal disorders were more prevalent among females than among males. Interestingly, though, the PRs for repetitive/constrained work vs. varied/mobile were for most measures approximately the same for both genders. In conclusion, repetitive/constrained work showed elevated risks when compared to varied/mobile work in all settings. Females and males showed similar risk elevations. This article enables comparison of risk of musculoskeletal disorders among many different occupations in industrial, office and other settings, when using standardised case definitions. It confirms that repetitive/constrained work is harmful not only in industrial but also in office and non-office/non-industrial settings. The reported data can be used for comparison with future studies."}
{"id": "19776342", "title": "Revision open Bankart surgery after arthroscopic repair for traumatic anterior shoulder instability.", "content": "Revision open Bankart surgery after arthroscopic repair for traumatic anterior shoulder instability. Only a few studies have provided homogeneous analysis of open revision surgery after a failed arthroscopic Bankart procedure. Open Bankart revision surgery will be effective in a failed arthroscopic anterior stabilization but inevitably results in a loss of range of motion, especially external rotation. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Twenty-six shoulders that went through traditional open Bankart repair as revision surgery after a failed arthroscopic Bankart procedure for traumatic anterior shoulder instability were enrolled for this study. The mean patient age at the time of revision surgery was 24 years (range, 16-38 years), and the mean duration of follow-up was 42 months (range, 25-97 months). The preoperative mean range of motion was 173 degrees in forward flexion and 65 degrees in external rotation at the side. After revision surgery, the ranges measured 164 degrees and 55 degrees, respectively (P = .024 and .012, respectively). At the last follow-up, the mean Rowe score was 81 points, with 88.5% of the patients reporting good or excellent results. After revision surgery, redislocation developed in 3 shoulders (11.5%), all of which had an engaging Hill-Sachs lesion and associated hyperlaxity (2+ or greater laxity on the sulcus sign). Open revision Bankart surgery for a failed arthroscopic Bankart repair can provide a satisfactory outcome, including a low recurrence rate and reliable functional return. In open revision Bankart surgery after failed stabilization for traumatic anterior shoulder instability, the surgeon should keep in mind the possibility of a postoperative loss of range of motion and a thorough examination for not only a Bankart lesion but also other associated lesions, including a bone defect or hyperlaxity, to lower the risk of redislocation."}
{"id": "19776341", "title": "Clinical and radiologic outcomes of arthroscopic glenoid labrum repair with the BioKnotless suture anchor.", "content": "Clinical and radiologic outcomes of arthroscopic glenoid labrum repair with the BioKnotless suture anchor. Although arthroscopic glenoid labrum repair using the BioKnotless anchor is common, the benefits and efficacy have not been fully evaluated. BioKnotless suture anchor is a clinically and radiologically suitable material for arthroscopic labral repair. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Ninety-seven patients underwent arthroscopic glenoid labrum repair with BioKnotless anchor between July 2004 and December 2005. Thirty-seven patients had traumatic anterior instability and 60 patients had an isolated superior labrum, anterior-posterior (SLAP) lesion. The mean age at surgery was 36.0 years (range, 15-66); the average follow-up was 34.1 months (range, 24-54). Clinical outcomes were evaluated using range of motion and various functional evaluation scores including sports activity. Pain and patient satisfaction were measured using a visual analog scale (VAS). Computed tomography arthrography was conducted in 73 patients at least 1 year after surgery for radiologic evaluation. In patients with instability, the Western Ontario Shoulder Instability index and Rowe score improved from 53.2 to 85.9 and from 68.7 to 92.7, respectively. Return to normal recreation and sports were possible in 30 patients (81.1%); the mean satisfaction VAS was 9.2. There was 1 postoperative dislocation, and the apprehension test was positive in 1 case. Postoperative range of motion including external rotation was not different. In patients with a SLAP lesion, the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score and Constant score improved from 67.3 to 96.0 and 79.1 to 96.8, respectively. Pain VAS decreased from 6.0 to 0.4, and the mean satisfaction VAS was 9.4. Return to normal recreation and sports were possible in 50 patients (83.3%). All labra were found to have firmly healed to bony glenoid rim without anchor-related osteolysis in postoperative CT arthrography. Clinically and radiologically, the BioKnotless anchor appears to be an acceptable alternative for arthroscopic labrum repair, and a suitable material allowing the avoidance of certain troublesome drawbacks of the conventional knot-tying suture anchor."}
{"id": "19776338", "title": "Effects of zone-specific superior labral detachment on biceps anchor stability.", "content": "Effects of zone-specific superior labral detachment on biceps anchor stability. This study aimed to elucidate the degree of biceps anchor displacement that occurs when specific zones of the superior labrum are detached from the glenoid. Descriptive laboratory study. Twelve cadaveric scapulae with intact labrums were prepared by removing the surrounding musculature with the labrum, biceps anchor, and biceps tendon carefully preserved. Pulleys were used to apply traction in 3 different directions- superior, lateral, and combined posterior/superior/lateral, to simulate the \"peel-back\" mechanism-while a continuous 1.13 kg of traction was applied to the biceps tendon. Labral tears were created by sharp incisions in isolation and in combinations of 3 zones defined relative to the glenoid fossa: anterior, posterior, or superior. The displacement of the biceps anchor (position of the marker after the simulated lesion relative to the marker position with the labrum intact) was measured relative to a rigid reference frame. The greatest degree of displacement occurred with the sectioning of all 3 zones, followed by the sectioning of 2 adjacent zones. Superior traction created the least displacement in all combinations, while lateral traction created maximal displacement, with one exception: in the setting of anterosuperior/superior lesions, maximal displacement was observed using the peel-back mechanism. Biceps anchor displacement, particularly the degree and direction of displacement, is affected by the labral detachment pattern. All 3 labral zones assessed in this study have important biomechanical contributions to biceps anchor displacement. These findings have important implications relating to the clinician's arthroscopic assessment of superior labrum anterior and posterior (SLAP) tears, as well as the determination of need for stabilization. This information is particularly useful when treating SLAP tears in certain laborers and athletes, whose activities may cause specific biceps anchor displacement patterns."}
{"id": "19773527", "title": "Effect of rotator cuff muscle imbalance on forceful internal impingement and peel-back of the superior labrum: a cadaveric study.", "content": "Effect of rotator cuff muscle imbalance on forceful internal impingement and peel-back of the superior labrum: a cadaveric study. Throwing athletes with shoulder pain have been shown to have decreased rotator cuff muscle strength. Shoulder internal impingement and labral peel-back mechanism, as may occur during the late cocking phase of throwing motion, are thought to cause rotator cuff injury and type II superior labrum anterior and posterior lesions. Therefore, the objective of this study was to assess the effect of rotator cuff muscle force on internal impingement and the peel-back of the superior labrum by quantifying maximum external rotation, glenohumeral contact pressure, and position of the cuff insertion relative to the glenoid. A change in rotator cuff muscle force will lead to increased external rotation, glenohumeral contact pressure, and overlap of the cuff insertion relative to the glenoid. Controlled laboratory study. Eight fresh-frozen cadaveric shoulders were tested at the simulated late cocking position. Glenohumeral contact pressure, location of the cuff insertion relative to the glenoid, and maximum humeral external rotation angle were measured. The forces of the supraspinatus, subscapularis, and infraspinatus muscles were determined based on published clinical electromyographic data. To assess the effect of cuff muscle imbalance, each muscle force was varied. Horizontal abduction positions of 20 degrees , 30 degrees , and 40 degrees with respect to the scapular plane were tested. Decreased subscapularis strength resulted in a significant increase in maximum external rotation (P <.001) and increased glenohumeral contact pressure (P <.01). The cuff insertion overlapped the edge of the glenoid at 30 degrees and 40 degrees of horizontal abduction for all muscle loading conditions. Decreased subscapularis muscle strength in the position simulating the late cocking phase of throwing motion results in increased maximum external rotation and also increased glenohumeral contact pressure. Athletes with decreased subscapularis muscle strength, such as fatigue with repetitive throwing, may be more susceptible to rotator cuff tears and type II superior labrum anterior and posterior lesions. Subscapularis muscle strengthening exercises may be beneficial for preventing these injuries."}
{"id": "19770304", "title": "Anterior ankle impingement and talar bony outgrowths: osteophyte or enthesophyte? Paleopathologic and cadaveric study with imaging correlation.", "content": "Anterior ankle impingement and talar bony outgrowths: osteophyte or enthesophyte? Paleopathologic and cadaveric study with imaging correlation. Bony \"spurs\" are a major component of anterior ankle impingement syndrome. The two major accepted hypotheses on the origin of these bony spurs are osteophyte formation due to repetitive microtrauma and enthesophyte development because of recurrent capsular or ligamentous traction. The purpose of this study was to provide a detailed evaluation of the bony outgrowths that arise on the anterior aspect of the talus and correlate them with the sites of capsular attachment. Twenty-eight well-preserved talus bones from the San Diego Museum of Man were assessed regarding the presence of outgrowths on the anterior aspect of the talus. The distance of the outgrowths from the talar head was measured. The results were correlated with measurements of capsular attachment on the anterior aspect of the talus derived from MR arthrographic images in 13 cadaveric ankles. The average distance of capsular attachment from the talar head in the medial aspect of the bone was 10.63 mm and in the lateral part was 12.04 mm. The mean distance of bony spurs from the talar head in the medial and lateral parts of the talus was 17.2 and 12.5 mm, respectively. Medially, the talar spurs developed more proximally on the neck compared to the capsular attachment (p < 0.01). Laterally, this difference was not significant (p = 0.26). On the medial part of the anterior talus, bone development appears to occur in an intraarticular location (i.e., osteophytes). Laterally, the outgrowths develop extraarticularly and appear to result from capsular and ligamentous traction (i.e., enthesophytes)."}
{"id": "19769913", "title": "Early intra-articular hip disease presenting with posterior pelvic and groin pain.", "content": "Early intra-articular hip disease presenting with posterior pelvic and groin pain. To determine whether posterior pelvic pain is associated with intra-articular hip abnormalities (labral tears and early degenerative changes) in patients with minimal-to-no radiographic abnormalities. A retrospective observational study of prospectively collected data collected from patients with an arthroscopy-confirmed diagnosis of acetabular labral tear or femoral and/or acetabular chondrosis, without severe deformity. An academic orthopedic clinic at a tertiary hospital. All patients, having failed to respond to conservative treatment, required surgical intervention for definitive structural diagnosis and treatment because of pain and dysfunction. Within this group, patients with posterior pelvic pain were included. One hundred thirty consecutive patients, 93 women and 37 men with mean age 31.16 years (range, 10-65.5 years), entered the study, and observational findings were reported. University instructional review board approval was obtained before conducting the study. Patients completed medical information questionnaires, pain diagrams, severity of pain, and validated hip questionnaires that focused on symptoms and function. Postoperatively, patients who had posterior pelvic pain before surgery completed a phone interview regarding their clinical progress. MAIN OUTCOMES MEASUREMENT: A numeric pain scale, description of location of continued pain, Modified Harris Hip Score, and satisfaction with the procedure were recorded. Twenty-six (20%) of the 130 patients complained of posterior pelvic pain as a component of their clinical presentation. Of these patients, the mean duration of symptoms was 29.5 months. A total of 92% related that their pain was moderate or marked. The preoperative mean modified Harris Hip Score was 61.6 (range, 27-85) and showed postoperative improvement with a mean of 84.5 (range, 45-100; P < .001). The Modified Harris Hip Score was completed a mean 15.9 months postoperatively. Pain diagrams and questionnaires revealed that of the 26 patients with posterior pelvic pain, 92.3% (24/26) also had associated groin pain (P < .001), 57.7% (15/26) had lateral thigh pain, and 7.7% (2/26) had anterior thigh pain (P < .001). A total of 12 of 26 patients with an initial presentation including posterior pelvic pain agreed to a phone interview. The mean time after surgery in this group of patients was 56.9 months (range, 39-65 months). Five of 12 patients reported no pain and no activity limitations. The Visual Analog Scale representing their self-reported average daily pain was 1.4 (range, 0-3). The mean Modified Harris Hip Score was 10.4 (range, 8-13). All 7 patients with continued pain described the pain in more than one location. Ten of 12 patients were very satisfied with hip arthroscopy, 1 of 12 was somewhat satisfied, and 1 of 12 was dissatisfied. This latter patient went on to have total hip arthroplasty and was very satisfied with that procedure. All 12 patients would recommend the procedure to a friend. Twenty percent of patients at the authors' institution who required surgical intervention to treat their pain after not responding to conservative management had posterior pelvic pain in addition to groin or lateral and anterior hip pain. Of those respondents, 33% had complete resolution of symptoms at 4.75 years after surgery, and all had reduction in pain as compared with completion of conservative care. Patients with early intra-articular hip pathology, such as acetabular labral tears with no or mild hip deformity, and patients with arthrosis and mild hip deformity may experience groin and posterior pelvic pain as part of their clinical presentation."}
{"id": "19769415", "title": "Shoulder muscle activity and function in common shoulder rehabilitation exercises.", "content": "Shoulder muscle activity and function in common shoulder rehabilitation exercises. The rotator cuff performs multiple functions during shoulder exercises, including glenohumeral abduction, external rotation (ER) and internal rotation (IR). The rotator cuff also stabilizes the glenohumeral joint and controls humeral head translations. The infraspinatus and subscapularis have significant roles in scapular plane abduction (scaption), generating forces that are two to three times greater than supraspinatus force. However, the supraspinatus still remains a more effective shoulder abductor because of its more effective moment arm. Both the deltoids and rotator cuff provide significant abduction torque, with an estimated contribution up to 35-65% by the middle deltoid, 30% by the subscapularis, 25% by the supraspinatus, 10% by the infraspinatus and 2% by the anterior deltoid. During abduction, middle deltoid force has been estimated to be 434 N, followed by 323 N from the anterior deltoid, 283 N from the subscapularis, 205 N from the infraspinatus, and 117 N from the supraspinatus. These forces are generated not only to abduct the shoulder but also to stabilize the joint and neutralize the antagonistic effects of undesirable actions. Relatively high force from the rotator cuff not only helps abduct the shoulder but also neutralizes the superior directed force generated by the deltoids at lower abduction angles. Even though anterior deltoid force is relatively high, its ability to abduct the shoulder is low due to a very small moment arm, especially at low abduction angles. The deltoids are more effective abductors at higher abduction angles while the rotator cuff muscles are more effective abductors at lower abduction angles. During maximum humeral elevation the scapula normally upwardly rotates 45-55 degrees, posterior tilts 20-40 degrees and externally rotates 15-35 degrees. The scapular muscles are important during humeral elevation because they cause these motions, especially the serratus anterior, which contributes to scapular upward rotation, posterior tilt and ER. The serratus anterior also helps stabilize the medial border and inferior angle of the scapular, preventing scapular IR (winging) and anterior tilt. If normal scapular movements are disrupted by abnormal scapular muscle firing patterns, weakness, fatigue, or injury, the shoulder complex functions less efficiency and injury risk increases. Scapula position and humeral rotation can affect injury risk during humeral elevation. Compared with scapular protraction, scapular retraction has been shown to both increase subacromial space width and enhance supraspinatus force production during humeral elevation. Moreover, scapular IR and scapular anterior tilt, both of which decrease subacromial space width and increase impingement risk, are greater when performing scaption with IR ('empty can') compared with scaption with ER ('full can'). There are several exercises in the literature that exhibit high to very high activity from the rotator cuff, deltoids and scapular muscles, such as prone horizontal abduction at 100 degrees abduction with ER, flexion and abduction with ER, 'full can' and 'empty can', D1 and D2 diagonal pattern flexion and extension, ER and IR at 0 degrees and 90 degrees abduction, standing extension from 90-0 degrees , a variety of weight-bearing upper extremity exercises, such as the push-up, standing scapular dynamic hug, forward scapular punch, and rowing type exercises. Supraspinatus activity is similar between 'empty can' and 'full can' exercises, although the 'full can' results in less risk of subacromial impingement. Infraspinatus and subscapularis activity have generally been reported to be higher in the 'full can' compared with the 'empty can', while posterior deltoid activity has been reported to be higher in the 'empty can' than the 'full can'."}
{"id": "19751026", "title": "Arthroscopic visualization of subscapularis tendon lesions.", "content": "Arthroscopic visualization of subscapularis tendon lesions. Certain lesions of the subscapularis tendon are difficult to identify during routine shoulder arthroscopy due to the fact that complete visualization of the tendon's insertion on the lesser tuberosity can be challenging. This article describes a maneuver used during shoulder arthroscopy that provides excellent visualization of the subscapularis tendon insertion on the proximal humerus. This technique is advantageous because (1) it allows for complete visualization of the intra-articular tendinous insertion of the subscapularis using a standard 30 degrees arthroscope inserted through the standard posterior portal and (2) it facilitates the use of standard transrotator interval portals for tendon debridement, suture passage, or implant insertion without the need for accessory portals."}
{"id": "19750995", "title": "Reconstruction of humeral head defect for locked posterior shoulder dislocation.", "content": "Reconstruction of humeral head defect for locked posterior shoulder dislocation. Locked posterior shoulder dislocation is a rare injury and is often missed on examination, usually due to inadequate imaging and potentially resulting in significant loss of shoulder function. An important feature of the physical examination is identification of the patient's inability to externally rotate their arm. These injuries are associated with defects in the humeral head articular surface, also known as reverse Hill-Sachs lesions. Medium-sized defects involving 25% to 50% of the articular surface can be reconstructed using several methods, including subscapularis or lesser tuberosity transfer, rotational osteotomy of the humerus, osteochondral autografting, and allograft reconstruction. We describe reconstruction of a 40% anteromedial humeral head articular surface defect associated with a missed locked posterior shoulder dislocation. Our technique used a deltopectoral approach with soft tissue dissection through the rotator interval to enable direct access to the defect with preservation of the rotator cuff muscles. The impacted articular surface was elevated, and the void was filled with moldable putty consisting of tricalcium phosphate with carboxymethylcellulose (Calstrux; Stryker Biotech, Hopkinton, Massachusetts). The articular fragment was then secured in position with size 5 Ethibond (Ethicon, Inc, Somerville, New Jersey) bone sutures. The patient regained excellent function and range of motion, with computed tomography scanning at 9 months demonstrating a smooth humeral articular surface with excellent graft incorporation. This technique avoids donor site morbidity and potential risks with allograft use while maintaining normal shoulder joint anatomy with preservation of the rotator cuff muscles for less complicated prosthetic reconstruction if required in the future."}
{"id": "19742087", "title": "Pre-operative and intra-operative factors related to shoulder arthroplasty outcomes.", "content": "Pre-operative and intra-operative factors related to shoulder arthroplasty outcomes. The purpose of this study was to analyze pre-operative and intra-operative factors that affect the outcome of shoulder arthroplasty. We undertook a retrospective review of all shoulder arthroplasties performed at our institution between 1986 and 2003. Patients were contacted and outcomes were assessed using the Simple Shoulder Test and the Western Ontario Osteoarthritis of the Shoulder Index questionnaires. One hundred six patients (126 shoulders) participated in the study. The average length of follow-up was 6 years 9 months (range 2 to 20 years). Revision arthroplasty surgery and female gender were associated with worse outcomes. Age, the number of medical comorbidities, obesity, pre-operative range of motion, prior non-arthroplasty surgery, smoking, and alcohol abuse did not correlate with outcome. Patients who had shoulder arthroplasty for osteoarthritis had better outcome scores than those with rheumatoid arthritis. For intra-operative variables, significantly worse outcomes were found both with the use of hemiarthroplasty and in patients with a rotator cuff tear identified at the time of surgery. These findings may help to optimize patient and surgery selection in shoulder arthroplasty and assist in preoperative patient counseling."}
{"id": "19741350", "title": "Clinical and imaging assessment for superior labrum anterior and posterior lesions.", "content": "Clinical and imaging assessment for superior labrum anterior and posterior lesions. In the evaluation of the painful shoulder, especially in the overhead athlete, diagnosing superior labrum anterior and posterior (SLAP) lesions continues to challenge the clinician because of 1) the lack of specificity of examination tests for SLAP; 2) a paucity of well-controlled studies of those tests; and 3) the presence of coexisting confounding abnormalities. Some evidence indicates that multiple positive tests increase the likelihood that a SLAP lesion is present, but no one physical examination finding conclusively makes that diagnosis. The goals of this article were to review the physical examination techniques for making the diagnosis of SLAP lesions, to evaluate the clinical usefulness of those examinations, and to review the role of magnetic resonance imaging in making the diagnosis."}
{"id": "19739591", "title": "Bioelectric activity of selected muscle groups in people with impingement syndrome.", "content": "Bioelectric activity of selected muscle groups in people with impingement syndrome. The aim of this study was to assess the changes of the bioelectric activity of the selected muscles and their impact on the functioning of the shoulder joint in people with impingement syndrome. The study covered 58 subjects aged between 24 and 85, who were treated for impingement syndrome in the years 2004-2006. The average duration of the disease was 40 months. The following muscles were tested for bioelectric activity using surface myography: deltoid, supraspinatus, infraspinatus, latissimus dorsi, greater pectoral and biceps brachii on the healthy and the diseased sides. A significant drop in activity of the deltoid and the infraspinatus muscles on the diseased side was observed. The following muscles showed comparable activity on both sides: the supraspinatus, latissimus dorsi and the greater pectoral muscle. The activity of the biceps brachii muscles grew during resisted movements. The drop in the activity of the deltoid and the infraspinatus muscles on the affected side is an important factor responsible for changes of the active mobility of the shoulder and for the development of instability of the shoulder joint. A similar activity of the latissimus dorsi, greater pectoral and biceps brachii muscles on both sides indicates a development of the compensatory mechanisms and the role of those muscles in the dynamic stabilisation of the shoulder joint."}
{"id": "19732644", "title": "Combined arthroscopic repair of a type IV SLAP tear and Bankart lesion.", "content": "Combined arthroscopic repair of a type IV SLAP tear and Bankart lesion. Lesions of the superior labrum can be a source of significant shoulder pain and disability. SLAP (superior labrum anterior-posterior) tears have been classified into many different types. A type IV SLAP tear is a bucket-handle tear of the superior labrum with extension into the biceps tendon. This relatively uncommon SLAP tear, if present, has been shown to be frequently associated with other pathology including Bankart lesions. We present an arthroscopic technique for combined repair of a type IV SLAP tear and Bankart lesion. Steps include initial reduction of the bucket-handle portion of the superior labral injury, repair of the anterior-inferior labral detachment, and, finally, repair of the superior labrum and biceps tendon split."}
{"id": "19732642", "title": "Meniscal root tears: diagnosis and treatment.", "content": "Meniscal root tears: diagnosis and treatment. Meniscal tears within the body of the meniscus or at the meniscocapsular junction represent a well-understood and manageable condition encountered in clinical practice. In comparison, however, meniscal root tears (MRTs) often go unnoticed and represent a unique injury pattern with unique biomechanical consequences. Though first described decades ago, improvements in magnetic resonance imaging and arthroscopy have only recently enhanced our diagnostic and treatment capabilities with regard to MRTs. This review contains an anatomic description of the roots including their significance in meniscal function as well as the consequences of their loss. In addition, how to properly identify MRTs and when it is appropriate to surgically repair them are described. Finally, we review the surgical techniques available in the existing literature and present an illustrative case."}
{"id": "19730814", "title": "Shoulder activity level in the preoperative assessment of patients with rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Shoulder activity level in the preoperative assessment of patients with rotator cuff tears. The purpose of this study was to investigate shoulder activity level in preoperative assessment of shoulder function and health-related quality of life (QoL) for patients with rotator cuff tears. One hundred and six patients with rotator cuff tears were prospectively evaluated using the following outcome instruments: the Shoulder Activity scale, the Constant scale, the Simple Shoulder Test, and the Short Form-36v2 (SF-36v2). Clinical and structural data, including patients' demographics, comorbidities, duration of symptoms, shoulder contracture, and tear size, were collected and analyzed. We determined that the shoulder activity level was associated with gender, medical comorbidities, and age. Females had lower activity level, worse scores for health-related QoL, and longer duration of symptoms than males. Patients who had severe comorbidities had lower shoulder activity scores and worse SF-36v2 scores compared to patients who did not have such comorbidities. The patient age correlated with the shoulder activity level, but did not have significant correlation with the duration of symptoms and shoulder function. The shoulder activity level was related to patient gender, general health status and age; therefore, further investigation is warranted to determine if the activity level can be used as a prognostic variable relating to outcome in the treatment of rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "19725488", "title": "Diagnosis and treatment of biceps tendinitis and tendinosis.", "content": "Diagnosis and treatment of biceps tendinitis and tendinosis. Biceps tendinitis is inflammation of the tendon around the long head of the biceps muscle. Biceps tendinosis is caused by degeneration of the tendon from athletics requiring overhead motion or from the normal aging process. Inflammation of the biceps tendon in the bicipital groove, which is known as primary biceps tendinitis, occurs in 5 percent of patients with biceps tendinitis. Biceps tendinitis and tendinosis are commonly accompanied by rotator cuff tears or SLAP (superior labrum anterior to posterior) lesions. Patients with biceps tendinitis or tendinosis usually complain of a deep, throbbing ache in the anterior shoulder. Repetitive overhead motion of the arm initiates or exacerbates the symptoms. The most common isolated clinical finding in biceps tendinitis is bicipital groove point tenderness with the arm in 10 degrees of internal rotation. Local anesthetic injections into the biceps tendon sheath may be therapeutic and diagnostic. Ultrasonography is preferred for visualizing the overall tendon, whereas magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography arthrography is preferred for visualizing the intra-articular tendon and related pathology. Conservative management of biceps tendinitis consists of rest, ice, oral analgesics, physical therapy, or corticosteroid injections into the biceps tendon sheath. Surgery should be considered if conservative measures fail after three months, or if there is severe damage to the biceps tendon."}
{"id": "19714274", "title": "Pain and stiffness in partial-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Pain and stiffness in partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. To evaluate the null hypothesis of no difference in degree of pain or stiffness between patients with partial- and full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff, we measured pain and stiffness in a cohort of consecutive patients who underwent arthroscopy for rotator cuff-related conditions. Pain was measured with a visual analogue scale, and range of motion was measured with a goniometer. Included in the study were 410 shoulders (410 patients), of which 214 had no tear, 66 had articular-sided partial-thickness tears, and 83 had single-tendon full-thickness tears. There was no statistical difference for measurements of pain or stiffness between patients with partial- and full-thickness tears, and hence the null hypothesis was upheld. Neither pain nor stiffness should be used as a diagnostic indicator for differentiation of partial- and full-thickness rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "19711173", "title": "Non-purulent low-grade infection as cause of pain following shoulder surgery: preliminary results.", "content": "Non-purulent low-grade infection as cause of pain following shoulder surgery: preliminary results. Low-grade infection was systematically searched for in all revision shoulder surgeries by harvesting tissue samples. Ten consecutive patients were identified with a non-purulent low-grade infection of the shoulder. All of these patients suffered from pain and eight were stiff. Preoperative aspiration in eight patients yielded bacterial growth in only one case. Serum C-reactive protein levels were normal in seven out of 10 cases. Propionibacterium acnes was identified in seven, coagulase-negative Staphylococcus in two and Staphylococcus saccharolyticus in one case. The delay between harvesting the tissue samples and detection of bacterial growth averaged eight days (range, 2-17). After debridement and antibiotic treatment for a mean of 4.5 months, tissue samples were repeatedly harvested in nine patients due to persistent pain. The infection was microbiologically eradicated in six out of nine cases that had a repeated biopsy. However, nine out of 10 patients continued to suffer from moderate to severe pain. Low-grade infection of the shoulder can be a cause of persistent pain and stiffness. The results of antibiotic treatment are disappointing. Further studies are necessary to analyse this difficult pathology."}
{"id": "19711171", "title": "Post-operative rehabilitation after surgical repair of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Post-operative rehabilitation after surgical repair of the rotator cuff. Today advances in techniques and materials for rotator cuff surgery allow the repair of a large variety of types or extensions of cuff lesions in patients from a wide range of age groups who have different kinds of jobs and participate in different kinds of sports, and who have widely different expectations in terms of recovery of functions and pain relief. A large number of factors must be taken into account before implementing a rehabilitation protocol after rotator cuff surgery. These mainly include the technique (materials and procedure) used by the surgeon. Moreover, tissue quality, retraction, fatty infiltration and time from rupture are important biological factors while the patient's work or sport or daily activities after surgery and expectations of recovery must also be assessed. A rehabilitation protocol should also take into account the timing of biological healing of bone to tendon or tendon to tendon interface, depending on the type of rupture and repair. This timing should direct the therapist's choice of correct passive or assisted exercise and mobilisation manoeuvres and the teaching of correct active mobilisation movements the patient has to do. Following accepted knowledge about the time of biological tissue healing, surgical technique and focused rehabilitation exercise, a conceptual protocol in four phases could be applied, tailoring the protocol for each patient. It starts with sling rest with passive small self-assisted arm motion in phase one, to prevent post-op stiffness. In phase two passive mobilisation by the patient dry or in water, integrated with scapular mobilisation and stabiliser reinforcement, are done. Phase three consists of progressive active arm mobilisation dry or in water integrated with proprioceptive exercise and \"core\" stabilisation. In phase four full strength recovery integrated with the recovery of work or sports movements will complete the protocol. Because of the multi-factorial aspects of the problem, the best results can be obtained through a full transfer of information from the surgeon to the therapist to optimise timing and sizing of the individual rehabilitation protocol for each patient."}
{"id": "19711169", "title": "Correlations between biochemical markers in the synovial fluid and severity of rotator cuff disease.", "content": "Correlations between biochemical markers in the synovial fluid and severity of rotator cuff disease. The role of biochemical factors in the onset and natural history of rotator cuff disease is not fully understood, but it is generally recognised that they could induce tendon damage in association with mechanical and vascular factors. In this study, 5 biochemical parameters were analysed (total protein concentration, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 or gelatinase A, MMP-9 or gelatinase B, type I collagen telopeptides, hyaluronic acid) in the synovial fluid (SF) aspirated from the gleno-humeral joint of 29 patients undergoing surgical therapy for rotator cuff lesions. Four different groups of patients were identified according to the severity of the lesion: partial tear of the rotator cuff, full thickness tear involving <or-1 tendon, full thickness tear involving >1 tendon and cuff tear arthropathy (CTA). The total SF protein concentration progressively increased with loss of integrity of the rotator cuff, reaching the highest levels in CTA. The absolute enzymatic activity of gelatinases was greater in full thickness tears than in partial tears, while it decreased in CTA. Conversely, the ratio between gelatinases and total protein content reached the highest level in partial tears and then progressively decreased. Collagen I telopeptides were significantly increased in full thickness tears and CTA, whereas the levels of hyaluronic acid decreased with worsening of rotator cuff disease. These findings support the hypothesis that gelatinases, which are involved in physiological tendon remodelling, intervene in the evolution of rotator cuff disease, too. Increased levels of type I collagen telopeptides give evidence that tendon tears are associated with an anatomic loss of tendon tissue and not with simple tendon retraction."}
{"id": "19708636", "title": "Risk of motion loss with combined Bankart and SLAP repairs.", "content": "Risk of motion loss with combined Bankart and SLAP repairs. We have performed arthroscopic Bankart procedures using absorbable or metallic suture anchors for traumatic anterior shoulder instability for over a decade. This article describes the frequency, pathology, and therapeutic results of patients treated for superior labrum anterior and posterior (SLAP) lesions concomitant with Bankart lesions. Twenty patients (Group A) had a mean age of 33.8 years at the time of surgery. On arthroscopic findings, SLAP lesions were classified type 2 in 15 patients and type 4 in 5, based on Snyder's criteria. In addition, intra-articular free bodies were present in 2 SLAP lesions, and a capsular tear was present in 1. We performed debridement (Group A1) or reattachment (Group A2) to the superior glenoid edge of these lesions, considering whether they communicated to Bankart lesions. The therapeutic results were evaluated according to the Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) score and Japan Shoulder Society (JSS) shoulder instability score. Mean JOA and JSS shoulder instability scores were 95.1 and 90.8 points, respectively. All Group A patients remained pain free, and no instability recurred in any patient. Meanwhile, mean JSS shoulder instability function and range of motion scores were 18.9 and 15.1 points, respectively, in Group A1, and 17.5 and 10.1 points, respectively, in Group A2. A significant correlation in range of motion was observed in Groups A1 and A2 (P=.04). Regarding postoperative limitation in external rotation with the arm at the side, the difference in range from that on the healthy side was 9.8 degrees in Group A (7.0 degrees in Group A1 and 12.6 degrees in Group A2). When SLAP lesions communicated to Bankart lesions, we had satisfactory results without SLAP repair; therefore, unnecessary repairs for the concomitant pathology should be avoided, and different postoperative care should be performed for patients with Bankart repair with reattachment of a SLAP lesion."}
{"id": "19708628", "title": "Central serous chorioretinopathy resulting in altered vision and color perception after glenohumeral corticosteroid injection.", "content": "Central serous chorioretinopathy resulting in altered vision and color perception after glenohumeral corticosteroid injection. Complications from shoulder corticosteroid injections are uncommon. This article presents a case of altered color perception and visual disturbances in a 29-year-old male active duty Navy SEAL following an intra-articular glenohumeral corticosteroid injection, previously unreported in the orthopedic literature. The corticosteroid injection was administered for the treatment of right-shoulder stiffness occurring approximately 3 months following an arthroscopic superior labrum anterior-posterior (SLAP) repair and subacromial decompression of the ipsilateral shoulder. The patient experienced immediate relief after the injection. Seven days later, however, he began to notice visual disturbances with color and image distortion of his right eye. He also developed a papular, nonpruritic rash on his upper trunk that eventually extended down his legs. He was diagnosed by an ophthalmologist as having central serous chorioretinopathy, a condition in which serous fluid accumulates in the subretinal space of the eye, causing detachment of the retina from the underlying retinal pigment epithelium. The reaction spontaneously resolved within approximately 10 to 12 weeks without treatment. Although intra-articular corticosteroid injections are frequently performed with a low rate of complication, clinicians should be familiar with this rare yet distressing condition. Furthermore, patients with increased production of endogenous corticosteroids (eg, those with Cushing's syndrome, type A personality, hypertension, or obstructive sleep apnea) should be warned of the potential of chorioretinopathy after an intra-articular corticosteroid injection."}
{"id": "19708627", "title": "Intramuscular lipoma of the supraspinatus causing impingement syndrome.", "content": "Intramuscular lipoma of the supraspinatus causing impingement syndrome. Impingement syndrome is a common ailment of the shoulder, particularly in individuals who perform repetitive overhead activities, such as athletes and laborers. Patients typically report progressive shoulder pain often exacerbated by flexion and abduction and may demonstrate a classic painful arc of motion. This article describes a case of a 45-year-old man with signs and symptoms consistent with impingement syndrome. Workup revealed a well-circumscribed, homogeneous lesion within the supraspinatus muscle on magnetic resonance imaging. The patient underwent uncomplicated marginal excision of the mass with a final diagnosis of benign lipoma. Lipomas represent one of the most common soft tissue tumors, although there are no reports of an intramuscular supraspinatous lipoma causing impingement syndrome. In our case, there were no findings on history, physical examination, or radiographs that would place neoplasm high on a differential. Magnetic resonance imaging provided the crucial information necessary to narrow the differential diagnosis and formulate a preoperative plan. Marginal resection of the mass was curative in this patient, as he remained pain free and regained excellent motion postoperatively."}
{"id": "19703862", "title": "Recurrent superior labral anterior-to-posterior tears after surgery: detection and grading with CT arthrography.", "content": "Recurrent superior labral anterior-to-posterior tears after surgery: detection and grading with CT arthrography. To retrospectively evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of multidetector computed tomographic (CT) arthrography for the detection of recurrent superior labral anterior-to-posterior (SLAP) tears in the shoulder of patients who have previously undergone shoulder surgery and are clinically suspected of having a recurrent tear. The hospital ethics board did not require patient approval or informed consent for this retrospective review of case records. Multidetector CT arthrograms of 45 shoulders of 45 patients (35 men, 10 women; mean age, 29 years; age range, 21-38 years) who had undergone conventional arthroscopy within 30 days after the CT arthrographic examination were reviewed. Owing to the referral patterns at the authors' institution, all patients were professional athletes. Volumetric multidetector CT arthrography was performed by using a 16-detector CT scanner after the intraarticular injection of iodinated contrast material. All images were independently reviewed by two experienced musculoskeletal radiologists, with disagreements resolved by a third experienced musculoskeletal radiologist. The sensitivity and specificity of multidetector CT arthrography in the detection of any Snyder type II-IV tear was evaluated by using arthroscopy as the reference standard. The numbers and percentages of tears that were assigned the correct Snyder classification with multidetector CT arthrography were reported. Interobserver agreement regarding the correct Snyder classification with multidetector CT arthrography was determined by using kappa statistics. With multidetector CT arthrography, recurrent SLAP tears were correctly identified in 35 of 37 patients (95% sensitivity), and the absence of these tears was correctly noted in seven of eight patients (88% specificity). Multidetector CT arthrography- and arthroscopy-derived tear grades were in agreement in 30 (81%) of 37 patients with recurrent SLAP tears. Interobserver agreement at multidetector CT arthrography was substantial (kappa = 0.76). In the described highly selected patient population, multidetector CT arthrography was useful for evaluating recurrent SLAP tears."}
{"id": "19696281", "title": "Transverse thickening along the articular surface of the rotator cuff consistent with the rotator cable: identification with MR arthrography and relevance in rotator cuff evaluation.", "content": "Transverse thickening along the articular surface of the rotator cuff consistent with the rotator cable: identification with MR arthrography and relevance in rotator cuff evaluation. The purposes of this study were to describe the imaging appearance of transverse thickening along the articular surface of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons presumed to represent the rotator cable on MR arthrographic images obtained with the shoulder in abduction and external rotation (ABER) and in the non-ABER position and to assess the role of the rotator cable in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. The study group comprised 54 patients who underwent arthroscopy of the shoulder and preoperative MR arthrography in which ABER images were obtained. Two blinded reviewers independently examined the ABER and non-ABER images for the presence of the rotator cable and rotator cuff tears. In intact rotator cuffs, the presumed rotator cable was not well visualized on non-ABER images. In one case of prominent rotator cable, MR arthrography showed no tear on non-ABER images, but at arthroscopy, a partial-thickness undersurface tear was found. On non-ABER images, both readers readily visualized the rotator cable in eight and 10 of 18 cases (44% and 56%) of partial-thickness undersurface tear and four of five cases (80%) of full-thickness tear. On ABER images, both readers readily visualized the rotator cable in 15 and 17 of 31 cases (48% and 55%) of intact cuff, 14 and 15 of 18 cases (78% and 83%) of undersurface tear, and four and five cases (80% and 100%) of full-thickness tear. Interobserver agreement on cable visualization was almost perfect (kappa = 0.86). On non-ABER MR arthrographic images, thickening along the articular side of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons presumed to represent the rotator cable suggests the presence of a partial-thickness rotator cuff tear. On ABER images, the cable is well defined in intact and torn rotator cuffs."}
{"id": "19693488", "title": "Biomechanical evaluation of a single-row versus double-row repair for complete subscapularis tears.", "content": "Biomechanical evaluation of a single-row versus double-row repair for complete subscapularis tears. The purpose of the study was to compare a single-row repair and a double-row repair technique for the specific characteristics of a complete subscapularis lesion. Ten pairs of human cadaveric shoulder human shoulder specimens were tested for stiffness and ultimate tensile strength of the intact tendons in a load to failure protocol. After a complete subscapularis tear was provoked, the specimens were assigned to two treatment groups: single-row repair (1) and a double-row repair using a \"suture bridge\" technique (2). After repair cyclic loading a subsequent load to failure protocol was performed to determine the ultimate tensile load, the stiffness and the elongation behaviour of the reconstructions. The intact subscapularis tendons had a mean stiffness of 115 N/mm and a mean ultimate load of 720 N. The predominant failure mode of the intact tendons was a tear at the humeral insertion site (65%). The double-row technique restored 48% of the ultimate load of the intact tendons (332 N), while the single-row technique revealed a significantly lower ultimate load of 244 N (P = 0.001). In terms of the stiffness, the double-row technique showed a mean stiffness of 81 N/mm which is significantly higher compared to the stiffness of the single-row repairs of 55 N/mm (P = 0.001). The double-row technique has been shown to be stronger and stiffer when compared to a conventional single-row repair. Therefore, this technique is recommended from a biomechanical point of view irrespectively if performed by an open or arthroscopic approach."}
{"id": "19683822", "title": "Scapula kinematic alterations following a modified push-up plus task.", "content": "Scapula kinematic alterations following a modified push-up plus task. Scapular kinematic and muscle activity alterations have been identified in individuals with subacromial impingement syndrome of the shoulder, including workers and athletes who regularly perform overhead activities. Serratus anterior fatigue is a proposed mechanism for these kinematic alterations, although no direct evidence supports such a relationship. The purpose of this study was to examine three-dimensional scapula kinematics in asymptomatic participants before and after a task intended to preferentially fatigue serratus anterior. Twenty-eight participants completed the study. The experimental task consisted of five repetitions of scapular plane arm elevation and the fatigue task was the isometric hold of scapular protraction in the push-up position. Electromyography of four shoulder muscles was collected during the task to determine level of muscle fatigue, and the Borg CR10 scale was used to assess subjective fatigue. The fatigue task resulted in decreased median power frequency in all four muscles and significantly increased Borg scores. Scapula posterior tilting and internal rotation were most impacted by muscle fatigue, with decreased posterior tilting and increased internal rotation after the task. There was no effect on scapular upward rotation. Effect sizes were low to moderate (.13-.51) where these kinematic alterations reached statistical significance. Shoulder muscle fatigue contributes to scapular kinematic alterations and is a plausible risk factor for subacromial impingement syndrome."}
{"id": "19664513", "title": "Arthroscopic knot tying on a single suture limb in case of a torn suture.", "content": "Arthroscopic knot tying on a single suture limb in case of a torn suture. During arthroscopic knot tying, one of the suture limbs may break before completion of the knot. With a single suture limb left, it may not be possible to secure the knot against slipping, and the surgeon may be forced to use an additional anchor to obtain a secure repair. We present a tool and method that allow completion of the knot on a single suture limb. Alternatively, the method can be used to perform all-inside endoscopic or arthroscopic knot tying without removal of the instrument from the body."}
{"id": "19664511", "title": "Complications associated with anterior shoulder instability repair.", "content": "Complications associated with anterior shoulder instability repair. Anterior shoulder instability is a common orthopaedic problem, and the surgical treatment, both open and arthroscopic, has been shown to effectively restore stability and prevent recurrence. However, despite success with these surgical techniques, there are several clinically relevant complications associated with both open and arthroscopic techniques for anterior shoulder stabilization. These complications can be subdivided into preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative and include entities such as nerve injury, chondrolysis, incomplete treatment of associated lesions, and subscapularis dysfunction. When they occur, complications may significantly impact patient outcomes and function. Therefore, surgeon awareness and identification of the factors associated with these complications may help prevent occurrence. Although failure of instability repair can be classified as a complication of surgery, it requires an entirely separate discussion and is therefore not addressed in this article. Because most of the previously published studies on anterior shoulder instability have emphasized surgical technique and clinical outcomes, the purpose of this article is to define the complications associated with anterior instability repair and provide recommendations on techniques that may be used to help avoid them."}
{"id": "19664508", "title": "Incidence and treatment of postoperative stiffness following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Incidence and treatment of postoperative stiffness following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. The purpose of this study was to determine the incidence of clinically significant postoperative stiffness following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. This study also sought to determine the clinical and surgical factors that were associated with higher rates of postoperative stiffness. Finally, we analyzed the result of arthroscopic lysis of adhesions and capsular release for treatment of patients who developed refractory postoperative stiffness 4 to 19 months (median, 8 months) following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. A retrospective review of a consecutive series of arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs was conducted. During a 3-year time period, the senior author (S.S.B.) performed 489 arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs. The operative indications, technique of the rotator cuff repair, and the rehabilitation protocol were essentially unchanged during this time period. Demographic data, comorbid medical conditions, rotator cuff tear description, technique of repair, and concomitant surgical procedures were evaluated for their effect on stiffness. All office evaluations were reviewed to determine the pre- and postoperative motion, pain scores, functional strength, and patient satisfaction. Patients who were dissatisfied because of the development of postoperative stiffness underwent secondary arthroscopic lysis of adhesions. The final result of the secondary lysis of adhesions and capsular release were analyzed. In total, 24 patients (4.9%) were dissatisfied with the result of their procedure because of the development of postoperative stiffness, which was more likely (P < .05) to develop in patients with Workers' Compensation insurance (8.6%), patients younger than 50 years of age (8.6%), those with a coexisting diagnosis of calcific tendonitis (16.7%) or adhesive capsulitis (15.0%) requiring additional postoperative therapy, partial articular-sided tendon avulsion (PASTA) type rotator cuff tear (13.5%), or concomitant labral repair (11.0%). Patients with concomitant coracoplasty (2.3%) or tears larger in size and/or involving more tendons were less likely (P < .05) to develop postoperative stiffness. Among 90 patients positive for selected risk factors (adhesive capsulitis, excision of calcific deposits, single-tendon repair, PASTA repair, or any labral repair without a concomitant coracoplasty), 12 (13.3%) developed postoperative stiffness (P < .001). This overall clinical risk factor combined with Workers' Compensation insurance identified 16 of the 24 cases resulting in a sensitivity of 66.7% and a specificity of 64.5%. All 24 patients who experienced postoperative stiffness elected to undergo arthroscopic lysis of adhesions and capsular release, which was performed from 4 to 19 months (median, 8 months) after the rotator cuff repair. During second-look arthroscopy, 23 patients (95.8%) were noted to have complete healing of the original pathology. Following capsular release, all 24 patients were satisfied with the overall result of their treatment. In a series of 489 consecutive arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs, we found that 24 patients (4.9%) developed postoperative stiffness. Risk factors for postoperative stiffness were calcific tendinitis, adhesive capsulitis, single-tendon cuff repair, PASTA repair, being under 50 years of age, and having Workers' Compensation insurance. Twenty-three of 24 patients (95.8%) showed complete healing of the rotator cuff. Arthroscopic release resulted in normal motion in all cases. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "19664505", "title": "Outcomes of full-thickness articular cartilage injuries of the shoulder treated with microfracture.", "content": "Outcomes of full-thickness articular cartilage injuries of the shoulder treated with microfracture. The purpose of this study was to determine whether microfracture provides pain relief and improves shoulder function in patients with chondral defects of the glenohumeral joint. Microfracture was performed in glenohumeral joints with full-thickness chondral lesions. Concomitant procedures were performed as indicated. Patients aged 60 years or older and those with complete rotator cuff tears were excluded. We included 31 shoulders in 30 patients in this study. Included were 25 men and 5 women with a mean age of 43 years (range, 19 to 59 years). Of the 31 surgeries, 6 (19%) progressed to another surgery. Subjective data obtained at a minimum of 2 years' follow-up were available in 24 patients (25 shoulders). Patient pain and functional outcomes were measured by use of the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) score and patient satisfaction. Data were analyzed by use of paired t tests and regression analysis. The mean follow-up was 47 months (range, 25 to 128 months). The mean pain scores decreased from 3.8 to 1.6 postoperatively (0, no pain; 10, worst pain). The patients' ability to work, activities of daily living, and sports activity significantly improved postoperatively (P < .05). Painless use of the involved arm improved postoperatively (P < .05). The mean ASES score improved by 20 points over the preoperative score (P < .05). Mean satisfaction with surgical outcome was 7.6 of 10. There was no association between age or gender and surgical outcomes. The greatest improvements were seen in patients who had microfracture of isolated lesions of the humerus. Failure occurred in 6 of the 31 shoulders (19%). In the remaining patients there was a significant improvement of 20 points (range, -11 to 45 points) in the ASES score compared with preoperatively. In those patients in whom just the humerus was treated, the greatest improvement was seen, with an increase of 32 points (range, 3 to 87 points). There was a negative correlation between the size of the lesion and ASES improvement (r = -0.351, P = .12). Our data showed the greatest improvement for smaller lesions of the humerus with the worst results in patients with bipolar lesions. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "19664504", "title": "Poor outcomes after SLAP repair: descriptive analysis and prognosis.", "content": "Poor outcomes after SLAP repair: descriptive analysis and prognosis. In the first part of this study, we analyzed a subset of patients to determine what factors may have been present in those with poor outcomes after SLAP repair. In part 2, we evaluated clinical outcomes of these patients after further treatment. We completed a retrospective medical record review of consecutive patients presenting between 2000 and 2007 with pain, stiffness, and/or mechanical symptoms after a SLAP repair. To evaluate for similarities among this cohort, data collection included demographics, age at initial SLAP repair, history of trauma, medical history, nonoperative and operative treatments, and physical examination. Outcome measures included patient satisfaction and the Simple Shoulder Test questionnaire. Subsequent treatment was then reviewed, investigating whether patients received physical therapy, cortisone injection, and/or revision surgery in an attempt to improve satisfaction. Outcome measures again included patient satisfaction and the Simple Shoulder Test questionnaire. We found 40 shoulders in 39 patients who met inclusion criteria. The mean age at the time of initial SLAP repair was 43 years. Of the patients, 30 (75%) presented with pain and decreased range of motion, 9 (22.5%) presented with pain but full range of motion, and 1 (2.5%) presented with pain and mechanical symptoms but full range of motion. The mean Simple Shoulder Test score upon presentation after SLAP repair was 3.04 out of 12 (SD, 2.18; range, 0 to 7). We included 34 shoulders in the analysis of treatment outcome. Of these, 29% (10 of 34) were satisfied after conservative treatment, 62% (13 of 21) were satisfied after revision surgery, and 68% (23 of 34) were satisfied overall after either type of further treatment. The mean Simple Shoulder Test score after further treatment was 8.73 out of 12 (SD, 3.45; range, 0 to 12). In this study 71% of patients (mean patient age, 43 years) with a poor outcome after SLAP repair were dissatisfied with conservative treatment. Therefore, once a patient has a poor outcome after SLAP repair, there is a high chance of conservative treatment failing. Although patients have better outcomes with operative intervention, 32% will continue to have a suboptimal result. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "19661772", "title": "Common peroneal nerve compression by a popliteal venous aneurysm.", "content": "Common peroneal nerve compression by a popliteal venous aneurysm. A 58-yr-old man with a right foot drop and a sensory change in the right calf and foot, which developed after a bladder operation, was referred to our clinic for an electrodiagnostic evaluation. Neurologic examination showed grade 1 weakness of the right ankle in dorsiflexion, great toe in dorsiflexion, and ankle in eversion. In addition, the patient complained of pain and a tingling sensation in the right calf and foot. Electrodiagnostic findings were consistent with right common peroneal nerve palsy at the level of the fibula head. In addition, duplex ultrasonography, computed tomography angiography, and magnetic resonance imaging revealed a right popliteal venous aneurysm and impingement of the right common peroneal nerve between the aneurysm and the belly of the biceps femoris muscle. After resection of the aneurysm, his sensory symptoms and motor strength of the right foot and calf gradually improved. This case suggests that compression by the venous system should be considered when there is clinical evidence of focal neuropathy but no abnormal findings at common entrapment sites."}
{"id": "19651951", "title": "Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tears: a modified technique to improve tendon transfer integrity.", "content": "Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tears: a modified technique to improve tendon transfer integrity. Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer is a well-established method for the treatment of massive irreparable posterosuperior defects of the rotator cuff. Subsequent rupture of the transferred tendon may contribute to the rate of failure of the index procedure. We hypothesized that modification of our technique of tendon harvesting would lead to greater fixation stability and a reduced failure rate. Forty-two patients (mean age, fifty-eight years) with a massive irreparable posterosuperior tear of the rotator cuff were managed with a latissimus dorsi tendon transfer. Sharp separation of the latissimus tendon from the humerus was performed in twenty-two patients (Group A), whereas the tendon harvest was carried out with a modified technique that involved removal of some bone along with the tendon at the humeral insertion in a subsequent group of twenty patients (Group B). The mean duration of follow-up was forty-seven months. Outcome measures included the Constant and American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) scores and a patient subjective satisfaction scale. Standard radiographs were made to determine the stage of osteoarthritis and proximal migration of the humeral head, and magnetic resonance imaging was performed to assess the integrity of the transferred muscle. In Group A, the mean Constant score improved from 43.4 preoperatively to 64.8 points at the time of follow-up and the mean ASES score improved from 49.3 to 69.6 points (p < 0.05). In Group B, the mean Constant score increased from 40.2 to 74.2 points and the mean ASES score, from 47.2 to 77.1 points (p < 0.05). The Constant pain score improved from 5.6 to 11.9 points in Group A and from 5.2 to 13.8 points in Group B. The results in Group B were significantly superior to those in Group A (p < 0.05). Magnetic resonance imaging revealed complete rupture at the tendon insertion with tendon retraction in four patients in Group A and none in Group B. The final outcome was rated as poor in 27% of the patients in Group A and in 10% in Group B. Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer achieves satisfactory clinical results in most patients who have a massive irreparable posterosuperior tear of the rotator cuff. Harvesting the tendon along with a small piece of bone enables direct bone-to-bone transosseous fixation, resulting in better tendon integrity and clinical results."}
{"id": "19651947", "title": "Outcome of nonoperative treatment of symptomatic rotator cuff tears monitored by magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Outcome of nonoperative treatment of symptomatic rotator cuff tears monitored by magnetic resonance imaging. Rotator cuff tears are very common, but little is known about the outcome of nonoperative treatment of symptomatic tears in terms of progression and the need for surgical intervention. Fifty-nine shoulders in fifty-four patients (thirty-three women and a mean age of 58.8 years) with rotator cuff tears on initial magnetic resonance imaging who had been managed nonoperatively were studied retrospectively. All had magnetic resonance imaging scans acquired six months or more after the initial study. The progression of the rotator cuff tears was associated with age, anatomical and associated parameters, follow-up time, and structural and other magnetic resonance imaging findings. Baseline magnetic resonance imaging scans demonstrated thirty-three full-thickness tears, twenty-six partial-thickness tears, and four combined full-thickness and partial-thickness tears. Fifty-eight of the fifty-nine tears involved the supraspinatus tendon, and ten involved multiple tendons. Progression in tear size occurred more often among the patients who were followed more than eighteen months (thirteen [48%] of twenty-seven shoulders) compared with those who were followed for less than eighteen months (six [19%] of thirty-two shoulders). Five tears (one partial-thickness tear) decreased in size. More than half (52%; seventeen) of the thirty-three full-thickness tears increased in size compared with 8% (two) of the twenty-six partial-thickness tears (p = 0.0005). Only 17% (six) of the thirty-five tears in patients who were sixty years old or less deteriorated compared with 54% (thirteen) of the twenty-four tears in patients who were more than sixty years old (p = 0.007). No shoulder in a patient with a partial-thickness tear demonstrated supraspinatus atrophy, whereas 24% of those with a full-thickness tear demonstrated atrophy (p = 0.007). The proportion with an increase in tear size was significantly larger for shoulders with fatty infiltration than for those without it (p = 0.0089). Factors that are associated with progression of a rotator cuff tear are an age of more than sixty years, a full-thickness tear, and fatty infiltration of the rotator cuff muscle(s). In the long-term follow-up of nonoperatively treated rotator cuff tears, magnetic resonance imaging can be used to monitor rotator cuff changes and guide patient management."}
{"id": "19648720", "title": "Scapular kinematics in constrained and functional upper extremity movements.", "content": "Scapular kinematics in constrained and functional upper extremity movements. Controlled laboratory study using a single-group, repeated-measures design. To investigate scapular kinematics during both constrained and functional shoulder movements. Abnormal scapulothoracic joint motion has been associated with pathologies such as shoulder impingement. Constrained protocols are commonly used in the measurement of shoulder kinematics; however, few studies have measured motion during functional tasks. Twenty-five healthy subjects participated in this study. Three-dimensional kinematic data from the scapula and humerus with respect to the thorax were collected with a magnetic tracking system. Functional testing consisted of 6 different tasks representing common activities of daily living. Constrained testing consisted of at least 42 arm elevations in various planes. Two-way analyses of variance with repeated measures were used to compare scapular rotations between constrained and functional movements at the same humeral elevation and plane of elevation angles. Intersubject variability was compared between the overhead tasks and the constrained humeral elevation in the scapular plane by using the coefficient of multiple correlations. Significant differences between constrained trials and functional tasks were found for all scapular rotations. A similar pattern was observed for scapular rotations variability between overhead tasks and constrained arm elevation in the scapular plane. Care needs to be taken when comparing and generalizing scapular kinematic data from constrained humeral movements and applying it to functional humeral movements."}
{"id": "19644905", "title": "Naturopathic treatment of rotator cuff tendinitis among Canadian postal workers: a randomized controlled trial.", "content": "Naturopathic treatment of rotator cuff tendinitis among Canadian postal workers: a randomized controlled trial. To explore the effectiveness of naturopathic care (NC) on rotator cuff tendinitis using a prospective randomized clinical trial design. Canadian postal workers with rotator cuff tendinitis for a duration of >6 weeks were randomized to receive NC (n = 43) or standardized physical exercises (PEs; n = 42) over 12 weeks. Participants in the NC group received dietary counseling, acupuncture, and Phlogenzym (2 tablets 3 times/day). The PE intervention group received passive, active-assisted, and active range of motion exercises and matched placebo. The primary outcome measure was the Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI), and secondary outcomes were the pain visual analog scale (VAS), Short Form 36 (SF-36), Measure Yourself Medical Outcomes Profile (MYMOP), and shoulder maximal range of motion. Participants and assessors were blinded to group and placebo allocation. Seventy-seven participants (87%) completed >or=8 weeks of the trial. Final total SPADI scores decreased by 54.5% (P < 0.0001) in the NC group and by 18% (P = 0.0241) in the PE group. Between-group differences in changes to SPADI scores showed statistically significant decreases in shoulder pain and disability in the NC group compared with the PE group (P < 0.0001). Significant differences between groups were also observed in the pain VAS, MYMOP, SF-36, and shoulder extension, flexion, and abduction, with the NC group showing superiority in each outcome. No serious adverse reactions were observed. NC and PE provided significant improvements, with greater improvement in shoulder function in the NC group compared with the PE group. Statistically significant improvements in quality of life measures were observed in the NC group as compared with the PE group."}
{"id": "19638819", "title": "The effect of physical characteristics and field position on the shoulder and elbow injuries of 490 baseball players: confirmation of diagnosis by magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "The effect of physical characteristics and field position on the shoulder and elbow injuries of 490 baseball players: confirmation of diagnosis by magnetic resonance imaging. To evaluate the distribution of shoulder and elbow injuries confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging in throwing athletes. Descriptive epidemiological study. Tertiary institution. Five hundred fifty-four baseball players referred to our institute for shoulder and elbow rehabilitation. All injured players except those with fractures underwent magnetic resonance imagings, which were read by a radiologist, and players were diagnosed by orthopedic surgeons based on the clinical and imaging findings. Analysis of baseball-related injuries was performed according to the physical characteristics of each athlete and his positions on the team. Junior high school players sustained a higher proportion of osteochondritis dissecans compared with high school and collegiate players. High school and collegiate players were more likely to have ulnar collateral ligament (UCL) injuries or superior labrum anterior-posterior (SLAP) lesions than junior high school players. Pitchers and outfielders were more likely to have UCL injuries than the infielders. In the junior high school group, the players with UCL injuries were taller and heavier than the players in the control group. In the high school group with UCL injuries or SLAP lesions, the players were both taller and heavier than the players in the control group. These data support the conclusion that there is a significant difference in the distribution of injuries according to the player's age and position. For the age-matched comparison, taller and heavier players are more likely to be affected by UCL injury or SLAP lesion."}
{"id": "19637306", "title": "The anatomical basis of the resisted supination external rotation test for superior labral anterior to posterior lesions.", "content": "The anatomical basis of the resisted supination external rotation test for superior labral anterior to posterior lesions. The majority of clinical tests used to diagnose superior labral anterior to posterior (SLAP) lesions of the shoulder have poor diagnostic accuracy, possibly related to a lack of anatomical validity for test procedures. The resisted supination external rotation (RSER) test is suggested to reproduce symptoms associated with a SLAP lesion by placing stress on the labrum through increasing tension in biceps brachii long head. The test requires supination of the forearm against resistance, while the shoulder is externally rotated passively. It was hypothesized that the RSER would increase activity in biceps brachii long head, thereby providing evidence of the anatomical validity of the test. Electromyography (EMG) was used to measure activity in biceps brachii long head and five other muscles potentially recruited during the RSER test in 12 healthy subjects. EMG amplitude was normalized against maximum voluntary isometric contraction for each muscle. Muscle activity values were averaged across five RSER trials and graded descriptively. Moderately strong activity was recorded in biceps brachii long head and supinator muscle throughout all phases of the RSER test. Brachialis was minimally active throughout the test. The results provide support for the anatomical basis of the RSER test, with the resisted forearm supination component of the test recruiting moderately strong levels of activity in biceps brachii long head throughout the test. Although the evidence of anatomical validity provides support for the RSER test as a clinical test for SLAP lesions of the shoulder, further tests of diagnostic accuracy are required."}
{"id": "19634824", "title": "Quantification of active ROM after arthroscopic Bankart repair with rotator interval closure.", "content": "Quantification of active ROM after arthroscopic Bankart repair with rotator interval closure. Several series report patients homogeneously treated using arthroscopic Bankart repair exclusively, or in some cases arthroscopic Bankart repair with rotator interval closure. Current international literature has few reports on arthroscopic Bankart repair with rotator interval closure procedures undertaken on a homogeneous series of patients. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the residual active range of motion (ROM) and clinical outcome in this patient population. Fourteen patients affected by recurrent anterior instability were consecutively treated. Rowe, Walch-Duplay, and UCLA scores, as well as differences in active ROM of both shoulders (treated and contralateral), were recorded. A significant reduction in active external rotation was noted along the side of the arm (P<.001) and at 90 degrees of abduction (P=.007). The average reduction was 12.14 degrees and 7.21 degrees, respectively, which represents 17.8% and 8% of the arc of motion of the opposite side in external rotation. No significant differences were found for flexion, abduction, and internal rotation. According to Walch-Duplay and Rowe scores, 71.4% and 85.7% of patients had excellent or good results. Arthroscopic Bankart repair with rotator interval closure results in a reduction of external rotation and provides satisfactory stability results."}
{"id": "19633301", "title": "The effect of pitching biomechanics on the upper extremity in youth and adolescent baseball pitchers.", "content": "The effect of pitching biomechanics on the upper extremity in youth and adolescent baseball pitchers. Increased pitch counts have been linked to increased complaints of shoulder and elbow pain in youth baseball pitchers. Improper pitching mechanics have not been shown to adversely affect the upper extremity in youth pitchers. The correct performance of 5 biomechanical pitching parameters correlates with lower humeral internal rotation torque and elbow valgus load, as well as higher pitching efficiency, in youth and adolescent pitchers. Descriptive laboratory study. In sum, 169 baseball pitchers (aged 9-18) were analyzed using a quantitative motion analysis system and a high-speed video while throwing fastballs. The correct performance of 5 common pitching parameters was compared with each pitcher's age, humeral internal rotation torque, elbow valgus load, and calculated pitching efficiency. Motion analysis correlated with video analysis for all 5 parameters (P < .05). Youth pitchers (aged 9-13) performing 3 or more parameters correctly showed lower humeral internal rotation torque, lower elbow valgus load, and higher pitching efficiency (P < .05). Youth pitchers with better pitching mechanics generate lower humeral internal rotation torque, lower elbow valgus load, and more efficiency than do those with improper mechanics. Proper pitching mechanics may help prevent shoulder and elbow injuries in youth pitchers. The parameters described in this study may be used to improve the pitching mechanics of youth pitchers and possibly reduce shoulder and elbow pain in youth baseball pitchers."}
{"id": "19630975", "title": "Contributions of myofascial pain in diagnosis and treatment of shoulder pain. A randomized control trial.", "content": "Contributions of myofascial pain in diagnosis and treatment of shoulder pain. A randomized control trial. Rotator cuff tendinopathy and subacromial impingement syndrome present complex patomechanical situations, frequent difficulties in clinical diagnosis and lack of effectiveness in treatment. Based on clinical experience, we have therefore considered the existence of another pathological entity as the possible origin of pain and dysfunction. The hypothesis of this study is to relate subacromial impingement syndrome (SIS) with myofascial pain syndrome (MPS), since myofascial trigger points (MTrPs) cause pain, functional limitation, lack of coordination and alterations in quality of movement, even prior to a tendinopathy. MTrPs can coexist with any degenerative subacromial condition. If they are not taken into consideration, they could perpetuate and aggravate the problem, hindering diagnosis and making the applied treatments ineffective.The aims and methods of this study are related with providing evidence of the relationship that may exist between this condition and MPS in the diagnosis and treatment of rotator cuff tendonitis and/or SIS. A descriptive transversal study will be made to find the correlation between the diagnosis of SIS and rotator cuff tendonitis, positive provocation test responses, the existence of active MTrPs and the results obtained with ultrasonography (US) and Magnetic Renonance Imaging (MRI). A randomized double blinded clinical trial will be carried out in experimental conditions: A Protocolized treatment based on active and passive joint repositioning, stabilization exercises, stretching of the periarticular shoulder muscles and postural reeducation. B. The previously described protocolized treatment, with the addition of dry needling applied to active MTrPs with the purpose of isolating the efficacy of dry needling in treatment. This study aims to provide a new vision of shoulder pain, from the perspective of MPS. This syndrome can, by itself, account for shoulder pain and dysfunction, although it can coexist with real conditions involving the tendons. ISRCTN Number: 30907460."}
{"id": "19588386", "title": "Topical glyceryl trinitrate for rotator cuff disease.", "content": "Topical glyceryl trinitrate for rotator cuff disease. Rotator cuff disease is a common cause of shoulder pain. Topical glyceryl trinitrate is a possible new treatment. To determine the effectiveness and safety of topical glyceryl trinitrate for rotator cuff disease. We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, SPORTDiscus, PEDro, the Australian Clinical Trials Registry, Current Controlled Trials (to October 2007) and the references and citations of included studies. We included randomised controlled trials and controlled clinical trials of people with rotator cuff disease who received topical glyceryl trinitrate, alone or in combination, compared to placebo or active therapy. Two authors independently assessed risk of bias and extracted data. Three small studies, one at moderate risk of bias and two at high risk of bias, were included. Meta-analysis was precluded due to different interventions and outcome measures. Study participants also had differing durations of symptoms and data for pain and function could only be extracted from one study. One placebo-controlled trial (20 participants) tested 5 mg glyceryl trinitrate patches, used daily for three days, among participants with 'acute supraspinatus tendinitis' of less than seven days duration. Treatment resulted in reduced pain intensity (adjusted MD -3.50, 95% CI -3.96 to -3.04). Function was not measured. One trial (53 participants) compared one quarter of a 5 mg glyceryl trinitrate patch used daily for up to 24 weeks combined with rehabilitation to placebo patches and rehabilitation among participants with 'supraspinatus tendinopathy' for longer than six months. A third trial (48 participants) tested 5 mg glyceryl trinitrate patches, used daily for three days, compared to corticosteroid injection among participants with 'rotator cuff tendinitis' of less than six-weeks duration. Fifteen out of 24 participants in the glyceryl trinitrate treatment reported headache (RR 0.11, 95% CI 0.01 to 1.96). There is some evidence from one study at high risk of bias that topical glyceryl trinitrate is more effective than placebo for rotator cuff disease among patients with acute symptoms (< seven-days duration), but there is insufficient evidence to be certain about their longer-term effects. Headache was a common side effect in one trial and any benefits of treatment need to be balanced against the risk of headache. Further high quality research is needed to determine the effectiveness and safety of this new therapy."}
{"id": "19586809", "title": "Muscle fatty infiltration in rotator cuff tears: descriptive analysis of 1688 cases.", "content": "Muscle fatty infiltration in rotator cuff tears: descriptive analysis of 1688 cases. Fatty infiltration (FI) is an important prognosis factor in the anatomical and functional outcomes of rotator cuff repairs. The objective of this study was to analyze the natural history of muscle FI and better evaluate its onset and aggravation time frame. A total of 1688 medical charts of patients operated on for rotator cuff tear and with a preoperative CT arthrogram (82%) or an MRI (18%) were reviewed. Surgery was performed between 1988 and 2005. The FI of each muscle was assessed as minimal (in Goutallier's stages 0 and 1), intermediate (in stage 2), and severe (in stages 3 and 4). Regarding supraspinatus, we retained the mean FI observed in the sagittal, coronal, and axial planes; for the infraspinatus and the subscapularis, we retained the observed mean on two views at the upper and lower levels of the glenoid in the axial plane. We found a statistically significant correlation (p<0.0005) between FI, the type of tendon lesion, and patient age for the supraspinatus, the infraspinatus, and the subscapularis. Statistically, the FI significantly increased (p<0.0005) with time elapsed for the supraspinatus and the infraspinatus but not significantly for the subscapularis. The mean time to tendon rupture observed for intermediate FI was three years for the supraspinatus and 2.5 years for the infraspinatus and the subscapularis when their tendons ruptured. The mean time observed to severe FI was five, four, and three years for the supraspinatus, the infraspinatus, and the subscapularis, respectively. The more extensive the lesion, the longer the time following rupture, and the older the patient is, the more severe the FI is. The objective of surgery is to intervene before intermediate FI sets in, which means irreversible functional loss. Level IV. Diagnostic Retrospective Study."}
{"id": "19571297", "title": "Shoulder arthroplasty: prosthetic options and indications.", "content": "Shoulder arthroplasty: prosthetic options and indications. Glenohumeral arthropathy and failed shoulder arthroplasty can lead to debilitating pain, reduced motion and strength, and limited function. Primary osteoarthritis, posttraumatic osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, cuff tear arthropathy, and osteonecrosis are common in this patient population. Shoulder arthroplasty may fail because of problems with the prosthesis, such as wear, loosening, and dislocation of the components, or because of bone and soft-tissue problems, such as glenoid arthrosis and rotator cuff tear. The disparate pathogenesis of these processes presents unique challenges to the treating surgeon and requires diagnosis-specific treatment options, whether involving hemiarthroplasty, total shoulder arthroplasty, or reverse total shoulder arthroplasty. Until recently, prosthesis options were limited to a stemmed humeral component with or without a polyethylene glenoid component. The array of prosthetic options currently available allows individualized treatment."}
{"id": "19571081", "title": "Outcomes after arthroscopic repair of type-II SLAP lesions.", "content": "Outcomes after arthroscopic repair of type-II SLAP lesions. To our knowledge, there has been no prospective study on the results of arthroscopic repair of superior labrum-biceps anchor complex (SLAP) tears with use of modern techniques. The purpose of the present study was to prospectively evaluate the minimum two-year results for patients with type-II SLAP tears that were treated with arthroscopic suture anchor fixation. Forty-seven patients with symptomatic type-II SLAP tears were evaluated preoperatively and at least two years postoperatively with use of the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) and L'Insalata outcomes instruments and physical examination. The study group included thirty-nine male and eight female patients with a mean age of thirty-six years; thirty-four of the forty-seven patients were athletes. Patients with rotator cuff tears requiring repair or concomitant shoulder instability were excluded. At an average of 2.7 years, the median ASES and L'Insalata scores were 97 and 93, respectively, compared with baseline scores of 62 and 65 (p < 0.05). The median patient-reported satisfaction rating was 9 (of 10); forty-one patients (87%) rated the outcome as good or excellent. The median patient-reported satisfaction rating was significantly higher for patients with a discrete traumatic etiology than for those with an atraumatic etiology (9 compared with 7); however, there was no significant difference between these groups in terms of the ASES or L'Insalata outcome scores. Overall, twenty-five (74%) of the thirty-four athletes were able to return to their preinjury level of competition, whereas eleven (92%) of the twelve athletes who reported a discrete traumatic event were able to return to their previous level of competition. There were five complications, including four cases of refractory postoperative stiffness. Our findings indicate that favorable outcomes can be anticipated in the majority of patients after arthroscopic SLAP lesion repair. While only three of four patients overall may be capable of returning fully to their previous level of competition, patients with a distinct traumatic etiology have a greater likelihood of a successful return to sports."}
{"id": "19570214", "title": "Central motor control failure in fibromyalgia: a surface electromyography study.", "content": "Central motor control failure in fibromyalgia: a surface electromyography study. Fibromyalgia (FM) is characterised by diffuse musculoskeletal pain and stiffness at multiple sites, tender points in characteristic locations, and the frequent presence of symptoms such as fatigue. The aim of this study was to assess whether the myoelectrical manifestations of fatigue in patients affected by FM are central or peripheral in origin. Eight female patients aged 55.6 +/- 13.6 years (FM group) and eight healthy female volunteers aged 50.3 +/- 9.3 years (MCG) were studied by means of non-invasive surface electromyography (s-EMG) involving a linear array of 16 electrodes placed on the skin overlying the biceps brachii muscle, with muscle fatigue being evoked by means of voluntary and involuntary (electrically elicited) contractions. Maximal voluntary contractions (MVCs), motor unit action potential conduction velocity distributions (mean +/- SD and skewness), and the mean power frequency of the spectrum (MNF) were estimated in order to assess whether there were any significant differences between the two groups and contraction types. The motor pattern of recruitment during voluntary contractions was altered in the FM patients, who also showed fewer myoelectrical manifestations of fatigue (normalised conduction velocity rate of changes: -0.074 +/- 0.052%/s in FM vs -0.196 +/- 0.133%/s in MCG; normalised MNF rate of changes: -0.29 +/- 0.16%/s in FM vs -0.66 +/- 0.34%/s in MCG). Mean conduction velocity distribution and skewnesses values were higher (p < 0.01) in the FM group. There were no between-group differences in the results obtained from the electrically elicited contractions. The apparent paradox of fewer myoelectrical manifestations of fatigue in FM is the electrophysiological expression of muscle remodelling in terms of the prevalence of slow conducting fatigue-resistant type I fibres. As the only between-group differences concerned voluntary contractions, they are probably more related to central motor control failure than muscle membrane alterations, which suggests pathological muscle fibre remodelling related to altered suprasegmental control."}
{"id": "19567856", "title": "Genetic influences in the progression of tears of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Genetic influences in the progression of tears of the rotator cuff. The aim of this study was to investigate genetic influences on the development and progression of tears of the rotator cuff. From a group of siblings of patients with a tear of the rotator cuff and of controls studied five years earlier, we determined the prevalence of tears of the rotator cuff with and without associated symptoms using ultrasound and the Oxford Shoulder Score. In the five years since the previous assessment, three of 62 (4.8%) of the sibling group and one of the 68 (1.5%) controls had undergone shoulder surgery. These subjects were excluded from the follow-up. Full-thickness tears were found in 39 of 62 (62.9%) siblings and in 15 of 68 (22.1%) controls (p = 0.0001). The relative risk of full-thickness tears in siblings as opposed to controls was 2.85 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.75 to 4.64), compared to 2.42 (95% CI 1.77 to 3.31) five years earlier. Full-thickness tears associated with pain were found in 30 of 39 (76.9%) tears in the siblings and in eight of 15 (53.3%) tears in the controls (p = 0.045). The relative risk of pain associated with a full-thickness tear in the siblings as opposed to the controls was 1.44 (95% CI 2.04 to 8.28) (p = 0.045). In the siblings group ten of 62 (16.1%) had progressed in terms of tear size or development compared to one of 68 (1.5%) in the control group which had increased in size. Full-thickness rotator cuff tears in siblings are significantly more likely to progress over a period of five years than in a control population. This implies that genetic factors have a role, not only in the development but also in the progression of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "19565221", "title": "Prognostic value of chondral defects on the outcome after arthroscopic treatment of acetabular labral tears.", "content": "Prognostic value of chondral defects on the outcome after arthroscopic treatment of acetabular labral tears. Pathology of the acetabular labrum plays an increasing role in the treatment of hip pain. Hip arthroscopy has proven its clinical value as a useful procedure for successful treatment of labral tears. Until today, only a few studies have investigated the influence of articular cartilage defects on the clinical outcome of partial arthroscopic labrum resection in a larger patient population. We prospectively evaluated patients with an intraoperatively proven labral lesion/tear without any radiological and arthroscopical sign of a concomitant bony femoroacetabular impingement or hip dysplasia for a minimum postoperative follow-up of 2 years. Cartilage defects were classified according to Outerbridge and divided into two subgroups: Outerbridge < or = 1 and Outerbridge > or = 2, respectively. To evaluate combined results, various established scoring systems (visual analogue scale, modified Harris Hip Score, Larson Hip Score) were used. Out of 54 originally enrolled patients, 50 individuals (29 female, 21 male) with a median age of 33 years (range 15-49) were available for follow-up after a mean of 34 (range 24-48) months. At follow-up, the total study population experienced significant improvement in pain and in the combined evaluation scales (Larson Hip Score/MHHS). When patients were categorized into two subgroups, either with intraoperatively present or absent articular cartilage defects, our data indicated that subjects with no degenerative changes of the articular cartilage surface significantly improved in the applied clinically scoring systems. In contrast, in patients with an articular cartilage lesion during hip arthroscopy score values had a tendency to be unimproved or even deteriorated at follow-up. Regression analysis revealed a significant negative correlation between postoperative outcome and the grading of the coexistent articular cartilage defect. On the basis of our investigation, we conclude that partial arthroscopic resection of a torn labrum without attending bone deformity (dysplasia or femoroacetabular impingement) can reveal good and satisfied results. Depending on the extent of a coexisting articular cartilage defect subjective clinical results are compromised."}
{"id": "19562265", "title": "Biomechanical stability of an arthroscopic anterior capsular shift and suture anchor repair in anterior shoulder instability: a human cadaveric shoulder model.", "content": "Biomechanical stability of an arthroscopic anterior capsular shift and suture anchor repair in anterior shoulder instability: a human cadaveric shoulder model. It was hypothesized that an arthroscopic Bankart repair with suture anchors supplies sufficient anterior shoulder stability, which cannot be improved by an additional capsular shift. In an experimental biomechanical human cadaver study, we tested ten fresh human cadaver shoulders in a robot-assisted shoulder simulator. External rotation and glenohumeral translation were measured at 0 degrees and 80 degrees of glenohumeral abduction. All measurements were performed under the following conditions: on the non-operated shoulder; following the setting of three arthroscopic portals; following an arthroscopic anterior capsular shift; following a simulated Bankart lesion; and following an arthroscopic Bankart repair. The application of three arthroscopic portals resulted in a significant increase of the anterior (P = 0.01) and antero-inferior translation (P = 0.03) at 0 degrees and 80 degrees abduction, as well as an increase in external rotation at 80 degrees abduction (P = 0.03). Capsular shift reduced external rotation (P = 0.03), but did not significantly decrease translation. Simulating anterior shoulder instability, glenohumeral translation significantly increased, ranging from 50 to 279% of physiological translation. Arthroscopic shoulder stabilization resulted in a decrease of translation in all tested directions to approximately physiologic levels. External rotation in 0 degrees abduction was thus decreased significantly (P = 0.003) to an average of 19 degrees . The study proved that an arthroscopic anterior capsular shift in a cadaveric model decreases external rotation without a significant influence on glenohumeral translation. Arthroscopic shoulder stabilization with suture anchors thus sufficiently restores increased glenohumeral translation, but also decreases external rotation in neutral abduction. An anatomic reconstruction of the Bankart lesion without overconstraining of the antero-inferior capsule should therefore be the aim in arthroscopic anterior shoulder stabilization."}
{"id": "19561254", "title": "Rotator cuff calcific tendonitis: short-term and 10-year outcomes after two-needle us-guided percutaneous treatment--nonrandomized controlled trial.", "content": "Rotator cuff calcific tendonitis: short-term and 10-year outcomes after two-needle us-guided percutaneous treatment--nonrandomized controlled trial. To compare short- and long-term outcomes of patients with rotator cuff calcific tendonitis who did and did not undergo ultrasonographically (US)-guided percutaneous treatment. Institutional review board approval and informed patient consent were obtained. Of patients referred for US-guided treatment of rotator cuff calcific tendonitis, 219 (86 men, 133 women; mean age, 40.3 years +/- 10.9 [standard deviation]) were treated; 68 (31 men, 37 women; mean age, 40.2 years +/- 11.3) patients refused treatment and served as control subjects. After local anesthesia was induced, two 16-gauge needles were inserted into the calcific deposit. Saline solution was injected through one needle, and the dissolved calcium was extracted through the other needle. Shoulder joint function was assessed by using Constant scores, and pain was assessed by using visual analogue scale (VAS) scores. Mann-Whitney U and chi(2) tests were performed. At baseline, no significant difference in age or sex distribution, Constant score, or VAS score was detected between treated and nontreated (control) patients. Compared with control subjects, treated patients reported a significant decrease in symptoms at 1 month (mean Constant score, 73.2 +/- 6.2 vs 57.5 +/- 3.9; mean VAS score, 4.8 +/- 0.6 vs 9.1 +/- 0.5), 3 months (mean Constant score, 90.2 +/- 2.6 vs 62.6 +/- 7.2; mean VAS score, 3.3 +/- 0.4 vs 7.3 +/- 1.8), and 1 year (mean Constant score, 91.7 +/- 3.1 vs 78.4 +/- 9.5; mean VAS score, 2.7 +/- 0.5 vs 4.5 +/- 0.9) (P < .001). Symptom scores were not significantly different between the groups at 5 years (mean Constant score, 90.9 +/- 3.6 vs 90.5 +/- 4.8; mean VAS score, 2.6 +/- 0.5 vs 2.8 +/- 0.7) (P >or= .795) and 10 years (mean Constant score, 91.8 +/- 5.0 vs 91.3 +/- 9.6; mean VAS score, 2.5 +/- 0.6 vs 2.7 +/- 0.6) (P >or= .413). US-guided percutaneous treatment facilitated prompt shoulder function recovery and pain relief. Treated patients had better outcomes than did nontreated patients at 1 year. However, 5 and 10 years after the procedure, the nontreated group reported outcomes similar to those of the treated group."}
{"id": "19560634", "title": "Arthroscopic treatment for pigmented villonodular synovitis of the shoulder associated with massive rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Arthroscopic treatment for pigmented villonodular synovitis of the shoulder associated with massive rotator cuff tear. Our purpose was to investigate arthroscopic treatment of patients diagnosed with pigmented villonodular synovitis (PVNS) of the shoulder and massive rotator cuff tear with the initial presentation of large, recurrent joint effusion. From December 2005 to June 2007, 5 patients (3 males and 2 females) diagnosed with PVNS of the shoulder and massive rotator cuff tear were treated with arthroscopic synovectomy, partial cuff repair, or debridement if the cuff was irreparable. All 5 patients were followed-up for a mean of 22.4 months (range, 12 to 33 months). Outcomes were measured with use of the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) and University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) scoring systems. Two patients received partial rotator cuff repair by suture anchors and another 2 received suture repairs only. All of the patients had residual tear with variable sizes. With a mean follow-up of 22.4 months (range, 12 to 33 months), the mean ASES and UCLA scores improved from preoperative values of 48.2 and 7.8 to 80.0 and 29.6 points, respectively (P < .05). All patients were satisfied with the procedure, and no signs of recurrence were noted during the follow-up period. Five cases of PVNS of the shoulder and massive rotator cuff tears with the initial symptoms of shoulder effusion and function limitation were reported. After arthroscopic synovectomy and partial rotator cuff repair or debridement, all patients gained symptomatic and limited functional improvement at an average follow-up of 22 months. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "19559371", "title": "Variations of the intra-articular portion of the long head of the biceps tendon: a classification of embryologically explained variations.", "content": "Variations of the intra-articular portion of the long head of the biceps tendon: a classification of embryologically explained variations. Although the intra-articular portion of the long head of the biceps (LHB) usually runs free, different types of fusions with the inferior surface of the capsule are known to be possible. Anatomic variations of this part of the LHB have been previously described and were nearly always considered to be innocent. Out of 2 populations of 1500 arthroscopies each, we collected prospectively and retrospectively all possible variations of the proximal portion of the LHB. We included 57 cases (1.91%) of this total population in an attempt to describe the complete range of these form variants: the simple vinculum or pulley-like sling, the partial or complete mesotenon between biceps and capsule, the complete adherent LHB, the double-tendon origin, the reversed-type split-tendon, and the complete absence of the LHB. We suggest a classification of 12 variations of the intra-articular portion of the LHB. By taking into account an extensive literature review, we suggest that these conditions are congenital and consider them as a result of partial detachment from the mesothelial or synovial fusion with the inferior surface of the capsule. The incidence of these variants and their associated pathologies are investigated. By offering this new classification and a physiopathologic hypothesis, we try to explain why some of these anatomic variants may also acquire a pathologic significance."}
{"id": "19557430", "title": "Differentiation patterning of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) in atherosclerosis.", "content": "Differentiation patterning of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) in atherosclerosis. To investigate the involvement of transdifferentiation and dedifferentiation phenomena inside atherosclerotic plaques, we analyzed the differentiation status of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) in vitro and in vivo. Forty normal autoptic and 20 atherosclerotic carotid endarterectomy specimens as well as 20 specimens of infrarenal and suprarenal aortae were analyzed for the expression of cytokeratins 7 and 18 and beta-catenin as markers (epithelial transdifferentiation) as well as CD31 and CD34 (embryonic dedifferentiation) by conventional and double fluorescence immunohistochemistry and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Looking at these markers, additional cell culture experiments with human aortic (HA)-VSMC were done under stimulation with IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNF-alpha. Cytokeratins and beta-catenin were expressed significantly higher in atherosclerotic than in normal carotids primarily localized in VSMC of the shoulder/cap region of atherosclerotic lesions. Additionally, heterogeneous cellular coexpression of CD31 and/or CD34 was observed in subregions of progressive atherosclerotic lesions by VSMC. The expression of those differentiation markers by stimulated HA-VSMC showed a time and cytokine dependency in vitro. Our findings show that (1) VSMC of progressive atheromas have the ability of differentiation, (2) that transdifferentiation and dedifferentiation phenomena are topographically diverse localized in the subregions of advanced atherosclerotic lesions, and (3) are influenced by inflammatory cytokines like IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNF-alpha."}
{"id": "19556468", "title": "A biomechanical comparison of transosseous-suture anchor and suture bridge rotator cuff repairs in cadavers.", "content": "A biomechanical comparison of transosseous-suture anchor and suture bridge rotator cuff repairs in cadavers. Several biomechanical studies comparing open and arthroscopic rotator cuff repair methods have shown inferior performance of arthroscopic repairs. Suture anchor-augmented transosseous repairs and suture bridge repairs have shown superior biomechanical performance when compared with other methods, but these 2 repair methods have not been directly compared. There will be no difference in the biomechanical performance of the transosseous-suture anchor and suture bridge techniques. Controlled laboratory study. Eight paired cadaveric shoulder specimens (16 specimens) had creation followed by repair of a complete tear of the supraspinatus, with the first member of each pair undergoing repair by a transosseous-suture anchor technique and the second member undergoing repair by the suture bridge technique. Specimens were then cycled from 10 to 180 N for 200 cycles, followed by testing to failure at 33 mm/s. Elongation was measured during cyclic testing, and failure load and stiffness were obtained during load-to-failure testing. Failure method was recorded. There was no significant difference between transosseous-suture anchor repairs and suture bridge repairs for elongation (4.0 +/- 1.60 mm vs 3.5 +/- 1.1 mm, P = .31), failure load (408 +/- 93 N vs 419 +/- 62 N, P = .70), or stiffness (58 +/- 10 N/mm vs 58 +/- 14 N/mm, P = .94). The most common mode of failure with each method was suture cutting through tendon. The suture bridge repair exhibited similar biomechanical performance during cyclic and load-to-failure testing as a transosseous-suture anchor repair, which historically has been performed in open or mini-open fashion. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs can be performed that are as strong as open or mini-open repairs."}
{"id": "19543893", "title": "Supraspinatus tendon tears: comparison of 3D US and MR arthrography with surgical correlation.", "content": "Supraspinatus tendon tears: comparison of 3D US and MR arthrography with surgical correlation. The objective of the study was to compare the diagnostic reliability of 3D US with MR arthrography in diagnosing supraspinatus tendon tears, with arthroscopic findings used as the standard. In a prospective study 50 patients who later underwent arthroscopic surgery of the rotator cuff were examined pre-operatively by 3D US with MR arthrography. The presence or absence of a full- or partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tear and the tear size as demonstrated by each imaging and arthroscopy was recorded. The tear size was divided into three grades: small (<1 cm), medium (1-3 cm), and large (>3 cm). The arthroscopic diagnosis was a full-thickness tear in 40 patients, partial-thickness tears in 5, and intact supraspinatus tendon in 5. 3D US correctly diagnosed 35 out of 40 full-thickness tears and MR arthrography 39 out of 40 full-thickness tears. Regarding partial-thickness tears, 3D US underestimated 2 cases as no tear and overestimated 1 case as a full-thickness tear. MR arthrography underestimated 1 case as a partial-thickness tear and overestimated 2 cases as full-thickness and partial-thickness tears respectively. 3D US and MR arthrography yield a sensitivity for full-thickness tears of 87.5% and 97.5% with specificity of 90.0% and 90.0%. Based on the grading system, 3D US measurements correctly predicted the tear size of 23 (65.7%) of the 35 full-thickness tears and MR arthrography 30 (75.0%) of the 39 full-thickness tears. Three-dimensional ultrasound seems to be a promising imaging modality comparable to MR arthrography for the assessment of the supraspinatus tendon tears."}
{"id": "19543668", "title": "Isokinetic characteristics of shoulder rotators in patients with adhesive capsulitis.", "content": "Isokinetic characteristics of shoulder rotators in patients with adhesive capsulitis. To demonstrate the muscle strength characteristics of shoulder internal and external rotators and the effects of isokinetic exercise on muscle activity in patients with adhesive capsulitis. Cohort study with control subjects. Eight patients with adhesive capsulitis and 8 controls. Maximal isometric and isokinetic strength tests of shoulder internal and external rotators in the scapular plane were carried out. Muscle activities of the rotators were recorded in resting and during maximal isometrics. Muscle strength variables (peak torque, total work and power) and myoelectric variables (resting root-mean-square amplitude pre- and post-tests and the external-internal rotator co-activity in resting and during isometric contractions) were recorded. A mixed repeated-measure analysis of variance test was used to examine the within-group and between-group differences. For affected shoulders, smaller isometric average torque of internal rotators and high-speed peak torque, total work and power of external rotator were observed. The external/internal rotator ratio of peak torque in high-speed testing also exhibited significant decrease. The myoelectric variables showed no significant changes. High-speed external rotator strength and isometric internal rotator strength of the affected shoulders were decreased significantly. Isokinetic exercise may not increase the resting muscle activities and co-activity. These results provide a reference in planning muscle strengthening programmes and goals for these patients."}
{"id": "19541525", "title": "Treatment of shoulder calcifications of the cuff: a controlled study.", "content": "Treatment of shoulder calcifications of the cuff: a controlled study. About 1 in 10 patients with shoulder calcifications complains of chronic pain. Removal techniques have been developed. We carried out the first randomized study to validate bursoscopy (BS) and (needling fragmentation irrigation) (NFI) versus a control group (CT). 102 shoulders (96 patients) with calcifications >5 mm whose medical treatment had failed (>4 months) were first injected using a corticosteroid; 49 shoulders improved by more than 70%. The other 53 shoulders were randomized in 3 groups: NFI (n=16), BS (n=20), and CT (n=17). All patients were reviewed at T 1-4-12-24 months. After 4 months, we observed respectively in groups NFI-BS-CT: 62%, 65% and 29% patients showing global improvements >70% (NFI vs CT: p=0.03; BS vs CT: p=0.02); -37%, -29% and -11% pain VAS variation (ns), +16%, +12% and -15% Constant score variation (NFI vs CT: p=0.03; BS vs CT: p=0.02), and -58%, -77% and +4% area calcification variation (NFI vs CT: p=0.005; BS vs CT: p=0.0002; BS vs NFI: p=0.01). After 24 months, results were maintained in NFI and BS groups, and in the CT group only 6/17 patients were still improved. There were no significant differences between NFI and BS groups. Three partial tears of the cuff were found using MRI in failures, (1 in each group). NFI and BS are now validated removal techniques of shoulder calcifications when there is chronic pain and other medical treatments have failed. Results were maintained after 24 months, and were similar between NFI and BS. However NFI could be preferred because of its simplicity and low cost."}
{"id": "19540489", "title": "Musculoskeletal injuries in break-dancers.", "content": "Musculoskeletal injuries in break-dancers. Since no epidemiologic studies have been reported about musculoskeletal injuries in break-dancers, there are no data on the rates and patterns of musculoskeletal injuries in this population that clinicians can use to find ways to decrease injury rate. We believe that the incidence of injuries in break-dancers is higher than assumed and that injury rates and patterns differ between professional and amateur dancers. Descriptive epidemiologic study. Of a total of 42 study subjects, 23 were professional dancers and 19 were amateur dancers. Injury frequency, site and type, along with the presence of supervised training, the use of protective devices and warm-up exercises done were recorded. Of the 42 study subjects, excluding two amateur dancers, 40 (95.2%) had had musculoskeletal injuries at more than one site. The mean number of sites per dancer was 4.60. The frequency of injury depended on the site and was as follows: wrist (69.0%), finger (61.9%), knee (61.9%), shoulder (52.4%), lumbar spine (50.0%), elbow (42.9%), cervical spine (38.1%), ankle (38.1%), foot (28.6%) and hip (16.7%). Sprain, strain and tendinitis were the most common injuries, accounting for the most cases. Of the 42 dancers, 13 (31%) had had fractures or dislocations. Eight (19.1%) learned break-dancing under supervised instruction, 17 (40.5%) used protective devices and 28 (66.7%) performed warm-up exercises before dancing. There were significant differences in age, dance career length, amount of dance training, mean number of injury sites and the presence of supervised training between professionals and amateurs (P<0.05). Clinicians must inquire thoroughly into the nature of the activities that result in both unusual and common injuries in break-dancers and educate them about safety. Careful screening, instruction and supervised training of break-dancers will help to prevent injuries."}
{"id": "19539441", "title": "Imaging patterns in elastofibroma dorsi.", "content": "Imaging patterns in elastofibroma dorsi. Elastofibroma dorsi is a rare pseudotumor of the soft tissues. Its clinico-radiologic characteristics lead to a correct diagnosis. We followed 43 patients with elastofibroma dorsi with a confirmed histological diagnosis or on the basis of typical imaging pattern (ultrasound, CT, MR) confirmed by evolution. Elastofibroma is prevalent in females, its onset occurs around 60 years of age and is most frequently localized in the deep subscapular region (93%), bilateral in 54% of cases. In 7% it was found in an atypical isolated suprascapular region, in 7% it was synchronous to that in the subscapular region. Four ultrasound patterns were detected: Type I (54%) inhomogeneous fasciculated, Type II (22%) inhomogeneous aspecific, Type III (15%) hyperechogeneous, Type IV (9%) hypoechogeneous. Three patterns were detected at CT and MR: Type A (84%) inhomogeneous fasciculated corresponding to Types I and III and partially to Type II ultrasound pattern, Type B (8%) inhomogeneous aspecific corresponding to Type II ultrasound pattern; Type C (8%) homogeneous isodense or isointense to the muscle corresponding to Type IV ultrasound pattern. A solid, slow-growing lesion, in the deep periscapular region in females aged between 50 and 60 years, with a typical fasciculated pattern is pathognomonic of elastofibroma dorsi and bilateral location convalidates diagnosis. Ultrasound is sufficient to orientate diagnosis. CT and/or MR are reserved only for non-fasciculated ultrasound patterns, when site is atypical or in candidates for surgery. Biopsy is reserved only in cases where integrated imaging shows a non-fasciculated pattern to differentiate it from other malignant lesions."}
{"id": "19533121", "title": "Focal partial tears of the long head of the biceps brachii tendon at the entrance to the bicipital groove: MR imaging findings, surgical correlation, and clinical significance.", "content": "Focal partial tears of the long head of the biceps brachii tendon at the entrance to the bicipital groove: MR imaging findings, surgical correlation, and clinical significance. The purpose of the study was to depict a subset of focal partial tears of the biceps brachii tendon, occurring at the entrance to the bicipital groove, which can be difficult to detect with MRI. The institutional review board approved this HIPAA-compliant study; informed consent was waived. The authors retrospectively reviewed imaging and medical records in 16 consecutive patients (12 men, 4 women; mean age, 57 years) who had prospective MRI diagnoses of tendinopathy and/or partial tearing of the intra-articular segment of the long head of the biceps brachii tendon (LHBT) at the entrance to the bicipital groove (restricted to within 1 cm of the groove entrance) and who also had surgical correlation within 4 months of imaging. Focal intrasubstance signal abnormality was noted in the tendons of 16 out of 16 (100%) patients. Focal tendon enlargement was noted in 8 out of 16 patients (50%). Fifteen out of 16 biceps partial tears (94%) were treated surgically. Shoulder pathology was restricted to the groove entrance in 4 out of 16 patients (25%). We depict a subset of focal partial tears of the biceps tendon, which can be difficult to detect on MRI because of their anatomical location at the entrance to the bicipital groove. Although they may coexist with other causes of shoulder pain, these lesions can also occur in isolation. In either case, they are potential causes of pain that can be addressed surgically."}
{"id": "19531660", "title": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: prospective evaluation with sequential ultrasonography.", "content": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: prospective evaluation with sequential ultrasonography. Recent studies have demonstrated predictable healing after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair at a single time point, but few studies have evaluated tendon healing over time. Rotator cuff tears that are intact on ultrasound at 1 time point will remain intact, and clinical results will improve regardless of healing status. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 3. The Arthroscopic Rotator Cuff Registry was established to determine the effectiveness of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with clinical outcomes using the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score and ultrasound at 1 and 2 years, postoperatively. Patients were assigned to 1 of 3 groups based on ultrasound appearance: group 1, rotator cuff tendon intact at 1 and 2 years (n = 63); group 2, rotator cuff tendon defect at 1 and 2 years (n = 23); group 3, rotator cuff tendon defect at 1 year but no defect at 2 years (n = 7). The ultrasound appearance was consistent at 1 and 2 years for 86 of the 93 patients (92.5%). The patients in group 1 had a significantly lower mean age (57.8 +/- 9.8 years) than the patients of group 2 (63.6 +/- 8.6 years; P = .04). Group 2 had a significantly greater rotator cuff tear size (4.36 +/- 1.6 cm) than group 1 (2.84 +/- 1.1 cm; P = .00025). Each group had a significant improvement in American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores from baseline to 2-year follow-up. CONCLUSION All intact rotator cuff tendons at 1 year remained intact at 2 years. A small group of patients with postoperative imaging did not appear healed by ultrasound at 1 year but did so at 2 years. Patients demonstrated improvement in American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons shoulder scores, range of motion, and strength, regardless of tendon healing status on ultrasound."}
{"id": "19523637", "title": "Three-dimensional lumbar segment kinetics of fast bowling in cricket.", "content": "Three-dimensional lumbar segment kinetics of fast bowling in cricket. Cricket fast bowlers have a high incidence of serious lumbar injuries, such as lesions in the pars interarticularis. Kinematic studies have shown that bowling actions with large shoulder counter-rotation are associated with significantly higher incidences of lumbar injury. However, in bowling, there has been no calculation of the spinal loads, which are the causal mechanisms of such injuries. In this study, 21 fast bowlers (22.4+/-3.9 years) of premier grade level and above were tested using a three-dimensional (3D) motion analysis system. The mean ball release speed was 31.9+/-2.8 m s(-1) and ranged from 27.0 to 35.6 m s(-1). Kinematics and kinetics were calculated for lumbar spine lateral bending, rotation, and flexion during the delivery and power phases of bowling. Power calculations were used to define the actuation of lumbar spine motion as either active or controlled. The actuation of the lumbar spine was complex, involving multiple sequences of active and controlled motion. In addition, lumbar spine loads were largest during the power phase when the ground reaction forces were highest. In conclusion, the dynamic loads and the cyclical nature of their application when the spine is positioned near its end range of motion may be significant factors of injury to this region. In addition, the lumbar spine in bowling has to vigorously flex, laterally bend and rotate simultaneously in a complex interdependent sequence of actuation patterns. Therefore, any technical change to reduce injury susceptibility needs to consider the mechanics of whole body coordination and timing."}
{"id": "19521014", "title": "Developing biologically-based assessment tools for physical therapy management of neck pain.", "content": "Developing biologically-based assessment tools for physical therapy management of neck pain. Neck pain is a common and episodic condition that is treated using a spectrum of interventions known to be moderately effective but is associated with a significant incidence of chronic pain. Recently, there has been increased focus on defining biological aspects of neck pain. Studies have indicated that neurophysiological, biomechanical, and motor control abnormalities are present and may be useful either in prognosis or classification. We review some of these findings in the context of our own work defining biological markers that may form the basis for clinical tests that can be used for prognosis, classification, or outcome evaluation in patients with neck pain. We have identified abnormalities in neurophysiology using quantitative sensory testing (vibration, touch, and current perception) and response to cold provocation that are related to neck disability. We have identified altered muscle biochemistry by measuring circulating muscle proteins in a lumbar surgery model and are now applying those methods to whiplash injury. We have incorporated capnography into treatment to address central physiological changes present in some patients by monitoring and training CO2 levels. We have developed an innovative new test, the Neck Walk Index, that captures abnormal control of head movement during slow gait as a means of differentiating patients with neck pain from either unaffected controls or individuals with other pathologies. We have used time-varying 3-dimensional joint orientation kinematics to assess deficits in motor control during an upper extremity reach task, the results showing that poor coordination and control of the shoulder girdle leads to shoulder guarding and inconsistencies in elbow joint movement. Despite some promising early results, future research is needed to determine how these measures help clinicians to diagnose, evaluate, and forecast future outcome for patients who present with neck pain. Diagnosis, level 5."}
{"id": "19515583", "title": "Sarcomere length of torn rotator cuff muscle.", "content": "Sarcomere length of torn rotator cuff muscle. Sarcomere length is one of the factors related to the contractile ability of muscle. There is no report about sarcomere length of torn rotator cuff muscles. The purpose of this study was to clarify sarcomere length of torn rotator cuff muscles. Twenty-eight embalmed cadaver shoulders (14 shoulders with intact rotator cuff and 14 shoulders with full-thickness rotator cuff tears: an isolated tear of the supraspinatus in 3, a combined tear of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus in 4, and a combined tear of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus and subscapularis in 7) were used in this study. Muscle fiber length was measured using a digital caliper. Sarcomere length was measured by laser diffraction method. Muscle fiber lengths of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus (33.0 +/- 6.5 mm and 61.5 +/- 14.0 mm, respectively) in the cuff tear group were significantly shorter than those in the intact cuff group (56.9 +/- 10.1 mm and 74.2 +/- 10.0 mm: P < .001 and P = .010). The sarcomere lengths of these muscles were 3.00 +/- 0.44 microm and 3.12 +/- 0.45 microm in the intact cuff group and 2.90 +/- 0.34 microm and 3.01 +/- 0.34 microm in the cuff tear group. The sarcomere lengths showed no significant difference (P = 0.46 and P = .37). The sarcomere lengths of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus with torn tendons were not significantly different from those with intact tendons, although the muscle fiber lengths were significantly shorter with torn tendons."}
{"id": "19509414", "title": "Clinical utility of traditional and new tests in the diagnosis of biceps tendon injuries and superior labrum anterior and posterior lesions in the shoulder.", "content": "Clinical utility of traditional and new tests in the diagnosis of biceps tendon injuries and superior labrum anterior and posterior lesions in the shoulder. Clinical tests are a key element in diagnosing shoulder lesions. This study examined the clinical utility of traditional and new examination tests, the upper cut for biceps injuries, and the modified dynamic labral shear for superior glenoid labral lesions. Cohort study (Diagnosis); Level of evidence, 2. A total of 325 consecutive patients who were seen for shoulder pain underwent a standardized clinical testing battery. Six clinical tests that have been previously reported in the literature (Yergason's, Speed's, bear hug, belly press, O'Brien's, and anterior slide) and 2 new examination tests (upper cut and modified dynamic labral shear) were performed. Clinical examination findings were correlated with findings in those who came to surgery (101 patients). Sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, positive/negative predictive value, and positive/negative likelihood ratio were calculated for each test. A binary logistic regression analysis was used to determine which tests produced the most significant findings. For biceps disease, the bear hug and upper cut were most sensitive (0.79 and 0.73, respectively), whereas the belly press and Speed's test were most specific (0.85 and 0.81, respectively). The upper cut was most accurate (0.77) and produced the highest positive likelihood ratio (3.38). For labral injury, the modified dynamic labral shear demonstrated sensitivity of 0.72, specificity of 0.98, accuracy of 0.84, and a positive likelihood ratio of 31.57. A binary logistic regression analysis revealed that the combination of the upper cut and Speed's tests were significantly better at detecting biceps lesions (P = .021, R(2) = .400) than other tests, whereas labral lesions were best identified by combination of the modified dynamic labral shear and O'Brien's maneuvers (P = .045, R(2) = .641). The new tests are helpful additions to the clinical examination for shoulder injury. The modified dynamic labral shear test demonstrates high scores for clinical utility and exhibits a high likelihood ratio, indicating a significant probability of affecting the clinical decision, which should moderately or significantly improve the diagnostic conclusion and allow the clinician to be more efficient in making an accurate diagnosis."}
{"id": "19504120", "title": "Changes in interstitial noradrenaline, trapezius muscle activity and oxygen saturation during low-load work and recovery.", "content": "Changes in interstitial noradrenaline, trapezius muscle activity and oxygen saturation during low-load work and recovery. Both physical as well as mental demands result in an increased activity in the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) with changes in blood-pressure and heart-rate. Through local release of catecholamines, e.g. noradrenaline (NAd) SNS exerts various actions at the muscle level. The aims of this study were to investigate the effects of low-load repetitive work alone and in combination with mental demands on local muscle interstitial noradrenaline concentration [NAd](i), muscle activity and oxygenation, assessed with microdialysis, surface electromyography, and near-infrared spectroscopy, respectively. Healthy females (n = 15) were exposed to (1) 30 min repetitive work (RW) and (2) 30 min repetitive work with superimposed mental load (RWML) on two different occasions. Muscle [NAd](i) and muscle activity increased significantly in response to RW, but did not increase further during RWML. For RW, [NAd](i) was found to be inversely correlated to muscle activity. Oxygenation decreased significantly during work, independently of occasion. Our findings indicate that low-load work causes significantly increased trapezius muscle [NAd](i) in healthy females, and short periods of superimposed mental load do not add to this increase and further, that both muscle activity and oxygenation were unaffected by the superimposed mental load."}
{"id": "19502669", "title": "Shoulder impingement syndrome: correlations between clinical tests and ultrasonographic findings.", "content": "Shoulder impingement syndrome: correlations between clinical tests and ultrasonographic findings. To compare the diagnosis of shoulder impingement syndrome (SIS) established by clinical and ultrasonographic examination and to evaluate the value of clinical tests for SIS as well as for rotator cuff pathology. One hundred patients with periathrophatia scapulohumeralis entered the study, including 64 females and 36 males aged between 20-84 years (mean 56.8 and 57.5, respectively). Clinical and ultrasonographic examinations were carried out by independent observers, a rheumatologist and a musculoskeletal-trained sonographer. Clinical tests for SIS and for each of the tendons of the rotator cuff, as well as static and dynamic ultrasonographic examinations were performed for both shoulders. Findings were compared and statistically analyzed. The Hawkins test (72.2%) proved to be the most sensitive clinical test for the identification of SIS and the Neer test (95.3%) was the most specific one. When four tests were simultaneously positive, the specificity for the diagnosis was 98.5% but the sensitivity decreased to 40.3%. Jobe's test indicated supraspinatus involvement with a specificity of 90% but it was not able to disclose the type of lesions. The sensitivity and specificity of the tests aiming to elicit infraspinatus tendon pathology were of low value whereas those addressing subscapularis tendon involvement were rather of moderate value. SIS was clinically correctly diagnosed in 80.5% of cases, but its characteristic stages were poorly recognized (stage I 50%, stage II 70%, and stage III 30.7%). Although clinical tests are insufficient for clinical diagnosis, the examination of the patient still plays an important role in rotator cuff disorders. Ultrasonography should be used for all patients suffering from painful shoulder in order to improve the diagnosis."}
{"id": "19501298", "title": "The \"subscapularis-sparing\" approach: a new mini-open technique to repair a humeral avulsion of the glenohumeral ligament lesion.", "content": "The \"subscapularis-sparing\" approach: a new mini-open technique to repair a humeral avulsion of the glenohumeral ligament lesion. Anterior approaches to the shoulder involve partial or complete detachment of the subscapularis muscle. We have developed a new technique that permits adequate access to the humeral attachment of the inferior glenohumeral ligament (IGHL) without any detachment of the subscapularis, and have used this to successfully repair humeral avulsions of glenohumeral ligament lesions. Preliminary diagnostic arthroscopy using air insufflation of the glenohumeral joint is used to identify and grade the lesion. A 1-inch axillary incision is used to access the subscapularis tendon through the deltopectoral approach. Thereafter, anatomic landmarks are identified to expose the lateral aspect of the inferior border of the subscapularis muscle. Blunt dissection is used to separate the musculocapsular plane, and the subscapularis is retracted in an anterosuperior direction. Adequate exposure for visualization and repair of the avulsed IGHL is possible in a majority of cases where this approach is attempted. The use of arthroscopic instruments and suture anchors facilitates suture passage through the mid and posterior regions of the IGHL. If exposure is inadequate, the approach can be easily converted to a conventional L-shaped tenotomy approach through the lower or upper region of the subscapularis."}
{"id": "19501291", "title": "The supraspinatus distension sign: an indicator of supraspinatus integrity.", "content": "The supraspinatus distension sign: an indicator of supraspinatus integrity. To determine if direct contact between the biceps tendon and supraspinatus in patients undergoing shoulder arthroscopy performed in the lateral decubitus position has predictive value in evaluating full-thickness and articular-sided, partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. Five hundred sixty-three consecutive shoulder arthroscopies in the lateral decubitus position were performed by a single surgeon between September 2005 and September 2007. The presence or absence of distance between the biceps tendon and supraspinatus was evaluated upon entering the joint. A diagnostic arthroscopy of the glenohumeral and subacromial spaces then ensued to determine the presence and extent of rotator cuff tear. The biceps-supraspinatus interval was preserved in 211 of 232 (90.9%) of the articular-sided, partial-thickness tears. The biceps-supraspinatus space was absent in 76 of 77 (98.7%) of the full-thickness tears. After excluding cases of concomitant adhesive capsulitis, all 211 articular-sided, partial-thickness rotator cuff tears and only 1 of 75 (1.3%) full-thickness rotator cuff tears was associated with a preserved biceps-supraspinatus interval (false negative). Our study further validates the high sensitivity and specificity of using the loss of supraspinatus distension for predicting full-thickness rotator cuff tears. We also report the reliable preservation of supraspinatus distension with articular-sided, partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. These articular-sided partial-thickness tears typically do not lead to sufficient egress of arthroscopic fluid from the glenohumeral joint to cause a loss of supraspinatus distension. Level IV, prognostic case series."}
{"id": "19501288", "title": "The effect of the angle of suture anchor insertion on fixation failure at the tendon-suture interface after rotator cuff repair: deadman's angle revisited.", "content": "The effect of the angle of suture anchor insertion on fixation failure at the tendon-suture interface after rotator cuff repair: deadman's angle revisited. To evaluate what effect the angle of screw-in suture anchor insertion has on fixation stability at the suture-tendon interface. Supraspinatus tendons from 7 matched pairs of human cadaveric shoulders were split, yielding 4 tendons per cadaver. An experimental rotator cuff tear was created and repaired, using a 5.0-mm diameter screw-in suture anchor. In a staggered, matched pair arrangement, the angle of anchor insertion was varied between 45 degrees (deadman's angle) and 90 degrees to the articular surface. Each repair underwent cyclic loading, and 2 failure points were defined: the first at 3 mm of repair site gap formation and the second at the point of complete failure. The number of cycles to failure was compared between the 2 groups. The mean number of cycles to 3-mm gap formation for anchors inserted at 90 degrees was 380. This was significantly higher than for repairs made with the 45 degrees angle of anchor insertion (mean, 297 cycles). Complete failure occurred at a significantly greater number of cycles with the 90 degrees anchors (mean, 443 cycles) compared with the 45 degrees anchors (mean, 334 cycles). Compared with anchors placed at the current standard of the deadman's angle of 45 degrees, suture anchors placed at 90 degrees to the junction of the greater tuberosity and the humeral head articular surface provided improved soft tissue fixation in an experimental rotator cuff model. The angle of suture anchor insertion into the greater tuberosity during rotator cuff repair has an effect on the soft tissue fixation at the tendon-suture interface."}
{"id": "19501287", "title": "Arthroscopic removal of intraosseous and intratendinous deposits in calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Arthroscopic removal of intraosseous and intratendinous deposits in calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the surgical outcome of arthroscopic removal of intraosseous deposits in calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff. We studied the results of arthroscopic treatment in 30 shoulders in 28 patients with calcifying tendinitis (mean age, 48.3 years; age range, 26 to 83 years), with a mean follow-up of 38 months. According to the localization of calcification, the patients were divided into 2 groups: those with pure tendinous/soft-tissue involvement (n = 25) (group I) and those with tendinous/soft-tissue and osseous involvement (n = 5) (group II). After routine tendon debridement, debridement and curettage of the bone lesion were also performed in patients with bone involvement. Clinical outcome was evaluated by use of the pain score on a visual analog scale and the Constant score, and a special inquiry was used for self-assessment. The pain scores and functional Constant scores improved significantly after the operation in both groups (P = .043 for pain score and P = .0001 for Constant score in group I and P = .042 for pain score and P = .0001 for Constant score in group II). The median Constant score increased from 42 (range, 22 to 65) preoperatively to 100 (range, 80 to 100) postoperatively in group I and from 40 (range, 25 to 55) to 100 (range, 85 to 100) in group II. The mean pain score was 6.5 +/- 1.4 (range, 4 to 9) before treatment and 0.2 +/- 0.5 (range, 0 to 2) at follow-up in group I, and it was 6.2 +/- 1.48 (range, 4 to 8) and 0.4 +/- 0.55 (range, 0 to 1), respectively, in group II. There was no significant difference between the 2 groups in terms of the final Constant (P = .85) and pain scores (P = .26). Arthroscopic removal of intraosseous and intratendinous deposits to treat calcifying tendinitis with osseous involvement seems to be as safe and effective a treatment method as the arthroscopic removal of intratendinous deposits in cases of tendinous involvement only. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "19501286", "title": "A prospective therapeutic comparison of simple suture repairs to massive cuff stitch repairs for treatment of small- and medium-sized rotator cuff tears.", "content": "A prospective therapeutic comparison of simple suture repairs to massive cuff stitch repairs for treatment of small- and medium-sized rotator cuff tears. The purpose of this study was to compare the massive cuff stitch (MCS) with the simple stitch in terms of integrity at 2 years after surgery when used to repair small-sized to medium-sized full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Seventy-one patients underwent arthroscopic repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears between December 2004 and June 2006. The tear sizes ranged from 0.5 to 1.5 cm. The mean patient age was 53 years (range, 40 to 69 years), and the mean follow-up time was 33 months (range, 24 to 41 months). Group I (n = 35) underwent MCS repair, and group II (n = 36) underwent simple stitch repair. Results were analyzed by use of the Wilcoxon signed rank test and the Mann-Whitney test. Follow-up ultrasound was performed 24 to 41 months after repair. All patients showed improvements in the visual analog scale for pain, activities of daily living, and University of California, Los Angeles scores (P < .05), but there were no significant differences in scores between groups (P > .05). The satisfaction rating was similar for group I (4.7) and group II (4.3) (P > .05). The failure (retear) rate was significantly lower in group I (14.3%) than in group II (27.8%) (P < .05). The clinical outcomes between the MCS and simple stitch were not significantly different, but the MCS was superior to the simple stitch in maintaining repair integrity on ultrasound evaluation after arthroscopic repair of small-sized to medium-sized full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Level III, prospective therapeutic comparative study."}
{"id": "19501285", "title": "Correlation of arthroscopic repairability of large to massive rotator cuff tears with preoperative magnetic resonance imaging scans.", "content": "Correlation of arthroscopic repairability of large to massive rotator cuff tears with preoperative magnetic resonance imaging scans. The purpose of this study was to determine whether there are preoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) variables that could predict the repairability of large to massive rotator cuff tears (RCTs), especially in terms of distinguishing between complete repair and incomplete repair. Fifty-one consecutive patients who had large to massive RCTs were treated by arthroscopic repair with suture anchors. The primary repair was subclassified into 4 types. Types I and II were complete repairs with coverage of the lateral end of the greater tuberosity footprint (type I) or to the medial one half or less of the footprint (type II). Types III and IV were incomplete repairs with either small exposure of the humeral head (<10 mm) (type III) or moderate exposure of the head with repair of the force couple of the rotator cuff (type IV). Six preoperative MRI measurements (fatty degeneration index [FDI] in all planes, occupational grade, tangent sign, coronal oblique tear distance [COTD], sagittal oblique tear distance [SOTD], and coronal oblique thickness) that were reported in the previous literature were examined. These measurements were correlated with our classification of repair. There were 28 large and 23 massive tears. Interobserver reproducibility was good to excellent. When we compared the completely and incompletely repaired groups, the FDI values for sagittal oblique sections of the supraspinatus and the infraspinatus and the FDI values for COTD and SOTD showed statistically significant differences. The cutoff values for SOTD and COTD were 32 mm and 31 mm, respectively. Regarding FDI, values greater than 3 on sagittal oblique sections of the supraspinatus and greater than 2 on sagittal oblique sections of the infraspinatus can be discouraging findings for complete repair. On preoperative MRI of RCTs, FDI values of greater than 3 on sagittal oblique sections of the supraspinatus and greater than 2 on sagittal oblique sections of the infraspinatus with greater than 31 mm in COTD and 32 mm in SOTD can imply incomplete arthroscopic repair of the torn tendon or type III/IV repair. Level II, development of diagnostic criteria based on consecutive patients with universally applied gold standard."}
{"id": "19494761", "title": "Rotator cuff injuries in skeletally immature patients: prevention and indications for the orthopaedic nurse.", "content": "Rotator cuff injuries in skeletally immature patients: prevention and indications for the orthopaedic nurse. Within the last decade, organized sports have grown, leading to an increase in the incidence of overuse injuries in the pediatric population. The possibility of rotator cuff tears in skeletally immature athletes should be considered during physical examination, and prevention programs should be emphasized to at-risk patients in order to help reverse the current trend in overuse injuries in this population. This article will address a series of adolescent patients with sports-related rotator cuff injuries to address a growing pattern of overuse injuries in adolescents. We will also discuss the effects on the orthopaedic nursing community and the interventions for anticipatory guidance that the orthopaedic nurses can incorporate into their everyday practice."}
{"id": "19494758", "title": "Femoroacetabular impingement in adolescents and young adults.", "content": "Femoroacetabular impingement in adolescents and young adults. Femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) is a recently described hip disorder resulting from an abnormal morphology between the proximal femur and acetabulum (socket). It is now recognized as a cause of hip pain in adolescents and young adults, and research has shown that it may also lead to early degenerative changes and osteoarthritis. Femoroacetabular impingement as a cause of precocious hip arthrosis was originally described by Ganz et al. in 2001, and a quick literature search on this topic will confirm that it has become a topic of cutting edge research within the orthopaedic community. The abnormal morphology in FAI results in increased hip contact forces with hip motion, especially flexion. This results in abnormal contact that can lead to acetabular labral tears and cartilaginous injury. Early diagnosis and treatment may possibly delay the future onset of hip arthritis. Although the precise cause of FAI is not well understood, the condition has become increasingly recognized as a cause of hip pain in active adolescents and young adults. The purpose of this article is to outline the history, physical examination and radiographic findings, and current conservative and surgical treatment modalities for FAI."}
{"id": "19489707", "title": "Efficacy of acupuncture as a treatment for chronic shoulder pain.", "content": "Efficacy of acupuncture as a treatment for chronic shoulder pain. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of acupuncture as a treatment for chronic shoulder pain and to compare the efficacy of individualized acupuncture to fixed, standard point acupuncture treatment. The study was a single-blind randomized, controlled trial. The study was conducted in an outpatient rheumatology clinic at the VA Medical Center of Philadelphia. The participants were adults with shoulder pain for at least 8 weeks with a diagnosis of osteoarthritis or rotator cuff tendonitis and a total Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI) score of > or =30. Thirty-one (31) subjects were randomized to one of three treatment groups: individualized acupuncture points according to the approaches of Traditional Chinese Medicine; fixed, standard acupuncture points conventionally used for shoulder pain; and sham nonpenetrating acupuncture. Subjects received 12 treatments over 6 weeks and were reassessed using the SPADI at the end of the 6 weeks. The primary outcome evaluated was the mean change in total SPADI score in each group from baseline to 6 weeks. After 6 weeks of treatment, the mean total SPADI score improved in all three groups, but the change was clinically significant (> or =10 points) only in groups 1 and 2 (-20.3 and -20.4, respectively, versus -6.5 in group 3). The treatment effects of groups 1 and 2 compared to the sham acupuncture group were -13.8 (95% confidence interval: -2.2 to -25.4, p < 0.015) and -13.9 (-2.0 to -25.8, p < 0.013), respectively. There was no difference between the individualized acupuncture and standardized acupuncture treatments. Acupuncture may be an effective treatment for chronic shoulder pain. There may be no difference in efficacy between individualized and standardized acupuncture treatment. This suggests that the use of standard points may make treatment easier for patient care and for further research studies."}
{"id": "19487518", "title": "Proximal humeral migration in shoulders with symptomatic and asymptomatic rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Proximal humeral migration in shoulders with symptomatic and asymptomatic rotator cuff tears. Proximal humeral migration is commonly seen in rotator-cuff-deficient shoulders. The specific effects of the size of the rotator cuff tear and of pain on glenohumeral kinematics have been poorly defined. The purpose of this study was to examine the influences of cuff tear size and pain, separately, on humeral migration in a series of patients with symptomatic and asymptomatic rotator cuff tears. Ninety-eight asymptomatic and sixty-two symptomatic shoulders were identified from a cohort of patients with unilateral shoulder pain related to rotator cuff disease. All shoulders underwent ultrasonographic evaluation of the rotator cuff and standardized radiographic evaluation. Humeral migration was measured by three observers using software-enhanced radiographic analysis. There was no significant difference in rotator cuff tear size between the asymptomatic and symptomatic shoulders, although more tears involved the infraspinatus in the symptomatic group (p = 0.01). Proximal humeral migration was greater in the shoulders with a symptomatic tear than it was in those with an asymptomatic tear (p = 0.03). Tears that involved the infraspinatus resulted in more migration than did isolated supraspinatus tears in both the symptomatic (p = 0.01) and the asymptomatic shoulders (p = 0.03). When the symptomatic tears of > or =175 mm(2) were analyzed separately, the size of the tear was found to correlate strongly with humeral migration (p = 0.01). However, when the symptomatic tears that were <175 mm(2) were analyzed, neither tear size nor pain was found to have a significant relationship with migration. When the analysis was limited to full-thickness symptomatic tears of > or =175 mm(2), both pain (p = 0.002) and tear area (p = 0.0002) were found to have a significant effect on migration. Multivariate analysis showed that tear size (p = 0.01) was the strongest predictor of migration in symptomatic shoulders. Proximal humeral migration correlates with rotator cuff tear size. Tears extending into the infraspinatus tendon are associated with greater humeral migration than is seen with isolated supraspinatus tears. Humeral migration resulting from symptomatic rotator cuff tears is greater than that resulting from asymptomatic tears. Additionally, there is a critical size for tendon tears resulting in humeral migration in painful shoulders. Although both pain and tear size influence glenohumeral kinematics in symptomatic shoulders, only tear size is an independent predictor of humeral migration."}
{"id": "19487132", "title": "Management of massive and irreparable rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Management of massive and irreparable rotator cuff tears. Massive rotator cuff tears pose a distinct clinical challenge for the orthopaedist. In this review, we will discuss the classification, diagnosis, and evaluation of massive rotator cuff tears before discussing various treatment options for this problem. Nonoperative treatment has had inconsistent results and proven unsuccessful for chronic symptoms while operative treatment including debridement and partial and complete repairs have had varying degrees of success. For rotator cuff tears that are deemed irreparable, treatment options are limited. The use of tendon transfers in younger patients to reconstruct rotator cuff function and restore shoulder kinematics can be useful in salvaging this difficult problem."}
{"id": "19483078", "title": "Interaction between the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons: effect of anterior supraspinatus tendon full-thickness tears on infraspinatus tendon strain.", "content": "Interaction between the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons: effect of anterior supraspinatus tendon full-thickness tears on infraspinatus tendon strain. Rotator cuff tears are common and not well-understood shoulder problems. Structural and mechanical inhomogeneity of the supraspinatus tendon complicates accurate prediction of risk of tear propagation and may affect appropriate clinical treatment. We propose that interactions between the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons are critical to load bearing at the glenohumeral joint and warrant investigation. Controlled laboratory study. Principal strains in the infraspinatus tendon of cadaveric human shoulders were evaluated with increasing anterior full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tear sizes and loading to evaluate whether a mechanical interaction between the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons exists. A constant nominal load was attached to the infraspinatus throughout all experimental conditions. Increasing supraspinatus tendon tear width from intact and 33% to 66% and increasing supraspinatus tendon load caused an increase in maximum and a decrease in minimum principal strain in the infraspinatus tendon. Increasing the supraspinatus tendon tear size from intact to 33% of the width had no significant effect on infraspinatus tendon strain. Supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons mechanically interact. The observed significant increase in maximum and decrease in minimum principal strain was concurrent in both the infraspinatus and supraspinatus tendons. Changes in infraspinatus tendon strain associated with increases in supraspinatus tendon tear size and loading may shield a torn supraspinatus tendon from further injury or may have an effect on the load-bearing capacity of the infraspinatus tendon. Results also imply that the effect of a small tear that does not compromise the confluent region between the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendon may be localized, eliminating its effect on infraspinatus tendon strain."}
{"id": "19482902", "title": "Short-term effects of high-intensity laser therapy versus ultrasound therapy in the treatment of people with subacromial impingement syndrome: a randomized clinical trial.", "content": "Short-term effects of high-intensity laser therapy versus ultrasound therapy in the treatment of people with subacromial impingement syndrome: a randomized clinical trial. Subacromial impingement syndrome (SAIS) is a painful condition resulting from the entrapment of anatomical structures between the anteroinferior corner of the acromion and the greater tuberosity of the humerus. The aim of this study was to evaluate the short-term effectiveness of high-intensity laser therapy (HILT) versus ultrasound (US) therapy in the treatment of SAIS. The study was designed as a randomized clinical trial. The study was conducted in a university hospital. Seventy patients with SAIS were randomly assigned to a HILT group or a US therapy group. Study participants received 10 treatment sessions of HILT or US therapy over a period of 2 consecutive weeks. Outcome measures were the Constant-Murley Scale (CMS), a visual analog scale (VAS), and the Simple Shoulder Test (SST). For the 70 study participants (42 women and 28 men; mean [SD] age=54.1 years [9.0]; mean [SD] VAS score at baseline=6.4 [1.7]), there were no between-group differences at baseline in VAS, CMS, and SST scores. At the end of the 2-week intervention, participants in the HILT group showed a significantly greater decrease in pain than participants in the US therapy group. Statistically significant differences in change in pain, articular movement, functionality, and muscle strength (force-generating capacity) (VAS, CMS, and SST scores) were observed after 10 treatment sessions from the baseline for participants in the HILT group compared with participants in the US therapy group. In particular, only the difference in change of VAS score between groups (1.65 points) surpassed the accepted minimal clinically important difference for this tool. This study was limited by sample size, lack of a control or placebo group, and follow-up period. Participants diagnosed with SAIS showed greater reduction in pain and improvement in articular movement functionality and muscle strength of the affected shoulder after 10 treatment sessions of HILT than did participants receiving US therapy over a period of 2 consecutive weeks."}
{"id": "19481961", "title": "Static posterior humeral head subluxation and total shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Static posterior humeral head subluxation and total shoulder arthroplasty. Static posterior subluxation of the humeral head (PSH) is often associated with glenohumeral arthritis. It may persist following total shoulder arthroplasty (TSA) and lead to accelerated polyethylene wear and glenoid component loosening. The factors which lead to PSH are poorly understood. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that operative correction of glenoid version during shoulder arthroplasty re-centers the glenohumeral joint; therefore, glenoid replacement may be considered even in cases of osteoarthritis associated with posterior humeral head subluxation. Thirty-three of 124 (27%) consecutive shoulders undergoing primary TSA had static preoperative PSH with a subluxation index of at least 65% determined on standardized computer tomographic scans. Twenty-three of these 33 shoulders were available for clinical and computed tomography follow-up after a minimum of 24 and average of 42 months. Mean preoperative glenoid retroversion was -18 [range, 0 degrees - (-40 degrees)], the subluxation index averaged 71% (range, 65-81%). Glenoid morphology, according to Walch et al, was type B1 in 9 patients, type B2 in 5 patients, and type C in 9 patients. A conventional total shoulder replacement was performed through a deltopectoral interval. Using corrective glenoid reaming, restoration of glenoid version to between 0 degrees and 10 degrees of retroversion was attempted in addition to standard soft tissue release. Humeral head retroversion was replicated from the diseased humeral head as closely as possible. PSH was reversed in 21/23 patients following TSA with an average final subluxation index of 50% (range, 40-68%; P = .001). There was no significant correlation statistically between PSH and preoperative or postoperative glenoid version, humeral torsion, glenoid morphology, or acromio-humeral distance. Mean absolute Constant scores improved from 39 to 78 points, age-adjusted Constant scores improved from 49% to 95% and subjective shoulder values improved from 40% to 89%, which were all statistically significant (P < .0001). PSH is frequently present in shoulders with osteoarthritis. It can be corrected in the majority of shoulders undergoing total shoulder replacement; however, re-centering is not correlated with glenoid version or its correction. Level 4; Case series, treatment study."}
{"id": "19481859", "title": "Dynamic visualization of the coracoacromial ligament by ultrasound.", "content": "Dynamic visualization of the coracoacromial ligament by ultrasound. Subacromial impingement syndrome (SIS) is prevalent in athletes who make throwing motions over their heads, as well as in the normal population, but it is difficult to diagnose precisely using physical examination and traditional imaging modalities. Furthermore, the diagnostic testing protocols have not been strictly standardized. We used ultrasound to dynamically visualize coracoacromial ligament (CAL) morphology during shoulder impingement tests: the CAL is the key impinging structure in SIS. Fifty normal shoulders were examined. With the transducer placed on the CAL, the shoulders were examined with seven different testing protocols described in the literature. The degree of CAL bulge from the resting position was measured, and the degree of bulge in different testing protocols was compared. We found that the Hawkins-Kennedy impingement test caused more CAL bulge than the Neer's impingement test, and the most prominent morphological change in the CAL occurred with an internally rotated and horizontally abducted shoulder. We conclude that high-resolution ultrasound is an excellent tool for dynamically inspecting the impinging structures, is applicable in clinical settings, and allows more accurate diagnosis of SIS."}
{"id": "19480907", "title": "Ultrasound compared with magnetic resonance imaging for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears: a critically appraised topic.", "content": "Ultrasound compared with magnetic resonance imaging for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears: a critically appraised topic."}
{"id": "19479707", "title": "Acetabular labral tear mimicking seronegative arthritis in a young male.", "content": "Acetabular labral tear mimicking seronegative arthritis in a young male."}
{"id": "19467911", "title": "The effectiveness of manual therapy in the management of musculoskeletal disorders of the shoulder: a systematic review.", "content": "The effectiveness of manual therapy in the management of musculoskeletal disorders of the shoulder: a systematic review. A systematic review of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) was conducted to determine the effectiveness of manual therapy (MT) techniques for the management of musculoskeletal disorders of the shoulder. Seven electronic databases were searched up to January 2007, and reference lists of retrieved articles and relevant MT journals were screened. Fourteen RCTs met the inclusion criteria and their methodological qualities were assessed using the PEDro scale. Results were analyzed within diagnostic subgroups (adhesive capsulitis (AC), shoulder impingement syndrome [SIS], non-specific shoulder pain/dysfunction) and a qualitative analysis using levels of evidence to define treatment effectiveness was applied. For SIS, there was no clear evidence to suggest additional benefits of MT to other interventions. MT was not shown to be more effective than other conservative interventions for AC, however, massage and Mobilizations-with-Movement may be useful in comparison to no treatment for short-term outcomes for shoulder dysfunction."}
{"id": "19464039", "title": "Pathological manifestations of feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) infection in wild African lions.", "content": "Pathological manifestations of feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) infection in wild African lions. Feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) causes AIDS in the domestic cat (Felis catus) but has not been explicitly associated with AIDS pathology in any of the eight free-ranging species of Felidae that are endemic with circulating FIV strains. African lion (Panthera leo) populations are infected with lion-specific FIV strains (FIVple), yet there remains uncertainty about the degree to which FIV infection impacts their health. Reported CD4+ T-lymphocyte depletion in FIVple-infected lions and anecdotal reports of lion morbidity associated with FIV seroprevalence emphasize the concern as to whether FIVple is innocuous or pathogenic. Here we monitored clinical, biochemical, histological and serological parameters among FIVple-positive (N=47) as compared to FIVple-negative (N=17) lions anesthetized and sampled on multiple occasions between 1999 and 2006 in Botswana. Relative to uninfected lions, FIVple-infected lions displayed a significant elevation in the prevalence of AIDS-defining conditions: lymphadenopathy, gingivitis, tongue papillomas, dehydration, and poor coat condition, as well as displaying abnormal red blood cell parameters, depressed serum albumin, and elevated liver enzymes and gamma globulin. Spleen and lymph node biopsies from free-ranging FIVple-infected lions (N=9) revealed evidence of lymphoid depletion, the hallmark pathology documented in immunodeficiency virus infections of humans (HIV-1), macaques, and domestic cats. We conclude that over time FIVple infections in free-ranging lions can lead to adverse clinical, immunological, and pathological outcomes in some individuals that parallel sequelae caused by lentivirus infection in humans (HIV), Asian macaques (SIV) and domestic cats (FIVfca)."}
{"id": "19461244", "title": "Ossifying dermatofibroma with osteoclast-like giant cells: report of a case and literature review.", "content": "Ossifying dermatofibroma with osteoclast-like giant cells: report of a case and literature review. Dermatofibromas are fibrohistiocytic lesions with numerous histologic variants. Ossifying dermatofibroma with osteoclast-like giant cells is an uncommon variant that has only rarely been reported. We report another case of ossifying dermatofibroma with osteoclast-like giant cells and describe the immunohistochemical expression pattern of these rare lesions. A 72-year-old male presented with a 3.5-cm subcutaneous nodule on the posterior right shoulder of several years duration. The excision specimen showed a large, dermal-based, well-circumscribed, nonencapsulated heterogenous spindle cell proliferation. Large islands of spindled cells arranged in a storiform pattern were separated by broad fibrous bands. Collections of multinucleated giant cells were present predominantly at the periphery of the spindle cell islands. In addition, small islands of bone with osteoblastic rimming were present multifocally, concentrated in the central portion of the lesion. The spindle cells express factor XIIIA, smooth muscle actin, and CD68 on immunohistochemical stains, confirming a fibrohistiocytic origin. There was no immunohistochemical expression for S100 protein, panmel, CD57, cytokeratin, neuron-specific enolase, or CD34. A broad differential diagnosis, including variants of melanoma and osteosarcoma, should be considered when analyzing cutaneous lesions with a fibrohistiocytic component admixed with giant cells and metaplastic bone."}
{"id": "19457838", "title": "Accuracy of MRI, MR arthrography, and ultrasound in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears: a meta-analysis.", "content": "Accuracy of MRI, MR arthrography, and ultrasound in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears: a meta-analysis. The purpose of this study was to compare the diagnostic accuracy of MRI, MR arthrography, and ultrasound for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears through a meta-analysis of the studies in the literature. Articles reporting the sensitivities and specificities of MRI, MR arthrography, or ultrasound for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears were identified. Surgical (open and arthroscopic) reference standard was an inclusion criterion. Summary statistics were generated using pooled data. Scatterplots of the data sets were plotted on a graph of sensitivity versus (1 - specificity). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were generated. Sixty-five articles met the inclusion criteria for this meta-analysis. In diagnosing a full-thickness tear or a partial-thickness rotator cuff tear, MR arthrography is more sensitive and specific than either MRI or ultrasound (p < 0.05). There are no significant differences in either sensitivity or specificity between MRI and ultrasound in the diagnosis of partial- or full-thickness rotator cuff tears (p > 0.05). Summary ROC curves for MR arthrography, MRI, and ultrasound for all tears show the area under the ROC curve is greatest for MR arthrography (0.935), followed by ultrasound (0.889) and then MRI (0.878); however, pairwise comparisons of these curves show no significant differences between MRI and ultrasound (p > 0.05). MR arthrography is the most sensitive and specific technique for diagnosing both full- and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. Ultrasound and MRI are comparable in both sensitivity and specificity."}
{"id": "19451760", "title": "Shoulder impingement: relationship of clinical symptoms and imaging criteria.", "content": "Shoulder impingement: relationship of clinical symptoms and imaging criteria. To establish, in patients with subacromial impingement syndrome, (1) the relationship between pain and shoulder function, as determined by the Constant score, and morphological findings, as determined by radiographs and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and (2) the relationship between acromial shape and minimum acromiohumeral distance (AHD). Cross-sectional study. Tertiary care center. Forty-seven patients (33 males and 14 females; mean age, 51.7 years) with unilateral subacromial impingement syndrome who had failed to respond to conservative therapy for at least 6 months. The Constant score was determined preoperatively; acromial shape (type I, flat; type II, curved; and type III, hooked) was evaluated on preoperative outlet view radiographs and oblique sagittal T1-weighted MRIs; AHD was evaluated on preoperative anteroposterior radiographs and oblique coronal T1-weighted MRIs. Correlation coefficients and the simple kappa statistic were calculated. Student t test and mean differences with 95% confidence limits were reported for group comparisons. The Constant score was fairly correlated with AHD (r = 0.39, P < 0.01) but not with acromial shape. Patients with an AHD < or =7 mm on MRI scored significantly lower than those with an AHD >7 (mean difference, 18.5; P < 0.01). Acromial shape and AHD were not correlated, neither on radiographs nor on MRI. AHD seems to better reflect the clinical status of patients with subacromial impingement, but without rotator cuff tears, than acromial shape. Acromial shape is not a good descriptor of subacromial space narrowing."}
{"id": "19448877", "title": "Simultaneous bilateral contracture of the infraspinatus muscle.", "content": "Simultaneous bilateral contracture of the infraspinatus muscle. A case of bilateral fibrotic contracture of the infraspinatus muscles in a five-year-old Belgian Shepherd dog is described. The dog was presented with progressive forelimb lameness with postural and gait abnormalities three months after an episode of overexertion. When walking, the lower part of both forelimbs swung in a lateral arc causing a circumduction movement and in the standing position, the dog showed elbow adduction with external rotation of the distal part of both front limbs. Orthopaedic examination revealed bilateral atrophy of both infraspinatus and supraspinatus muscles and restriction in the range of motion of both shoulders, especially when attempting abduction and flexion. No specific findings were observed in the shoulder or elbow radiographs but hyperechogenic areas were evident in the ultrasonographic examination of both infraspinatus muscles. A diagnosis of fibrotic contracture of both infraspinatus muscles was established and bilateral tenectomy of the insertion tendons of the infraspinatus muscles was performed. Complete recovery of the animal was achieved after the surgery, which was confirmed in a long-term follow-up (10 months). In conclusion, physical examination and ultrasonography allowed a proper diagnosis of the condition, and tenectomy of the infraspinatus muscles resulted in a complete recovery of the patient even with bilateral involvement."}
{"id": "19440695", "title": "Rotator cuff repair with periosteum for enhancing tendon-bone healing: a biomechanical and histological study in rabbits.", "content": "Rotator cuff repair with periosteum for enhancing tendon-bone healing: a biomechanical and histological study in rabbits. During rotator cuff repair surgery, fixation and incorporation of ruptured rotator cuff tendon into the bone is a major concern. The repair usually fails at the tendon-bone interface, especially in cases where the tear is massive. The periosteum contains multipotent stem cells that have the potential to differentiate into osteogenic and chondrogenic tissues, which may restore the original structure at the tendon-bone interface, fibrocartilage. In this study, we investigated the effect of periosteum on the healing of the infraspinatus tendon and bone using a clinically relevant rabbit model of rotator cuff tear. We used 36 skeletally mature New Zealand white rabbits in the study. The infraspinatus tendon at right limb was detached from greater tuberosity, and a periosteal flap taken from the proximal tibia was sutured onto the torn end of tendon. The contralateral limb, which was used as a control, received the same treatment without a periosteum. The rabbits were sacrificed at 4, 8, and 12 weeks, and the tendon-bone interface was put to histological exam and the biomechanical testing to assess strength of tendon-bone interface. Histological analysis of the tendon-bone interface revealed that the periosteum formed a fibrous layer over the interface between tendon and bone. At 4 weeks, fibrotic tissue showed progressive integration over the interface between cuff tendon and bone. At 8 weeks, progressive formation of fibrovascular tissue and fibrocartilage was observed between tendon and bone. At 12 weeks, extensive formation of fibrocartilage and bone was noted in the interface. The significant increase of failure load with time indicated a progressive increase in the tendon-bone incorporation strength. At 4 weeks after operation, the attachment strength of the limbs with the periosteum treated was higher than that of the control limbs; however, this difference was not statistically significant. At 8 and 12 weeks, a statistically significant increase was noted in the attachment strength of the limb treated with the periosteum. Most specimens failed at the tendon-bone interface (18/20). In the treatment of a torn rotator cuff in rabbit model, improved healing process with greater attachment strength could be achieved by suturing the periosteum between the end of tendon and the bone trough. Histological examination revealed that the cambium layer of the periosteum could serve as a potent interface layer and become progressively mature and organized during the healing process, resulting in fibrocartilage formation and the subsequent integration of the disrupted tendon into the bone. Biomechanical testing revealed a progressive increase in the attachment strength with time indicating the progressive tendon-bone incorporation. When performing rotator cuff repair in a large or massive tear, a periosteal flap can be sutured onto the torn end of tendon to enhance tendon-bone healing."}
{"id": "19434458", "title": "Clinicopathologic significance of KIAA1199 overexpression in human gastric cancer.", "content": "Clinicopathologic significance of KIAA1199 overexpression in human gastric cancer. KIAA1199 is an inner-ear-specific gene which encodes KIAA1199 protein, the function of which is unknown. KIAA1199 might be a novel, positively regulated target of Wnt signaling. The aim of this study was to examine the expression of KIAA1199 in surgical specimens of gastric cancer to evaluate the clinical outcome. The expression of KIAA1199 mRNA was studied by semiquantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and the expression status was analyzed from the viewpoint of clinical and pathological factors. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed. In addition, an immunohistochemical study was performed in the selected samples. A significantly higher expression of KIAA1199 messenger RNA (mRNA) was recognized in tumor tissue compared with that of paired normal tissues (P < 0.01). The cases were divided into high- (n = 39) and low-expression (n = 71) groups according to KIAA1199 expression status in the tumor. The overall 5-year survival rate was significantly better in the KIAA1199 low-expression group (61.2%) than in the high-expression group (29.6%) (P < 0.05). Clinicopathological factors such as well and moderately tumor differentiation, positive lymph node metastasis, positive distant metastases, and positive peritoneal dissemination were more frequently observed in the high-expression group than in the low-expression group (P = 0.02, 0.08, 0.01, and 0.03, respectively). KIAA1199 expression was an independent prognostic factor (P = 0.03). KIAA1199 was highly expressed in gastric cancer, and was associated with prognosis and lymph node metastasis in multivariate analyses. Taken together, KIAA1199 may be a novel gene that plays an important role in progression of gastric cancer."}
{"id": "19427282", "title": "Massive rotator cuff tears in patients younger than 65 years. What treatment options are available?", "content": "Massive rotator cuff tears in patients younger than 65 years. What treatment options are available? Management of massive rotator cuff tears is a therapeutic challenge in patients younger than 65 years, particularly if still working. According to our hypothesis, choice of the most appropriate treatment option mainly depends on the patient's functional status and on two predictive factors: height of the subacromial space and fatty muscle infiltration. This is a retrospective, multicenter study of a series of 296 patients younger than 65 years, including 176 males and 120 females with extensive or massive cuff tear. Patients had loss of elevation or external rotation or both in 162 cases. Four types of management of massive rotator cuff tear were performed in this study: anatomical watertight repairs, palliative treatments and partial repairs, watertight repairs using flaps or cuff prostheses and reverse shoulder prostheses. At follow-up, the Constant score (65.6+/-3.4) and active elevation (147.7 degrees +/-32 degrees) had significantly improved. Active external rotation with elbow at the side, and acromiohumeral interval (AHI) were unchanged. Work-related injuries, previous surgeries and complications were correlated with a poorer Constant score. At follow-up, the anatomical repair sub-group had a significantly better Constant score than the three other treatment groups but involved patients with unchanged AHI and a low degree of fatty infiltration of the infraspinatus muscle. The reverse shoulder prostheses sub-group showed better outcomes in terms of function benefits. The presence of a long biceps was correlated with the use of a palliative treatment. In the light of the results and literature, an approach to treatment is suggested related to the functional capacity of patients, the AHI and the degree of fatty infiltration of the infraspinatus and subscapularis muscles."}
{"id": "19427235", "title": "Impingement mechanisms of the Neer and Hawkins signs.", "content": "Impingement mechanisms of the Neer and Hawkins signs. The impingement mechanisms of the Neer and Hawkins sign remain unclear. In addition, there is still a lack of agreement regarding the arm rotation when performing the Neer sign. Eight fresh frozen cadaveric shoulders were investigated. The specimens were attached to a shoulder-positioning device to which a compression force was applied. Subacromial contact pressure was measured with a flexible force sensor. The Neer sign was performed in three arm rotations (neutral, internal, and external). The contact sites of the coracoacromial arch side were common in both signs; however, those of the humeral head side were anatomically different: the supraspinatus tendon in the Neer sign and the subscapularis tendon in the Hawkins sign. The mean contact pressure in the Neer sign performed with the arm in internal rotation was greater than that in the Neer sign with the arm in other rotations. The data from this study indicate that the Neer and Hawkins signs do not represent the same impingement mechanism. The contact sites on the humeral head side were anatomically different. Additionally, it was found that the maximum contact pressure for the Neer sign is with internal rotation of the arm. Basic Science Study."}
{"id": "19427234", "title": "Fluoroscopic assessment of rotator cuff fatigue on glenohumeral arthrokinematics in shoulder impingement syndrome.", "content": "Fluoroscopic assessment of rotator cuff fatigue on glenohumeral arthrokinematics in shoulder impingement syndrome. Although prior researchers have assessed glenohumeral arthrokinematics using isometrically held arm postures with standard radiographs, dynamic assessment of glenohumeral arthrokinematics has been limited. This study utilized video fluoroscopy to analyze superior inferior glenohumeral migration during dynamic arm elevation in individuals with outlet impingement syndrome, before and after fatigue of the rotator cuff. Prior to the study, it was hypothesized that during the pre-fatigue state, glenohumeral migration would be in the superior direction, and that post-fatigue there would be a significant increase in superior migration. Digital fluoroscopic videos (30 Hz) were used to analyze 20 male volunteers (27.7 +/- 7.3 years) with right shoulder outlet impingement syndrome during concentric elevation of the arm in the plane of the scapula, both before and after fatigue of the rotator cuff. During concentric arm elevation, there was superior glenohumeral migration (1.6 mm) between 45 degrees and 90 degrees of arm elevation, regardless of fatigue-state (P = .02). After rotator cuff fatigue, the humeral head was positioned more superiorly on the glenoid fossa (P = .03). The position of the humeral head was 0.4 mm more superior than that reported in a previous study on healthy individuals. These results support prior findings that suggest superior glenohumeral migration during arm elevation is influenced both by shoulder pathology and the state of fatigue of the rotator cuff musculature. Future research should examine the effects of physical therapy and surgical interventions on glenohumeral arthrokinematics to better determine the most effective treatment methods for outlet impingement. Controlled laboratory study."}
{"id": "19423421", "title": "Massive rotator cuff tears in patients younger than 65 years. Epidemiology and characteristics.", "content": "Massive rotator cuff tears in patients younger than 65 years. Epidemiology and characteristics. Currently, there is little information on the clinical, radiographic and electric profile of patients younger than 65 years of age with large rotator cuff tear. According to our hypothesis, massive rotator cuff tear, when discovered after recent traumatism, do not provide typical radiographic findings and suprascapular nerve impairment in large rotator cuff tears is uncommon. This is a prospective, descriptive, multicenter study of a series of 112 patients younger than 65 years, including 66 males and 46 females with extensive or massive cuff tear. Duration of symptoms was less than 6 months in 28 cases and secondary to trauma in 57 cases. Patients had loss of elevation or external rotation or both in 57 cases. An electromyogram (EMG) of suprascapular nerve was performed in 50 cases. A higher incidence of advanced fatty infiltration of the infraspinatus muscle (>stage 2 according to Goutallier) was observed in case of long-term symptomatology or in the absence of known trauma. Traumatic status was commonly found in patients with functional deficit in shoulder elevation, thus reporting a significantly lower Constant score (p<0.0001). Patients with both loss of shoulder elevation and external rotation had a significantly narrower subacromial space (5 mm versus 7.2 mm). No significant relationship could be established between electric impairment and massive cuff tear. According to the present study, in case of traumatic context and recent symptomatology, subacromial height and fatty infiltration of the infraspinatus muscle are better prognostic factors despite a pseudoparalytic shoulder. Repair should thus be considered. Moreover, the interest of a preoperative suprascapular nerve EMG is questionable."}
{"id": "19421915", "title": "What is the role of clinical tests and ultrasound in acetabular labral tear diagnostics?", "content": "What is the role of clinical tests and ultrasound in acetabular labral tear diagnostics? An acetabular labral tear is a diagnostic challenge. Various clinical tests have been described, but little is known about their diagnostic sensitivity and specificity. We investigated the diagnostic validity of clinical tests and ultrasound as compared with MR arthrography. We examined 18 patients (18 hips, 2 men, median age 43 (32-56) years) with impingement test, FABER test, resisted straight leg raise test, ultrasound, and MR arthrography. They had had previous periacetabular osteotomies due to symptomatic, acetabular dysplasia. All hips showed no or only slight signs of osteoarthritis (T\u00f6nnis grade 0-1). MR arthrography identified labral tears in 17 of the 18 hips. Ultrasound had a sensitivity of 94%, a positive predictive value of 94%, and was false negative in only 1 case compared to MR arthrography. The impingement test had the best diagnostic ability of the clinical tests, with a sensitivity of 59% and a specificity of 100%. The positive predictive value was 100% while the negative predictive value was 13%. The impingement test is helpful in identifying acetabular labral tears. If this test is negative and if a labral tear is still suspected, ultrasound can reliably diagnose most tears of the acetabular labrum. MR arthrography is indicated in cases where ultrasound is negative, but the patient suffers continued, specific symptoms."}
{"id": "19421749", "title": "Is a single direct MR arthrography series in ABER position as accurate in detecting anteroinferior labroligamentous lesions as conventional MR arthography?", "content": "Is a single direct MR arthrography series in ABER position as accurate in detecting anteroinferior labroligamentous lesions as conventional MR arthography? The purpose of this study is to retrospectively compare accuracy of single magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography series in Abduction External Rotation (ABER) with conventional MR arthrography for detection and characterisation of anteroinferior labroligamentous lesions, with arthroscopy as reference standard. Inter-observer variability of both protocols was determined. Institutional review board approval was obtained; informed consent was waived. MR arthrograms, including oblique axial fat suppressed T1-weighted images in ABER position and conventional imaging directions of 250 patients (170 men, 80 women; mean age, 36 years), were retrospectively and independently evaluated by three reviewers. Reviewers were blinded to clinical information and arthroscopic results. Labroligamentous lesions were registered in both ABER and MRa. The lesions were sub-classified (Bankart, Perthes, anterior labrum periosteal sleeve avulsion (ALPSA) or lesions not otherwise specified). Inter-observer agreement was assessed by Kappa statistics for all 250 patients. Ninety-two of 250 patients underwent arthroscopy. Sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of ABER versus conventional MR arthrography were calculated and compared using paired McNemar test. Kappa values of the ABER and conventional MR arthrography ranged from 0.44 to 0.56 and 0.44 to 0.62, respectively. According to arthroscopy, 45 of 92 patients had an intact anteroinferior labrum, and in 44 patients, a labroligamentous lesion (eight Bankart, seven Perthes, 29 ALPSA and three lesions not otherwise specified) was diagnosed. There were no statistically significant differences between ABER and conventional MR arthrography regarding sensitivity (85-89%, 89-96%), specificity (82-91%, 84-89%) and overall accuracy (50-62%, 53-63%). The results of a single MR arthrography series in ABER position are comparable with those of conventional MR arthrography for detecting anteroinferior labroligamentous lesions."}
{"id": "19411640", "title": "Reverse total shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Reverse total shoulder arthroplasty. The radical changes in prosthetic design made in the mid 1980s transformed the historically poorly performing reverse ball-and-socket total shoulder prosthesis into a highly successful salvage implant for pseudoparalytic, severely rotator cuff-deficient shoulders. Moving the center of rotation more medial and distal as well as implanting a large glenoid hemisphere that articulates with a humeral cup in 155 degrees of valgus are the biomechanical keys to sometimes spectacular short- to mid-term results. Use of the reverse total shoulder arthroplasty device allows salvage of injuries that previously were beyond surgical treatment. However, this technique has a complication rate approximately three times that of conventional arthroplasty. Radiographic and clinical results appear to deteriorate over time. Proper patient selection and attention to technical details are needed to reduce the currently high complication rate."}
{"id": "19409313", "title": "Anatomic reduction and next-generation fixation constructs for arthroscopic repair of crescent, L-shaped, and U-shaped rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Anatomic reduction and next-generation fixation constructs for arthroscopic repair of crescent, L-shaped, and U-shaped rotator cuff tears. Emerging techniques and instrumentation have allowed orthopaedic surgeons to achieve rotator cuff repair through an all-arthroscopic technique. The most critical steps in rotator cuff repair consist of proper identification of the cuff tear pattern and anatomic restoration of the torn tendon footprint. With anatomic reduction of the rotator cuff tendons, a sound fixation construct can help restore rotator cuff contact pressure and kinematics, allowing for decreased repair tension and optimal healing potential. We provide surgical methods to recognize tear patterns and present a repair construct that will restore the anatomic footprint of the torn rotator cuff tendon. The key, initial maneuver to restore the anatomic footprint of the cuff includes placement of a suture anchor at the anterolateral corner for L-shaped tears and at the posterolateral corner for reverse L-shaped and U-shaped tears. After insertion of the medial-row anchors, the tendon stitches should be planned by use of a grasper to hold the tendon in a reduced position and guide location of the stitch. The lateral row with suture bridge can be visualized, and the final repair construct should produce an anatomic restoration of the rotator cuff footprint."}
{"id": "19409308", "title": "The compressive behavior of the human glenoid labrum may explain the common patterns of SLAP lesions.", "content": "The compressive behavior of the human glenoid labrum may explain the common patterns of SLAP lesions. The aim of the study was to define the normalized compressive stiffness (modulus) of the glenoid labrum around its circumference and to characterize the difference in modulus between different areas. Sixteen fresh-frozen cadaveric shoulders were harvested and dissected down to the glenoid labrum. Any specimens with significant degenerative changes were discarded, leaving 8 labra for testing. The labrum was divided into 8 segments, to allow comparison around its circumference. A uniform testing specimen was produced from each area by use of a microtome. Each specimen measured 3 x 1 mm in cross section and was 6 mm in length. Indentation testing was conducted in a controlled environment of 100% humidity at 37 degrees C +/- 1 degrees C. We obtained 52 test samples from 8 labra. The mean modulus of the glenoid labrum was 69.7 megapascal (standard deviation, 36.2 megapascal). The anterosuperior portion of the labrum had a higher modulus than the posteroinferior portion (P = .0075). This study has shown that the human glenoid labrum's compressive behavior varies around its circumference. The greater modulus of the anterosuperior portion of the labrum supports the theory that this area is anatomically different from the rest of the labrum and resists compressive loads. These results may explain why the common type of SLAP lesions seen show failure at the interface between the labrum and the glenoid rather than within the substance of the labrum itself."}
{"id": "19409148", "title": "Correlation between rotator cuff tears and repeated subacromial steroid injections: a case-controlled study.", "content": "Correlation between rotator cuff tears and repeated subacromial steroid injections: a case-controlled study. Concern exists regarding potential damage to the rotator cuff from repeated corticosteroid injections into the subacromial space. In this retrospective, case-controlled study, 230 consecutive patients presenting to three orthopaedic units with subacromial impingement and investigated as an end-point with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the shoulder were divided into groups having received less than three or three or more subacromial injections of corticosteroids. With no significant difference in age and sex distribution, analysis by MRI showed no significant difference between the two groups in the incidence of rotator cuff tear (P < 1.0). This suggests that corticosteroid use in patients with subacromial impingement should not be considered a causative factor in rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "19407290", "title": "Prevalence of associated deformities and hip pain in patients with cam-type femoroacetabular impingement.", "content": "Prevalence of associated deformities and hip pain in patients with cam-type femoroacetabular impingement. Femoroacetabular impingement is a cause of hip pain in adults and is potentially a precursor of osteoarthritis. Our aim in this study was to determine the prevalence of bilateral deformity in patients with symptomatic cam-type femoroacetabular impingement as well as the presence of associated acetabular abnormalities and hip pain. We included all patients aged 55 years or less seen by the senior author for hip pain, with at least one anteroposterior and lateral pelvic radiograph available. All patients with dysplasia and/or arthritis were excluded. A total of 113 patients with a symptomatic cam-impingement deformity of at least one hip was evaluated. There were 82 men and 31 women with a mean age of 37.9 years (16 to 55). Bilateral cam-type deformity was present in 88 patients (77.8%) while only 23 of those (26.1%) had bilateral hip pain. Painful hips had a statistically significant higher mean alpha angle than asymptomatic hips (69.9 degrees vs 63.1 degrees , p < 0.001). Hips with an alpha angle of more than 60 degrees had an odds ratio of being painful of 2.59 (95% confidence interval 1.32 to 5.08, p = 0.006) compared with those with an alpha angle of less than 60 degrees . Of the 201 hips with a cam-impingement deformity 42% (84) also had a pincer deformity. Most patients with cam-type femoroacetabular impingement had bilateral deformities and there was an associated acetabular deformity in 84 of 201 patients (42%). This information is important in order to define the natural history of these deformities, and to determine treatment."}
{"id": "19394170", "title": "Serial postmortem thoracic radiographic findings in canine cadavers.", "content": "Serial postmortem thoracic radiographic findings in canine cadavers. Postmortem radiographic examinations of animals are often performed in judicial investigation to rule out gunshot and fractures due to cruelty. Literature describing postmortem changes seen on radiographs of animals is rarely available. Serial thoracic radiography of six recently euthanized dogs was performed in an interval of 8 h at a tropical ambient temperature of 22-33 degrees C. Severe decomposition of the cadavers prevented the study to be performed beyond 24 h. Gradual increment of gas accumulation in the pleural cavity, mediastinum, esophagus, blood vessels, cardiac chambers and subcutaneous tissue was observed. Lung changes observed were typical of alveolar pattern and subsequently collapsed secondary to severe pneumothorax. Vacuum phenomenon of the scapulohumeral joints which was not documented in humans was seen in four cadavers. Most radiographic changes were detected at 16 h post-euthanasia. Severe subcutaneous emphysema developed between 16 and 24 h post-euthanasia. This study showed that rapid postmortem changes which could be detected radiographically occur within 24 h of death at the ambient temperature of 22-33 degrees C."}
{"id": "19390877", "title": "Gait in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis: energy cost analysis.", "content": "Gait in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis: energy cost analysis. Walking is a very common activity for the human body. It is so common that the musculoskeletal and cardiovascular systems are optimized to have the minimum energetic cost at 4 km/h (spontaneous speed). A previous study showed that lumbar and thoracolumbar adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) patients exhibit a reduction of shoulder, pelvic, and hip frontal mobility during gait. A longer contraction duration of the spinal and pelvic muscles was also noted. The energetic cost (C) of walking is normally linked to the actual mechanical work muscles have to perform. This total mechanical work (W(tot)) can be divided in two parts: the work needed to move the shoulders and lower limbs relative to the center of mass of the body (COM(b)) is known as the internal work (W(int)), whereas additional work, known as external work (W(ext)), is needed to accelerate and lift up the COM(b) relative to the ground. Normally, the COM(b) goes up and down by 3 cm with every step. Pathological walking usually leads to an increase in W (tot) (often because of increased vertical displacement of the COM(b)), and consequently, it increases the energetic cost. The goal of this study is to investigate the effects of scoliosis and scoliosis severity on the mechanical work and energetic cost of walking. Fifty-four female subjects aged 12 to 17 were used in this study. Thirteen healthy girls were in the control group, 12 were in scoliosis group 1 (Cobb angle [Cb] < or = 20 degrees), 13 were in scoliosis group 2 (20 degrees < Cb < 40 degrees), and 16 were in scoliosis group 3 (Cb > or = 40 degrees). They were assessed by physical examination and gait analysis. The 41 scoliotic patients had an untreated progressive left thoracolumbar or lumbar AIS. During gait analysis, the subject was asked to walk on a treadmill at 4 km h(-1). Movements of the limbs were followed by six infrared cameras, which tracked markers fixed on the body. W(int) was calculated from the kinematics. The movements of the COM(b) were derived from the ground reaction forces, and W(ext) was calculated from the force signal. W(tot) was equal to W(int) + W(ext). Oxygen consumption VO2 was measured with a mask to calculate energetic cost (C) and muscular efficiency (W(tot)/C). Statistical comparisons between the groups were performed using an analysis of variance (ANOVA). The external work (W(ext)) and internal work (W(int)) were both reduced from 7 to 22% as a function of the severity of the scoliosis curve. Overall, the total muscular mechanical work (W(tot)) was reduced from 7% to 13% in the scoliosis patients. Within scoliosis groups, the W(ext) for the group 1 (Cb > or = 20 degrees) and 2 (20 < or = Cb < or = 40 degrees) was significantly different from group 3 (Cb > or = 40 degrees). No significant differences were observed between scoliosis groups for the W(int). The W(tot) did not showed any significant difference between scoliosis groups except between group 1 and 3. The energy cost and VO2 were increased by around 30%. As a result Muscle efficiency was significantly decreased by 23% to 32%, but no significant differences related to the severity of the scoliosis were noted. This study shows that scoliosis patients have inefficient muscles during walking. Muscle efficiency was so severely decreased that it could be used as a diagnostic tool, since every scoliosis patient had an average muscle efficiency below 27%, whereas every control had an average muscle efficiency above 27%. The reduction of mechanical work found in scoliotic patients has never been observed in any pathological gait, but it is interpreted as a long term adaptation to economize energy and face poor muscle efficiency. With a relatively stiff gait, scoliosis patients also limit vertical movement of the COM(b) (smoothing the gait) and consequently, reduce W(ext) and W(int). Inefficiency of scoliosis muscles was obvious even in mild scoliosis (group 1, Cb < 20 degrees) and could be related to the prolonged muscle contraction time observed in a previous study (muscle co-contraction)."}
{"id": "19390451", "title": "Non-popliteal synovial rupture.", "content": "Non-popliteal synovial rupture. The ruptured popliteal synovial cyst is a common complication of chronic knee arthritis. In contrast, non-popliteal synovial rupture is less well recognized and may present a diagnostic dilemma. We report an 81-year-old woman who presented with chest wall pain and ecchymosis. Ultrasonography of the shoulder region readily diagnosed a dissecting parasynovial cyst. She developed the unusual complication of contralateral recurrence. Literature review revealed a small but important set of non-popliteal synovial ruptures in the regions of the shoulder, elbow, wrist, spine, hip, knee, and ankle. Local swelling, inflammation, ecchymosis, and nerve impingement may mimic other conditions. Awareness of the clinical presentations and a high index of suspicion are required to avoid diagnostic confusion. Management data are limited to case reports of arthrocentesis, injection, and very rarely, surgery."}
{"id": "19385554", "title": "Typical and atypical shoulder impingement syndrome: diagnosis, treatment, and pitfalls.", "content": "Typical and atypical shoulder impingement syndrome: diagnosis, treatment, and pitfalls. The cause of shoulder impingement syndrome usually is considered to be compression of the rotator cuff and subacromial bursa against the anterolateral aspect of the acromion. The typical symptom is anterolateral shoulder pain that worsens at night and with overhead activity. However, the pain may be caused by factors other than a hooked acromion. Atypical impingement syndrome most commonly results from an os acromiale, a subcoracoid disorder, acromioclavicular joint undersurface hypertrophy, a deconditioned rotator cuff, or scapular dyskinesis. The correct diagnosis is made through the patient history and physical examination, with appropriate diagnostic imaging. Nonsurgical treatment is successful for most types of impingement syndrome; if it is not successful, all structural causes of mechanical impingement must be corrected."}
{"id": "19385552", "title": "Advanced techniques in hip arthroscopy.", "content": "Advanced techniques in hip arthroscopy. The indications for hip arthroscopy are expanding as the understanding of hip disease increases. Improved instrumentation and technical skills also have facilitated the ability to treat some hip disorders arthroscopically. Femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) is increasingly recognized as a disorder that can lead to progressive intra-articular chondral and labral injury. Although FAI is usually treated through an open approach, limited-open and all-arthroscopic approaches have been described. Various arthroscopic techniques allow treatment of labral and acetabular rim pathology as well as peripheral compartment femoral head-neck abnormalities. Early outcomes of limited-open and all-arthroscopic treatment of FAI are only beginning to be reported but appear to compare favorably with those of open dislocation procedures. Although labral tears traditionally have been treated with simple d\u00e9bridement, concerns have been raised about the consequences of removing the labrum. Modified portal placement and hip-specific suture anchors are now being used in an effort to repair some labral tears. Snapping hip disorders typically are treated nonsurgically. For persistent symptoms, arthroscopic release is successful, compared with open release, and allows additional evaluation of the hip joint during surgery. Diagnosis and management of traumatic and atraumatic hip instability continue to be challenging. Hip arthroscopy has been shown to be effective in the treatment of hip instability in some patients. The extra-articular peritrochanteric space is receiving increased attention. The arthroscopic anatomy has been well defined, but the treatment of greater trochanteric pain syndrome and arthroscopic repair of abductor tendon tears are only beginning to be reported. Improved techniques and longer-term outcomes studies will further define the optimal role of hip arthroscopy."}
{"id": "19385535", "title": "The young adult with hip impingement: deciding on the optimal intervention.", "content": "The young adult with hip impingement: deciding on the optimal intervention. Femoroacetabular impingement is a recognized cause of hip pain and osteoarthritis in young adults. The clinical presentation of this pathology is quite varied in terms of the underlying deformity, patient age, and the degree of cartilage damage. Open hip surgery with surgical dislocation is the gold standard for treating femoral deformities and the damaged acetabular labral complex; however, less invasive techniques such as hip arthroscopy and arthroscopy combined with limited anterior hip arthrotomy may provide comparable outcomes with less surgical morbidity. Unresolved issues include the indications for acetabular rim trimming with labral refixation in the presence of acetabular retroversion and/or delaminated acetabular cartilage. Other issues involve the use of arthroplasty in older patients and/or in those with significant cartilage damage."}
{"id": "19380327", "title": "Numerical modelling of the shoulder for clinical applications.", "content": "Numerical modelling of the shoulder for clinical applications. Research activity involving numerical models of the shoulder is dramatically increasing, driven by growing rates of injury and the need to better understand shoulder joint pathologies to develop therapeutic strategies. Based on the type of clinical question they can address, existing models can be broadly categorized into three groups: (i) rigid body models that can simulate kinematics, collisions between entities or wrapping of the muscles over the bones, and which have been used to investigate joint kinematics and ergonomics, and are often coupled with (ii) muscle force estimation techniques, consisting mainly of optimization methods and electromyography-driven models, to simulate muscular action and joint reaction forces to address issues in joint stability, muscular rehabilitation or muscle transfer, and (iii) deformable models that account for stress-strain distributions in the component structures to study articular degeneration, implant failure or muscle/tendon/bone integrity. The state of the art in numerical modelling of the shoulder is reviewed, and the advantages, limitations and potential clinical applications of these modelling approaches are critically discussed. This review concentrates primarily on muscle force estimation modelling, with emphasis on a novel muscle recruitment paradigm, compared with traditionally applied optimization methods. Finally, the necessary benchmarks for validating shoulder models, the emerging technologies that will enable further advances and the future challenges in the field are described."}
{"id": "19376471", "title": "Upper and lower trapezius muscle activity in subjects with subacromial impingement symptoms: is there imbalance and can taping change it?", "content": "Upper and lower trapezius muscle activity in subjects with subacromial impingement symptoms: is there imbalance and can taping change it? To investigate (i) whether subacromial impingement symptoms (SIS) were associated with upper and lower trapezius muscle imbalance and (ii) the effect of a scapula taping technique on upper and lower trapezius muscle activity. Cross-sectional study with nested within-subject intervention. University research laboratory. Subjects who demonstrated SIS (n=16) on clinical testing and an age and gender matched group of asymptomatic subjects (n=32). Surface electromyography (EMG) to measure activity in the upper (UFT) and lower (LFT) fibres of trapezius during repeated humeral elevation in the scapular plane. Symptomatic subjects demonstrated a significantly (95% CI 2.13 to 4.17, p=0.019) higher ratio of UFT:LFT activity than the asymptomatic subjects (95% CI 1.35 to 2.25). With tape in situ the symptomatic subjects demonstrated a significant (95% CI -8.6% to -17.3%, p<0.001) reduction in UFT activity but no significant (95% CI +2.8% to -17.5%, p=0.145) change in activity of LFT. No relationship (r=- 0.116, p=0.669) was found between the degree of underlying muscle imbalance and the reduction in UFT under the taped condition for the symptomatic group. Subacromial impingement symptoms are associated with altered upper and lower trapezius muscle activity which can be partially addressed by the application of tape."}
{"id": "19367520", "title": "Importance of neurological evaluation before reverse shoulder arthroplasty in patients with previous poliomyelitis.", "content": "Importance of neurological evaluation before reverse shoulder arthroplasty in patients with previous poliomyelitis. We present a case report of a patient, affected by post-polio syndrome and cuff tear arthropathy of his right shoulder, who underwent reverse shoulder arthroplasty. A previous radial deficiency was unmasked in the post-operative follow-up, with passive elbow bending when the forearm was put in an antigravitational position. A precise preoperative neurological evaluation is mandatory in shoulder replacement in order to estimate the functional outcome after surgery."}
{"id": "19364887", "title": "Arthroscopic treatment of concomitant superior labral anterior posterior (SLAP) lesions and rotator cuff tears in patients over the age of 45 years.", "content": "Arthroscopic treatment of concomitant superior labral anterior posterior (SLAP) lesions and rotator cuff tears in patients over the age of 45 years. Rotator cuff tears commonly occur in combination with other shoulder injuries such as superior labral anterior posterior (SLAP) lesions. The incidence of these associated lesions increases with age; however, the management of concomitant SLAP and rotator cuff tears has yet to be convincingly addressed in the literature. Patients over the age of 45 years who have concomitant arthroscopic rotator cuff repair and debridement of their type II SLAP lesions will have improved patient satisfaction and functional outcome compared with those who undergo simultaneous rotator cuff and type II SLAP repair. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 2. We recruited 48 patients (mean age, 51.9 years; range, 45-60 years) who had concomitant rotator cuff and type II SLAP tears. All underwent arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with subacromial decompression. Patients were randomized intraoperatively into 2 groups: repair versus debridement of their type II SLAP lesions. Ten patients were lost at final follow-up (4 in debridement and 6 in repair group). The outcome was assessed by the Tegner score and University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) score and clinically to evaluate range of motion (forward elevation/internal rotation/external rotation). At 2 years postoperatively, both the debridement and repair groups showed significant improvement in Tegner score, UCLA score, and range of motion. Patients who underwent rotator cuff repair in combination with debridement of their SLAP tears had significantly better overall UCLA scores (34 vs 31; P < .001) and improved function (5.5 vs 3.8; P < .005) and pain relief (9.6 vs 7.7; P < .001) compared with those who underwent simultaneous rotator cuff and SLAP repair. Range of motion in both internal and external rotation was also significantly better in those patients who had SLAP debridement as compared to SLAP repair. In patients over the age of 45 years with a minimally retracted rotator cuff tear and associated SLAP lesion, arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff with combined debridement of the type II SLAP lesion may provide greater patient satisfaction and functional outcome in terms of pain relief and motion."}
{"id": "19359418", "title": "The shoulders of professional beach volleyball players: high prevalence of infraspinatus muscle atrophy.", "content": "The shoulders of professional beach volleyball players: high prevalence of infraspinatus muscle atrophy. Beach volleyball is an Olympic overhead sport. It is not well known which clinical and imaging findings are normal and which are associated with symptoms. There are typical clinical and imaging findings in the hitting shoulders of fully competitive professional beach volleyball players, as compared with their nonhitting shoulders. Cross-sectional study; Level of evidence, 3. During the Beach Volleyball Grand Slam Tournament in Klagenfurt, Austria, 84 professional players (54 men, 30 women) underwent a questionnaire-based interview and a complete physical examination, including scoring and sonography of both shoulders. Twenty-nine players had shoulder MRIs. The mean age of the athletes was 28 years. Atrophy of the infraspinatus muscle was found in 30% of the hitting shoulders, and it was not typically recognized by the players. The absolute Constant score was significantly lower in the hitting shoulder (87 versus 93 points, P < .0001). Average external rotation strength was decreased in the hitting shoulder (8.2 versus 9.5 kg, P < .0001). There were more abnormalities on the sonography of the hitting shoulder (1.7 versus 0.4, P < .0001) and in the same shoulders on MRI than on sonography (P = .0231). Compression of the suprascapular nerve was not observed. Pain in the hitting shoulder was present in 63% of the players, without clear correlations to the investigated clinical and imaging parameters. The prevalence of infraspinatus muscle atrophy in professional beach volleyball players is 30%. The typical, fully competitive player has subjectively unrecognized decreased strength of external rotation and frequent unspecific shoulder pain. Therefore, abnormal clinical and imaging findings in the beach volleyball player should be interpreted with care."}
{"id": "19358393", "title": "Restricted scapular mobility during arm abduction: implications for impingement syndrome.", "content": "Restricted scapular mobility during arm abduction: implications for impingement syndrome. Scapular mobility plays a central role in normal shoulder function, and alterations in scapular mobility have been suggested as a factor in impingement syndrome. We therefore measured the effect of restricted scapular mobility during arm abduction on acromiohumeral and coracohumeral distances. For the control measurements, healthy volunteers (n = 10, all male, age range 25-35 years) underwent multislice computed tomography in a supine position, with the humerus actively maintained in the scapular plane at 45 degrees internal rotation and 60, 90 or 120 degrees abduction. To restrict scapular mobility a custom-made brace was then placed on each volunteer and fastened firmly with bandages, and the measurements were repeated. From the three-dimensional images the acromiohumeral and coracohumeral distances were measured. With the humerus in 90 degrees abduction, the acromiohumeral distance was significantly reduced (Student's t test). This result suggests that impingement syndrome may have a functional component."}
{"id": "19349223", "title": "Results of latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable cuff tears.", "content": "Results of latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable cuff tears. Rupture of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendon (and teres minor) can cause loss of active external rotation (ER), entailing severe functional disability in daily activities. Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer (LDTT), proposed by Gerber in 1988, appears to be the best adapted solution in these cases of irreparable posterior and superior cuff tears. Between 2001 and 2004, 30 patients were operated on by the technique described by Gerber, with the transfer fixed anteriorly to the subscapularis tendon and laterally to the greater tuberosity by transosseous suture. One patient, subsequently requiring revision with a reversed prosthesis, was considered as a failure. Twenty-six patients were reviewed with a mean follow-up delay of 34+/-12 months. There were 14 men and 13 women. Mean age was 55.5 years (36 to 71 years). Preoperatively, active ER was symmetric in seven cases, loss of active ER was moderate with positive lag sign in five cases, significant with positive dropping sign in six cases, and severe in nine cases. Fatty muscular degeneration was present and significant in all cases for the infraspinatus muscle and in 14 cases for the teres minor muscle (associated with significant ER loss). Subjectively, 85% of the patients were very satisfied or satisfied and the Subjective Shoulder Value (SSV) was 68+/-17%. The pain score improved from 4.8+/-3 preoperatively to 12.2+/-2 postoperatively, strength from 3.7+/-2 kg to 4.2+/-1.8 kg, mean Constant score from 50+/-12 to 74+/-9, and Constant score adjusted for age and gender from 62+/-15% to 91+/-11%. Mean active ER gain was 7 degrees (-30 degrees to +50 degrees). The loss of active ER was aggravated in one case, unchanged in three, improved in nine and corrected in six. Hornblower sign was corrected in six cases and persisted in nine. Postoperatively, 8% of the patients were unable to eat and drink, compared to 64.7% preoperatively. The results of this series are comparable to those found in the literature for first-intention cases. LDTT restored active ER, but the results were incomplete and variable. Improvement was better in case of severe preoperative active ER deficit and insufficiency of the teres minor muscle. Recovery of strength was not observed in the present series. A narrow subacromial space and grade-3 Hamada classification had negative impact. In spite of an expected tenodesis effect, LDTT did not recenter the humeral head. LDTT compensates the deficient teres minor muscle rather than the infraspinatus muscle. The optimal indication for LDTT is irreparable superior and posterior rotator cuff rupture with loss of active ER associated with a deficient teres minor muscle. It is debatable whether LDTT is indicated in the absence of active motion deficiency: improvement was observed in these cases, but only in terms of subjective criteria."}
{"id": "19346624", "title": "The relationship of pain intensity, physical impairment, and pain-related fear to function in patients with shoulder pathology.", "content": "The relationship of pain intensity, physical impairment, and pain-related fear to function in patients with shoulder pathology. Cross-sectional. This study examined the baseline relationship of pain intensity, physical impairment, and pain-related fear to shoulder function. There is no consensus regarding the influence psychological variable have on function and recovery in individuals with shoulder pathologies. While pain-related fear has been shown to predict disability for patients with low-back and cervical pain, this relationship has not been consistently reported for patients with shoulder pain. One hundred forty-two subjects (78 male, 64 female; mean age, 41.4 years) with nonoperative unilateral shoulder disorders were identified from a clinical database of impairment and outcome measures.Demographic information, duration of symptoms, mechanism of injury, pain intensity, pain-related fear, and range-of-motion (ROM) measures were collected. Self-report of function was measured with the Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI). Hierarchical regression analysis determined the proportions of explained variance in function. Demographic variables (duration of symptoms, sex, age, and mechanism of injury) collectively contributed approximately 9% (P=.003) of the variance in function scores. Average pain intensity and flexion ROM contributed an additional 22% (P<.001) of the variance, and Tampa Scale of Kinesiophobia (TSK-11) scores contributed an additional 3% (P<.001). In the final parsimonious model, presence of symptoms longer than 3 months (beta=.23, P=.003), pain intensity (beta=.25, P=.002), shoulder flexion ROM index (beta=-.35, P=.001), and kinesiophobia (beta=.17, P=.026) explained 33% of the variance in SPADI function score (P<.001). Presence of symptoms longer than 3 months, average pain intensity, flexion ROM index (strongest contributor in multivariate model), and fear-of-pain scores all contributed to baseline shoulder function. The immediate clinical relevance of these findings is unclear but they do provide direction for prospective studies."}
{"id": "19346036", "title": "Arc of motion and socket depth in reverse shoulder implants.", "content": "Arc of motion and socket depth in reverse shoulder implants. Reverse shoulder arthroplasty relies on its congruent ball/socket joint to restore shoulder function. For a simple ball/socket joint, as shown in total hip arthroplasty, range of motion decreases with the increase of articular constraint. We challenge here that this intuitive concept might not be held in reverse shoulder arthroplasty because of the effect of multiple concurrent factors. Abduction impingement-free arc of motion in reverse shoulder arthroplasty was examined with a virtual computer model. Six articular constraints, defined by normalized socket depths, were simulated. Four concurrent factors: glenosphere diameter, lateral offset of glenosphere from the glenoid surface, humeral neck-shaft angles, and locations of the glenosphere on the glenoid surface, were also studied, which composed a total of 81 combinations and 486 individual conditions. Three distinct classes of arc of motion relative to the articular constraint were revealed: I--arc of motion decreased with increased constraint (57%), II--arc of motion with a complex relationship to constraint (37%), and III--arc of motion increased with increased constraint (6%). Classes II and III were counter-intuitive which could be caused by impingement on the acromion associated primarily with superior positioning. Surgeons may need to be aware of it when the glenoid component has to be placed superiorly. The detailed motion/constraint relationship will further help engineers improve the design in reverse shoulder arthroplasty."}
{"id": "19341923", "title": "Arthroscopic debridement versus refixation of the acetabular labrum associated with femoroacetabular impingement.", "content": "Arthroscopic debridement versus refixation of the acetabular labrum associated with femoroacetabular impingement. The purpose of this study was to compare the outcomes of arthroscopic labral debridement with those of labral refixation. We reviewed patients who underwent labral debridement during a period before the development of labral repair techniques. Patients with labral tears deemed repairable with our current arthroscopic technique were compared with patients who underwent labral refixation with a minimum 1 of year of follow-up. To better match the 2 groups, only patients with labral pathology caused by pincer-type or combined pincer- and cam-type femoroacetabular impingement were included. In the first 36 hips the labrum was debrided (group 1); in the next 39 hips the labrum underwent refixation (group 2). Outcomes were measured preoperatively and postoperatively with the modified Harris Hip Score (HHS), Short Form 12, and visual analog scale for pain. Preoperative and postoperative radiographs were obtained to evaluate bony resection (alpha angle) and osteoarthritis (T\u00f6nnis grade). The mean age was 31 years in group 1, with a mean follow-up of 21.4 months, and 27 years in group 2, with a mean follow-up of 16.5 months. Preoperative subjective outcomes scores were not significantly different between groups. At the 1-year follow-up visit, subjective outcomes were significantly improved (P < .01) in both groups. HHSs were significantly better for the refixation group (94.3) compared with the debridement group (88.9) at 1 year (P = .029). At most recent follow-up, good to excellent results were noted in 66.7% of hips in the debridement group compared with 89.7% of hips in the refixation group (P < .01). Although other variables could have influenced these outcomes, these preliminary results indicate that labral refixation resulted in better HHS outcomes and a greater percentage of good to excellent results compared with the results of labral debridement in an earlier cohort. Level III, retrospective comparative study."}
{"id": "19341920", "title": "Biomechanical comparison of a knotless suture anchor with standard suture anchor in the repair of type II SLAP tears.", "content": "Biomechanical comparison of a knotless suture anchor with standard suture anchor in the repair of type II SLAP tears. To compare the biomechanical strength of knotless suture anchors and standard suture anchors in the repair of type II SLAP tears. Five pairs of cadaveric shoulders (10 shoulders) were dissected free of soft tissue except for the glenoid labrum and long head of the biceps tendon. Type II SLAP tears were created and repaired with 1 of 2 anchors: the Mitek Lupine suture anchor or the Mitek Bioknotless suture anchor (DePuy Mitek, Raynham, MA). All specimens were preloaded to 10 N, and loaded for 25 cycles in 10 N increments to a maximum of 200 N. If specimens were still intact after 200 N, they were loaded to ultimate failure. The load at which 2 mm of gapping occurred, load to ultimate failure, mode of failure, and the number of cycles to failure were compared using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Load to 2-mm gapping was lower (P = .042) for knotless anchors (70 N) versus knotted anchors (104 N), with similar differences for ultimate failure (74 N v 132 N; P = .043), cycles to 2-mm gapping (133 v 219 cycles; P = .042), and cycles to failure (143 v 297; P = .043). Eight of 10 specimens failed at the soft tissue interface (4 knotless, 4 knotted) and 2 failed by anchor pullout (1 knotted, 1 knotless). The results of this study suggest that repair of a type II SLAP with a Mitek knotted suture anchor and mattress suture configuration through the biceps anchor is stronger than repair with a Mitek knotless suture anchor. The most likely method of repair failure was at the suture-soft tissue interface regardless of the type of anchor used. The application of a suture anchor that requires arthroscopic knot tying may be preferable to a knotless anchor for the surgical repair of type II SLAP tears. Repair of type II SLAP tears with knotless suture anchors may allow for the avoidance of arthroscopic knot tying but is weaker than repair with standard suture anchors."}
{"id": "19336812", "title": "Bursectomy compared with acromioplasty in the management of subacromial impingement syndrome: a prospective randomised study.", "content": "Bursectomy compared with acromioplasty in the management of subacromial impingement syndrome: a prospective randomised study. In a prospective randomised study we compared the results of arthroscopic subacromial bursectomy alone with debridement of the subacromial bursa followed by acromioplasty. A total of 57 patients with a mean age of 47 years (31 to 60) suffering from primary subacromial impingement without a rupture of the rotator cuff who had failed previous conservative treatment were entered into the trial. The type of acromion was classified according to Bigliani. Patients were assessed at follow-up using the Constant score, the simple shoulder test and visual analogue scores for pain and functional impairment. One patient was lost to follow-up. At a mean follow-up of 2.5 years (1 to 5) both bursectomy and acromioplasty gave good clinical results. No statistically significant differences were found between the two treatments. The type of acromion and severity of symptoms had a greater influence on the clinical outcome than the type of treatment. As a result, we believe that primary subacromial impingement syndrome is largely an intrinsic degenerative condition rather than an extrinsic mechanical disorder."}
{"id": "19334007", "title": "Development and implementation of a physiotherapy intervention for use in a pragmatic randomized controlled trial in primary care for shoulder pain.", "content": "Development and implementation of a physiotherapy intervention for use in a pragmatic randomized controlled trial in primary care for shoulder pain. To develop a package of physiotherapy treatment for a randomized controlled trial in primary care for shoulder pain and audit its use within the trial. A survey of current physiotherapy approaches to the management of shoulder pain was conducted. The most frequently reported treatments were proposed as a package of care for a physiotherapy intervention in a trial of shoulder pain. The package was refined by a subgroup of 13 physiotherapists. For patients receiving the physiotherapy intervention in the main trial (n = 98), the frequency of use of modalities over the treatment period was calculated by percentages of modality usage per number of patient contacts. Treatment details were recorded by the physiotherapist at each patient visit. The physiotherapy intervention included passive movements/mobilizations, active movement/mobilizations, a home exercise programme, education and advice, and ultrasound. The most frequently used modality at the assessment visit was the standardized education and advice leaflet for shoulder pain (85%) followed by the home exercise programme (79%), which was reinforced throughout the trial treatment course. The most frequently used modalities over the treatment period were ultrasound (42%), active mobilizations (41%) and passive mobilizations (41%). The mean number of trial treatment visits was 6.2 (SD: 2.1; range 1-8). Additional trial treatments (1-8) were delivered to 12 patients. Eighty-five patients were given only one therapeutic diagnosis, and 13 were given two. The most common diagnoses were tendonitis (32%) and capsulitis (25%). Pain was the major problem in 78% of patients, 15% had stiffness and 7% of patients reported both pain and stiffness. Physiotherapists complied well with the trial protocol. Few treatments were used in isolation. This report demonstrates how physiotherapists can agree and deliver a standardized package of treatment, which reflects current practice, as part of a randomized controlled trial."}
{"id": "19318282", "title": "Removal of well-fixed flanged humeral prostheses may require humeral expansion.", "content": "Removal of well-fixed flanged humeral prostheses may require humeral expansion. A flanged humeral stem design can be advantageous in achieving an interlock between the prosthetic and bone interface leading to a long-term stable loading pattern. The purpose of this study is to report a short case series involving revision of a flanged humeral prosthesis. Our hypothesis was that a greater percentage of the flanged prostheses undergoing revision would require some form of bone expansion to achieve stem removal compared to the nonflanged. In the period from October 2004 to July 2008, 43 patients underwent revision of a humeral prosthetic stem by a single surgeon. Of these, 6 prostheses were of a triflanged design. Of these six, five (83%) could not be removed with longitudinal force and required some expansion of the bone in order to achieve stem extraction. Of the nonflanged humeral stems, 3/37 (8%) required bone expansion to achieve extraction. Analysis of the 2 groups showed a statistical difference in the need for humeral expansion (P < .000001). Surgeons preparing to revise a flanged humeral stem should include expansion of the humeral shaft, by episiotomy or windowing, as part of their preoperative planning and informed consent of the patient."}
{"id": "19309049", "title": "Fracture of a reverse total shoulder arthroplasty retentive liner.", "content": "Fracture of a reverse total shoulder arthroplasty retentive liner. Reverse shoulder arthroplasty may be indicated in shoulders that cannot be effectively managed by conventional reconstruction procedures. Reported complications include instability, infection, hematoma, scapular notching, and premature component loosening. To our knowledge, however, fracture of a humeral component polyethylene inlay has not been described. A 72-year-old man presented with unstable, painful shoulders after undergoing unsuccessful open repairs and acromioplasties at an outside institution for bilateral massive rotator cuff tears. We performed a left reversed shoulder arthroplasty with a 36-mm glenosphere and a +9-mm polyethylene liner. In the operating room under general anesthesia with chemical paralysis and an interscalene block, his shoulder was stable. The patient required revision with a metal 9-mm lateralizer following an atraumatic dislocation 4 weeks postoperatively. Four weeks following the revision, the patient again presented with a dislocated left shoulder without antecedent trauma. During this second revision, the +6-mm standard polyethylene liner was replaced with a +6-mm lateral retentive polyethylene liner. A third revision surgery was performed after the patient experienced 2 more dislocations with minor activity. Intraoperatively, a fracture of the previously placed +6-mm retentive polyethylene liner was noted. This article may represent a case of dramatic scapular impingement by the humeral components. More subtle forms of scapular notching are common and may suggest significant long-term problems. Many reverse shoulder prostheses are being refined or modified in an attempt to eliminate or reduce the scapular notching phenomenon."}
{"id": "19307331", "title": "Biomechanical evaluation of knotless anatomical double-layer double-row rotator cuff repair: a comparative ex vivo study.", "content": "Biomechanical evaluation of knotless anatomical double-layer double-row rotator cuff repair: a comparative ex vivo study. The layered configuration of the rotator cuff tendon is not taken into account in classic rotator cuff tendon repair techniques. The mechanical properties of (1) the classic double-row technique, (2) a double-layer double-row (DLDR) technique in simple suture configuration, and (3) a DLDR technique in mattress suture configuration are significantly different. Controlled laboratory study. Twenty-four sheep shoulders were assigned to 3 repair groups of full-thickness infraspinatus tears: group 1, traditional double-row repair; group 2, DLDR anchor repair with simple suture configuration; and group 3, DLDR knotless repair with mattress suture configuration. After ultrasound evaluation of the repair, each specimen was cyclically loaded with 10 to 100 N for 50 cycles. Each specimen was then loaded to failure at a rate of 1 mm/s. There were no statistically significant differences among the 3 testing groups for the mean footprint area. The cyclic loading test revealed no significant difference among the 3 groups with regard to elongation. For the load-to-failure test, groups 2 and 3 showed no differences in ultimate tensile load when compared with group 1. However, when compared to group 2, group 3 was found to have significantly higher values regarding ultimate load, ultimate elongation, and energy absorbed. The DLDR fixation techniques may provide strength of initial repair comparable with that of commonly used double-row techniques. When compared with the knotless technique with mattress sutures, simple suture configuration of DLDR repair may be too weak. Knotless DLDR rotator cuff repair may (1) restore the footprint by the use of double-row principles and (2) enable restoration of the shape and profile. Double-layer double-row fixation in mattress suture configuration has initial fixation strength comparable with that of the classic double-row fixation and so may potentially improve functional results of rotator cuff repair."}
{"id": "19297198", "title": "Rotator cuff repair fluid extravasation characteristics are influenced by repair technique.", "content": "Rotator cuff repair fluid extravasation characteristics are influenced by repair technique. This study evaluates rotator cuff repair fluid extravasation characteristics for different rotator cuff repair techniques. Eight fresh-frozen cadaveric shoulders were dissected free of soft tissues, with the glenohumeral joint capsule and rotator cuff muscles being left intact. A custom fluid infusion device was used to deliver fluid at constant pressure into the glenohumeral joint. The shoulders were tested in conditions of (1) intact rotator cuff, (2) supraspinatus tear, (3) repaired supraspinatus tear with a single-row technique, and (4) repaired supraspinatus tear with a double-row suture bridge technique. The volume per minute of saline solution extravasation for single-row repair and double-row suture bridge repair was 48.53 mL/min and 11.73 mL/min, respectively, at 2 psi; 73.3 _ 24.1 mL/min and 24.5 _ 19.7 mL/min, respectively, at 3 psi; and 95.2 _ 22.6 mL/min and 39.2 _ 23.8 mL/min, respectively, at 4 psi. There was a statistically significant greater fluid extravasation for the single-row repair compared with the double-row suture bridge repair at all 3 pressures tested (P < .05). Single-row rotator cuff repair exposes the healing zone to greater extravasation of fluid compared with double-row suture bridge repair. Therefore, double-row repair potentially enhances rotator cuff healing. Controlled laboratory study."}
{"id": "19295959", "title": "Rotator cuff tear pain and tear size and scapulohumeral rhythm.", "content": "Rotator cuff tear pain and tear size and scapulohumeral rhythm. The body of knowledge concerning shoulder kinematics in patients with rotator cuff tears is increasing. However, the level of understanding regarding how pain and tear size affect these kinematic patterns is minimal. To identify relationships between pain associated with a full-thickness rotator cuff tear, tear size, and scapulohumeral rhythm (SHR) and to determine whether pain and tear size serve as predictors of SHR. A test-retest design was used to quantify pain and SHR before and after a subacromial lidocaine injection. Correlation and multivariate analyses were used to identify relationships among pain, tear size, and SHR. Orthopaedic biomechanics research laboratory. Fifteen patients (age range, 40-75 years) with diagnosed full-thickness rotator cuff tears participated. They were experiencing pain at the time of testing. Shoulder kinematic data were collected with an electromagnetic tracking system before and after the patient received a lidocaine injection. Pain was rated using a visual analog scale. Three-dimensional scapular kinematics and glenohumeral elevation were assessed. Scapular kinematics included anterior-posterior tilt, medial-lateral tilt, and upward-downward rotation. A regression model was used to calculate SHR (scapular kinematics to glenohumeral elevation) for phases of humeral elevation and lowering. Linear relationships were identified between initial pain scores and SHR and between tear size and SHR, representing an increased reliance on scapular motion with increasing pain and tear size. Pain was identified as an independent predictor of SHR, whereas significant findings for the effect of tear size on SHR and the interaction between pain and tear size were limited. We noted an increased reliance on scapular contributions to overall humeral elevation with increasing levels of pain and rotator cuff tear size. Pain associated with a rotator cuff tear serves as a primary contributor to the kinematic patterns exhibited in patients with rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "19294409", "title": "Shoulder abduction torque steadiness is preserved in subacromial impingement syndrome.", "content": "Shoulder abduction torque steadiness is preserved in subacromial impingement syndrome. This study compared peak torque and torque steadiness during isometric abduction in subjects with subacromial impingement syndrome (SIS) and those with no upper limb disorders. The SIS group consisted of 27 subjects (33.48 +/- 9.94 years) with unilateral SIS. The control group consisted of 23 healthy and active subjects (32.26 +/- 9.04 years). Peak torque and torque steadiness were measured during isometric abduction (80 masculine in the scapular plane) of the shoulder. Standard deviation, coefficient of variation, stability time, median frequency, and relative power were measured from the steadiness trials. There were neither significant interactions between group and side (P > 0.05), nor were there significant main effects of group and side (P > 0.05) for all variables analyzed. The results of this study showed that steadiness is preserved by SIS during isometric abduction of the shoulder."}
{"id": "19294378", "title": "Fast MR arthrography using VIBE sequences to evaluate the rotator cuff.", "content": "Fast MR arthrography using VIBE sequences to evaluate the rotator cuff. The purpose of this paper was to evaluate if short volumetric interpolated breath-hold examination (VIBE) sequences can be used as a substitute for T1-weighted with fat saturation (T1-FS) sequences when performing magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography to diagnose rotator cuff tears. Eighty-two patients underwent direct MR arthrography of the shoulder joint using VIBE (acquisition time of 13 s) and T1-FS (acquisition time of 5 min) sequences in the axial and paracoronal plane on a 1.0-T MR unit. Two radiologists scored rotator cuff tendons on VIBE and T1-FS images separately as normal, small/large partial thickness and full thickness tears with or without geyser sign. T1-FS sequences were considered the gold standard. Surgical correlation was available in a small sample. Sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of VIBE were greater than 92% for large articular-sided partial thickness and full thickness tears. For detecting fraying and articular-sided small partial thickness tears, these parameters were 55%, 94%, 94%, and 57%, respectively. The simple kappa value was 0.76, and the weighted kappa value was 0.86 for agreement between T1-FS and VIBE scores. All large partial and full thickness tears at surgery were correctly diagnosed using VIBE or T1-FS MR images. Fast MR arthrography of the shoulder joint using VIBE sequences showed good concordance with the classically used T1-FS sequences for the appearance of the rotator cuff, in particular for large articular-sided partial thickness tears and for full thickness tears. Due to its very short acquisition time, VIBE may be especially useful when performing MR arthrography in claustrophobic patients or patients with a painful shoulder."}
{"id": "19294377", "title": "Detection of partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears: is a single direct MR arthrography series in ABER position as accurate as conventional MR arthrography?", "content": "Detection of partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears: is a single direct MR arthrography series in ABER position as accurate as conventional MR arthrography? The purpose of this study was to retrospectively evaluate sensitivity and specificity of a single magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography series in abduction external rotation (ABER) position compared with conventional MR arthrography for detection of supraspinatus tendon tears, with arthroscopy as gold standard, and to assess interobserver variability. Institutional review board approval was obtained; informed consent was waived. MR arthrograms of 250 patients (170 men and 80 women; mean age, 36 years) were retrospectively and independently evaluated by three observers. Oblique coronal T1-weighted fat-suppressed images, proton density, and T2-weighted images and axial T1-weighted images and oblique sagittal T1-weighted fat-suppressed images were analyzed to detect supraspinatus tendon tears. Separately, a single T1-weighted fat-suppressed oblique axial series in ABER position was evaluated. Both protocols were scored randomly without knowledge of patients' clinical history and arthroscopy results. Tears were subclassified, based on articular surface integrity and extension (Lee classification). Interobserver agreement was assessed by kappa statistics for all patients. Ninety-two of 250 patients underwent arthroscopy; sensitivity and specificity of ABER and conventional MR arthrography were calculated and compared using paired McNemar test. Weighted kappa values of ABER and conventional MR arthrography were 0.48-0.65 and 0.60-0.67, respectively. According to arthroscopy, 69 of 92 patients had an intact cuff, and 23 patients had a cuff tear (16 partial thickness and seven full thickness). There were no statistically significant differences between ABER and conventional MR arthrography regarding sensitivity (48-61% and 52-70%, respectively) and specificity (80-94% and 91-95%). Sensitivity and specificity of a single T1-weighted series in ABER position and conventional MR arthrography are comparable for assessment of rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "19291933", "title": "Manipulation under anaesthesia and early physiotherapy facilitate recovery of patients with frozen shoulder syndrome.", "content": "Manipulation under anaesthesia and early physiotherapy facilitate recovery of patients with frozen shoulder syndrome. The aim of this study was to examine the efficacy of manipulation under anaesthesia (MUA) followed by early physiotherapy in treating frozen shoulder syndrome. In a prospective trial conducted between 26th August 2002 and 25th June 2004 in 86 patients with frozen shoulder syndrome, MUA was performed as a day procedure. Main outcomes were Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) score, a visual analogue score (VAS) for pain and range of movement, which were measured preoperatively and at six weeks postprocedure. Fifty (58.1%) patients had complete data. The average age was 54.5 years. The mean duration of symptoms until MUA was 13 months. The mean DASH score decreased from 48.07 to 15.84 (p < 0.0005). The mean VAS reduced from 6.07 to 1.88 (p < 0.0005). Flexion improved from 104.18 to 157.56 (p < 0.0005); abduction from 70.48 to 150.00 (p < 0.0005); and external rotation from 13.88 to 45.62 (p < 0.0005). MUA combined with early physiotherapy alleviates pain and facilitates recovery of function in patients with frozen shoulder syndrome."}
{"id": "19286910", "title": "Arthroscopic repair for chronic anterior shoulder instability: a comparative study between patients with Bankart lesions and patients with combined Bankart and superior labral anterior posterior lesions.", "content": "Arthroscopic repair for chronic anterior shoulder instability: a comparative study between patients with Bankart lesions and patients with combined Bankart and superior labral anterior posterior lesions. Although labrum lesions in patients with chronic anterior shoulder instability may not only involve detachment of the anteroinferior labrum but a lesion of the superior glenoid labrum as well, no studies have compared the clinical outcome between patients with a lesion of the anteroinferior labrum and patients with a combined lesion of the anterior and superior labrum after arthroscopic shoulder stabilization. Arthroscopic repair of a combined lesion of the anterior and superior labrum may have inferior clinical outcome to repair of an anterior lesion only in patients with anterior shoulder instability. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 2. Sixty-three patients operated on for anterior shoulder instability between April 2002 and June 2006 were included in this study. Patients with bone deficiency were excluded. Fixation of the detached labrum was performed using suture anchors. Thirty-eight patients had a lesion of the anterior labrum (group A), and 25 had a combined lesion of the anterior and superior labrum (group B). Patients were evaluated after a 2-year minimum follow-up with Constant and Rowe scores. Failure was defined as a redislocation or a subluxation episode. Patients in group B experienced a significantly higher number of dislocations preoperatively (P < .05). However, there was no difference between the 2 groups regarding the failure rate postoperatively. One patient from each group had a failed result. A mean loss of 5 degrees and 8 degrees of external rotation at 90 degrees of abduction was noted in patients in groups A and B, respectively (P = .113). The Constant score was 94 in group A and 93 in group B (P = .435). The Rowe score was 91 in group A and 90 in group B (P = .338). There are no differences in shoulder stability and function in patients with anterior shoulder instability and a lesion of the anteroinferior labrum and patients with an extended lesion of the anterior and superior labrum after arthroscopic shoulder stabilization."}
{"id": "19269861", "title": "Prospective analysis of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: subgroup analysis.", "content": "Prospective analysis of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: subgroup analysis. The rotator cuff registry was established to evaluate prospectively the effectiveness of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. The purpose of the present study is to report the preliminary data at the 1- and 2-year time point and perform subgroup analysis to identify factors that may affect outcome. A total of 193 patients underwent all-arthroscopic repair of a rotator cuff tear and met the inclusion criteria and 127 (65.8%) completed 2-year follow-up. The outcome measurements included physical examination, manual muscle testing, the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) score, and ultrasonography. The pre-operative ASES score was 52.37 +/- 24.09 and improved to 83.88 +/- 19.28 at 1 year (P < .0001) and 92.65 +/- 11.36 at 2 years (P < 0.0001). The percent healing for all patients was 64.10% at 3 months and 64.34% at 1 year (P = .4080). At 2 years, there was a significant increase in the percentage of healed tendon at 75.42% compared to the 3-month (P (1/4) .0001) and 1-year (P = 0.0332) time points. Patients with intact tendons had an ASES score of 93.9 +/- 10.2 compared to tendon defects with a score of 88.0 +/- 15.6 (P = .0623). Gender, tear size, and acromioclavicular joint involvement have a significant effect on ASES score. Rotator cuff characteristics such as tear size, biceps pathology, acromioclavicular joint pathology, and tissue quality have a significant effect on postoperative tendon integrity. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair demonstrates significant improvement in clinical outcomes and good rate of healing by postoperative ultrasound. Longer-term studies are necessary to determine the efficacy over time."}
{"id": "19269860", "title": "Biomechanical analysis of bursal-sided partial thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Biomechanical analysis of bursal-sided partial thickness rotator cuff tears. Treatment of partial thickness supraspinatus tendon tears is controversial with no clearly defined treatment algorithms based on severity of tears. This study aims to evaluate the relationship between depth of partial thickness tears and strain. Bursal-sided partial thickness tears were created at 1 mm increments in depth at the anterior portion of the supraspinatus tendon to 3/4 tendon width on ten fresh-frozen shoulder specimens. The supraspinatus muscle was dynamically loaded from 0-50N, and strain recorded at both the anterior and posterior portions of the tendon. Strain in the intact posterior portion increased monotonically with tear depth and supraspinatus force. Strain in the torn anterior portion decreased with increasing tear thickness and loading force. At 60% thickness tear, strain was significantly higher (P = 0.023) in the intact posterior portion compared to intact tendon. As the tear thickness exceeded 50% tendon thickness, the strain in the intact tendon rapidly increased nonlinearly. Biomechanical results herein suggest increasing potential for tear propagation in the transverse plane with increasing depth of tears, and biomechanically supports repairs of grade III (>50% thickness)."}
{"id": "19264706", "title": "Complex shoulder disorders: evaluation and treatment.", "content": "Complex shoulder disorders: evaluation and treatment. Evaluation of patients with shoulder disorders often presents challenges. Among the most troublesome are revision surgery in patients with massive rotator cuff tear, atraumatic shoulder instability, revision arthroscopic stabilization surgery, adhesive capsulitis, and bicipital and subscapularis injuries. Determining functional status is critical before considering surgical options in the patient with massive rotator cuff tear. When nonsurgical treatment of atraumatic shoulder stability is not effective, inferior capsular shift is the treatment of choice. Arthroscopic revision of failed arthroscopic shoulder stabilization procedures may be undertaken when bone and tissue quality are good. Arthroscopic release is indicated when idiopathic adhesive capsulitis does not respond to nonsurgical treatment; however, results of both nonsurgical and surgical treatment of posttraumatic and postoperative adhesive capsulitis are often disappointing. Patients not motivated to perform the necessary postoperative therapy following subscapularis repair are best treated with arthroscopic d\u00e9bridement and biceps tenotomy."}
{"id": "19261903", "title": "Measurement of glenohumeral internal rotation in asymptomatic tennis players and swimmers.", "content": "Measurement of glenohumeral internal rotation in asymptomatic tennis players and swimmers. Glenohumeral internal rotation deficit, often diagnosed in players of overhead sports, has been associated with the development of secondary shoulder lesions. Asymptomatic players of different overhead sports will exhibit variable degrees of glenohumeral internal rotation deficit. Cross-sectional study; Level of evidence, 3. Fifty-four asymptomatic male volunteers (108 shoulders) divided into 3 groups (tennis players, swimmers, control group) underwent measurements of glenohumeral internal and external rotation using clinical examination with scapular stabilization. Measurements of dominant and nondominant shoulders were compared within and between groups. Glenohumeral internal rotation deficit (GIRD) was defined as the difference in internal rotation between the nondominant and dominant shoulders. In tennis players, mean GIRD was 23.9 degrees +/- 8.4 degrees (P < .001); in swimmers, 12 degrees +/- 6.8 degrees (P < .001); and in the control group, 4.9 degrees +/- 7.4 degrees (P = .035). Dominant shoulders showed significant difference between all groups, and the difference in internal rotation of the dominant shoulder between the group of tennis players in comparison with the control group (27.6 degrees, P < .001) was greater than the difference in internal rotation of the dominant shoulder found in the group of swimmers compared with the control group (17.9 degrees, P < .001). Between tennis players and swimmers, the difference in internal rotation of the dominant shoulder was 9.7 degrees (P = .002). Dominant limbs showed less glenohumeral internal rotation than the nondominant limbs in all groups, with the deficit in the group of tennis players about twice the deficit found for swimmers. Mean difference between limbs in the control group was less than 5 degrees, which is within normal parameters according to most studies. There were statistically significant differences between all groups when dominant shoulders were compared with each other, differences that were not compensated by external rotation gain. Tennis players had the least range of motion, followed by swimmers."}
{"id": "19258623", "title": "Cytokines and apoptosis in supraspinatus tendinopathy.", "content": "Cytokines and apoptosis in supraspinatus tendinopathy. The role of inflammatory cells and their products in tendinopathy is not completely understood. Pro-inflammatory cytokines are upregulated after oxidative and other forms of stress. Based on observations that increased cytokine expression has been demonstrated in cyclically-loaded tendon cells we hypothesised that because of their role in oxidative stress and apoptosis, pro-inflammatory cytokines may be present in rodent and human models of tendinopathy. A rat supraspinatus tendinopathy model produced by running overuse was investigated at the genetic level by custom micro-arrays. Additionally, samples of torn supraspinatus tendon and matched intact subscapularis tendon were collected from patients undergoing arthroscopic shoulder surgery for rotator-cuff tears and control samples of subscapularis tendon from ten patients with normal rotator cuffs undergoing arthroscopic stabilisation of the shoulder were also obtained. These were all evaluated using semiquantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain-reaction and immunohistochemistry. We identified significant upregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines and apoptotic genes in the rodent model (p = 0.005). We further confirmed significantly increased levels of cytokine and apoptotic genes in human supraspinatus and subscapularis tendon harvested from patients with rotator cuff tears (p = 0.0008). These findings suggest that pro-inflammatory cytokines may play a role in tendinopathy and may provide a target for preventing tendinopathies."}
{"id": "19255197", "title": "Hemiarthroplasty for the rotator cuff-deficient shoulder. Surgical technique.", "content": "Hemiarthroplasty for the rotator cuff-deficient shoulder. Surgical technique. Hemiarthroplasty is a common treatment for cuff tear arthropathy and glenohumeral arthritis associated with a massive tear of the rotator cuff; however, to our knowledge, long-term outcomes and preoperative factors affecting results have not been reported. Thirty-four shoulders in thirty-one patients with cuff tear arthropathy or a massive rotator cuff tear with glenohumeral arthritis underwent hemiarthroplasty at an average age of seventy-two years. Outcomes in all patients were evaluated by direct physical examination and according to the limited goals criteria of Neer et al. at a mean of 3.7 years postoperatively. In twenty-five shoulders, long-term outcomes were measured with use of the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) scoring system and follow-up data were obtained at a mean of ten years (range, four to sixteen years) postoperatively. Twenty-six of thirty-four shoulders satisfied the limited goals criteria described by Neer et al. The mean active forward elevation improved from 78 degrees preoperatively to 111 degrees postoperatively (p < 0.001). The mean active external rotation improved from 15 degrees preoperatively to 38 degrees postoperatively (p < 0.0001). One patient with a history of four failed rotator cuff repairs had anterosuperior instability develop after surgery. The mean final total ASES score was 67 points (range, 35 to 100 points). Of the sixteen shoulders in patients who could actively elevate the arm to > or =90 degrees preoperatively, fourteen achieved satisfactory results according to the limited goals criteria of Neer et al. Patients who could actively elevate the arm to 90 degrees had significantly better function (mean ASES function score, 31 compared with 23 points; p = 0.05), pain relief (mean ASES pain score, 48 compared with 30 points; p = 0.002), and higher total ASES scores (mean, 80 compared with 54 points; p < 0.001) than the patients who were unable to actively elevate the arm to 90 degrees . Hemiarthroplasty can provide good long-term results in rotator cuff-deficient patients with glenohumeral arthritis. Patients who have preoperative forward elevation of > or =90 degrees benefit the most. A low complication rate can be expected for this procedure."}
{"id": "19255196", "title": "Transosseous suture fixation of proximal humeral fractures. Surgical technique.", "content": "Transosseous suture fixation of proximal humeral fractures. Surgical technique. The optimal treatment of displaced fractures of the proximal part of the humerus remains controversial. We evaluated the long-term functional and radiographic results of transosseous suture fixation in a series of selected displaced fractures of the proximal part of the humerus. Over an eleven-year period, a consecutive series of 188 patients with a specifically defined displaced fracture of the proximal part of the humerus underwent open reduction and internal fixation with transosseous sutures. Twenty patients were lost to follow-up and three died before the time of follow-up, leaving a cohort of 165 patients (ninety-four women and seventy-one men; mean age, fifty-four years) available for the study. Forty-five (27%) of the injuries were four-part fractures with valgus impaction; sixty-four (39%) were three-part fractures; and fifty-six (34%) were two-part fractures of the greater tuberosity, thirty-six (64%) of which were associated with anterior dislocation of the shoulder. All fractures were fixed with transosseous, nonabsorbable, number-5 Ethibond sutures. Associated rotator cuff tears detected in fifty-seven patients (35%) were also repaired. Over a mean follow-up period of 5.4 years, functional outcome was assessed with the Constant score. Follow-up radiographs were assessed for fracture consolidation, malunion, nonunion, heterotopic ossification, and signs of impingement, humeral head osteonecrosis, and degenerative osteoarthritis. All fractures, except for two three-part fractures of the greater tuberosity, united within four months. The quality of fracture reduction as seen on the first postoperative radiograph was regarded as excellent/very good in 155 patients (94%), good in seven (4%), and poor in three (2%). Malunion was present in nine patients (5%) at the time of the last follow-up; six of the nine had had good or poor initial reduction and three, excellent/very good reduction. Humeral head osteonecrosis was seen in eleven (7%) of the 165 patients; four demonstrated total and seven, partial collapse. Fifteen patients had heterotopic ossification, but none had functional impairment. Four patients had signs of impingement syndrome, and two had arthritis. At the time of the final evaluation, the mean Constant score was 91 points, and the mean Constant score as a percentage of the score for the unaffected shoulder, unadjusted for age and gender, was 94%. The clinical and radiographic results of this transosseous suture technique were found to be satisfactory at an average of 5.4 years postoperatively. Advantages of this technique include less surgical soft-tissue dissection, a low rate of humeral head osteonecrosis, fixation sufficient to allow early passive joint motion, and the avoidance of bulky and expensive implants."}
{"id": "19254852", "title": "A comparative study of surgical invasion in arthroscopic and open rotator cuff repair.", "content": "A comparative study of surgical invasion in arthroscopic and open rotator cuff repair. This study investigated the degrees of surgical invasion for arthroscopic rotator cuff repair and open rotator cuff repair by evaluating the serum levels of C-reactive protein, hemoglobin, and interleukin-6. The study participants were 17 patients (group A) who underwent arthroscopic rotator cuff repair and 15 patients (group O) who underwent open rotator cuff repair by the same surgeon. The difference in the size of the rotator cuff tear between the 2 groups was not significant (P > .05). No significant differences were recorded in the postoperative serum levels of C-reactive protein and hemoglobin between the 2 groups (P > .05). The mean postoperative serum level of interleukin-6 was significantly lower in group A than in group O (P < .01). Our findings indicate that arthroscopic rotator cuff repair is less invasive than open rotator cuff repair."}
{"id": "19254618", "title": "Subacromial corticosteroid injection for poststroke shoulder pain: an exploratory prospective case series.", "content": "Subacromial corticosteroid injection for poststroke shoulder pain: an exploratory prospective case series. To assess the effectiveness of subacromial corticosteroid injections for poststroke shoulder pain. Exploratory, prospective case series. Ambulatory setting, university-affiliated hospital. Stroke survivors (N=10) with pain in the hemiparetic shoulder. Consecutive stroke survivors with evidence of supraspinatus impingement, supraspinatus tendonitis, or subacromial bursitis received subacromial corticosteroid injections. The primary outcome measure was the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) question 12 (BPI 12), which assesses \"worst pain\" in the previous 7 days. Secondary measures included BPI question 15, which assesses present pain and BPI question 23 (BPI 23), which assesses pain interference with 7 daily activities. Outcomes were assessed at baseline, weekly for the first 4 weeks and then at 8 and 12 weeks postinjection. Repeated measure analysis of variance revealed significant within group time effect for BPI 12 (F=7.7, P<.001). Based on absolute means, the largest therapeutic benefit was seen by the second week postinjection with partial loss of effect thereafter. There were significant within group time effects for the general activity (F=3.2, P=.009), sleep (F=3.9, P=.003), and enjoyment of life (F=2.3, P=.044) domains of BPI 23. Subacromial corticosteroid injection is associated with significant reduction in poststroke shoulder pain in patients with evidence of supraspinatus impingement, supraspinatus tendonitis, or subacromial bursitis. However, there is a gradual loss of effect with time. Controlled trials are needed to show a cause and effect relationship."}
{"id": "19253465", "title": "Femoroacetabular impingement and labral tears in the adolescent hip: diagnosis and surgical advances.", "content": "Femoroacetabular impingement and labral tears in the adolescent hip: diagnosis and surgical advances. To identify several of the major trends and advancements in the diagnosis and care of the adolescent hip that have recently been responsible for reshaping the standard of care for this group of patients. Recent research has provided an expanded understanding of hip mechanics and anatomy, improved imaging techniques and, in particular, produced a better appreciation of factors that predispose the hip to degenerative changes. It has led to the development and expansion of several treatment options, including hip arthroscopy, safe surgical dislocation of the hip and periacetabular rotational osteotomy. An appreciation of emerging trends in the diagnosis and treatment of adolescent hip problems is important, as prompt recognition of and intervention for certain hip disorders may prevent ongoing injury and avoid or ameliorate chronic conditions associated with the development of degenerative joint changes and osteoarthritis."}
{"id": "19252895", "title": "Subacromial bony erosion: a rare presentation of pigmented villonodular synovitis of the shoulder.", "content": "Subacromial bony erosion: a rare presentation of pigmented villonodular synovitis of the shoulder. Pigmented villonodular synovitis (PVNS) rarely affects the shoulder. We describe two cases of PVNS arising from the shoulder joint, which caused rotator cuff tears and sub-acromial bony erosion, and which were treated arthroscopically. Sub-acromial erosion is frequently associated with various glenohumeral joint disorders, but it has not been reported in association with PVNS. We believe PVNS should also be considered in the differential diagnosis of patients who present with sub-acromial erosion."}
{"id": "19250238", "title": "Ultrasound in the diagnosis of noninflammatory musculoskeletal conditions.", "content": "Ultrasound in the diagnosis of noninflammatory musculoskeletal conditions. Sonography is an attractive tool for the diagnosis of musculoskeletal conditions. The clinician can evaluate the anatomic segment during active and/or passive flexion and extension maneuvers, and its real-time capability allows imaging in positions that trigger symptoms. Scanning the contralateral asymptomatic extremity can be used as a reference for normal anatomy in a given patient. A common application of ultrasound is for the assessment of rotator cuff tendons. It can also be used to assess soft tissue infections, nerve pathology, and various sports-related injuries."}
{"id": "19250050", "title": "Low-level laser therapy in subacromial impingement syndrome.", "content": "Low-level laser therapy in subacromial impingement syndrome. Although previous studies have evaluated the effect of different kinds of physical therapy in subacromial impingement syndrome (SIS), there have been few investigations assessing the effectiveness of low-level laser therapy (LLLT) in shoulder disorders. The goal of this prospective randomized study was to assess whether gallium-arsenide (Ga-As) laser therapy improves the outcome of a comprehensive home exercise program in patients with SIS. Forty-four newly-diagnosed SIS patients were enrolled in this study. Group 1 patients (n = 22) received Ga-As laser therapy combined with a 12-wk comprehensive home exercise program, and group 2 patients (n = 22) received the same 12-wk comprehensive home exercise program alone. Night pain, shoulder pain and disability index (SPADI), and University of California-Los Angeles end-result (UCLA) scores were used as outcome measures. Both groups showed a significant reduction in night pain and SPADI scores at the second and 12th weeks with respect to baseline values, with the exception of the SPADI total score at the second week in group 1. UCLA results improved significantly in both groups at the 12th in comparison to the second week. There were no significant differences between groups in mean actual changes in night pain and SPADI scores at the second week from baseline. When values at the 12th week were compared to baseline, mean actual changes in night pain differed significantly between the groups, with a larger change in group 1, but there was no difference between groups in mean actual change in SPADI scores. Second- and 12th-week UCLA scores did not differ between the two groups. Our study was unable to demonstrate any distinct advantage of low-level laser therapy over exercise alone. Comprehensive home exercise programs should be the primary therapeutic option in the rehabilitation process in SIS."}
{"id": "19246558", "title": "Ergonomic intervention in the treatment of a patient with upper extremity and neck pain.", "content": "Ergonomic intervention in the treatment of a patient with upper extremity and neck pain. Work-related musculoskeletal disorders are widespread among computer users and costly to the health care system. Workstation setup and worker postures contribute to upper-extremity and neck symptoms among computer users. Ergonomic interventions such as work risk analysis and workstation modifications can improve workers' symptoms. However, ergonomic interventions do not appear to be a common component of traditional physical therapy treatment. The patient was a 26-year-old woman with right upper-extremity and neck pain referred for physical therapy. A course of traditional physical therapy treatment was performed followed by an ergonomic intervention. Following 4 weeks of traditional physical therapy, the patient showed a 1.0-cm improvement in her resting pain level but no change in her pain level during exacerbations on the visual analog scale. An ergonomic intervention was performed following traditional physical therapy. At the conclusion of the full course of treatment (traditional physical therapy plus ergonomic intervention), resting pain level decreased by 4.6 cm and exacerbation pain level decreased by 3.2 cm. Improvements in Rapid Upper Limb Assessment and Workstyle scores also were realized. This case report demonstrates the importance of examining the work habits and work-related postures of a patient who complains of upper-extremity and neck pain that is exacerbated by work. Providing an ergonomic intervention in concert with traditional physical therapy may be the most beneficial course of treatment."}
{"id": "19245998", "title": "Histologic evaluation of a biopsy specimen obtained 3 months after rotator cuff augmentation with GraftJacket Matrix.", "content": "Histologic evaluation of a biopsy specimen obtained 3 months after rotator cuff augmentation with GraftJacket Matrix. Understanding the cellular response to a biologic graft used in rotator cuff applications is important because foreign-body reactions and inflammation complications have historically been seen with xenograft-derived grafts. The purpose of this study was to histologically evaluate a biopsy specimen taken from a rotator cuff of a 62-year-old man 3 months after augmentation with an acellular human dermal graft, GraftJacket Matrix-MaxForce Extreme (Wright Medical Technology, Arlington, TN). The graft material was intact and filled with numerous elastic fibers and blood vessels. Extensive host cellular infiltration was evident along the margins of the graft, whereas the more central regions were more sparsely populated. Calcification and infection were not evident. There was little to no inflammatory response. The orientation of the collagen fibers indicated early organization of new tissue. The incorporation of the GraftJacket Matrix-MaxForce Extreme evidenced by cellular infiltration, alignment of collagen fibers, and blood vessel ingrowth shows that this graft exhibits key biologic factors of the remodeling process when used as an augmentation device in rotator cuff repair."}
{"id": "19245991", "title": "The effect of anterosuperior rotator cuff tears on glenohumeral translation.", "content": "The effect of anterosuperior rotator cuff tears on glenohumeral translation. The purpose of this study was to sequentially investigate the biomechanical effects of anterosuperior rotator cuff tear size on superior and anterosuperior translation, including tears interrupting the anterior cable attachment and the anterior force couple. Five cadaveric shoulders were subjected to different loading conditions in both the superior and anterosuperior directions in the intact state, with the supraspinatus cut and with sequentially larger anterosuperior rotator cuff tears. Isolated tears of the supraspinatus had no significant biomechanical consequences under any condition tested. Anterosuperior translation was greater than superior translation in the intact specimen and for every combination of anterosuperior rotator cuff defect. With the supraspinatus and the superior half of the subscapularis (i.e., the anterior cable attachment) released, there was no significant increase in anterosuperior or superior glenohumeral translation in response to lower loading conditions (10 to 20 N). At higher loading conditions (40 to 50 N), tears of the supraspinatus and superior half of the subscapularis led to significantly increased translation in both directions. Simulated anterosuperior rotator cuff tears involving the superior half of the subscapularis significantly alter shoulder biomechanics and lead to increased anterosuperior and superior glenohumeral translation under higher loads. The anterior attachment of the rotator cuff cable is therefore an important determinant of the biomechanics of anterosuperior rotator cuff tears at higher loads but not at lower loads. Preserving the inferior half of the subscapularis was sufficient to maintain relatively normal shoulder kinematics under lower loading conditions. Tears of the entire subscapularis altered glenohumeral kinematics at essentially all loads. Knowledge of the biomechanics of anterosuperior rotator cuff tears enhances our understanding of how to best treat these lesions."}
{"id": "19243722", "title": "An epidemiologic survey of shoulder pain in chiropractic practice in australia.", "content": "An epidemiologic survey of shoulder pain in chiropractic practice in australia. This survey investigated the demographic characteristics of the responding practitioners, the prevalence of shoulder pain symptoms seen in weekly chiropractic practice, the sources of shoulder pain, the chiropractor-diagnosed prevalence of shoulder clinical syndromes, and the management strategies for Australian chiropractors. A survey was created by the authors consisting of questions seeking demographic information from the respondents, shoulder syndrome, and shoulder management information. The survey was mailed to every chiropractic practitioner based in the Australian state of New South Wales (general population 6.8 million in 2005). Contact details were derived from Yellow Pages online listings. One thousand thirty-seven surveys were mailed to New South Wales-based chiropractors, with 192 (21%) returning a completed survey. The prevalence of shoulder pain symptoms as reported by the practitioners was 12% of the total weekly patients, with the major cause of symptoms related to overuse (32%). The most prevalent working diagnosis of shoulder pain was shoulder impingement syndrome (13%), followed by impingement syndrome with rotator cuff tendinosis (17%), impingement syndrome without rotator cuff tendinosis (14%), and chiropractic shoulder subluxation (12%). Shoulder pain is managed with a combination of manipulation, mainly diversified technique (81%), peripheral joint manipulation (82%), and various soft tissue strategies used by 92% of practitioners. Rehabilitation strategies were also used by 89% of practitioners with a main emphasis placed on rotator cuff strengthening. The results suggest a moderate prevalence of shoulder pain in clinical practice with the most prevalent structure involved being the rotator cuff tendon. Most practitioners use a multimodal therapeutic treatment approach in managing disorders of the shoulder."}
{"id": "19239706", "title": "Cross-sectional analysis of baseline differences of candidates for rotator cuff surgery: a sex and gender perspective.", "content": "Cross-sectional analysis of baseline differences of candidates for rotator cuff surgery: a sex and gender perspective. The word \"sex\" refers to biological differences between men and women. Gender refers to roles, behaviors, activities, and attributes that a given society considers appropriate for men and women. Traditionally, treatment decisions have been based on patient's sex without including the gender. Assessment of disability secondary to musculoskeletal problems would not be complete or accurate unless potentially relevant biological and non-biological aspects of being a man or woman are taken into consideration. The purposes of this study were to: 1) investigate the difference in pre-operative characteristics between men and women who were candidates for rotator cuff surgery; and, 2) assess the relationship between level of disability and factors that represent sex and factors that signify gender. This was a cross-sectional study. The primary outcome measure of disability was a disease-specific outcome measure, the Western Ontario Rotator Cuff (WORC) index, and independent variables were sex, age, hand dominance, shoulder side involvement, BMI, co-morbidity, medication use, work status, smoking habits, strength, range of motion, level of pathology, concurrent osteoarthritis, expectations for recovery, and participation restriction. Parametric, non-parametric, univariable, subgroup, and multivariable analyses were conducted. One hundred and seventy patients were included in the study. The mean age was 57 +/- 11, 85 were females. Women reported higher levels of disability despite similar or lower levels of pathology. Scores of the WORC were strongly influenced by factors that represented \"gender\" such as participation restriction (F = 28.91, p < 0.0001) and expectations for improved activities of daily living (F = 5.80, p = 0.004). Painfree combined range of motion, which represented an interaction between \"sex\" and \"gender\" was also associated with disability after being adjusted for all other relevant baseline factors (F = 25.82, p < 0.0001). Gender-related factors such as expectations and participation limitations have an independent impact on disability in men and women undergoing rotator cuff related surgery."}
{"id": "19234889", "title": "Development of a new model for rotator cuff pathology: the rabbit subscapularis muscle.", "content": "Development of a new model for rotator cuff pathology: the rabbit subscapularis muscle. The New Zealand white rabbit subscapularis tendon passes under a bony arch to insert on the lesser tubercle of the humerus in a manner analogous to the supraspinatus tendon in humans. We assessed whether this unique anatomy may provide a new animal model of the shoulder to improve our understanding of rotator cuff pathology. The dimensions of the rotator cuff insertions (subscapularis, supraspinatus, and infraspinatus) were measured on 10 fresh frozen cadaveric New Zealand white rabbit shoulders. Mechanical testing was performed on 8 fresh frozen subscapularis insertions (4 matched pairs). Video analysis of the gait cycle was performed on 2 live animals. The origins, insertions, and innervations of the rabbit rotator cuff musculature are analogous to those in humans. However, the rabbit acromion is a rudimentary structure with only the infraspinatus and teres minor muscles passing beneath. Furthermore, at the point where the infraspinatus passes under the arch, it is muscular rather than tendinous. The anterior aspect of the glenohumeral joint contains an additional bony tunnel with its boundaries being the tuberculum supraglenoidale laterally, the coracoideus process superiorly, the tuberculum infraglenoidale inferiorly, and the coracobrachialis muscle medially. The origin of the rabbit subscapularis muscle resides on the anterior scapula. The subscapularis tendon then traverses this bony tunnel prior to its insertion on the lesser tubercle of the humerus. Video analysis and anatomic dissections confirmed excursion of the subscapularis tendon within this bony tunnel throughout the gait cycle. The subscapularis footprint on the proximal humerus measured 6.8 mm (SD 0.29) x 2.5 mm (SD 0.17). Mechanical testing of the subscapularis tendon showed the stiffness to range from 57 to 117 N/mm (SD 23). Ultimate yield ranged from 88 to 215 N (SD 518). The elastic modulus of the rabbit tendon was 56 MPa. 6 of the 8 subscapularis tendons failed at the tendon mid-substance; the other 2 failed at the bony insertion. The unique anatomic architecture and the mechanical characteristics of the rabbit subscapularis muscle provide an opportunity to improve our understanding of rotator cuff pathology."}
{"id": "19234269", "title": "Clinical significance of intramuscular cysts in the rotator cuff and their relationship to full- and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Clinical significance of intramuscular cysts in the rotator cuff and their relationship to full- and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. Secondary signs have been sought to help in the MR diagnosis of rotator cuff tears, especially partial-thickness tears. We sought to determine whether intramuscular cysts are always present with rotator cuff tears and the types of rotator cuff tears with which they present, and to establish the clinical significance of finding intramuscular cysts. Retrospective analysis of our institution's database of 5,101 MRI examinations of the shoulder during an 8-year period resulted in 187 examinations in 185 patients who were thought to have intramuscular cysts. Of the 187 examinations, 134 shoulders in 132 patients (62 women, 70 men) met our criteria for an intramuscular cyst. Of the 134 shoulders with intramuscular cysts, 102 (76.1%) showed imaging findings of both intramuscular cysts and rotator cuff tears. Thirty-two of the 134 (23.9%) shoulders were diagnosed with only an intramuscular cyst and were not associated with a rotator cuff tear. Fifty-five of 102 (53.9%) shoulders consisted of an intramuscular cyst associated with a full-thickness rotator cuff tear, and 47 of 102 (46.1%) shoulders presented with a partial-thickness rotator cuff tear. Forty-eight of 102 (47.1%) shoulders with both an intramuscular cyst and a rotator cuff tear also underwent the reference standard arthroscopy examination to confirm the MRI findings. In 46 of 48 (95.8%) shoulders that underwent arthroscopy, the findings confirmed the imaging evidence; the other two cases were shown to have an intact rotator cuff at arthroscopy. Our study echoes the findings of previous studies that suggest a relationship between intramuscular cysts and full- and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears but illustrates that the incidence of an isolated intramuscular cyst is higher than previously expected. When intramuscular cysts present with rotator cuff tears, they present with full- and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears in relatively equal proportions. The presence of an intramuscular cyst on MRI, although it may be an isolated finding, should prompt a thorough search of all the rotator cuff tendons for tears so that the patient may receive appropriate follow-up."}
{"id": "19230608", "title": "Special physical examination tests for superior labrum anterior posterior shoulder tears are clinically limited and invalid: a diagnostic systematic review.", "content": "Special physical examination tests for superior labrum anterior posterior shoulder tears are clinically limited and invalid: a diagnostic systematic review. The diagnosis of a superior labrum anterior posterior (SLAP) lesion through physical examination has been widely reported in the literature. Most of these studies report high sensitivities and specificities, and claim to be accurate, valid, and reliable. The purpose of this study was to critically evaluate these studies to determine if there was sufficient evidence to support the use of the SLAP physical examination tests as valid and reliable diagnostic test procedures. Strict epidemiologic methodology was used to obtain and collate all relevant articles. Sackett's guidelines were applied to all articles. Confidence intervals and likelihood ratios were determined. Fifteen of 29 relevant studies met the criteria for inclusion. Only one article met all of Sackett's critical appraisal criteria. Confidence intervals for both the positive and negative likelihood ratios contained the value 1. The current literature being used as a resource for teaching in medical schools and continuing education lacks the validity necessary to be useful. There are no good physical examination tests that exist for effectively diagnosing a SLAP lesion."}
{"id": "19229046", "title": "Arthroscopic treatment of isolated type II SLAP lesions: biceps tenodesis as an alternative to reinsertion.", "content": "Arthroscopic treatment of isolated type II SLAP lesions: biceps tenodesis as an alternative to reinsertion. Overhead athletes report an inconsistent return to their previous level of sport and satisfaction after arthroscopic SLAP lesion repair. Arthroscopic biceps tenodesis offers a viable alternative to the repair of an isolated type II SLAP lesion. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 3. Twenty-five consecutive patients operated for an isolated type II SLAP lesion between 2000 and 2004 were evaluated at a mean of 35 months postoperatively (range, 24-69). Patients with associated instability, rotator cuff rupture, posterosuperior impingement, or previous shoulder surgery were excluded. Ten patients (10 men) with an average age of 37 years (range, 19-57) had a SLAP repair performed with suture anchors. Fifteen patients (9 men and 6 women) with an average age of 52 years (range, 28-64) underwent arthroscopic biceps tenodesis performed with an absorbable interference screw. Arthroscopic diagnosis and treatment were performed by a single experienced shoulder surgeon, and all patients were reviewed by an independent examiner. In the repair group, the Constant score improved from 65 to 83 points; however, 60% (6 of 10) of the patients were disappointed because of persistent pain or inability to return to their previous level of sports participation. In the tenodesis group, the Constant score improved from 59 to 89 points, and 93% (14/15) were satisfied or very satisfied. Thirteen patients (87%) were able to return to their previous level of sports participation following biceps tenodesis, compared with only 20% (2 of 10) after SLAP repair (P = .01). Four patients with failed SLAP repairs underwent subsequent biceps tenodesis, resulting in a successful outcome and a full return to their previous level of sports activity. Arthroscopic biceps tenodesis can be considered an effective alternative to the repair of a type II SLAP lesion, allowing patients to return to a presurgical level of activity and sports participation. The results of biceps reinsertion are disappointing compared with biceps tenodesis. Furthermore, biceps tenodesis may provide a viable alternative for the salvage of a failed SLAP repair. As the age of the 2 treatment groups differed, these findings should be confirmed by future studies."}
{"id": "19229044", "title": "Isolated type II superior labral anterior posterior lesions: age-related outcome of arthroscopic fixation.", "content": "Isolated type II superior labral anterior posterior lesions: age-related outcome of arthroscopic fixation. Superior labral anterior posterior tears have been described as symptomatic lesions in shoulders of patients of varying ages. It is unknown if age affects clinical outcome of arthroscopic fixation of type II superior labral anterior posterior repairs. Clinical outcome of arthroscopic fixation of isolated type II superior labral anterior posterior tears differs between younger (<40 years) and older (> or =40 years) patients. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 3. Clinical results of arthroscopic fixation of isolated unstable type II superior labral anterior posterior repairs were compared between 25 patients younger than 40 years (group 1) and 25 patients aged 40 years or older (group 2). Patients with concomitant procedures, prior/subsequent shoulder surgeries, and use of non-suture anchor devices were excluded. Outcomes at a minimum 1-year follow-up were assessed using range of motion measurements and the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons questionnaire as compared with preoperative data. Ability and time to return to prior level of activity were assessed. At a mean 3-year follow-up, there were statistically significant improvements in American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores for both groups (P < .0001) but no significant difference between final American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores (group 1, 91; group 2, 87; P > .198). Both groups demonstrated good or excellent results in >80% of patients. A traumatic mechanism of injury (P = .0346) and presence of osteoarthritis (P = .0401) were independent factors resulting in significantly lower postoperative scores. There were statistically significant differences in preoperative and postoperative range of motion for internal rotation (group 1, P = .0321) and forward elevation (group 2, P = .0003). Return to prior level of activity was similar between younger and older age groups: 80% versus 74%. Time to return to sport was prolonged for group 2 (11.0 months) compared with group 1 (8.45 months). Patients without osteoarthritis were significantly more likely to return to previous levels of activity than were those who had osteoarthritis (P = .0044). Good to excellent results and high return to prior level of activity can be expected for the majority of properly indicated patients who undergo isolated type II superior labral anterior posterior repairs, regardless of age. Subtle deficits in range of motion were experienced by both age groups; this did not seem to affect final outcomes. The presence of osteoarthritis was associated with lower American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores and inability to return to prior level of activity. Time to return to activity was prolonged for the older group."}
{"id": "19226041", "title": "Magnetic resonance arthrographic findings of presumed stage-2 adhesive capsulitis: focus on combined rotator cuff pathology.", "content": "Magnetic resonance arthrographic findings of presumed stage-2 adhesive capsulitis: focus on combined rotator cuff pathology. The purpose of this study was to report the magnetic resonance arthrography (MRA) findings of patients considered to have stage-2 idiopathic adhesive capsulitis and to identify differences in rotator cuff pathologies between 2 age groups (ie, =or< and >60 years). Eighty-one patients, considered to have stage-2 idiopathic adhesive capsulitis based on medical history and a physical examination underwent MRA. Magnetic resonance evaluations focused on combined pathologies other than adhesive capsulitis, especially on the supraspinatus tendon. The pathologies of supraspinatus tendon were divided into 4 categories: normal, tendinosis, partial-tears, and full-thickness tears. Mean patient age was 66 years and mean symptom duration was 8.9 months. There were 38 men and 43 women. Overall, 50 patients (61.7%) showed some form of supraspinatus tendon pathology [small full-thickness tears 6 (7.4%), partial-thickness tears 25 (30.9%), and supraspinatus tendon tendinosis 19 (23.5%)]. The most common MRA finding, other than rotator cuff pathology, was the impression of adhesive capsulitis in 58 patients (71.6%). Group 2 (>60 years) showed a higher prevalence of full and partial-thickness tears (P<.05), however the overall prevalence of supraspinatus tendon pathologies were similar in those younger than and older than 60 years (P=.1795). Approximately 1/3 of stage-2 adhesive capsulitis patients showed some form of supraspinatus tendon tear by MRA, and <10% of patients who were considered to have idiopathic adhesive capsulitis had a full-thickness tear. Adhesive capsulitis patients older than 60 years appeared to be more likely to have a supraspinatus tendon tear."}
{"id": "19225775", "title": "Comparison study of indirect MR arthrography and direct MR arthrography of the shoulder.", "content": "Comparison study of indirect MR arthrography and direct MR arthrography of the shoulder. To compare the diagnostic value of indirect magnetic resonance arthrography (I-MRA) with that of direct MR arthrography (D-MRA) for labral tears, rotator cuff tears, and long head of biceps tendon (LHBT) tears using a 3-T MR unit. Institutional review board approval was given; written informed consent was obtained from all patients. From November 2005 to June 2006, 19 patients (eight men and 11 women; mean age, 51 years) who had undergone both I-MRA and D-MRA underwent arthroscopic surgery. Both methods were performed in fat-saturated axial, coronal oblique, and sagittal oblique T1-weighted sequences, as well as axial and coronal oblique T2-weighted sequences. Two radiologists independently and retrospectively evaluated two sets of MRA for the diagnosis of superior and anterior labral tears, subscapularis tendon (SSC), and supraspinatus-infraspinatus tendon (SSP-ISP) tears, and LHBT tears. With the arthroscopic finding as a gold standard, we analyzed statistical differences of sensitivities and specificities between two sets of MRA and inter-observer agreement was evaluated using the kappa value. The sensitivity and specificity of I-MRA and D-MRA for reader 1 were 79/80% and 71/80%, respectively, for superior labral tears; 100/100% and 100/100%, respectively, for anterior labral tears; 64/75% and 64/100%, respectively, for SSC tears; 100/86% and 100/100%, respectively, for SSP-ISP tears; and 67/100% and 78/100%, respectively, for LHBT tears. Those of I-MRA and D-MRA for reader 2 were 86/80% and 71/100%, respectively, for superior labral tears; 100/83% and 100/100%, respectively, for anterior labral tears; 64/88% and 82/100%, respectively, for SSC tears; 92/86% and 100/100%, respectively, for SSP-ISP tears; and 78/90% and 89/100%, respectively, for LHBT tears. No significant differences were found between the methods. Inter-observer agreements were higher than moderate (kappa > 0.41) with both methods. Based on a relatively small number of patients, no significant difference was detected between I-MRI and D-MRI with regard rotator cuff, labral, and LHBT tears."}
{"id": "19224061", "title": "Aggressive osteoblastoma of the proximal humerus.", "content": "Aggressive osteoblastoma of the proximal humerus. A nine-year-old boy presented with increasingly worsening right shoulder pain of 18 months' duration. On physical examination, there was a tender firm swelling over the right upper arm. Radiographs showed a large osteolytic lesion in the proximal humeral diaphysis, with prominent mixed acute-on-chronic periosteal reaction in a lamellar fashion. There was a pathological fracture. The lesion appeared to be radiographically aggressive in nature. Bone scintiscan showed solitary marked uptake. On-table frozen section histopathological examination of the lesion showed an osteoblastic lesion with aggressive features. Completion curettage and high speed burring of the cavity was performed. In view of the patient's young age, which required a biological solution, and potential for local recurrence, that necessitated a radiopaque filler, the lesion was packed with a calcium phosphate cement paste. The final diagnosis was osteoblastoma with aggressive features. The patient remained well on follow-up to date. The filler continues to be remodelled to native tissue and there is no evidence of local recurrence. Osteoblastoma is a relatively rare benign tumour that typically occurs in the posterior elements of the vertebral column. The humerus is a very rare site of disease in the appendicular skeleton, and poses a diagnostic dilemma which implicates the possibility of osteogenic sarcoma."}
{"id": "19223206", "title": "Observations on retrieved glenoid components from total shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Observations on retrieved glenoid components from total shoulder arthroplasty. Polyethylene components retrieved at revision of total knee and hip replacements have been analyzed to study the effect of design, patient, and surgical factors on initial implant performance, but few studies have reported similar types of findings in retrieved glenoids. From 1979 to 2006, 78 glenoid components were retrieved from revision surgery in 73 patients at a single institution. Each glenoid component was analyzed for 9 modes of damage in each of 4 quadrants into which the bearing surface was divided. For each glenoid, the most recent radiographs before removal were scored using an adapted radiolucency score. Scratching, pitting, and burnishing were the most common and most severe types of polyethylene wear. In addition, the modes of damage observed were not uniformly distributed across the bearing surface, but commonly focused in the inferior quadrant of the glenoid, suggesting a propensity for a humeral impingement mechanism leading to glenoid loosening. The radiographic analysis performed was found to severely underestimate the presence of clinical glenoid loosening. Impingement of the glenoid with bone at the edge of the humeral component and edge deformation secondary to eccentric forces of the humeral head on the glenoid rim are highly associated with glenoid loosening. Analysis of retrieved glenoid components, along with patient, design, and surgical factors, provide important information on the causes of component failure."}
{"id": "19223205", "title": "External rotation lag sign revisited: accuracy for diagnosis of full thickness supraspinatus tear.", "content": "External rotation lag sign revisited: accuracy for diagnosis of full thickness supraspinatus tear. This study reassessed the sensitivity and the specificity of the external rotator lag sign (ERLS) for diagnosis of supraspinatus tears in a large cohort of patients. The ERLS was used to assess 401 consecutive patients with 406 painful shoulder conditions. The clinical diagnosis was controlled either arthroscopically or by open surgery. For isolated full-thickness supraspinatus tears, the ERLS had a sensitivity of 56% and a specificity of 98%. When the lesion involved the infraspinatus and the teres minor the sensitivity improved substantially. There was a strong correlation between the extension of the tear and the amount of the lag. The lag increased from 7 degrees for an isolated rupture of the supraspinatus tendon to 26 degrees in case of extension to the teres minor. The ERLS is highly specific and acceptably sensitive for diagnosis of full-thickness tears, even in case of an isolated lesion of the supraspinatus tendon. Level 2; Prospective cohort treatment study."}
{"id": "19219317", "title": "Comparison of self-report and interview administration methods based on the Brazilian versions of the Western Ontario Rotator Cuff Index and Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand Questionnaire in patients with rotator cuff disorders.", "content": "Comparison of self-report and interview administration methods based on the Brazilian versions of the Western Ontario Rotator Cuff Index and Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand Questionnaire in patients with rotator cuff disorders. The purpose of the present study was to compare self-report and interview administration methods using the Western Ontario Rotator Cuff Index (WORC) and Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand Questionnaire (DASH) in patients with rotator cuff disorders. Thirty male and female patients over 18 years of age with rotator cuff disorders (tendinopathy or rotator cuff tear) and Brazilian Portuguese as their primary language were recruited for assessment via administration of the Western Ontario Rotator Cuff Index and and Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand Questionnaire. A randomization method was used to determine whether the questionnaires would be self-reported (n=15) or administered by an interviewer (n=15). Pearson correlation coefficients were used to evaluate the correlation between the Western Ontario Rotator Cuff Index and and Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand Questionnaire in each group. The t-test was used to determine whether the difference in mean questionnaire scores and administration time was statistically significant. For statistical analysis, the level of significance was set at 5%. The mean subject age was 55.07 years, ranging from 27 to 74 years. Most patients had a diagnosis of tendinopathy (n=21). With regard to level of schooling, the majority (n=26) of subjects had completed a college degree or higher. The mean questionnaire scores and administration times did not significantly differ between the two groups (p>0.05). There were statistically significant correlations (p<0.05) between Western Ontario Rotator Cuff Index and and Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand Questionnaire, and strong correlations were found between the questionnaires in both groups. There are no differences between the Western Ontario Rotator Cuff Index and Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand Questionnaire administration methods with regard to administration time or correlations between the questionnaires."}
{"id": "19218053", "title": "Alterations in function after rotator cuff tears in an animal model.", "content": "Alterations in function after rotator cuff tears in an animal model. This study examined the effect of multiple rotator cuff tendon tears on shoulder function in an animal model. Forty-eight Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into uninjured control, supraspinatus tendon detachment, supraspinatus+infraspinatus tendon detachment, or supraspinatus+subscapularis tendon detachment groups. Functional assessment was determined through ambulatory parameters (paw and stride measures) and range of motion prior to tendon detachment and at various time points after tendon detachment. Ambulatory parameters and total range of motion, representing measures of shoulder function, were significantly altered with rotator cuff tears. The addition of a second torn rotator cuff tendon (infraspinatus or subscapularis)had further detrimental effects on animal shoulder function compared to uninjured control. This study demonstrated functional changes in a rat rotator cuff model. Many of the permanent functional changes were likely present because the required motion used for those actions can no longer be performed. For parameters that were transient, compensation with another limb or subsidence of pain may have occurred. The findings in this study are consistent with the alterations in shoulder function observed with rotator cuff and other shoulder injuries in the human. Future studies using this model can begin to examine the root of the functional differences, whether it is pain, mechanical deficiency, or a combination of both, which cannot be fully studied clinically [corrected]."}
{"id": "19214690", "title": "Degenerated coracoacromial ligament in shoulders with rotator cuff tears shows higher elastic modulus: measurement with scanning acoustic microscopy.", "content": "Degenerated coracoacromial ligament in shoulders with rotator cuff tears shows higher elastic modulus: measurement with scanning acoustic microscopy. The purpose of this study was to determine the elasticity of the coracoacromial ligament in shoulders with and without rotator cuff tears. The coracoacromial ligaments from 20 cadaveric shoulders (average patient age 79.5 years; 8 men, 12 women) were divided into six portions--three portions (acromial, central, and coracoid) in two layers (superficial and deep). A total of 120 samples were studied. First, the samples were classified by the collagen fiber orientation into three degeneration patterns: wavy, straight, irregular. For each pattern, the tissue sound speed, which shows a positive correlation with elasticity, was measured with scanning acoustic microscopy. Next, the samples were divided into three groups: 60 samples from shoulders with rotator cuff tears (RCT group), 30 samples from shoulders with an intact rotator cuff and a subacromial spur (spur group), and 30 samples from shoulders with an intact rotator cuff without a subacromial spur (control group). All shoulders with rotator cuff tears had subacromial spurs. The tissue sound speed and the histological findings were compared among the groups. The sound speeds in the wavy, straight, and irregular patterns were 1592 +/- 17.2 m/s (mean +/- SD), 1626 +/- 28.0 m/s, and 1607 +/- 29.8 m/s, respectively (P < 0.0001). The sound speed in the straight pattern was higher than that in the wavy pattern (P < 0.0001), and that in the irregular pattern was lower than that in the straight pattern (P = 0.0023). The RCT group and the spur group had more straight patterns (P = 0.0002) and fewer wavy patterns (P < 0.0001) than did the control group. Significant differences in the sound speed were observed between the groups (P < 0.0001): 1596 +/- 19.1 m/s in the control group, 1630 +/- 31.5 m/s in the spur group, 1612 +/- 28.6 m/s in the RCT group. The coracoacromial ligament in shoulders with rotator cuff tears shows higher elastic modulus than in age-matched normal shoulders due to degeneration of the ligament."}
{"id": "19214689", "title": "Inducement of mitogen-activated protein kinases in frozen shoulders.", "content": "Inducement of mitogen-activated protein kinases in frozen shoulders. Mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases are well-known molecules that play key roles in mechanical stress signals during skeletal development. To test our hypothesis that the synovium in frozen shoulders is induced by MAP kinases, immunohistochemical analyses for detecting expression and signal transduction of MAP kinases were performed in synovial tissue obtained from the rotator interval (RI) in frozen shoulders. Synovial tissues were examined from 10 frozen shoulder patients with a mean age of 55.4 years (46-62 years). Synovial tissues between the long head of the biceps tendon (LHB) and the RI in frozen shoulders were stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) and then examined with immunohistochemical staining. Extracellular signal-regulated (ERK), the Jun N-terminal (JNK), and p38 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases, nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB), p50, CD29 (beta(1)-integrin), matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-3, interleukin-6 (IL-6), CD56, CD68, S-100, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) were analyzed to detect expression patterns. H&E showed vascular proliferation with fibrin and fibrous tissue in the synovium of frozen shoulders. ERK was expressed in the epithelial cells of vascular tissue, and JNK was expressed strongly in the interstitial cells around vascular tissue; p38 MAPK was not expressed. NF-kappaB was expressed in vascular tissue, and IL-6 was expressed around vascular tissue. CD29 (beta1-integrin) was expressed in vascular tissue and in superficial cells of synovial tissue. MMP-3 and VEGF were expressed on the surface layer of synovial tissue and vascular tissue, and CD68 was expressed on the surface layer. Nerve-related proteins, CD56 and S-100, were expressed weakly. Mechanical stress on the LHB and RI in the shoulder may induce ERK and JNK to express NF-kappaB by CD29 to develop capsule contracture, producing MMP-3, IL-6, and VEGF."}
{"id": "19213574", "title": "Long-term functional and structural outcome in patients with intact repairs 1 year after open transosseous rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Long-term functional and structural outcome in patients with intact repairs 1 year after open transosseous rotator cuff repair. Tendon-to-bone suture and a fatty degeneration index (FDI) <or= 2 are required to achieve an intact cuff in the mid-term. Our primary objective was to determine the structural and functional long-term outcomes of repaired cuffs that were intact after one year. We studied 30 cuffs with FDI <or= 2 at surgery and no tear one year after tension-free tendon-to-bone suture. Mean follow-up was 9 +/- 0.8 years. Gross tendon-stump lesions were excised prior to repair. Re-tear after one year was rare: only one cuff showed a recurrent tear. In the 29 intact cuffs, mean un-weighted Constant score and sub-scores improved significantly (P values, < .0001- .0002; final Constant score = 77) for two years then remained stable. FDI values increased during the first year and then remained stable. Mild osteoarthritis was noted in one shoulder at last follow-up. Final functional outcomes correlated significantly to FDI at baseline and last follow-up. Tension free tendon-to-bone suture is effective functionally and structurally at nine years follow-up provided the FDI at surgery is <or= 2 and the repair is intact after one year. Level 3; Retrospective cohort therapeutic study."}
{"id": "19208486", "title": "Adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder: dimensions of the rotator interval measured with magnetic resonance arthrography.", "content": "Adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder: dimensions of the rotator interval measured with magnetic resonance arthrography. This study was performed to define the dimensions of the rotator interval (RI) in adhesive capsulitis using magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography preoperatively to clarify and evaluate pathology. We performed a retrospective review of a series of 73 shoulders that underwent MR arthrography. The shoulders were grouped according to their diagnosis: group I comprised 47 shoulders without adhesive capsulitis; group II comprised 26 shoulders with adhesive capsulitis. Using MR arthrography, we estimated the height, base, RI area, width, RI index, and RI ratio. The group II shoulders differed significantly in height, base, RI area, RI index, and RI ratio from the group I shoulders. There were statistically significant differences in RI dimensions between patients with and without adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder. Estimating the dimensions of the RI in adhesive capsulitis using MR arthrography may prove to be valuable for assessing patients preoperatively."}
{"id": "19208484", "title": "Cuff tear arthropathy: current trends in diagnosis and surgical management.", "content": "Cuff tear arthropathy: current trends in diagnosis and surgical management. Massive tears of the rotator cuff resulting in arthritis of the glenohumeral joint remain a difficult challenge. Although cuff tear arthropathy (CTA) has been recognized for more than 150 years, a treatment strategy with uniformly satisfactory outcomes remains elusive, partly due to the difficulty in defining CTA in the literature. Most studies combine true CTA, rheumatoid arthritis, and massive rotator cuff tears under the CTA diagnosis. Determining outcomes from these studies is difficult. Hemiarthroplasty and total shoulder arthroplasty have led to pain relief, but the high rate of glenoid component loosening after total shoulder arthroplasty is a concern, and active range of motion remains limited after hemiarthroplasty. There is increasing interest in the use of a constrained or reverese total shoulder arthroplasty to treat this complex process, with promising early results. This review article studies current trends in the diagnosis and management of arthritis due to massive cuff tears and CTA."}
{"id": "19204551", "title": "Clinical update: MR imaging of the shoulder.", "content": "Clinical update: MR imaging of the shoulder. Magnetic resonance imaging has become an important diagnostic adjunct in the evaluation of shoulder conditions, and the technology continues to evolve. Direct magnetic resonance arthrography can improve detection of labral and rotator cuff pathology, especially partial thickness tears of the rotator cuff. Special positioning, such as abducted-externally rotated views, improves visualization of the rotator cuff and posterior superior labrum in throwing athletes. Diagnosis-specific sequencing such as fat suppression, spin-echo and proton-density techniques, and higher power magnets (3.0 T) allow for an unprecedented level of soft tissue detail. Clinical expertize is required to differentiate between normal anatomic variants, incidental findings, and true pathology. Although magnetic resonance imaging findings may be diagnostic in some cases, clinical correlation with history and physical examination findings is critical."}
{"id": "19204368", "title": "Results of arthroscopic revision anterior shoulder reconstruction.", "content": "Results of arthroscopic revision anterior shoulder reconstruction. Recurrent instability after surgical stabilization of the shoulder is uncommon. Although results of open revision stabilization procedures have been reported, only 3 studies have evaluated the outcome of arthroscopic revision surgery. To analyze results of arthroscopic revision anterior shoulder reconstruction at the authors' institution. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Chart review identified 18 shoulders that had arthroscopic revision anterior shoulder reconstruction at the Southern California Orthopedic Institute between November 4, 1997, and May 14, 2002. Anterior reconstruction of the shoulder was performed using suture anchors and nonabsorbable sutures. In most patients, posterior capsular plication was also performed; in 1 patient, closure of the rotator interval was performed. Sixteen shoulders in 15 patients were examined and 1 patient who required revision surgery was interviewed at a mean of 38 months (range, 24-67 months) after arthroscopic revision anterior shoulder reconstruction. The patient population consisted of 13 men and 3 women whose age at surgery was between 17 and 55 years (mean, 30 years; SD, 11.9 years). Patient satisfaction, the Simple Shoulder Test, and the Rowe scale were used to measure outcome. Prior surgeries included 10 arthroscopic procedures in 9 shoulders and 10 open procedures in 8 shoulders. In this study group, 1 patient dislocated his shoulder 4 months after arthroscopic revision anterior shoulder reconstruction during an altercation and subsequently underwent a Bristow procedure. Of the remaining cases, none of the 16 shoulders had recurrence of dislocation or subluxation; all 15 patients were satisfied with their revision surgeries. Among this group, the Simple Shoulder Test responses improved from 8.3 yes responses to 11.3 after arthroscopic revision anterior shoulder reconstruction (P < .05). Using the Rowe scale, there were 9 excellent, 4 good, and 3 fair results. Mean Rowe score at follow-up was 83.8 (range, 55-100; SD, 14.7) for these 16 shoulders. In this series, 94% of shoulders were stable after arthroscopic revision anterior shoulder reconstruction, and there were a high number of good and excellent outcomes. Results suggest arthroscopic revision anterior shoulder reconstruction using suture anchors is a viable treatment alternative for patients with failed anterior shoulder reconstructions."}
{"id": "19204365", "title": "A prospective randomized clinical trial comparing arthroscopic single- and double-row rotator cuff repair: magnetic resonance imaging and early clinical evaluation.", "content": "A prospective randomized clinical trial comparing arthroscopic single- and double-row rotator cuff repair: magnetic resonance imaging and early clinical evaluation. Double-row arthroscopic rotator cuff repair has become more popular, and some studies have shown better footprint coverage and improved biomechanics of the repair. Double-row rotator cuff repair leads to superior cuff integrity and early clinical results compared with single-row repair. Randomized controlled trial; Level of evidence, 1. Forty patients were randomized to either single-row or double-row rotator cuff repair at the time of surgical intervention. Patients were followed with clinical measures (UCLA, Constant, WORC, SANE, ASES, as well as range of motion, internal rotation strength, and external rotation strength). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies were performed on each shoulder preoperatively, 6 weeks, 3 months, and 1 year after repair. Mean anteroposterior tear size by MRI was 1.8 cm. A mean of 2.25 anchors for single row (SR) and 3.2 for double row (DR) were used. There were 2 retears at 1 year in each group. There were 2 additional cases that had severe thinning in the DR repair group at 1 year. The MRI measurements of footprint coverage, tendon thickness, and tendon signal showed no significant differences between the 2 repair groups. At 1 year, there were no differences in any of the postoperative measures of motion or strength. At 1 year, mean WORC (SR, 84.8; DR, 87.9), Constant (SR, 77.8; DR, 74.4), ASES (SR, 85.9; DR, 85.5), UCLA (SR, 28.6; DR, 29.5), and SANE (SR, 90.9; DR, 89.9) scores showed no significant differences between groups. No clinical or MRI differences were seen between patients repaired with a SR or DR technique."}
{"id": "19204363", "title": "Endoscopic repair of gluteus medius tendon tears of the hip.", "content": "Endoscopic repair of gluteus medius tendon tears of the hip. Tears of the gluteus medius tendon at the greater trochanter have been termed \"rotator cuff tears of the hip.\" Previous reports have described the open repair of these lesions. Endoscopic repair of gluteus medius tears results in successful clinical outcomes in the short term. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Of 482 consecutive hip arthroscopies performed by the senior author, 10 patients with gluteus medius tears repaired endoscopically were evaluated prospectively. Perioperative data were analyzed on this cohort of patients. There were 8 women and 2 men, with an average age of 50.4 years (range, 33-66 years). Patients had persistent lateral hip pain and abductor weakness despite extensive conservative measures. Diagnosis was made by physical examination and magnetic resonance imaging and was confirmed at the time of endoscopy in all cases. At the most recent follow-up, patients completed the Modified Harris Hip Score and Hip Outcomes Score surveys. At an average follow-up of 25 months (range, 19-38 months), all 10 patients had complete resolution of pain; 10 of 10 regained 5 of 5 motor strength in the hip abductors. Modified Harris Hip Scores at 1 year averaged 94 points (range, 84-100), and Hip Outcomes Scores averaged 93 points (range, 85-100). There were no adverse complications after abductor repairs. Seven of 10 patients said their hip was normal, and 3 said their hip was nearly normal. With short-term follow-up, endoscopic repair of gluteus medius tendon tears of the hip appears to provide pain relief and return of strength in select patients who have failed conservative measures. Further long-term follow-up is warranted to confirm the clinical effectiveness of this procedure."}
{"id": "19194024", "title": "Frozen shoulder: evidence and a proposed model guiding rehabilitation.", "content": "Frozen shoulder: evidence and a proposed model guiding rehabilitation. Frozen shoulder or adhesive capsulitis describes the common shoulder condition characterized by painful and limited active and passive range of motion. The etiology of frozen shoulder remains unclear; however, patients typically demonstrate a characteristic history, clinical presentation, and recovery. A classification schema is described, in which primary frozen shoulder and idiopathic adhesive capsulitis are considered identical and not associated with a systemic condition or history of injury. Secondary frozen shoulder is defined by 3 subcategories: systemic, extrinsic, and intrinsic. We also propose another classification system based on the patient's irritability level (low, moderate, and high), that we believe is helpful when making clinical decisions regarding rehabilitation intervention. Nonoperative interventions include patient education, modalities, stretching exercises, joint mobilization, and corticosteroid injections. Glenohumeral intra-articular corticosteroid injections, exercise, and joint mobilization all result in improved short- and long-term outcomes. However, there is strong evidence that glenohumeral intra-articular corticosteroid injections have a significantly greater 4- to 6-week beneficial effect compared to other forms of treatment. A rehabilitation model based on evidence and intervention strategies matched with irritability levels is proposed. Exercise and manual techniques are progressed as the patient's irritability reduces. Response to treatment is based on significant pain relief, improved satisfaction, and return of functional motion. Patients who do not respond or worsen should be referred for an intra-articular corticosteroid injection. Patients who have recalcitrant symptoms and disabling pain may respond to either standard or translational manipulation under anesthesia or arthroscopic release. Level 5."}
{"id": "19194018", "title": "SLAP lesions: an update on recognition and treatment.", "content": "SLAP lesions: an update on recognition and treatment. Superior labral tears (SLAP lesions) can pose a significant challenge to orthopaedic surgeons and rehabilitation specialists alike. Although advancement in arthroscopic techniques has enhanced arthroscopic repair of SLAP lesions, the clinical diagnosis of SLAP lesions can still be difficult. There is a variety of etiologic factors associated with SLAP lesions and a thorough clinical evaluation is crucial to make the diagnosis. Concomitant injury to the capsular-labral complex or rotator cuff is not uncommon and can further confuse the clinical presentation. The purpose of this paper is to review the pathomechanics, diagnosis, and treatment of SLAP lesions. We will specifically review some of the physical examination tests that are used to diagnose SLAP lesions and report on our technique of arthroscopic repair. Additionally, we will discuss the operative management of associated intra-articular pathology and, finally, we will briefly discuss our postoperative rehabilitation guidelines. Level 5."}
{"id": "19190054", "title": "Large and massive tears of the rotator cuff: functional outcome and integrity of the repair after a mini-open procedure.", "content": "Large and massive tears of the rotator cuff: functional outcome and integrity of the repair after a mini-open procedure. The aim of this study was to determine the functional outcome and rate of re-tears following mini-open repair of symptomatic large and massive tears of the rotator cuff using a two-row technique. The 24 patients included in the study were assessed prospectively before and at a mean of 27 months (18 to 53) after surgery using the Constant and the Oxford Shoulder scores. Ultrasound examination was carried out at follow-up to determine the integrity of the repair. Patient satisfaction was assessed using a simple questionnaire. The mean Constant score improved significantly from 36 before to 68 after operation (p < 0.0001) and the mean Oxford Shoulder score from 39 to 20 (p < 0.0001). Four of the 24 patients (17%) had a re-tear diagnosed by ultrasound. A total of 21 patients (87.5%) were satisfied with the outcome of their surgery. The repair remained intact in 20 patients (83%). However, the small number of re-tears (four patients) in the study did not allow sufficient analysis to show a difference in outcome in relation to the integrity of the repair."}
{"id": "19190053", "title": "Prevalence and characteristics of asymptomatic tears of the rotator cuff: an ultrasonographic and clinical study.", "content": "Prevalence and characteristics of asymptomatic tears of the rotator cuff: an ultrasonographic and clinical study. We undertook clinical and ultrasonographic examination of the shoulders of 420 asymptomatic volunteers aged between 50 and 79 years. MRI was performed in selected cases. Full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff were detected in 32 subjects (7.6%). The prevalence increased with age as follows: 50 to 59 years, 2.1%; 60 to 69 years, 5.7%; and 70 to 79 years, 15%. The mean size of the tear was less than 3 cm and tear localisation was limited to the supraspinatus tendon in most cases (78%). The strength of flexion was reduced significantly in the group with tears (p = 0.01). Asymptomatic tears of the rotator cuff should be regarded as part of the normal ageing process in the elderly but may be less common than hitherto believed."}
{"id": "19188318", "title": "Three-dimensional isotropic shoulder MR arthrography: comparison with two-dimensional MR arthrography for the diagnosis of labral lesions at 3.0 T.", "content": "Three-dimensional isotropic shoulder MR arthrography: comparison with two-dimensional MR arthrography for the diagnosis of labral lesions at 3.0 T. To compare the diagnostic accuracy of three-dimensional (3D) isotropic magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography with two-dimensional (2D) MR arthrography for the diagnosis of labral lesions of the shoulder performed by using a 3.0-T imager. Institutional review board approval was given for this retrospective study and informed consent was waived. From March 2006 to January 2007, 100 patients underwent 3D isotropic and 2D MR shoulder arthrographic imaging by using a 3.0-T imager and subsequent arthroscopic surgery. The 3D isotropic sequences were performed by using fast gradient-echo imaging with fat suppression (voxel size, 0.6 x 0.6 x 0.6 mm; imaging time, 5 minutes 32 seconds) and were evaluated for the presence of superior, anterior, and posterior labral lesions by using 3D isotropic and 2D MR arthrography. The statistical differences between the sensitivity and specificity for both methods were analyzed by using the McNemar test, with arthroscopic findings regarded as reference standard. Surgical findings confirmed 53 superior labral anterior posterior (SLAP) lesions, 17 anterior labral lesions, and five posterior labral lesions. Respective sensitivity and specificity were 85% and 96% for SLAP lesions, 100% and 98% for anterior labral lesions, and 80% and 99% for posterior labral lesions by using 2D MR arthrography and 83% and 96% for SLAP lesions, 100% and 96% for anterior labral lesions, and 80% and 99% for posterior labral lesions by using 3D isotropic MR arthrography. There was no significant difference in sensitivities and specificities of both methods; however, the power of this study was limited and larger comparison is needed. Isotropic 3D shoulder MR arthrography combined with a multiplanar reconstruction technique can help in the diagnosis of shoulder labral lesions as does 2D MR arthrography, but with shorter imaging times."}
{"id": "19186080", "title": "Severe chondrolysis after shoulder arthroscopy: a case series.", "content": "Severe chondrolysis after shoulder arthroscopy: a case series. Chondrolysis has been observed after shoulder arthroscopy and results in severe glenohumeral complications. Twenty three cases of post-arthroscopic glenohumeral chondrolysis, occurring between 2005-2006, are reported following a variety of arthroscopic shoulder procedures. Presenting complaints, signs and symptoms, associated operative findings, and potential etiological factors are reviewed. Management options are summarized. Of the 23 cases of chondrolysis identified in our practice over a two year period, 14 occurred in patients following labral repair using a bioabsorbable device. Seventeen of the 23 patients used a high volume intra-articular pain pump for 48 hours after surgery. Seven of the 23 cases had documented use of a thermal probe. Four cases occurred in shoulders with no reported use of fixation anchors, pain pumps, or thermal probes. All cases had at least a 20 cc intra-articular bolus injection of 0.25% bupivicaine with epinephrine. This case series identifies several common factors that could be responsible for post-arthroscopic glenohumeral chondrolysis. No single mechanism can be implicated based on the results of this study. Although strong concerns are raised over the use of intra-articular local anesthetics, glenohumeral chondrolysis appears to be an unfortunate convergence of multiple factors that may initiate rapid dissolution of articular cartilage and degenerative changes. Chondrolysis is a devastating complication of arthroscopic shoulder surgery that can result in long-term disabling consequences. Further research is required to specifically identify causative factors. Until this is a available, we strongly advise against the use of large doses of intra-articular placement of local anesthetics."}
{"id": "19185661", "title": "MRI of impingement syndromes of the shoulder.", "content": "MRI of impingement syndromes of the shoulder. The diagnosis of shoulder impingement is primarily a clinical one. Imaging has a role in assisting clinicians in developing a treatment strategy by identifying and characterizing the cause of shoulder impingement. In this review, the relevant anatomy, cause/pathomechanics, clinical features, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings of the different types of impingement syndromes are presented."}
{"id": "19184264", "title": "Open versus two forms of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Open versus two forms of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. There have been technologic advances in the methods for repairing torn rotator cuffs. We compared the clinical and structural outcomes of three different forms of rotator cuff repair with up to 24 months' followup. We wished to assess how surgical technique affected clinical outcomes and see how these correlated to repair integrity. Three cohorts of patients had repair of a symptomatic rotator cuff tear using (1) an open technique (n = 49); (2) arthroscopic knotted (n = 53); or (3) arthroscopic knotless (n = 57) by one surgeon. Standardized patient- and examiner-determined outcomes were obtained preoperatively and at 6 weeks, 3 and 6 months, and 2 years postoperatively. Ultrasound studies were performed with a validated protocol at 6 months and 2 years postsurgery. Clinical outcomes were similar with the exception that the arthroscopic groups had, on average, 20% better American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores than the open group at 6 months and 2 years. Retear correlated with tear size and operation time and occurred more frequently after open repair (39%) than after arthroscopic knotted (25%) and arthroscopic knotless (16%) repair. An intact cuff on ultrasound corresponded to better results for supraspinatus strength, patient outcomes, and rotator cuff functional ability. Level III, therapeutic study. See Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "19182042", "title": "Imaging of femoroacetabular impingement.", "content": "Imaging of femoroacetabular impingement. Femoroacetabular impingement is a relatively recently described cause of hip pain that involves degenerative change in the hips of younger patients (less than thirty-five years old) as a result of predisposing pathoanatomy. The two types of impingement, cam and pincer, often occur together and overlap to varying degrees. The diagnostic workup begins with radiography, but magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance arthrography provide more accurate imaging that characterizes not only the pathoanatomy but also other associated findings, including labral tears and cartilage damage."}
{"id": "19181974", "title": "Acetabular cartilage delamination in femoroacetabular impingement. Risk factors and magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis.", "content": "Acetabular cartilage delamination in femoroacetabular impingement. Risk factors and magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis. Delamination of acetabular articular cartilage is a common abnormality in hips with femoroacetabular impingement. The purpose of the present study was to identify clinical and radiographic factors predisposing to delamination and to assess the diagnostic accuracy of magnetic resonance arthrography for the detection of these lesions. Following a retrospective review of records, we determined that acetabular cartilage delamination had been present in twenty-eight of sixty-four hips that had undergone a surgical dislocation procedure for the treatment of femoroacetabular impingement. Multivariable logistic regression was performed to assess the correlation of radiographic findings (i.e., magnetic resonance imaging and computerized tomography findings) with the status of delamination. The preoperative interpretations of the magnetic resonance arthrograms for twenty-seven hips that underwent surgical dislocation were reviewed to assess the accuracy of detecting delamination. At the time of surgery, nine of these twenty-seven hips were found to have delamination. Magnetic resonance arthrography interpretations that did not correlate with operative findings were subjected to conspicuity assessment and error analysis. The rate of delamination of the acetabular cartilage as noted at the time of surgical dislocation was 44% (twenty-eight of sixty-four). Delamination was strongly associated with male sex and femoral sided signs of impingement; however, it was not associated with acetabular overcoverage (center-edge angle, >40 degrees) (odds ratio = 0.16; p < 0.05). While there was no significant difference in the prevalence of labral lesions between groups, whenever labral and delamination lesions were found in the same hip, they were directly adjacent to one another. Preoperative magnetic resonance arthrography had a low sensitivity for delamination (22%) but had a high specificity (100%). Two-thirds of the delamination lesions were visible on retrospective review of these images when the reader was unblinded to the surgical findings. Delamination could most often be identified on the sagittal T1-weighted image and on the proton-density sequences with fat saturation. There should be a high level of suspicion for articular cartilage delamination in men and in patients with primarily cam-type femoroacetabular impingement. Acetabular overcoverage may be protective against delamination. Preoperative high-quality magnetic resonance arthrograms should be carefully analyzed for evidence of delamination in this patient population."}
{"id": "19181972", "title": "Shoulder strength in asymptomatic individuals with intact compared with torn rotator cuffs.", "content": "Shoulder strength in asymptomatic individuals with intact compared with torn rotator cuffs. Normative data are essential to the evaluation of shoulder function. The purposes of this study were to establish a normative database of isometric shoulder strength measured in asymptomatic individuals verified to have intact rotator cuffs and to determine the effect of asymptomatic rotator cuff tears on shoulder strength. Two hundred and thirty-seven volunteers with no shoulder pain or history of shoulder injury were screened with ultrasonography bilaterally for rotator cuff tears and then underwent isometric strength measurements for abduction in the scapular plane and external rotation. Statistical analysis was performed to evaluate the effect of age, body habitus, hand dominance, and the presence of a rotator cuff tear on shoulder strength. Of the 237 volunteers, forty-one were found to have a torn rotator cuff in at least one shoulder. The prevalence of rotator cuff tears was 0% for the subjects between forty and forty-nine years old; 10%, between fifty and fifty-nine years old; 20%, between sixty and sixty-nine years old; and 40.7% for those seventy years old or older. Both abduction strength and external rotation strength in the male subjects showed an age-dependent decrease, whereas only abduction strength showed an age-dependent decrease in the female subjects. In multiple regression analysis, age and weight were the most important predictors of abduction strength and external rotation strength, respectively. In the shoulders with a large-to-massive full-thickness rotator cuff tear, abduction strength was significantly decreased (p = 0.007). Additionally, the ratio of abduction strength to external rotation strength was significantly decreased in the shoulders with a large-to-massive full-thickness tear compared with the shoulders with an intact rotator cuff (p < 0.001). There is a high prevalence of rotator cuff tears in elderly asymptomatic individuals. Asymptomatic shoulders with a large-to-massive full-thickness rotator cuff tear have significantly decreased abduction strength. When there is a substantial decrease in abduction strength in relation to external rotation strength, the presence of an asymptomatic full-thickness tear should be suspected in that shoulder. Previous studies establishing normative values for isometric shoulder strength may have been skewed by the presence of asymptomatic rotator cuff tears in elderly subgroups."}
{"id": "19171279", "title": "Arthroscopic biceps augmentation for avoiding undue tension in repair of massive rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Arthroscopic biceps augmentation for avoiding undue tension in repair of massive rotator cuff tears. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the outcome of massive rotator cuff tears repaired by use of an arthroscopic biceps augmentation technique, interpositioning the tenotomized biceps tendon to bridge the gap between the torn edges of the cuff tendon. Sixty-eight shoulders with massive rotator cuff tears were included in this study. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs with the biceps augmentation technique were performed in 37 patients (group A), whereas 31 patients underwent repair without biceps augmentation (group B). The mean follow-up period was 21 months (range, 14 to 78 months) in group A and 20 months (range, 13 to 63 months) in group B. The mean University of California, Los Angeles score improved from 14.1 points (range, 6 to 21 points) in group A and 13.9 points (range, 7 to 22 points) in group B preoperatively to 32.6 points (range, 22 to 35 points) and 30.3 points (range, 20 to 35 points) postoperatively, respectively (P < .001 and P < .001, respectively). However, the difference between the postoperative scores was not statistically significant (P = .198). At the last follow-up, group A showed better results than group B in forward flexion, external rotation, and internal rotation strength, with statistically significant differences (P = .017, P = .001, and P < .001, respectively). According to the postoperative repair integrity analyzed by use of magnetic resonance imaging, 58.3% of group A cases (14/24) and 26.3% of group B cases (5/19) had complete healing (P = .036). An arthroscopic augmentation technique using the tenotomized biceps tendon was effective in achieving fewer structural failures, equivalent clinical outcomes, and significant improvement in muscle strength in comparison traditional arthroscopic repairs by avoiding undue tension in cases with massive rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "19171276", "title": "How accurately can the acetabular rim be trimmed in hip arthroscopy for pincer-type femoral acetabular impingement: a cadaveric investigation.", "content": "How accurately can the acetabular rim be trimmed in hip arthroscopy for pincer-type femoral acetabular impingement: a cadaveric investigation. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the precision of central hip arthroscopy in the assessment and treatment of pincer-type femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) avoiding the posterolateral portal, with its close proximity to the main arterial blood supply of the femoral head, the medial circumflex femoral artery. Seven human cadaveric hips underwent arthroscopic trimming of the acetabular labrum and rim along a preoperatively defined 105 degrees arc of resection for treatment of a presumed pincer-type lesion. After the arthroscopic procedure, all specimens were dissected and measured for evaluation of the location, quantity, and quality of the area undergoing resection. The difference between the actual and planned arc of resection was 18.7 degrees +/- 4.7 degrees (range, 2 degrees to 34 degrees). This was mainly because of a lack of accuracy in the presumed posterior starting point (PSP), with a mean deviation of 19 degrees +/- 3.4 degrees (range, 10 degrees to 36 degrees). Correlation analysis showed that variance in the arc of resection was mainly dependent on the PSP (r = 0.739, P = .058). Central hip arthroscopy is a feasible option in treating anterosuperior pincer-type FAI by use of the anterior and anterolateral portals only. This cadaveric study showed that there is a significant risk of underestimating the actual arc of resection compared with the planned arc of resection for posterosuperior pincer-type lesions because of the modest accuracy in determining the PSP of the resection. Accurate preoperative planning and arthroscopic identification of anatomic landmarks at the acetabular side are crucial for the definition of the appropriate starting and ending points in the treatment of pincer-type FAI. Whereas anterosuperior pincer-type lesions can be addressed very precisely with our technique, the actual resection of posterosuperior lesions averaged 19 degrees less than the planned resection, which may have clinical implications."}
{"id": "19168731", "title": "The RgpA-Kgp proteinase-adhesin complexes of Porphyromonas gingivalis Inactivate the Th2 cytokines interleukin-4 and interleukin-5.", "content": "The RgpA-Kgp proteinase-adhesin complexes of Porphyromonas gingivalis Inactivate the Th2 cytokines interleukin-4 and interleukin-5. The RgpA-Kgp proteinase-adhesin complexes are a primary virulence factor of Porphyromonas gingivalis, a major pathogen in the development of chronic periodontitis. The RgpA-Kgp complexes have been suggested to bias the immune response to a Th2 phenotype in disease by hydrolysis of Th1 cytokines. Here, we show that the RgpA-Kgp complexes hydrolyze and inactivate interleukin-4 (IL-4) and IL-5 under physiologically relevant conditions. Using the IL-4/IL-5-dependent TF1.8 T-cell line, it was found that at equimolar ratios of cytokine to RgpA-Kgp complexes, IL-4 and IL-5 were inactivated in the culture medium. The inactivation of IL-4 and IL-5 was RgpA-Kgp concentration dependent, as at an enzyme-to-cytokine molar ratio of 1:8, the bioactivity of the cytokines was greater than at the higher concentration of RgpA-Kgp of 1:1. Furthermore, inactivation of the cytokines by the RgpA-Kgp complexes was time dependent, as longer preincubation times resulted in lower cytokine activity. IL-5 was found to be slightly more resistant to inactivation than IL-4. Mass spectrometric analyses of IL-4 and IL-5 showed that hydrolysis by RgpA-Kgp complexes was C terminal to Arg and Lys residues of the cytokines. The peptides released indicated that the regions of IL-4 and IL-5 important for bioactivity were being hydrolyzed in the first 15 min of incubation. The ability of the RgpA-Kgp complexes to degrade Th2 cytokines may contribute to immune dysregulation and may play a role in the pathology of chronic periodontitis."}
{"id": "19160210", "title": "WITHDRAWN: Interventions for tears of the rotator cuff in adults.", "content": "WITHDRAWN: Interventions for tears of the rotator cuff in adults. Tears of the rotator cuff tendons, which surround the joints of the shoulder, are one of the most common causes of pain and disability in the upper extremity. To review the efficacy and safety of common interventions for tears of the rotator cuff in adults. We searched the Cochrane Bone, Joint and Muscle Trauma Group specialised trail register (July 2002), the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register (The Cochrane Library issue 2, 2002), MEDLINE (1966 to December 2001), EMBASE (1974 to December 2001), Biological Abstracts (1980 to December 2001), LILACS (1982 to December 2001), CINAHL (November 1982 to December 2001), Science Citation Index and reference lists of articles. We also contacted authors and handsearched conference proceedings focusing on shoulder conditions. Randomised or quasi-randomised clinical trials involving tears of the rotator cuff were the focus of this review. All trials involving conservative interventions or surgery were included (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, intra-articular or subacromial glucocorticosteroid injection, oral glucocorticosteroid treatment, physiotherapy, and open or arthroscopic surgery). Two reviewers independently assessed suitability for inclusion, methodological quality and extracted data. Dichotomous data were presented as relative risks (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI), using the fixed effects model. Eight trials involving 455 people were included and 393 patients analysed. Trials were grouped in eight categories of conservative or surgical treatment. The median quality score of all trials combined was 16 out of a possible 24 points, with a range of 12-18. In general, included trials differed on diagnostic criteria for rotator cuff tear, there was no uniformity in reported outcome measures, and data which could be summarised were rarely reported. Only results from two studies comparing open repair to arthroscopic debridement could be pooled. There is weak evidence for the superiority of open repair of rotator cuff tears compared with arthroscopic debridement. There is little evidence to support or refute the efficacy of common interventions for tears of rotator cuff in adults. As well as the need for further well designed clinical trials, uniform methods of defining interventions for rotator cuff tears and validated outcome measures are also essential."}
{"id": "19155413", "title": "Comparison of indirect isotropic MR arthrography and conventional MR arthrography of labral lesions and rotator cuff tears: a prospective study.", "content": "Comparison of indirect isotropic MR arthrography and conventional MR arthrography of labral lesions and rotator cuff tears: a prospective study. The purpose of our study was to prospectively compare the diagnostic accuracy of 3D isotropic indirect MR arthrography with conventional sequences of indirect MR arthrography for the diagnosis of labral and rotator cuff lesions on a 3-T MR unit. Thirty-six consecutive patients who were scheduled for shoulder arthroscopic surgery at our institution underwent indirect MR arthrography. Both conventional sequences and an additional 3D isotropic sequence were obtained 1 day before arthroscopic surgery. Two musculoskeletal radiologists prospectively evaluated the images in consensus for the presence of superior and anterior labral lesions and subscapularis and supraspinatus-infraspinatus tendon tears using the conventional sequences and the 3D isotropic sequence. We analyzed the statistical difference between the sensitivities and specificities of both methods using arthroscopic findings as the reference standard. Surgical findings confirmed the presence of 23 superior labral lesions, eight anterior labral lesions, 21 subscapularis tears, and 24 supraspinatus-infraspinatus tears. The sensitivity and specificity of the conventional sequences were 74% and 54% for superior labral lesions, 88% and 96% for anterior labral lesions, 67% and 85% for subscapularis tendon tears, and 96% and 75% for supraspinatus-infraspinatus tendon tears. The sensitivity and specificity of the 3D isotropic sequence were 70% and 85% for superior labral lesions, 100% and 100% for anterior labral lesions, 67% and 85% for subscapularis tendon tears, and 96% and 67% for supraspinatus-infraspinatus tendon tears. No statistically significant difference was seen in sensitivities and specificities for both methods. Three-dimensional isotropic MR arthrography sequences with multiplanar reconstruction can provide a similar capability for the diagnosis of labral and rotator cuff lesions as conventional MR arthrography sequences but in a shorter imaging time."}
{"id": "19154541", "title": "Pattern of skeletal muscle involvement in primary dysferlinopathies: a whole-body 3.0-T magnetic resonance imaging study.", "content": "Pattern of skeletal muscle involvement in primary dysferlinopathies: a whole-body 3.0-T magnetic resonance imaging study. Mutations in the gene encoding dysferlin cause limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 2B (LGMD2B), distal Miyoshi myopathy (MM), and a rare form of distal anterior compartment myopathy. To study the correlations between clinical manifestations and muscle imaging changes we conducted a 3.0-T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) study in six German patients with primary dysferlinopathies defined by absence of dysferlin expression in muscle (MM, n = 3; LGMD2B, n = 2; hyperCKemia without clinical symptoms, n = 1). Patients with manifest myopathy had widespread muscular pathology. In analogy to previous imaging studies, we confirmed an involvement of the anterior and posterior thigh compartments and a predominant involvement of posterior lower legs. However, our whole-body MRI study further provided evidence of signal alterations in the glutei, erector spinae and shoulder girdle muscles. Correlation of clinical findings with imaging demonstrated the potential of MRI to detect subclinical muscle pathology. Whole-body 3.0-T MRI is a non-invasive method to demonstrate various degrees of skeletal muscle alterations and disease progression in muscular dystrophies. Furthermore, whole-body high-field MRI may serve as a helpful diagnostic tool in differentiating primary dysferlinopathies from other forms of LGMD and distal myopathies."}
{"id": "19147374", "title": "The effects of taping on scapular kinematics and muscle performance in baseball players with shoulder impingement syndrome.", "content": "The effects of taping on scapular kinematics and muscle performance in baseball players with shoulder impingement syndrome. This study aimed to investigate the effect of elastic taping on kinematics, muscle activity and strength of the scapular region in baseball players with shoulder impingement. Seventeen baseball players with shoulder impingement were recruited from three amateur baseball teams. All subjects received both the elastic taping (Kinesio Tex) and the placebo taping (3M Micropore tape) over the lower trapezius muscle. We measured the 3-dimensional scapular motion, electromyographic (EMG) activities of the upper and lower trapezius, and the serratus anterior muscles during arm elevation. Strength of the lower trapezius was tested prior to and after each taping application. The results of the analyses of variance (ANOVA) with repeated measures showed that the elastic taping significantly increased the scapular posterior tilt at 30 degrees and 60 degrees during arm raising and increased the lower trapezius muscle activity in the 60-30 degrees arm lowering phase (p<0.05) in comparison to the placebo taping. The elastic taping resulted in positive changes in scapular motion and muscle performance. The results supported its use as a treatment aid in managing shoulder impingement problems."}
{"id": "19147319", "title": "Surgical intervention for thoracic outlet syndrome improves patient's quality of life.", "content": "Surgical intervention for thoracic outlet syndrome improves patient's quality of life. To assess long-term quality of life outcomes in patients following transaxillary first-rib resection and scalenectomy for thoracic outlet syndrome (TOS). This was a prospective observational study using the Short-Form 12 (SF-12) and Disability of Arm, Hand, and Shoulder (DASH) instruments between February 2005 and March 2008 in patients with TOS presenting to an academic medical center for preoperative surgical evaluation after failing physical therapy protocol. Surveys were conducted preoperatively and then again at 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months after surgery. Longitudinal data analysis was performed with population-averaged models using generalized estimating equations (GEE) method for average rate of recovery. Kaplan-Meier method was used to analyze time to return to work. A total of 70 out of 105 eligible patients (66.7%) completed the study protocol (44 neurogenic; 26 venous), returning 243 valid SF-12 surveys (162 neurogenic; 81 venous) and 188 valid DASH surveys (124 neurogenic; 64 venous). Half (50%) of the neurogenic patients and 77% of the venous patients returned to full-time work or activity within the study follow-up, with half of them doing so by 4 months and 75% of them by 5 months. There was no statistically significant difference in return to work between the neurogenic or venous patients. Neurogenic patients had baseline SF-12 Physical Component Scores (PCS) similar to chronic heart failure patients and were significantly worse than venous patients (33.8 vs 43.6, P < .001). In contrast, no difference existed in Mental Component Scores (MCS) (44.5 vs 43.5, P = .78). In follow-up, on average, PCS scores for neurogenic patients improved 0.24 points (P < .001) and MCS scores improved 0.15 points per month (P = .01); while PCS scores for venous patients improved 0.40 points (P = .004) and MCS scores improved 0.55 points per month (P < .001). Additionally, neurogenic patients had baseline DASH scores that were similar to patients with rotator cuff tears, and they were also significantly worse than venous patients (50.2 vs 25.0, P < .001). DASH scores, on average, also improved 0.85 points (P < .001) for neurogenic patients and 0.81 points (P < .001) for venous patients per month. The use of the SF-12 and DASH instruments in patients with TOS demonstrated significant improvement in patients postoperatively. Venous TOS patients typically improved both physical and mental scores in shorter periods of time than their neurogenic counterparts. Neurogenic and venous TOS patients returned to full-time work/activity within the same length of time postoperatively. However, neurogenic patients required more secondary interventions. We conclude that in appropriately selected patients with either neurogenic or venous TOS, surgical intervention can improve their quality of life over time."}
{"id": "19132346", "title": "Epidemiologic, clinical and arthroscopic study of the discoid meniscus variant in Greek population.", "content": "Epidemiologic, clinical and arthroscopic study of the discoid meniscus variant in Greek population. This retrospective study was aimed to investigate the epidemiologic, clinical and arthroscopic features of discoid meniscus variant in Greek population. We reviewed the cases of 2,132 patients who underwent knee arthroscopy between 1986 and 2004 and diagnosis of discoid lateral meniscus was established in 39 patients with mean age of 31.7 +/- 9.4 years old. Incidence of the discoid lateral meniscus variant was recorded at rate of 1.8% presenting no significant differences according to patient gender or lesion body side. Regarding the type of discoid dysmorphy, 23 cases attributed to complete type, 15 were incomplete and in one case, Wrisberg type was observed. Predictive values of the most commonly recorded physical signs in the clinical diagnosis of the discoid meniscus were analysed. Comparative evaluation of the long-term results of arthroscopic partial meniscectomy performed in patients with intact or torn discoid lateral meniscus and torn normally shaped lateral meniscus was carried out using Lysholm and IKDC scoring systems. Also, we investigated any correlation between dysmorphy type and tear pattern analysing the arthroscopic findings. Results demonstrated that the discoid meniscus lesion represents an atypical clinical entity in adults and no significant predictive value of the signs encountered in the clinical examination of the patients with discoid meniscus was observed. Clinical outcome after arthroscopic partial meniscectomy regarding the intact discoid meniscus group was superior in comparison with that of torn discoid meniscus cases. On other hand, no difference in the result of partial meniscectomy between discoid and normal lateral meniscus tear groups was found. No statistically significant relationship between the type of discoid menisci and tear pattern or incidence rate of concomitant intraarticular lesions was confirmed."}
{"id": "19128986", "title": "Radiographic analysis of commonly prescribed scapular exercises.", "content": "Radiographic analysis of commonly prescribed scapular exercises. The performance of scapular exercises in the context of a clinical model of fatigue will result in superior migration of the humeral head and alterations in shoulder kinematics on radiographic analysis. Six healthy male volunteers underwent a series of radiographs before and immediately following two scapular exercises. To reproduce a practice setting a clinical model of muscle fatigue was utilized. Radiographs were taken at various degrees of elevation. Glenohumeral angle (GA), scapulothoracic angle (SA), and the position of the humeral head on the glenoid (excursion) were measured on each radiograph. Two-tailed paired sample t-test were used to compare pre-fatigue to post fatigue measures. Following fatigue there was a significant increase in excursion at 45, 90, and 135 degrees of elevation indicating superior migration of the humeral head. There was an increase in SA from 0 to 45 degrees and a decrease in GA from 45 to 90 degrees of elevation. From 90 to 135 degrees an increase in GA was observed. The amount of superior migration of the humeral head observed following exercise was consistent with previously reported amounts of superior migration in patients with subacromial impingement. The alterations that occurred in shoulder kinematics following exercise may have resulted from parascapular muscle fatigue as well as rotator cuff muscle insufficiency. In the context of a clinical model of fatigue, these scapular exercises resulted in superior migration of the humeral head and alterations in shoulder kinematics on radiographic analysis in healthy subjects. Basic science study."}
{"id": "19128949", "title": "Orientation of the rotator cuff insertion facets on the humerus: comparison between individuals with intact and torn rotator cuffs.", "content": "Orientation of the rotator cuff insertion facets on the humerus: comparison between individuals with intact and torn rotator cuffs. The purpose of this work has been to compare the orientation of the rotator cuff insertions on the humerus between individuals with intact and torn rotator cuffs, respectively, to look for anatomical factors involved in the pathogenesis of rotator cuff tears. A total of 60 patients evaluated by arthro-computed tomography (CT) were divided into an intact rotator cuff group (31 patients) and a torn rotator cuff group (29 patients). The orientation angles of the lesser humeral tubercle facet and of the superior, middle and inferior facets of the greater humeral tubercle were measured in the sagittal plane between the horizontal line (defined as perpendicular to the diaphysis long axis) and the line tangent to the facet. The orientation angles of the superior and middle facets of the greater humeral tubercle were measured in the coronal plane. The comparison between the two groups showed a significant difference (p=0.009) concerning the orientation of the middle facet of the greater tubercle in the sagittal plane, with a mean angle of 36.0 degrees (S.D., 6.2 degrees) in the intact cuff group versus 31.1 degrees (S.D.,7.2 degrees) in the torn cuff group. There were no other significant differences in regard to the orientation of the facets in the sagittal and coronal planes. A decrease in the dorsal orientation of the middle facet of the greater tubercle, as we observed in the torn rotator cuff group, may reduce the inferior translatory forces generated by the infraspinatus thereby facilitating impingement of the subacromial structures. These additional anatomical data might augment the body of knowledge on rotator cuff pathology."}
{"id": "19111477", "title": "Shoulder evaluation with isokinetic strength testing after arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs.", "content": "Shoulder evaluation with isokinetic strength testing after arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs. The purpose of this study was to evaluate, with isokinetic testing, the recovery of strength in patients with rotator cuff tears treated with two different arthroscopic repair techniques. From September 2004 to September 2006, patients with a full-thickness supraspinatus tear were randomized to two different groups. Patients in group 1 underwent side-to-side repair with permanent sutures, whereas those in group 2 underwent tendon-to-bone fixation with 1 metal suture anchor loaded with double sutures. The same independent examiner evaluated the outcomes using the Constant score and isokinetic strength testing preoperatively and at 3, 6, and 12 months postoperatively. Data analysis was also performed in three subgroups: small, medium, and large tears. Constant scores improved from preoperatively to 12 months postoperatively. In group 1, the mean Constant score was 32 points before surgery and 78 points at 12 months postoperatively. In group 2, the mean Constant score was 30 points before surgery and 88 points at 12 months after surgery. Strength increased gradually during the first postoperative year. In group 1, preoperative mean peak torque was 34% and 39% in internal rotation and external rotation, respectively. After repair, it decreased to 17% and 21%, respectively, at 12 months. In group 2, preoperative mean peak torque was 32% and 37% in internal rotation and external rotation, respectively; after surgery, it decreased to 9% and 12%, respectively, at 12 months. Data analysis showed that the difference in improvement in Constant scores and in strength recovery from preoperatively to postoperatively in groups 1 and 2 was statistically significant (p < .05). We showed a strength difference between patients with side-to-side repairs and those with tendon-to-bone repairs. Level 1; Prospective randomized study."}
{"id": "19111216", "title": "Prognostic factors affecting anatomic outcome of rotator cuff repair and correlation with functional outcome.", "content": "Prognostic factors affecting anatomic outcome of rotator cuff repair and correlation with functional outcome. To analyze the relationship between functional outcomes and postoperative cuff integrity (anatomic outcome), and to reveal the factors affecting outcomes of rotator cuff repair. Seventy-eight patients who had undergone repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tear received both computed tomographic arthrography (CTA) and functional evaluation a minimum of 1 year after surgery. The mean follow-up period was 19.6 months (range, 12 to 39 months). Anatomic outcome was evaluated by CTA. Functional outcomes were evaluated by visual analogue scale (VAS) for pain and satisfaction with the operation, Constant score, simple shoulder test (SST), and American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) score. Various clinical and structural factors were included for statistical analysis. All patients displayed significant improvement in all functional evaluations at the final visit. Functional outcome did not correlate with anatomic outcome (P > .05). A few variables did relate to functional outcome: female or old age statistically correlated with the score of SST, and the size of the tear correlated with the ASES score (P < .05). The retear was influenced by age, fatty degeneration of the cuff muscles, and the size of tear. Fatty degeneration of the infraspinatus was the most independent predictor of anatomic outcome on multivariate regression analysis. Rotator cuff repair brought significant functional improvement. However, the functional outcome did not correlate with the anatomic outcome. The fatty degeneration of the infraspinatus muscle served as an independent predictor of the postoperative integrity of the rotator cuff. Level IV, prognostic case series."}
{"id": "19111212", "title": "Single-row versus double-row arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: a prospective randomized clinical study.", "content": "Single-row versus double-row arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: a prospective randomized clinical study. The purpose of this study was to compare the clinical outcome of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with single-row and double-row techniques. Eighty patients with a full-thickness rotator cuff tear underwent arthroscopic repair with suture anchors. They were divided into 2 groups of 40 patients according to repair technique: single row (group 1) or double row (group 2). Results were evaluated by use of the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) and Work-DASH self-administered questionnaires, normalized Constant score, and muscle strength measurement. On analyzing the results at a 2-year follow-up, we considered the following independent variables: baseline scores; age; gender; dominance; location, shape, and area of cuff tear; tendon retraction; fatty degeneration; treatment of biceps tendon; and rotator cuff repair technique (anchors or anchors and side to side). Univariate and multivariate statistical analyses were performed to determine which variables were independently associated with the outcome. Significance was set at P < .05. Of the patients, 8 (10%) were lost to follow-up. Comparison between groups did not show significant differences for each variable considered. Overall, according to the results, the mean DASH scores were 15.4 +/- 15.6 points in group 1 and 12.7 +/- 10.1 points in group 2; the mean Work-DASH scores were 16.0 +/- 22.0 points and 9.6 +/- 13.3 points, respectively; and the mean Constant scores were 100.5 +/- 17.8 points and 104.9 +/- 21.8 points, respectively. Muscle strength was 12.7 +/- 5.7 lb in group 1 and 12.9 +/- 7.0 lb in group 2. Univariate and multivariate analysis showed that only age, gender, and baseline strength significantly and independently influenced the outcome. Differences between groups 1 and 2 were not significant. At short-term follow-up, arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with the double-row technique showed no significant difference in clinical outcome compared with single-row repair. Level I, high-quality randomized controlled trial with no statistically significant differences but narrow confidence intervals."}
{"id": "19102574", "title": "Comparison of kinematics, kinetics, and EMG throughout wheelchair propulsion in able-bodied and persons with paraplegia: an integrative approach.", "content": "Comparison of kinematics, kinetics, and EMG throughout wheelchair propulsion in able-bodied and persons with paraplegia: an integrative approach. A systematic integrated data collection and analysis of kinematic, kinetic, and electromyography (EMG) data allow for the comparison of differences in wheelchair propulsion between able-bodied individuals and persons with paraplegia. Kinematic data from a motion analysis system, kinetic data from force-sensing push rims, and electromyography data from four upper-limb muscles were collected for ten push strokes. Results are as follows: Individuals with paraplegia use a greater percentage of their posterior deltoids, biceps, and triceps in relation to maximal voluntary contraction. These persons also reached peak anterior deltoid firing nearly 10 deg earlier on the push rim, while reaching peak posterior deltoid nearly 10 deg later on the push rim. Able-bodied individuals had no triceps activity in the initial stages of propulsion while their paraplegic groups had activity throughout. Able-bodied participants also had, on average, peak resultant, tangential, and radial forces occurring later on the push rim (in degrees). There are two main conclusions that can be drawn from this integrative investigation: (1) A greater \"muscle energy,\" as measured by the area under the curve of the percentage of EMG throughout propulsion, results in a greater resultant joint force in the shoulder and elbow, thus potentially resulting in shoulder pathology. (2) Similarly, a greater muscle energy may result in fatigue and play a factor in the development of shoulder pain and pathology over time; fatigue may compromise an effective propulsive stroke placing undue stresses on the joint capsule. Muscle activity differences may be responsible for the observed kinematic and kinetic differences between the two groups. The high incidence of shoulder pain in manual wheelchair users as compared to the general population may be the result of such differences, although the results from this biomedical investigation should be examined with caution. Future research into joint forces may shed light on this. Further investigation needs to focus on whether the pattern of kinematics, kinetics, and muscle activity during wheelchair propulsion is compensatory or evolutionary by tracking individuals longitudinally."}
{"id": "19100365", "title": "Epigenetics of acute lymphocytic leukemia.", "content": "Epigenetics of acute lymphocytic leukemia. The term epigenetics refers to the study of a number of biochemical modifications of chromatin that have an impact on gene expression regulation. Aberrant epigenetic lesions, in particular DNA methylation of promoter associated CpG islands, are common in acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). Recent data from multiple laboratories indicate that several hundred genes, involving dozens of critical molecular pathways, are epigenetically suppressed in ALL. Because these lesions are potentially reversible, the reactivation of these pathways using, for instance, hypomethylating agents may have therapeutic potential in this disease. Furthermore, the analysis of epigenetic alterations in ALL may allow: (1) identification of subsets of patients with poor prognosis when treated with conventional therapy; (2) development of new techniques to evaluate minimal residual disease; (3) better understanding of the differences between pediatric and adult ALL; and (4) new therapeutic interventions by incorporating agents with hypomethylating activity to conventional chemotherapeutic programs. In this review, we describe the role of epigenetic alterations in ALL from a translational perspective."}
{"id": "19098184", "title": "3-T MRI of the shoulder: is MR arthrography necessary?", "content": "3-T MRI of the shoulder: is MR arthrography necessary? The purpose of this study is to report the diagnostic sensitivity of 3-T conventional MRI versus MR arthrography of the shoulder in the same patient population. One hundred fifty consecutive conventional shoulder MRI and MR arthrography examinations performed on patients 50 years or younger who subsequently underwent arthroscopy were reviewed retrospectively by consensus reading by two musculoskeletal radiologists. All patients selected for arthroscopy had abnormal findings on clinical examination and MRI or MR arthrography. All 150 patients were referred from one orthopedic group. All patients consented to undergo both MRI and MR arthrography. None had undergone prior shoulder surgery. Full- or partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears, superior labral anterior-to-posterior (SLAP) tears, and anterior or posterior labral tears were assessed. Three full-thickness and nine partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears, seven SLAP tears, six anterior labral tears, and two posterior labral tears were seen on MR arthrography but not on conventional MRI. All additional MR arthrography findings were confirmed at arthroscopy. On conventional MRI, sensitivities and specificities compared with arthroscopy were as follows: anterior labral tear, 83% sensitivity and 100% specificity; posterior labral tear, 84% and 100%; SLAP tear, 83% and 99%; supraspinatus tendon tear, 92% and 100%; partial-thickness articular surface tear, 68% and 100%; and partial-thickness bursal surface tear, 84% and 100%. On MR arthrography, sensitivities and specificities compared with arthroscopy were as follows: anterior labral tear, 98% sensitivity and 100% specificity; posterior labral tear, 95% and 100%; SLAP tear, 98% and 99%; supraspinatus tendon tear, 100% and 100%; partial-thickness articular surface tear, 97% and 100%; and partial-thickness bursal surface tear, 84% and 100%. MR arthrography showed a statistical improvement in sensitivity (p<0.05) for detection of partial-thickness articular surface supraspinatus tears, anterior labral tears, and SLAP tears at 3 T. In this series, MR arthrography showed statistically significant increased sensitivity for detection of partial-thickness articular surface supraspinatus tears, anterior labral tears, and SLAP tears compared with conventional MRI at 3 T. On the basis of the above findings, we perform 3-T MR arthrography on patients for whom anterior labral tears, SLAP tears, and partial-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears are suspected clinically."}
{"id": "19095895", "title": "A meta-analysis examining clinical test utility for assessing superior labral anterior posterior lesions.", "content": "A meta-analysis examining clinical test utility for assessing superior labral anterior posterior lesions. The reported accuracy of clinical tests for superior labral anterior posterior lesions is extremely variable. Pooling results from multiple studies of higher quality is necessary to establish the best clinical tests to use. Certain clinical tests are superior to others for diagnosing the presence or absence of a superior labral anterior posterior lesion. Meta-analysis. A literature search of MEDLINE (1966-2007), CINAHL (1982-2007), and BIOSIS (1995-2007) was performed for (labrum OR labral OR SLAP OR Bankart) AND (shoulder OR shoulder joint OR glenoid) AND (specificity OR sensitivity AND specificity). Identified articles were reviewed for inclusion criteria. Sensitivity and specificity values were recorded from each study and used for meta-analysis. Six of 198 identified studies satisfied the eligibility criteria. Active compression, anterior slide, crank, and Speed tests were analyzed using receiver operating characteristic curves. The accuracy of the anterior slide test was significantly inferior to that of the active compression, crank, and Speed tests. There was no significant difference in test accuracy found among active compression, crank, and Speed tests. Between studies, methodological scores did not significantly affect sensitivity and specificity values. The anterior slide test is a poor test for detecting the presence of a labral lesion in the shoulder. Active compression, crank, and Speed tests are more optimal choices. Clinicians should choose the active compression test first, crank second, and Speed test third when a labral lesion is suspected."}
{"id": "19095463", "title": "Selective capsular repair for the treatment of anterior-inferior shoulder instability: review of seventy-nine shoulders with seven years' average follow-up.", "content": "Selective capsular repair for the treatment of anterior-inferior shoulder instability: review of seventy-nine shoulders with seven years' average follow-up. Selective capsular repair for the treatment of antero-inferior shoulder instability gives satisfactory results at mid-range follow-up. Seventy-five patients (79 shoulders) with anterior instability underwent selective tightening of the anterior capsule and repair of any labral lesion. At an average of seven years (5-12 years), results according to the Duplay-Walch score and Rowe score were satisfactory in 80% and 92% of the cases, respectively. Most patients (84%) were able to return to their previous sports activity at the same level, and 90% were satisfied with their surgery. Recurrence of instability was observed in 10 patients (12.6%). Restriction of motion was limited to external rotation and averaged a loss of 12.6 degrees elbow at the side, and 6 degrees at 90 degrees of abduction. Dynamometric evaluation found slight decrease in strength in internal rotation in 32 shoulders. According to the Samilson and Prieto classification, signs of osteoarthritis were present in 52% of the cases. Older age at the first episode of instability was the only factor correlated with development of postoperative osteoarthritis. This study supports the results of other studies that anatomic stabilization of the shoulder demonstrates high levels of recovery of shoulder stability (recurrence rates 12.6%), with minimum restriction of range-of-motion, but with a relatively high incidence of possible development of osteoarthritis. This retrospective study from a single center revealed that selective capsular repair for the treatment of posttraumatic anterior glenohumeral instability yielded a 90% of satisfaction rate and 80% excellent and good functional results. Level 4; Retrospective case series, no control group."}
{"id": "19095462", "title": "Neer Award 2007: Reversion of structural muscle changes caused by chronic rotator cuff tears using continuous musculotendinous traction. An experimental study in sheep.", "content": "Neer Award 2007: Reversion of structural muscle changes caused by chronic rotator cuff tears using continuous musculotendinous traction. An experimental study in sheep. Chronic rotator cuff tears are associated with irreversible architectural muscle changes and a high rate of repair failure. The changes observed in man and their irreversibility with a single stage repair can be reproduced in sheep. It was the purpose of this experiment to test the hypothesis that slow, continuous elongation of a retracted musculotendinous unit allows reversal of the currently irreversible structural muscle changes. The infraspinatus tendon of 12 sheep was released using a greater tuberosity osteotomy and allowed to retract for 4 months. Then, a new device was mounted on the scapular spine and used to extend the infraspinatus muscuculotendinous unit transcutaneously by 1 mm per day. Thereafter, the tendon was repaired back to the greater tuberosity. We assessed the muscular architecture using magnetic resonance imaging, macroscopic dissection, histology, and electron microscopy. Fatty infiltration (in Hounsfield units 1/4 HU) and muscular cross-sectional area (in % of the control side) were monitored with computed tomography at tendon release, initiation of elongation, repair, and at sacrifice. Sixteen weeks after tendon release, the mean tendon retraction was 29 +/- 6 mm (14% of original length, P = .008). In 8 sheep, elongation was achieved as planned (group I), but in 4, the elongation failed technically (group II). The mean traction time was 24 +/- 6 days with a mean traction distance of 19 +/- 4 mm. At sacrifice, the mean pennation angle in the infraspinatus of group I was not different from the control side (29.8 degrees +/-7.5 degrees vs. 30 degrees +/-6 degrees , P = .575). In group II, the pennation angle had increased from 30 degrees +/-6 degrees to 55 degrees +/-14 degrees (P = .035). There was no fatty infiltration at the time of tendon release. After retraction, there was a significant increase in fatty infiltration of the infraspinatus muscle and a decrease of its cross-sectional area to 57% of the contralateral side (P = .0001). During traction, the degree of fatty infiltration remained unchanged (36 HU to 38 HU, P = .381), and atrophy improved to a muscle square area of 78% of the contralateral side (P = .0001) in group I. In group II, an increase of fatty infiltration was measured from 36 HU to 28 HU; however, this increase was not significant (P = .144). Atrophy did not change in group II (57-55%, P = .946). At sacrifice, the remaining muscle mass was 64% in group I and 46% in group II (P = .019). Our preliminary results document, that continuous elongation of a retracted, fatty infiltrated and atrophied musculotendinous unit is technically feasible. In the sheep, continuous elongation can lead to restoration of normal muscle architecture, to partial reversal of muscle atrophy, and to arrest of the progression of fatty infiltration. Basic science level 2; Prospective comparative therapeutic study."}
{"id": "19095185", "title": "Changes in shoulder muscle function with humeral position: a graphical description.", "content": "Changes in shoulder muscle function with humeral position: a graphical description. A graphical description of the change in the role played by each of the scapulohumeral muscles with respect to spatial joint position is presented. Moment arms were collected from a biomechanical model using the tendon travel method. Data cover elevation and flexion in a space between the frontal plane and a plane of elevation 60 degrees anterior to this. Segments of a given muscle were seen possibly to exhibit antagonistic moment components in relation to others, emphasizing the importance of muscle segmentation in biomechanical models. Graphical description of muscle function in conjunction with electromyographic studies enables a more complete assessment of active muscle function in relation to arm motion and position. In cases of attenuated muscular function, this also offers a means of detecting which muscle is involved and which other muscles possess compensating potential. Two examples illustrate the use of this data, particularly to clarify clinical issues."}
{"id": "19091597", "title": "Secondary motions of the shoulder during arm elevation in patients with shoulder tightness.", "content": "Secondary motions of the shoulder during arm elevation in patients with shoulder tightness. An analysis of secondary shoulder motions (humeral rotation, humeral head anterior/posterior translation, scapular tipping, and scapular upward/downward rotation) in subjects with anterior/posterior shoulder tightness provides the opportunity to examine the role of tightness as a means of affecting shoulder motions. Subjects with shoulder tightness (anterior, n=12; posterior, n=12) elevated their arms in the scapular plane. Three replicated movements were performed to the maximum motions. Kinematics data were collected by FASTRAK 3D electromagnetic system. To determine if a significant difference of the secondary motions existed between anterior/posterior shoulder tightness, two-factor mixed ANOVA models with the repeated factor of elevation angle (five elevation angles) and the independent factor of group were calculated. The relationships between the self-reported functional scores (Flexilevel Scale of Shoulder Function, FLEX-SF) and abnormal shoulder kinematics were assessed. For humeral head anterior/posterior translation, the subjects with posterior tightness demonstrated anterior humeral head translation (10mm, p=0.019) compared to subjects with anterior tightness. The subjects with anterior tightness demonstrated less posterior tipping (2.2 degrees , p=0.045) compared to subjects with posterior tightness. The humeral anterior translation had moderate relationships with FLEX-SF scores (r=-0.535) in subjects with posterior tightness. The scapular tipping had moderate relationships with FLEX-SF scores (r=0.432) in subjects with anterior tightness. In conclusion, the secondary motions were different between subjects with anterior and posterior shoulder tightness. During arm elevation, less scapular posterior tipping and less posterior humeral head translation in subjects with anterior and posterior shoulder tightness, respectively, are significantly related to self-reported functional disability in these subjects."}
{"id": "19089523", "title": "Bone scintigraphy in femoroacetabular impingement: a preliminary report.", "content": "Bone scintigraphy in femoroacetabular impingement: a preliminary report. Femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) has recently been recognized as a cause of hip pain, labral tears, and cartilage damage in young adults. We determined the sensitivity and specificity of bone scans in diagnosing FAI and describe its findings on nuclear imaging. We prospectively followed 25 patients with hip pain (four bilateral) of greater than 6 months' duration and a positive impingement sign (IS). All patients had plain radiographs and a three-phase bone scan followed by single-photon emission computed topographic (SPECT) images of both hips. We presumed patients had FAI if they had all three of the following findings: hip pain, positive IS, and diagnostic radiographs. Forty-six of the 50 hips had bony abnormalities on radiographs and 26 hips were diagnosed with FAI according to our criteria. Twenty-two of these 26 hips showed an increased uptake on SPECT representing true-positives. There were four false-positives, nine false-negatives, and 15 true-negatives. Sensitivity of bone SPECT was 84.7%, specificity 62.5%, positive predictive value 71%, and negative predictive value 78.9%. Focal uptake was localized to the superolateral acetabular rim and/or anterolateral femoral head-neck junction consistent with the reported intra-articular cartilage hip damage seen in FAI."}
{"id": "19082679", "title": "Groin pain after open FAI surgery: the role of intraarticular adhesions.", "content": "Groin pain after open FAI surgery: the role of intraarticular adhesions. Femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) is an established cause of osteoarthrosis of the hip. Surgery is intended to remove the cause of impingement with hip dislocation and resection of osseous prominences of the acetabular rim and of the femoral head-neck junction. Using the Merle d'Aubign\u00e9 score and qualitative categories, recent studies suggest good to excellent outcomes in 75% to 80% of patients after open surgery with dislocation of the femoral head. Unsatisfactory outcome is mainly related to pain, located either in the area of the greater trochanter or in the groin. There are several reasons for persisting groin pain. Joint degeneration with joint space narrowing and/or osteophyte formation, insufficient correction of the acetabula, and femoral pathology are known factors for unsatisfactory outcome. Recently, intraarticular adhesions between the femoral neck and joint capsule have been identified as an additional cause of postoperative groin pain. The adhesions form between the joint capsule and the resected area on the femoral neck and may lead to soft tissue impingement. MR-arthrography is used for diagnosis and the adhesions can be treated successfully by arthroscopy. While arthroscopic resection improves outcome it is technically demanding. Avoiding the formation of adhesions is important and is perhaps best accomplished by passive motion exercises after the initial surgery."}
{"id": "19077723", "title": "Poststroke shoulder pain in Turkish stroke patients: relationship with clinical factors and functional outcomes.", "content": "Poststroke shoulder pain in Turkish stroke patients: relationship with clinical factors and functional outcomes. The objective of this study was to assess the possible causes of hemiplegic shoulder pain (HSP) in Turkish patients with stroke, to identify the correlation between HSP and clinical factors, and to review the effects of HSP on functional outcomes. A total of 187 consecutive patients with stroke were evaluated for the presence of HSP and for the possible causes. Each patient was evaluated by clinical, radiographic, and ultrasonographic examination. Daily living activities were assessed using the Functional Independence Measure at admission and at discharge. Patients were divided into two groups, one comprising patients with shoulder pain and the other comprising patients without shoulder pain. They were then compared with respect to clinical characteristics, radiologic findings, and Functional Independence Measure scores. Shoulder pain was present in 114 (61%) patients. Of the 114 patients with pain, 71 patients showed various grades of glenohumeral joint subluxation, 70 patients had complex regional pain syndrome-type I, 70 patients had impingement syndrome, 68 patients had spasticity, 49 patients had adhesive capsulitis, and 10 patients had thalamic pain. No correlation was found between shoulder pain and clinical factors (sex, hemiplegic side, hand dominance, etiologic cause, comorbidities). The relationship between shoulder pain and adhesive capsulitis was significant (P=0.01) and also complex regional pain syndrome-type I was statistically significant (P=0.001). The group without HSP showed significantly more improvement than the group with HSP in functional outcomes (P=0.01) and the hospitalization period was significantly shorter (P=0.03). Shoulder pain is a frequent problem in patients with stroke. It is, however, often difficult to isolate a specific cause and it causes a prolonged hospitalization period and can have a negative effect on functional outcomes."}
{"id": "19062313", "title": "Glenoid inclination: in vivo measures in rotator cuff tear patients and associations with superior glenohumeral joint translation.", "content": "Glenoid inclination: in vivo measures in rotator cuff tear patients and associations with superior glenohumeral joint translation. Glenoid inclination has been associated with rotator cuff tears and superior humeral translation, but the relationship between glenoid inclination and superior humeral translation has not been assessed in vivo. This study compared glenoid inclination between repaired and contralateral shoulders in 21 unilateral rotator cuff repair patients. As a secondary analysis, we assessed the relationship between glenoid inclination and in vivo superior humeral translation. Glenoid inclination was measured from patient-specific, computed tomography-based bone models. Glenohumeral joint motion was measured from biplane radiographs collected during coronal-plane abductions. Glenoid inclination was significantly lower for the rotator cuff tear shoulders (90.7 degrees ) than the asymptomatic, contralateral shoulders (92.3 degrees , P = .04). No significant correlation existed between increased glenoid inclination and superior-inferior translation of the uninjured shoulder (P > .30). This study failed to support the theory that glenoid inclination is responsible for superior humeral translation and the development of subacromial impingement."}
{"id": "19062307", "title": "The activity pattern of shoulder muscles in subjects with and without subacromial impingement.", "content": "The activity pattern of shoulder muscles in subjects with and without subacromial impingement. Altered shoulder muscle activity is frequently believed to be a pathogenetic factor of subacromial impingement (SI) and therapeutic interventions have been directed towards restoring normal motor patterns. Still, there is a lack of scientific evidence regarding the changes in muscle activity in patients with SI. The aim of the study was to determine and compare the activity pattern of the shoulder muscles in subjects with and without SI. Twenty-one subjects with SI and 20 healthy controls were included. Electromyography (EMG) was assessed from eight shoulder muscles from both shoulders during motion. In the symptomatic shoulder, there was a significantly greater EMG activity during abduction in the supraspinatus and latissimus muscles and less activity in serratus anterior compared to the healthy subjects. During external rotation, there was significantly less activity of the infraspinatus and serratus anterior muscles on the symptomatic side compared to the healthy subjects. On the asymptomatic side, the groups showed different muscle activity during external rotation. Our findings of an altered shoulder muscle activity pattern on both the symptomatic and asymptomatic side in patients indicate that the different motor patterns might be a pathogenetic factor of SI, perhaps due to inappropriate neuromuscular strategies affecting both shoulders."}
{"id": "19059897", "title": "Predictive factors of subtle residual shoulder symptoms after transtendinous arthroscopic cuff repair: a clinical study.", "content": "Predictive factors of subtle residual shoulder symptoms after transtendinous arthroscopic cuff repair: a clinical study. Transtendinous repair is a well-known technique for the arthroscopic management of partial rotator cuff tear. However, there are not a lot of clinical follow-up studies in the literature reporting data on this approach, and, moreover, potential factors responsible to influence the outcomes have not been investigated. To evaluate clinical outcomes after arthroscopic transtendinous repair and to identify predictive factors of residual shoulder symptoms. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Fifty-four patients with a mean age of 56.7 +/- 8.8 years (range, 31-71 years) who had undergone an arthroscopic transtendon repair for a painful articular-sided rotator cuff tear with a minimum of 2 years of follow-up were contacted. Clinical outcomes using a patient-based questionnaire, the Constant score, University of California at Los Angeles score, Simple Shoulder Test, and visual analog scale were evaluated. The influence of patient age, presence or absence of a trauma responsible for the cuff tear, presence of associated shoulder lesions, millimeters of exposed footprint, and millimeters of torn tendon retraction on the outcomes were assessed. The mean cuff tear exposure footprint was 5.2 mm, and the mean retraction of the torn part of the tendon was 8 mm. Only one patient reported dissatisfaction with surgery because of persistence of pain during overhead activities. After arthroscopic repair, University of California at Los Angeles, Constant, and Simple Shoulder Test scores were significantly improved from 14.1, 45.3, and 9.8 to 32.9, 90.6, and 0.8, respectively (P < .001). Twenty-two patients (41%) reported occasional shoulder discomfort at the extremes of range of motion (particularly at extremes of abduction and internal rotation) occurring during some daily living and sports activities. The best multivariate model showed that residual shoulder discomfort is strongly linked with a partial thickness supraspinatus tendon avulsion-type articular-sided rotator cuff lesion consisting of a large tendon retraction and/or a relatively small exposure footprint area in an older patient in the absence of a specific trauma (P < .001). Arthroscopic transtendon partial articular supraspinatus tendon avulsion-type rotator cuff repair was a reliable procedure that resulted in a good outcome in terms of pain relief and shoulder scores in 98% of the 54 patients. Better results could be expected in patients with less tendon retraction, a larger footprint exposure, of younger age, and with a clinical history of trauma."}
{"id": "19059895", "title": "Internal impingement of the shoulder.", "content": "Internal impingement of the shoulder. Internal impingement of the shoulder is a pathologic condition characterized by excessive or repetitive contact of the greater tuberosity of the humeral head with the posterosuperior aspect of the glenoid when the arm is abducted and externally rotated. This arm positioning leads to rotator cuff and glenoid labrum impingement by the bony structures of the glenohumeral joint. Although some degree of contact between these structures occurs under normal conditions, to date most of the orthopaedic literature has focused on internal impingement as a disease state that affects overhead athletes and is characterized by the development of articular-sided rotator cuff tears and posterosuperior labral lesions. The precise cause of these impingement lesions remains unclear. However, it is believed that varying degrees of glenohumeral instability, posterior capsular contracture, and scapular dyskinesis may play a role in the development of symptomatic internal impingement. The purpose of this article is to review the pathomechanics, clinical complaints, physical examination findings, and imaging findings that are associated with internal impingement. The results of treatment will be reviewed, and a diagnostic and therapeutic algorithm for the management of internal impingement is presented."}
{"id": "19059890", "title": "Glenohumeral internal rotation deficits in baseball players with ulnar collateral ligament insufficiency.", "content": "Glenohumeral internal rotation deficits in baseball players with ulnar collateral ligament insufficiency. The kinetic chain of the throwing motion functions to optimize efficiency of proximal segments to decrease force loads seen at smaller, distal segments such as the ulnar collateral ligament. Several studies have shown that shoulder internal rotation forms the physiologic counter to the valgus torque generated during the late cocking phase of throwing. Previous studies have implicated decreased glenohumeral internal rotation as a cause of shoulder internal impingement. To date, an association between pathologic glenohumeral internal rotation deficit and elbow injury has not been exhibited. Throwers with ulnar collateral ligament insufficiency will exhibit significantly increased glenohumeral internal rotation deficit. Case control study; Level of evidence, 3. Twenty-nine baseball players with ulnar collateral ligament insufficiency were demographically matched with 29 control baseball players who had no history of shoulder, elbow, or cervical spine injury. The investigators measured passive glenohumeral internal and external rotation, elbow flexion and extension, and forearm pronation and supination. The Mann-Whitney test was used to analyze continuous variables. There were no significant differences between the groups in terms of demographics. There was a significant difference in dominant arm internal rotation, with injured players having significantly less (P < .004), and in glenohumeral internal rotation deficit between players with ulnar collateral ligament insufficiency and those who were asymptomatic (28.5 degrees vs 12.7 degrees ; P < .001). Also, total range of motion was significantly decreased in the injured group. There were no significant differences in elbow or forearm range of motion between the groups. Our results indicate that pathologic glenohumeral internal rotation deficit may be associated with elbow valgus instability. This has important clinical implications both in terms of preventing ulnar collateral ligament injury and with regard to rehabilitating throwers after ulnar collateral ligament reconstruction."}
{"id": "19059801", "title": "Contribution of clinical tests to the diagnosis of rotator cuff disease: a systematic literature review.", "content": "Contribution of clinical tests to the diagnosis of rotator cuff disease: a systematic literature review. To evaluate the diagnostic performance of clinical tests for degenerative rotator cuff disease, based on a systematic literature review. We searched Medline, Embase, and Pascal Biomed until the first half of 2006 inclusive for articles that reported at least the sensitivity and specificity of clinical tests for rotator cuff disease. Predictive values and accuracy were recorded where available. The results were discussed and validated. We selected nine studies, of which three investigated tests for subacromial impingement syndrome and seven tests for rotator cuff tendinopathy. The Neer and Hawkins tests had good sensitivity but low specificity for subacromial impingement syndrome. For diagnosing tears of the supraspinatus or infraspinatus, the Jobe sign and the full can test showed similar performance characteristics to the Patte test and resisted external rotation with the elbow at the side flexed at 90 degrees . For diagnosing tendinopathies with or without tears, active unresisted external rotation for the infraspinatus and the lift off test for the subscapularis were specific but lacked sensitivity. In one study, limitation of the range of active unresisted internal rotation was sensitive and specific for subscapularis tendon disease. The palm up test performed poorly for diagnosing long head of biceps disease. Data on the diagnostic performance of clinical tests for rotator cuff tendon disease are fragmentary. However objective data exist to support the usefulness of some of these tests. Further studies are needed."}
{"id": "19058978", "title": "Reconstruction of large rotator-cuff tears with acellular dermal matrix grafts in rats.", "content": "Reconstruction of large rotator-cuff tears with acellular dermal matrix grafts in rats. With the acellular dermal matrix (ADM), it may be possible to bridge large rotator cuff tears and induce tendon regeneration. A 3 x 5 mm defect of the rotator cuff was created on both shoulders of adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. The graft group (n = 15) underwent reconstruction of the rotator cuff defect with an ADM patch graft; in the defect group (n = 15) no repair was performed. We sacrificed 5 rats from each group at 2, 6, and 12 weeks after surgery and harvested both shoulders; 3 specimens were subjected to histological analysis and the other 7 specimens were used for biomechanical testing. The controls were 5 unoperated rats; they were sacrificed to obtain 3 histologic and 7 biomechanical control shoulder specimens. At each time points, the graft group had significantly higher modified tendon maturing scores than the defect group (p < 0.002); specimens from the graft group demonstrated a greater mean ultimate force to failure than those from the defect group (p < 0.05). Within 12 weeks, the ADM graft was histologically incorporated into a structure resembling control specimen; the mean ultimate force to failure in control was significantly greater than in specimens from both groups (p < 0.01). Although the defect was restored in the defect group, histologically and biomechanically specimens from the defect group were inferior to the graft group. ADM grafts were useful as a scaffold in the reconstruction of large rotator cuff defects in rats. Basic science study."}
{"id": "19054712", "title": "The 'empty can' and 'full can' tests do not selectively activate supraspinatus.", "content": "The 'empty can' and 'full can' tests do not selectively activate supraspinatus. Based on previous electromyographic studies the 'empty can' (EC) and 'full can' (FC) tests have been promoted as being able to isolate activity to supraspinatus and are therefore diagnostic of supraspinatus dysfunction. However, there is evidence to suggest that these positions do not selectively activate supraspinatus, and that they may have poor diagnostic accuracy, bringing into question the validity of these tests. Due to limitations in the original EMG papers describing the EC and FC tests the current study aimed to further examine shoulder muscle activity during these tests to determine their ability to selectively activate supraspinatus. EMG activity was recorded from 13 muscles in 15 normal subjects while performing these two tests. Results showed that during the EC and FC muscle tests nine and eight other shoulder muscles, respectively, were equally highly activated as supraspinatus. It was concluded from these results that the EC and FC tests do not primarily activate supraspinatus with minimal activation from other shoulder muscles and therefore, do not satisfy basic criteria to be valid diagnostic tools for supraspinatus pathology. Therefore, these tests should not be interpreted as definitive tests for the clinical diagnosis of supraspinatus pathology. They may, however, be beneficial during shoulder muscle strengthening programs."}
{"id": "19052931", "title": "Symptomatic partial rotator cuff tears: diagnostic performance of ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging with surgical correlation.", "content": "Symptomatic partial rotator cuff tears: diagnostic performance of ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging with surgical correlation. The painful shoulder is a relatively common clinical entity that may be attributed to a variety of pathologies, including partial rotator cuff tears. Conservative treatment or surgical intervention may be offered, depending on the extent of the partial tear and the degree of patient discomfort. To apply ultrasound (US) imaging in order to evaluate the prevalence of partial rotator cuff tears in patients with painful shoulders. Fifty-six patients (17 men, 39 women; mean age 53.7 years) were included in the study, with symptomatic impingement syndrome of the shoulder after having failed to respond to conservative treatment. All patients underwent US and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans prior to surgical intervention. Arthroscopy or mini-open surgery revealed 53 cases with partial tears of the rotator cuff and three with extensive tendinopathy. Both imaging modalities detected successfully 44 cases of partial tears of the supraspinatus tendon. US imaging yielded a sensitivity of 95.6%, a specificity of 70%, an accuracy of 91%, and a positive predictive accuracy of 93.6%. The corresponding values for MRI were 97.7%, 63.6%, 91%, and 91.7%, respectively. US imaging can be considered almost equally effective in detecting partial tears of the rotator cuff compared to MRI, particularly located in the area of the supraspinatus tendon. MRI may be reserved for doubtful or complex cases, in which delineation of adjacent structures is mandatory prior to surgical intervention."}
{"id": "19046640", "title": "Osteolytic lesion of greater tuberosity in calcific tendinitis of the shoulder.", "content": "Osteolytic lesion of greater tuberosity in calcific tendinitis of the shoulder. This study investigated tuberosity osteolysis, an uncommon and frequently misdiagnosed form of calcific tendinitis of the shoulder, and evaluated its effects on clinical and surgical outcomes. A total of 126 patients with calcific tendinitis studied with radiographs, ultrasound, and magnetic resonance images (MRIs) were divided into groups positive and negative for tuberosity osteolysis and treated by arthroscopy. Follow-up evaluation was at 2 years, using the Constant score. Tuberosity osteolysis was associated with significantly lower Constant scores, both before and after surgical treatment. Clinical and imaging findings exhibited a significant correlation. A 100% correlation was found between arthroscopy and MRI findings of tuberosity osteolysis compared with 90% with radiographs. Imaging and functional data indicate that calcific tendinitis of the rotator cuff with tuberosity osteolysis is a distinctive form of calcific tendinitis that should be considered in clinical and surgical practice. Level 2; Prospective non-randomized comparison prognosis study."}
{"id": "19042920", "title": "A biomechanical basis for tears of the human acetabular labrum.", "content": "A biomechanical basis for tears of the human acetabular labrum. Acetabular labral tears predominantly affect young patients and are a source of hip pain in the athlete. Four causes of the initiation of labral tears have been proposed; trauma, hypolaxity of the anterior capsule, dysplasia and bony impingement. A further cause could be reduced biomechanical properties in the area most susceptible to tears. However, no work has defined these properties. 32 compressive and 32 tensile test samples were harvested from fresh-frozen cadaveric acetabula. The labrum was divided into eight areas to allow comparison around its circumference. Semiconfined compressive testing and tensile testing were performed at a displacement rate of 10 mm/min in a controlled environment of 100% humidity at 37 (SD 1) degrees C. Cadaveric study. The mean compressive stiffness was 31.75 (SD 16.7) MPa, and the mean tensile elastic modulus was 24.7 (SD 10.8) MPa. The anterosuperior region had a significantly lower compressive elastic modulus than either of the posterior quadrants (p<0.05) and a significantly lower tensile modulus to the anterioinferior area (p<0.05). The biomechanical properties in the anterosuperior region may be a contributing factor to the initiation of labral tears."}
{"id": "19037684", "title": "Translation and validation study of the Persian version of the Western Ontario Rotator Cuff Index.", "content": "Translation and validation study of the Persian version of the Western Ontario Rotator Cuff Index. The translation, cultural adaptation and validation of the Persian version of the Western Ontario Rotator Cuff Index (WORC) were carried out in accordance with published guidelines. One hundred fifty consecutive patients with rotator cuff disorders completed the Persian WORC, the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) outcome measure, the Short Form Health Survey (SF-36) and visual analog scale (VAS) to test convergent validity. Forty-five randomly selected patients completed the WORC 48 h later for the second time. High internal validity and discriminatory power of the WORC scales were found. Cronbach's alpha coefficient for the Persian WORC ranged from 0.85 to 0.92. The Persian WORC showed excellent test-retest reliability, with intraclass correlation coefficient ranging from 0.88 to 0.94 (P < 0.01). The Pearson's correlation coefficient between the Persian WORC total score and the DASH, the VAS and the SF-36 subscales was -0.76, -0.62 and 0.43 to 0.69, respectively (P < 0.001), indicating a good convergent validity. The results show that the Persian WORC is a reliable and valid instrument to measure health-related quality of life in Persian-speaking patients with rotator cuff disorders in Iran."}
{"id": "19031167", "title": "The effectiveness of low-level laser therapy on shoulder function in subacromial impingement syndrome.", "content": "The effectiveness of low-level laser therapy on shoulder function in subacromial impingement syndrome. To investigate the effectiveness of low-level laser therapy (LLLT) in addition to exercise programme on shoulder function in subacromial impingement syndrome (SAIS). Sixty-seven patients with SAIS were randomly assigned to either a group that received laser (n = 34) or a group that received placebo Laser (n = 26). Pain, functional assessment, disability and muscle strength of shoulder were assessed before and after a 3-week rehabilitation programme. Besides Laser or placebo Laser, superficial cold and progressive exercise programme were administered to both groups, 5 days a week, for 3 weeks. A progressive exercise programme that was done daily twice under supervision in clinic and at home was given to the patients. After the treatment, all outcome measurements had shown significant improvement except muscle strength in both the groups. When the parameters of the improvement were compared, there were no significant differences between the two groups after treatment. We concluded that there is no fundamental difference between LLLT and placebo LLLT when they are supplementing an exercise programme for rehabilitation of patients with shoulder impingement syndrome."}
{"id": "19020860", "title": "Prevalence of concomitant intraarticular lesions in patients treated operatively for high-grade acromioclavicular joint separations.", "content": "Prevalence of concomitant intraarticular lesions in patients treated operatively for high-grade acromioclavicular joint separations. The purpose of this study is to investigate the prevalence of concomitant intraarticular lesions to the glenohumeral joint or to surrounding soft tissue structures with non-randomized prospective case series. High-grade acromioclavicular (AC) joint dislocations result from direct or indirect force impact to the shoulder girdle. Fourty consecutive patients (2 female, 38 male) with high-grade acromioclavicular joint dislocations (Rockwood III: n = 3; IV: n = 3; V: n = 34) who underwent diagnostic arthroscopy at the time of acromioclavicular joint repair were evaluated. Associated pathologic lesions were documented and treated by an all-arthroscopic approach. As a result, traumatic intraarticular lesions were found in 15% (n = 6/40) of cases. Two patients had an isolated partial tear of the subscapularis tendon. One patient had a combined tear of the subscapularis and supraspinatus tendon (PASTA type lesion). Two patients showed a type II SLAP-lesion and one patient had a type VI SLAP-lesion. Arthroscopic treatment included rotator cuff reconstruction in two cases and debridement of the partially torn tendon in one case. Two patients underwent an arthroscopic SLAP-repair and in one patient a debridement of a labral flap tear was performed. Acromioclavicular joint reconstruction was achieved via an open technique using suture anchors in 14 cases and via an all-arthroscopic approach using a double Tight-rope technique in 26 cases. To conclude, in number of cases, high-grade AC-separations may be associated with traumatic concomitant glenohumeral pathologies resulting from the same trauma impact to the shoulder girdle. A combined or an all-arthroscopic approach allows to accurately diagnose and treat associated intraarticular pathologies."}
{"id": "19011582", "title": "Continuous passive motion provides good pain control in patients with adhesive capsulitis.", "content": "Continuous passive motion provides good pain control in patients with adhesive capsulitis. Painful stiffening of the shoulder, 'frozen shoulder' is a common cause of shoulder pain and disability. Continuous passive motion (CPM) is an established method of preventing joint stiffness and of overcoming it. A randomized, comparative prospective clinical trial was planned to compare the early response with different rehabilitation methods [CPM vs. conventional physiotherapy treatment (CPT) protocol] for adhesive capsulitis taking into consideration the clinical efficacy. A total of 57 patients with frozen shoulder were included in this study. Patients were assigned randomly to receive daily CPM treatments or CPT protocol. Parameters were measured at baseline, and at weeks 4 and 12. All patients were evaluated with respect to pain (visual anologue scale) at rest, pain at movement, pain at night, measurement of range of motion (shoulder flexion, abduction, internal-external rotation were assessed), constant functional shoulder score and the shoulder pain and disability index. The first group (n=29) (CPM group) received CPM treatments for 1 h once a day for 20 days during a period of 4 weeks. The second group (n=28) (CPT group) had a daily physiotherapy treatment protocol including active stretching and pendulum exercises for 1 h once a day for 20 days during a period of 4 weeks. All patients in both groups were also instructed in a standardized home exercise programme consisting of passive range of motion and pendulum exercises to be performed every day. In both groups, statistically significant improvements were detected in all outcome measures compared with baseline. Pain reduction, however, evaluated with respect to pain at rest, at movement and at night was better in CPM group. In addition the CPM group showed better shoulder pain index scores than the CPT group. CPM treatment provides better response in pain reduction than the conventional physiotherapy treatment protocol in the early phase of treatment in adhesive capsulitis."}
{"id": "19002667", "title": "An analysis of outcome of arthroscopic versus mini-open rotator cuff repair using subjective and objective scoring tools.", "content": "An analysis of outcome of arthroscopic versus mini-open rotator cuff repair using subjective and objective scoring tools. The purpose is to perform a comparative analysis of mini-open and arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs through the use of subjective and objective scoring tools. We conducted a prospective comparative cohort study that evaluated 123 consecutive patients who underwent rotator cuff repairs (arthroscopic and 31 mini-open repair). Subjective and objective functional assessment was performed preoperatively and postoperatively at 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months using the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (DASH) questionnaire, the Oxford Shoulder Score (OSS) and the Constant-Murley score. Statistical analysis was performed on the datasets assessing the Pearson correlation coefficients and any significant differences present at each respective time point. At every time point the arthroscopic group scored better than the mini-open group, regardless of the assessment tool employed. The percentage recovery from the baseline measured at 1 year was similar with either treatment option. A significant difference was found between the arthroscopic and mini-open groups for the Constant-Murley, DASH and OSS scoring systems preoperatively (P < 0.05), reflecting a difference in tear severity. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair is comparable with the mini-open technique with well correlated postoperative rates recovery. Subjective scoring provides an accurate and potentially easier method of postoperative assessment for long-term follow-up of rotator cuff repairs."}
{"id": "18996735", "title": "The validity and accuracy of clinical tests used to detect labral pathology of the shoulder--a systematic review.", "content": "The validity and accuracy of clinical tests used to detect labral pathology of the shoulder--a systematic review. Labral tears frequently require repair [Kim S, Ha K, Han K. Biceps Load test: a clinical test for superior labrum anterior and posterior lesions in shoulders with recurrent anterior dislocations. The American Journal of Sports Medicine 1999;27(3):300-3]. Physiotherapists need confidence in clinical tests used to detect labral pathology to accurately identify this condition. This review systematically evaluates the evidence for the accuracy of these tests with reference to study quality and key biases. Cochrane, Medline, Cinahl, AMED, DARE and HTA databases were searched to identify 15 studies evaluating 15 clinical tests for labral pathology against Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI or surgery. Two independent reviewers assessed methodological quality using Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies (QUADAS). Meta Disc calculated likelihood ratios (positive LR>10, providing convincing diagnostic evidence of ruling a condition in; negative LR<0.2 providing large to moderate evidence of ruling the condition out) and true positive rates (TPRs) against false positive rates (FPRs) in receiver operator characteristic (ROC) plots and summary receiver operator curves (SROCs). Probable overestimation of accuracy was caused by use of case control design, verification bias and use of a lesser reference standard. Six accurate tests; Biceps Load I (+LR: 29.09; -LR: 0.09) Biceps Load II (+LR: 26.32; -LR: 0.11), Internal Rotation Resistance (IRRT) (+LR: 24.77; -LR: 0.12), Crank (+LR: 13.59 and 6.46; -LR: 0.1 and 0.22), Kim (+LR: 12.62; -LR:0.21) and Jerk (+LR: 34.71; -LR: 0.27) tests were identified from high quality single studies in selected populations. Subgroup analysis identified varying results of accuracy in the Crank test and the Active Compression (AC) test when evaluated in more than one study. Further evaluation is needed before these tests can be used with confidence."}
{"id": "18974973", "title": "Effects of posterior-inferior capsular plications in range of motion in arthroscopic anterior Bankart repair: a prospective randomized clinical study.", "content": "Effects of posterior-inferior capsular plications in range of motion in arthroscopic anterior Bankart repair: a prospective randomized clinical study. The effects of posterior plications associated with anterior shoulder instability surgery are still unclear both on shoulder range of motion (ROM) and on recurrence rate. The objective of this randomized study is to evaluate the influence of posterior-inferior plications, performed in association with repair of anterior Bankart lesion, on gleno-humeral (GH) range of motion. In a 24-month period, 40 patients were prospectively enrolled in this study. The criteria for inclusion were age between 17 and 40 years, traumatic unidirectional instability, no previous shoulder surgery, no more than three episodes of dislocation, no relevant glenoid bone deficiency, no clinical evidence of pathological anterior inferior laxity (measured with external rotation with the arm at the side inferior to 90 degrees and Gagey sign negative) and arthroscopic finding of isolated anterior Bankart lesion. A total of 20 patients (group A) were randomized to treat Bankart lesion using three bioadsorbable anchors loaded with a #2 braided polyester suture. In 20 randomized patients (group B) two posterior-inferior capsular plications performed with a #1 polidioxanone suture without any capsular shift were added to the same anterior capsulorraphy performed in group A. Postoperative rehabilitation protocol was the same for all 40 patients. Patients were examined preoperatively and at a 2-year follow-up by a single independent expert physician unaware of the surgical procedure. GH ROM, Constant, UCLA and ASES rating scores as well as recurrence of instability were recorded. At follow-up, forward flexion (FF) decreased by a mean value of 14.5 degrees (median -10 degrees ; range -5 degrees to -35 degrees ; P < 0.001) in group B and increased by a mean value of 3.5 degrees (median 0 degrees ; range -25 degrees to 40 degrees ; P < 0.312) in group A; external rotation with arm adducted (ER1) increased by a mean value of 1.8 degrees (median 0 degrees ; range -15 degrees to 30 degrees ; P < 0.924) in group B, and increased by a mean value of 2.6 degrees (median 2.5 degrees ; range -38 degrees to 40 degrees ; P < 0.610) in group A; external rotation with arm abducted at 90 degrees (ER2) decreased by a mean value of 2.9 degrees (median 0 degrees ; range: -20 degrees to 10 degrees ; P < 0.161) in group B and increased by a mean value of 0.7 degrees (median 0 degrees ; range -30 degrees to 25 degrees ; P < 0.837) in group A; the IR2 decreased by a mean value of 2.4 degrees (median -3.5 degrees ; range -15 degrees to 10 degrees ; P < 0.167) in group B and increased by a mean value of 2.2 degrees (median 0 degrees ; range -20 degrees to 30 degrees ; P < 0.456) in group A. The UCLA mean score gains by 43.1% (median 40; P < 0.001) relatively, and of 45.2% relatively (median 40; P < 0.001), respectively, in group B and A, ASES mean score relatively gains by 21.7% (median 21.2%; P < 0.001) in group B, and of 19.2% (median 18.9%; P < 0.001) in group A, and Constant mean score improves by 20.2% (median 16.5; P < 0.001) in group B, and 10.2% (median 8.4%; P < 0.001) in group A. Thus, the only statistical significant differences were the reduction of forward flexion in group B and the improvements of the scores in both groups. No recurrence of instability was found in the plicated group, while in the non-plicated group we had one traumatic recurrence. In conclusion, arthroscopic posterior-inferior plications associated with a Bankart lesion repair in a selected group of patients seem to reduce only FF, without any effect on rotation. A longer follow-up and a larger number of patients are needed to give definitive conclusions on the benefit to the recurrence rate."}
{"id": "18974971", "title": "Release of growth factors after arthroscopic acromioplasty.", "content": "Release of growth factors after arthroscopic acromioplasty. It has recently been postulated that a variety of growth factors may be released from cancellous bone after an acromioplasty. The aim of this study was to demonstrate the presence of growth factors in the subacromial space after acromioplasty. Between October 2006 and March 2007, 23 patients underwent arthroscopic acromioplasty. A sample of at least 3 ml of fluid from the shoulder was obtained 15 min after the end of the procedure. At the same time another sample of 3 ml of the patient's venous blood was obtained as a control. The concentrations of growth factors in the fluids collected were determined using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The growth factors assayed were platelet-derived growth factor-AB (PDGF-AB), basic fibroblast growth factor basic (bFGF) and transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-beta1). The concentrations of TGF-beta1 (p = 0.0001), PDGF-AB (p = 0.02), and bFGF (p < 0.0001) were significantly higher in the fluid from the subacromial space than in the blood sample. There are high concentrations of several growth factors in the subacromial space after acromioplasty."}
{"id": "18956186", "title": "Proprioception in total, hemi- and reverse shoulder arthroplasty in 3D motion analyses: a prospective study.", "content": "Proprioception in total, hemi- and reverse shoulder arthroplasty in 3D motion analyses: a prospective study. The aim of the study was to assess proprioception after shoulder arthroplasty. Twenty-six patients were enrolled who underwent total shoulder arthroplasty (TSA) (n = 13) or hemi-arthroplasty (n = 8) for shoulder osteoarthritis or reversed arthroplasty (n = 5) for cuff tear arthropathy. All patients were examined before the operation and then again six months thereafter in a motion analysis study with an active angle-reproduction (AAR) test. In all groups the AAR deteriorated at 60 degrees flexion (from 5.5 degrees [SD 2.8] to 7.6 degrees [SD 2.7]; p = 0.007) and at 30 degrees external rotation (ER) (from 6.5 degrees [SD 3.6] to 7.3 degrees [SD 4.8 degrees]; p = 0.023) six months after surgery. In the subgroup of TSA, there was deterioration at 30 degrees ER (p = 0.036). Otherwise, there were no significant changes within or among the subgroups. Proprioception, assessed by the AAR test, remained unchanged or deteriorated six months after shoulder arthroplasty. This might be related to the reduced pain or to the relatively short follow-up period."}
{"id": "18932240", "title": "Adipogenic and myogenic gene expression in rotator cuff muscle of the sheep after tendon tear.", "content": "Adipogenic and myogenic gene expression in rotator cuff muscle of the sheep after tendon tear. Chronic rotator cuff tendon tears lead to fatty infiltration and muscle atrophy with impaired physiological functions of the affected muscles. However, the cellular and molecular mechanisms of corresponding pathophysiological processes remain unknown. The purpose of this study was to characterize the expression pattern of adipogenic (PPARgamma, C/EBPbeta) and myogenic (myostatin, myogenin, Myf-5) transcription factors in infraspinatus muscle of sheep after tenotomy, implantation of a tension device, refixation of the tendon, and rehabilitation, reflecting a model of chronic rotator cuff tears. In contrast to human patients, the presented sheep model allows a temporal evaluation of the expression of a given marker in the same individual over time. Semiquantitative RT/PCR analysis of PPARgamma\u00e3, myostatin, myogenin, Myf-5, and C/EBPbeta transcript levels was carried out with sheep muscle biopsy-derived total RNA. We found a significantly increased expression of Myf-5 and PPARgamma after tenotomy and a significant change for Myf-5 and C/EBPbeta after continuous traction and refixation. This experimental sheep model allows the molecular analysis of pathomechanisms of muscular changes after rotator cuff tear. The results point to a crucial role of the transcription factors PPARgamma, C/EBPbeta, and Myf-5 in impairment and regeneration of rotator cuff muscles after tendon tears in sheep."}
{"id": "18927254", "title": "A prospective study of autologous chondrocyte implantation in patients with failed prior treatment for articular cartilage defect of the knee: results of the Study of the Treatment of Articular Repair (STAR) clinical trial.", "content": "A prospective study of autologous chondrocyte implantation in patients with failed prior treatment for articular cartilage defect of the knee: results of the Study of the Treatment of Articular Repair (STAR) clinical trial. This is a prospective clinical study to assess the effectiveness of autologous chondrocyte implantation in patients who failed prior treatments for articular cartilage defects of the knee. Autologous chondrocyte implantation provides clinical benefit in patients with failed articular cartilage treatments. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 2. One hundred fifty-four patients with failed treatment for articular cartilage defects of the knee received autologous chondrocyte implantation in a multicenter, prospective study. Follow-up was 48 months. Outcomes included change from baseline in knee function, knee pain, quality of life, and overall health. Duration of benefit after autologous chondrocyte implantation was compared with the failed prior non-autologous chondrocyte implantation procedure. Safety information was recorded. Additional analyses were performed on the 2 major cohorts of prior procedures entered into the study, marrow-stimulation technique or debridement alone, to assess if there were any significant differences in baseline characteristics, outcomes, or prognosis between the 2 groups. One hundred twenty-six patients (82%) completed the protocol. Seventy-six percent of patients were treatment successes at study end, while 24% were deemed treatment failures. Preoperative mean knee pain score was 3.0 (SD, 1.8; 0 = severe, 10 = normal). Mean improvements were observed from baseline to all time points (P < .001) for all outcome measures. Preoperative to 48-month values, respectively, were as follows: On the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score subscales of pain: 48.7 to 72.2; other symptoms: 51.8 to 70.8; sports/recreation: 25.8 to 55.8; knee quality of life: 20.9 to 52.2; and activities of daily living: 58.6 to 81.0; on the Modified Cincinnati Overall Knee score: 3.3 to 6.3; on the visual analog scale: 28.8 to 69.9; and on the SF-36 Overall Physical Health: 33.0 to 44.4. Results did not differ between patients whose primary surgery had been a marrow-stimulating procedure and those whose primary procedure had been a debridement alone. The median difference in duration of benefit between autologous chondrocyte implantation and the failed non-autologous chondrocyte implantation prior procedure was at least 31 months (P < .001). Seventy-six patients (49%) had subsequent surgical procedure(s), predominantly arthroscopic. Need for a subsequent surgical procedure was not predictive of failure. Patients with moderate to large chondral lesions with failed prior cartilage treatments can expect sustained and clinically meaningful improvement in pain and function after autologous chondrocyte implantation. The subsequent surgical procedure rate observed in this study (49% overall; 40% related to autologous chondrocyte implantation) appears higher than generally reported after autologous chondrocyte implantation."}
{"id": "18850322", "title": "The efficacy of conservative treatment in patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "The efficacy of conservative treatment in patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Rotator cuff tears are a common cause of shoulder pain and disability. Although many studies have reported about the surgical results of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff, there are few studies about the efficacy of conservative treatment. The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy of conservative treatment in patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears by using objective and subjective measurements. Twenty patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears were included in the study. Outcome measures were range of motion, pain and function according to the shoulder index of the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES), Constant score, Short-Form 36 Health Survey (SF-36), isokinetic shoulder strength, and patient response. Patients were assessed at baseline and after 6 months. In addition, patients were contacted by telephone at 1 year and at 3 years for functional assessment according to ASES, and patient response. The treatment protocol included activity modification, oral nonsteroidal antiinflammatory medications, physical modalities, and a specific exercise program. Statistically significant improvements were obtained in range of motion, pain and function scores according to ASES, Constant score, SF-36 scores, and isokinetic strength (P < 0.05). At the 6-month evaluation, 11 patients (55%) reported that they were \"much better\", and 9 patients (45%) \"better\". Conservative treatment of full-thickness rotator cuff tears yields satisfactory results both subjectively and objectively."}
{"id": "18843038", "title": "Differential suture loading in an experimental rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Differential suture loading in an experimental rotator cuff repair. Repairs of large rotator cuff tears often fail to heal. A possible factor in these failures is excessive tension in the repair sutures, causing them to pull through the tendon. Arm positions encountered during early rehabilitation after cuff repair can dramatically increase the relative tension in the different sutures of the cuff repair. Controlled laboratory study. In a cadaver model, a 4-suture supraspinatus repair was carried out with transosseous sutures. After the repair, the arm was placed in 12 different positions. The tension in each suture was monitored using individual load cells. When the arm was externally rotated relative to the plane of the scapula, the tension in the anterior suture was over 10 times that in the posterior suture (P < .001). When the arm was internally rotated, the tension in the posterior suture was over 10 times that in the anterior suture (P < .0005). When the arm was in neutral rotation, there was no significant difference in the suture tension. This study is the first report of direct suture tension measurement after a model rotator cuff repair. In this model, 30 degrees of either internal or external rotation of the arm in relation to the plane of the scapula created substantial imbalances in the tension between the most anterior and most posterior sutures of a supraspinatus repair, regardless of the position of abduction. Avoiding external rotation stretching during the healing of supraspinatus repairs may prevent tension overload in the critical anterior suture."}
{"id": "18838403", "title": "Rotator cuff tendinopathy/subacromial impingement syndrome: is it time for a new method of assessment?", "content": "Rotator cuff tendinopathy/subacromial impingement syndrome: is it time for a new method of assessment? Disorders of the shoulder are extremely common, with reports of prevalence ranging from 30% of people experiencing shoulder pain at some stage of their lives up to 50% of the population experiencing at least one episode of shoulder pain annually. In addition to the high incidence, shoulder dysfunction is often persistent and recurrent, with 54% of sufferers reporting ongoing symptoms after 3 years. To a large extent the substantial morbidity reflects (i) a current lack of understanding of the pathoaetiology, (ii) a lack of diagnostic accuracy in the assessment process, and (iii) inadequacies in current intervention techniques. Pathology of the rotator cuff and subacromial bursa is considered to be the principal cause of pain and symptoms arising from the shoulder. Generally these diagnostic labels relate more to a clinical hypothesis as to the underlying cause of the symptoms than to definitive evidence of the histological basis for the diagnosis or the correlation between structural failure and symptoms. Diagnosing rotator cuff tendinopathy or subacromial impingement syndrome currently involves performing a structured assessment that includes taking the patient's history in conjunction with performing clinical assessment procedures that generally involve tests used to implicate an isolated structure. Based on the response to the clinical tests, a diagnosis of rotator cuff tendinopathy or subacromial impingement syndrome is achieved. The clinical diagnosis is strengthened with the findings from supporting investigations such as blood tests, radiographs, ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed axial tomography (CT), radionucleotide isotope scan, single photon emission computed tomography, electromyography, nerve conduction and diagnostic analgesic injection. This process eventually results in the formation of a clinical hypothesis, and then, in conjunction with the patient, a management plan is decided upon and implemented. This paper focuses on the dilemmas associated with the current process, and an alternative method for the clinical examination of the shoulder for this group of patients is proposed."}
{"id": "18835792", "title": "Laser microdissection-based analysis of hypoxia- and thioredoxin-related genes in human stable carotid plaques.", "content": "Laser microdissection-based analysis of hypoxia- and thioredoxin-related genes in human stable carotid plaques. Neovascularization in the carotid atherosclerotic plaque is a common pathogenetic feature in carotid artery stenosis. To investigate whether the neovascular region of the stable plaque differentially expresses specific genes, we analyzed the patterns of angiogenesis-related gene expression in regions of the plaque isolated by laser microdissection and examined by immunohistochemistry and real-time reverse transcription (RT)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Carotid plaque samples were obtained by carotid endarterectomy in 27 clinically asymptomatic patients with high-grade internal carotid artery stenosis. Among these 27 plaque samples, 23 plaques were confirmed to be stable pathologically, and 14 stable plaques had neovascularization. The medial, shoulder, and neovascular regions of the 14 carotid plaques were determined by immunohistochemical staining. These 3 regions were microdissected, and total RNA was extracted for real-time RT-PCR analysis. The expressions of hypoxia inducible factor 1alpha, vascular endothelial growth factor-A, thioredoxin, and thioredoxin interacting protein were analyzed at mRNA level. Real-time RT-PCR was performed on 42 laser microdissected regions of 14 plaques. The expressions of all four genes examined were significantly lower in the medial region at mRNA level. High expressions were noted in both shoulder and neovascular regions, with no significant difference between the two. Furthermore, these expression patterns were related significantly to macrophage infiltration. In conclusion, hypoxia- and thioredoxin-related genes are significantly overexpressed in human stable carotid atherosclerotic plaques and strongly correlate with macrophage infiltration rather than neovascularization. Macrophage infiltration may lead to overexpression of these genes and promote angiogenesis in stable carotid plaques."}
{"id": "18835532", "title": "Exercise in the treatment of rotator cuff impingement: a systematic review and a synthesized evidence-based rehabilitation protocol.", "content": "Exercise in the treatment of rotator cuff impingement: a systematic review and a synthesized evidence-based rehabilitation protocol. A systematic review of the literature was performed to evaluate the role of exercise in treating rotator cuff impingement and to synthesize a standard evidence-based rehabilitation protocol. Eleven randomized, controlled trials (level 1 and 2) evaluating the effect of exercise in the treatment of impingement were identified. Data regarding demographics, methodology, and outcomes of pain, range of motion, strength, and function were recorded. Individual components of each rehabilitation program were catalogued. Effectiveness was determined by statistical and clinical significance. Although many articles had methodologic concerns, the data demonstrate that exercise has statistically and clinically significant effects on pain reduction and improving function, but not on range of motion or strength. Manual therapy augments the effects of exercise, yet supervised exercise was not different than home exercise programs. Information regarding specific components of the exercise programs was synthesized into a gold standard rehabilitation protocol for future studies on the nonoperative treatment of rotator cuff impingement."}
{"id": "18830795", "title": "The role of arthroscopy in evaluation of painful hip arthroplasty.", "content": "The role of arthroscopy in evaluation of painful hip arthroplasty. Unexplained pain after hip arthroplasty is frustrating for patients and surgeons. We describe the use of hip arthroscopy in management of the painful hip arthroplasty, critically evaluate the outcomes of these patients, and refine indications for hip arthroscopy in this setting. We retrospectively reviewed 14 patients (16 hips) who underwent hip arthroscopy after joint replacement. One patient had suspected septic arthritis despite negative aspiration and one had known septic arthritis but was not a candidate for open arthrotomy; two had intraarticular migration of hardware. The remaining 10 patients (11 hips) had persistent pain despite negative diagnostic studies. The two patients (two hips) with infection were successfully treated with arthroscopic lavage and d\u00e9bridement plus intravenous antibiotics. Intraarticular metal fragments and a loose acetabular screw were successfully removed in two patients (three hips). Findings in the remaining 11 hips included a loose acetabular component (one); corrosion at the head-neck junction of a metal-on-metal articulation (one); soft tissue-scar impingement at the head/cup interface (four); synovitis with associated scar tissue (four); and capsular scarring with adhesions (one). Arthroscopy represented a successful treatment or directly led to a successful treatment in 12 of 16 hips. We observed no complications as a result of the arthroscopy. Arthroscopy may be of value in selected patients undergoing hip arthroplasty with unexplained pain after an inconclusive standard workup. Level IV, therapeutic study. See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "18815043", "title": "Recording scapular motion using an acromion marker cluster.", "content": "Recording scapular motion using an acromion marker cluster. Disorders of the shoulder complex can be accompanied by changes in the movement pattern of the scapula. However, scapular motion is difficult to measure. A possible non-invasive method for dynamic three-dimensional kinematic measurement of the human scapula is the use of a marker cluster placed on the flat part of the acromion. A small light-weight acromion marker cluster (AMC) is presented in this study. In order to assess validity, kinematics obtained with the AMC were compared to simultaneous scapula locator (SL) recordings in a series of postures. The test/retest variability of replacement of the AMC, was also assessed. Measurement errors appeared to be sensitive for the plane of movement, the degree of humerus elevation, and replacement of the AMC. The AMC generally under-estimated scapula motion, compared to the SL. Some significant differences were found between the two methods, although the absolute differences were small (maximum mean difference 8.4 degrees in extreme position). In humerus forward flexion and abduction the maximum mean differences were 6 degrees or lower. In conclusion, the AMC is a valid method of measuring scapular movement during arm elevation that could be used in shoulder pathologies. Placement and planes of movement should be carefully considered and elevation of the humerus should not exceed 100 degrees."}
{"id": "18812420", "title": "Higher fasting plasma glucose levels within the normoglycaemic range and rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Higher fasting plasma glucose levels within the normoglycaemic range and rotator cuff tears. To determine the plasma glucose levels in non-diabetic patients with rotator cuff tear. Frequency-matched case-control study. University Teaching Hospital. The study included 194 subjects who were operated on at our institution. Group 1 included 97 consecutive patients (36 men and 61 women; mean age: 62.9 years, range 37 to 82) who underwent arthroscopic repair of a rotator cuff tear in 2007 and 2008. Group 2 (control group) included 97 patients (36 men and 61 women; mean age: 61.6 years, range 36 to 80) who underwent arthroscopic meniscectomy for a meniscal tear in the same period, and had no evidence of shoulder pathology. These patients were frequency-matched by age (within 3 years) and gender with patients of Group 1. Measurement of fasting plasma glucose levels. Patients with rotator cuff tears (Group 1) showed statistically significantly higher fasting plasma glucose levels within the normoglycaemic range (p = 0.007) than patients with meniscal tear (Group 2). The present study suggests that normal, but in the high range of normal, increasing plasma glucose levels may be a risk factor for rotator cuff tear. An enhanced understanding of these factors holds the promise of new approaches to the prevention and management of rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "18805038", "title": "Biomechanical analysis of axial distraction mobilization of the glenohumeral joint--a cadaver study.", "content": "Biomechanical analysis of axial distraction mobilization of the glenohumeral joint--a cadaver study. The axial distraction mobilization techniques are frequently employed for treating patients with joint hypomobility. However, there is a lack of basic biomechanical studies and description of this procedure. The purpose of this study was to analyze humeral head displacement while performing an axial distraction mobilization of the glenohumeral joint. Twelve experienced orthopedic physical therapists participated. Distraction mobilization techniques were performed in three different positions of glenohumeral abduction on a fresh cadaveric specimen. Outcome measures were displacements of the humeral head center during distraction mobilization. Result indicated that displacement of the humeral head was largest in the resting position (27.38 mm) followed by the neutral (22.01 mm) and the end range position (9.34 mm). There were significant differences for both the displacement of the humeral head (p<0.002) and the distraction forces used (p<0.015) among the three joint positions. Greater gain in mobility was obtained in distraction at the end range position. In conclusion, during distraction mobilization, the force applied by the therapist and displacement of the humeral head depends on the joint position tested. Our results also provide rationales for choosing end range distraction mobilization for improving joint mobility."}
{"id": "18804400", "title": "The validity and intra-tester reliability of a clinical measure of humeral head position.", "content": "The validity and intra-tester reliability of a clinical measure of humeral head position. The purpose of this study was to determine the degree of criterion validity and intra-tester reliability of humeral head palpation in subjects with shoulder pathology. The study also sought to determine whether there was any effect of arm position on humeral head position in subjects with shoulder pathology. In a same day repeated measures design, 27 subjects had the distance between the most anterior portion of the humeral head and the anterior edge of the acromion measured by a radiologist using MRI (supine), and by a physiotherapist using palpation and photography (supine, sit with arm in neutral and in abduction). The Standard Error of Measurement (SEM) for the difference between MRI and palpation ranged from 3.4 to 4.4mm and correlated significantly with palpation measures in sit (r=0.57-0.64, p<or=0.002). The Intraclass Correlation Coefficients (ICCs) and SEMs for intra-tester reliability were 0.85 and 2.6mm for supine, 0.86 and 2.2mm for sit (glenohumeral neutral), and 0.91 and 3.0mm for sit (glenohumeral abduction). Significant differences between the positions of sit neutral and sit with abduction were found (p<0.001). Humeral head palpation in sit abduction demonstrates sufficient validity and reliability for clinical use."}
{"id": "18799326", "title": "Prospective analysis of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: prognostic factors affecting clinical and ultrasound outcome.", "content": "Prospective analysis of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: prognostic factors affecting clinical and ultrasound outcome. The purpose of this study was to identify potential predictors of function and tendon healing after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair that will enable the orthopaedic surgeon to determine which patients can expect a successful outcome. Between 2003 and 2005, the Arthroscopic Rotator Cuff Registry was established to collect demographic, intraoperative, functional outcome, and ultrasound data prospectively on all patients who underwent primary arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. At total of 193 patients met the study criteria, and 127 (65.8%) completed the 2-year follow-up. The most significant independent factors affecting ultrasound outcome were age (odds ratio [OR], 1.08; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.02-1.14; P = .006) and tear size (OR, 2.29; 95% CI, 1.55-3.38; P < .001). After adjustment for age and tear size, the intraoperative factors found to be significantly associated with a tendon defect were concomitant biceps procedures (OR, 11.39; 95% CI, 2.90-44.69; P < .001) and acromioclavicular joint procedures (OR, 3.85; 95% CI, 1.46-10.12; P = .006). In contrast to the ultrasound data, the functional outcome variables, such as satisfaction (OR, 3.92; 95% CI, 2.00-7.68; P < .001) and strength (OR, 10.05; 95% CI, 1.61-62.77; P = .01), had a greater role in predicting an American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score greater than 90. The progression from a single-tendon rotator cuff tear to a multiple-tendon tear with associated pathology increased the likelihood of tendon defect by at least 9 times, and therefore, earlier surgical intervention for isolated, single-tendon rotator cuff tears could optimize the likelihood of ultrasound healing and an excellent functional outcome."}
{"id": "18788982", "title": "Novel nanofiber-based scaffold for rotator cuff repair and augmentation.", "content": "Novel nanofiber-based scaffold for rotator cuff repair and augmentation. The debilitating effects of rotator cuff tears and the high incidence of failure associated with current grafts underscore the clinical demand for functional solutions for tendon repair and augmentation. To address this challenge, we have designed a poly(lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA) nanofiber-based scaffold for rotator cuff tendon tissue engineering. In addition to scaffold design and characterization, the objective of this study was to evaluate the attachment, alignment, gene expression, and matrix elaboration of human rotator cuff fibroblasts on aligned and unaligned PLGA nanofiber scaffolds. Additionally, the effects of in vitro culture on scaffold mechanical properties were determined over time. It has been hypothesized that nanofiber organization regulates cellular response and scaffold properties. It was observed that rotator cuff fibroblasts cultured on the aligned scaffolds attached along the nanofiber long axis, whereas the cells on the unaligned scaffold were polygonal and randomly oriented. Moreover, distinct integrin expression profiles on these two substrates were observed. Quantitative analysis revealed that cell alignment, distribution, and matrix deposition conformed to nanofiber organization and that the observed differences were maintained over time. Mechanical properties of the aligned nanofiber scaffolds were significantly higher than those of the unaligned, and although the scaffolds degraded in vitro, physiologically relevant mechanical properties were maintained. These observations demonstrate the potential of the PLGA nanofiber-based scaffold system for functional rotator cuff repair. Moreover, nanofiber organization has a profound effect on cellular response and matrix properties, and it is a critical parameter for scaffold design."}
{"id": "18752983", "title": "Mobilizations of the asymptomatic cervical spine can reduce signs of shoulder dysfunction in adults.", "content": "Mobilizations of the asymptomatic cervical spine can reduce signs of shoulder dysfunction in adults. Generalized shoulder pain is a common problem that is difficult to treat and frequently recurrent. The asymptomatic cervical spine must be ruled out as a cause of any shoulder pain, as it can have a similar presentation to an isolated shoulder disorder. Previous studies have shown that lateral cervical glide mobilizations to the asymptomatic cervical spine at C5/6 can affect peripheral pain, but none have examined shoulder pain. A randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled, cross-over trial was used to examine the immediate effects of cervical lateral glide mobilizations on pain intensity and shoulder abduction painful arc in subjects with shoulder pain. Twenty-one subjects received interventions of both cervical mobilization and placebo over two sessions. Pain intensity using a visual analog scale (VAS) and painful arc were assessed prior to and following application of cervical mobilization or placebo intervention. Evaluation of cervical mobilization revealed the shoulder abduction painful arc (12.5 degrees +/-15.6 degrees, p=0.002) and shoulder pain intensity (1.3+/-1.1cm, p<0.001) were significantly decreased. The results of this study suggest that any immediate change in shoulder pain or active shoulder range of motion following cervical mobilizations indicate that treatment directed toward the asymptomatic cervical spine may expedite recovery."}
{"id": "18725652", "title": "Incidence of associated injuries with acute acromioclavicular joint dislocations types III through V.", "content": "Incidence of associated injuries with acute acromioclavicular joint dislocations types III through V. Traumatic acromioclavicular (AC) joint dislocations are common injuries among the active population. The injury mechanism requires excessive force delivered by a fall or blow to the shoulder. Associated injuries may occur and remain undetected if they are masked by the painful and prominent AC joint injury. Intra-articular injuries associated with high-grade AC joint dislocations are common. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Between 2002 and 2007, 77 patients (68 male, 9 female; average age, 35.5 years; range, 17-62 years) were surgically treated for acute AC joint dislocations (Rockwood type III, 5; type IV, 30; and type V, 42). All patients underwent diagnostic glenohumeral joint arthroscopy. Concomitant intra-articular injuries were identified and treated. Intra-articular injuries were found in 14 of 77 patients (18.2%). Superior labral anterior posterior (SLAP) lesions were observed in 11 of 77 patients 14.3% (SLAP I, 3; II, 2; III, 3; and IV, 3). Nineteen percent of Rockwood V lesions had associated SLAP lesions (SLAP I excluded), whereas only 3.4% of Rockwood IV lesions showed SLAP lesions. A complete supraspinatus tear was detected in 1 case, and partial articular-sided supraspinatus tears were detected in 2 cases. Four patients sustained an accompanying fracture. Concomitant injuries to the shoulder girdle obtained during traumatic AC joint separation may be more frequent than previously thought. Clinical diagnosis may be difficult in the setting of an acute and painful dislocated AC joint. Shoulder arthroscopy during arthroscopic AC joint stabilization may aid in detecting associated injuries."}
{"id": "18703377", "title": "The short-term effects of thoracic spine thrust manipulation on patients with shoulder impingement syndrome.", "content": "The short-term effects of thoracic spine thrust manipulation on patients with shoulder impingement syndrome. The study was an exploratory, one group pretest/post-test study, with the objective of investigating the short-term effects of thoracic spine thrust manipulations (TSTMs) on patients with shoulder impingement syndrome (SIS). There is evidence that manual physical therapy that includes TSTM and non-thrust manipulation and exercise is effective for the treatment of patients with SIS. However, the relative contributions of specific manual therapy interventions are not known. To date, no published studies address the short-term effects of TSTM in the treatment of SIS. Fifty-six patients (40 males, 16 females; mean age 31.2+/-8.9) with SIS underwent a standardized shoulder examination, immediately followed by TSTM techniques. Outcomes measured were the Numeric Pain and Rating Scale (NPRS) and the Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI), all collected at baseline and at a 48-h follow-up period. Additionally, the Global Rating of Change Scale (GRCS) was collected at 48-h follow-up to measure patient perceived change. At 48-h follow-up, the NPRS change scores for Neer impingement sign, Hawkins impingement sign, resisted empty can, resisted external rotation, resisted internal rotation, and active abduction were all statistically significant (p<0.01). The reduction in the SPADI score was also statistically significant (p<0.001) and the mean GRCS score=1.4+/-2.5. In conclusion, TSTM provided a statistically significant decrease in self reported pain measures and disability in patients with SIS at 48-h follow-up."}
{"id": "18692515", "title": "Can the emotional connotation of concepts modulate the lexico-semantic deficits in Alzheimer's disease?", "content": "Can the emotional connotation of concepts modulate the lexico-semantic deficits in Alzheimer's disease? Semantic memory impairments are a common symptom of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and may occur at a relatively early stage. These disturbances can be evidenced by a hyperpriming effect (greater semantic priming in AD patients than in controls). Up till now, very few studies of semantic memory have included emotionally charged concepts. Our aim was therefore to study the semantic processing of such concepts, as opposed to neutral ones, in early AD. Given that emotional processes are relatively preserved at the beginning of the disease compared with other cognitive functions, we expected that an emotional connotation would influence the spreading activation of words and affect some of the impairments in semantic processing. We administered a semantic priming task (lexical decision task) implicitly assessing semantic memory to 26 patients with AD and 26 normal controls. Primes and targets either had a semantic relationship (e.g. tiger-lion), a semantic and emotional (positive or negative) relationship (e.g. slap-smack) or no relationship at all (e.g. chair-horse), or else belonged to a word-nonword condition (e.g. window-inuly). Compared with controls, the patients showed pathological hyperpriming effects in all conditions, especially in the emotional conditions. Hyperpriming implies a deterioration in specific attributes, as it is difficult to tell two concepts apart once their distinctive attributes have been lost. These results suggest that emotional concepts, like neutral ones, lose some of their distinctive attributes in early AD, and as the emotional processes are preserved, there is greater similarity between close emotional concepts than between close neutral concepts."}
{"id": "18617434", "title": "The effect of a vastus lateralis tape on muscle activity during stair climbing.", "content": "The effect of a vastus lateralis tape on muscle activity during stair climbing. Recently taping techniques with the primary purpose of altering muscle activity have become a part of clinical physiotherapy practice. A firmly applied tape across the fibres of the vastus lateralis (VL) muscle has been proposed to decrease the VL muscle activity. The primary aim of this study was to assess the effects of an inhibitory muscle tape applied over the vastus lateralis (VL) muscle during stair climbing. Twenty five subjects without lower limb pathology were recruited. Normalised integrated EMG (IEMG) was analysed from VL, vastus medialis obliquus (VMO), biceps femoris (BF) and soleus muscles during stair climbing. The subjects were assessed during three conditions: no tape (untaped), (no tension) control tape and (tensioned tape) VL inhibitory taping application. There was a significant decrease (p<0.05) in the VL IEMG during the initial stance phase during both stair ascent and descent. The inhibition if the VL muscle occurred with both control and VL inhibitory tape applied. No significant differences (p>0.05) were noted in any of the other muscles assessed. The results demonstrated that there was a significant decrease in the IEMG of the VL both during stair ascent and descent with VL inhibitory tape and control tape applied in normal subjects."}
{"id": "18607610", "title": "Suture anchor fixation strength in osteopenic versus non-osteopenic bone for rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Suture anchor fixation strength in osteopenic versus non-osteopenic bone for rotator cuff repair. Rotator cuff tears are increasing with age. Does osteopenic bone have an influence on the pullout strength of suture anchors? SPIRALOK 5.0 mm (DePuy Mitek), Super Revo 5 mm and UltraSorb (both ConMed Linvatec) suture anchors were tested in six osteopenic and six healthy human cadaveric humeri. Incremental cyclic loading was performed. The ultimate failure load, anchor displacement, and the mode of failure were recorded. In the non-osteopenic bone group, the absorbable SPIRALOK 5.0 mm achieved a significantly better pullout strength (274 N +/- 29 N, mean +/- SD) than the titanium anchor Super Revo 5 mm (188 N +/- 34 N, mean +/- SD), and the tilting anchor UltraSorb (192 N +/- 34 N, mean +/- SD). In the osteopenic bone group no significant difference in the pullout strength was found. The failure mechanisms, such as anchor pullout, rupture at eyelet, suture breakage and breakage of eyelet, varied between the anchors. The present study demonstrates that, in osteopenic bone, absorbable suture anchors do not have lower pullout strengths than metal anchors. In normal bone, the bioabsorbable anchor in this study even outperformed the non-absorbable anchor."}
{"id": "18456541", "title": "Intra- and interexaminer reliability of four manual shoulder maneuvers used to identify subacromial pain.", "content": "Intra- and interexaminer reliability of four manual shoulder maneuvers used to identify subacromial pain. Shoulder pain is a diagnostic challenge and the physical clinical examination of the shoulder is crucial. It is important that the diagnostic tests used are valid as well as reliable. The objective of the study was to assess intra- and interexaminer reliability for four manual shoulder maneuvers; the Neer impingement sign, the Hawkins-Kennedy impingement test, the Patte maneuver, the Jobe supraspinatus test. These maneuvers are frequently used in clinical practice to examine patients with shoulder complaints in which subacromial pain is highly suspected. Thirty-three participants with shoulder pain were included consecutively. Within a week from inclusion, the four maneuvers were performed by a physiotherapist. The procedure was standardized in order to increase reproducibility. After a week, the maneuvers were performed again by the same physical therapist (test-retest) and by another physical therapist (test for interexaminer reliability). All four maneuvers have an almost perfect agreement (Kappa coefficients 0.91-1.00), if performed with suggested standardizations. Neer impingement sign, Hawkins-Kennedy impingement test, Patte maneuver as well as Jobe supraspinatus test, are highly reproducible and therefore reliable to use in clinical practice to identify patients with subacromial pain with an impingement phenomenon, but the maneuvers are limited as structural discriminators."}
{"id": "18436467", "title": "Reliability, validity and responsiveness of the French version of the questionnaire Quick Disability of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand in shoulder disorders.", "content": "Reliability, validity and responsiveness of the French version of the questionnaire Quick Disability of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand in shoulder disorders. We assessed the reliability, validity and responsiveness of the French short version of the scale Disability of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand-Disability/Symptom (F-QuickDASH-D/S) in patients with shoulder disorders. We extracted QuickDASH item responses from the responses to the full-length DASH questionnaire completed by 153 patients. In addition to collecting demographic and clinical data, subjective assessment of activities of daily living (ADL), active range of motion (ROM), and measurement of abduction strength (strength) were recorded by use of the Constant scale. Cronbach's alpha coefficient was 0.89. The intraclass correlation coefficient was 0.94, which suggested excellent test-retest reliability. Correlation of the F-QuickDASH-D/S score with scores for F-DASH-D/S (r=0.96), handicap (r=0.79), ADL (r=-0.73), pain during activities (r=0.63), strength (r=-0.58), pain at rest (r=0.57) and ROM (r=-0.51) indicated good construct validity. Factor analysis identified 2 factors accounting for 59.1% of the variance. The responsiveness of F-QuickDASH-D/S was excellent, with standardized response mean and effect size values of 1.09 and 1.23, respectively. The F-QuickDASH-D/S has good reliability, construct validity and responsiveness. The strong correlation of its score with the full-length DASH-D/S scale score suggests that the QuickDASH-D/S could be the preferred scale because it is easier to use."}
{"id": "18422568", "title": "How do patients with parkinsonism present? A clinicopathological study.", "content": "How do patients with parkinsonism present? A clinicopathological study. The early clinical features of neurodegenerative parkinsonism can be subtle and often coexist with autonomic, sensory and psychic symptoms, making accurate early diagnosis challenging. We retrospectively assessed the initial, clinical presentation and referral patterns of 494 patients with a pathological diagnosis of parkinsonism (344 with Parkinson's disease (PD), 89 with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and 61 with multiple system atrophy (MSA)) archived at the Queen Square Brain Bank, London. Forty-four per cent of all patients were initially referred to a neurologist. Of those with PD, 28% were referred to a general physician, and approximately 5% each to orthopaedic surgeons, urologists, psychiatrists and rheumatologists. Pain was common in those not initially referred to neurologists and most lacked early tremor, rigidity and bradykinesia. More PSP patients were initially referred to ophthalmologists than in PD (9 vs 1%, chi(2)P < 0.001) and more MSA patients were referred to a urologist or gynaecologist than in PD (21 vs 5%, chi(2)P < 0.001). In PD a frozen shoulder, degenerative spine disease and benign prostatic hypertrophy were the most common early diagnoses. In PSP, the most common misdiagnosis was PD, followed by vascular parkinsonism and degenerative spinal disease. This was similar in MSA, but bladder outlet obstruction and idiopathic vocal cord palsy were other initial diagnoses. The early clinical manifestations of PD, PSP and MSA are protean and often non-specific, leading to diverse specialist referrals. When diagnoses, such as frozen shoulder and cervical spondylosis, benign prostatic hypertrophy or unstable bladder and depression are made, specialists should consider the possibility of early parkinsonism and look carefully for additional subtle motor abnormalities."}
{"id": "18414860", "title": "Time and cost savings in arthroscopic subacromial decompression: the use of bipolar versus monopolar radiofrequency.", "content": "Time and cost savings in arthroscopic subacromial decompression: the use of bipolar versus monopolar radiofrequency. There is currently an increased interest in the use of electro surgery in arthroscopy. Since the introduction of the bipolar arthroscopic radiofrequency (RF) wand, it has started to replace the classic Bovie monopolar probe on the assumption that the new technology provides multifunctional devices, combining both tissue removal and haemostasis into one instrument. The more efficient tissue ablation and precise haemostasis achieved with these instruments should result in a significant reduction in the operative time and cost. We ran a prospective comparative randomised study to test this hypothesis. Forty patients underwent arthroscopic subacromial decompression, randomised into two groups. The group treated with bipolar RF was associated with an average operative time saving of 8 min (P < 0.0001) and an average cost saving of pound 83 (euro 111) per case (P < 0.003), compared to monopolar RF. Bipolar RF is the instrument of choice in arthroscopic shoulder surgery, as it saves time and money."}
{"id": "18392621", "title": "Latissimus dorsi transfer for the treatment of massive tears of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Latissimus dorsi transfer for the treatment of massive tears of the rotator cuff. The objective of this paper was to determine the outcome of the transfer of the latissimus dorsi tendon in patients with massive irreparable rotator cuff tears. Eighteen patients of mean age 54 years (range 37-72 years) with massive irreparable rotator cuff tears were studied. The mean follow-up was 28 months (range 12-58 months). The postoperative Constant score was higher by an average of 21.15 points compared to the preoperative score (P=0.002); 88.8% of patients reported significant pain relief and improved mobility, particularly on external rotation. Postoperative resting antero-posterior radiography in neutral rotation revealed a mean 3.2-mm depression of the humeral head, due to the tenodesis effect of tendon transfer, thus, increasing the deltoid lever arm. These clinical results suggest that latissimus dorsi transfer is a useful surgical technique for treating massive irreparable postero-superior tears of the rotator cuff in young and/or active patients, providing significant pain relief and improved shoulder strength."}
{"id": "18379801", "title": "Which labral lesion can be best reduced with external rotation of the shoulder after a first-time traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation?", "content": "Which labral lesion can be best reduced with external rotation of the shoulder after a first-time traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation? Immobilization in external rotation after a first-time traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation has been shown to improve the position of the labroligamentous lesion relative to the glenoid rim. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the effect of the external rotation position of the shoulder on different types of labroligamentous lesions in patients with first-time traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation by using MRI. We performed a standardized MRI in internal and external rotation of the shoulder after initial reduction in 34 patients with a first-time traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation. Labroligamentous lesions were classified as Bankart, Perthes, or nonclassifiable. Four distinct grades were used to classify the amount of plastic deformation of the anterior labroligamentous structures. The position of the labrum was defined relative to the tip of the glenoid rim by measuring the dislocation and separation. In all patients, dislocation and separation of the labrum relative to the rim of the glenoid were significantly improved in shoulders in the external rotation position compared to those in the internal rotation position. We observed 15 Bankart, 15 Perthes, and 4 non-classifiable lesions. No HAGL or GLAD lesions were found. Fourteen patients showed a plastic deformation grade I, 16 showed grade II, 3 showed grade III, and 1 showed grade IV. In regression analysis, the odds ratio was 1.100 for the type of lesion and 1.660 for the grade of plastic deformation. Perthes lesions (with an intact anterior scapular periosteum) and grade I plastic deformations showed the best labral reduction on the external rotation MRI. Placing the shoulder in external rotation after a first-time traumatic shoulder dislocation, significantly improves the position of the labroligamentous lesion on the glenoid rim. Perthes lesions that showed a low grade of plastic deformation displayed better reduction in external rotation and then compared to Bankart or other lesions that showed a high grade of plastic deformation. In conclusion, immobilization of the shoulder after a first-time traumatic shoulder dislocation is most effective in patients with Perthes lesions that show low grade plastic deformation."}
{"id": "18358760", "title": "Effect of motor control and strengthening exercises on shoulder function in persons with impingement syndrome: a single-subject study design.", "content": "Effect of motor control and strengthening exercises on shoulder function in persons with impingement syndrome: a single-subject study design. The aim of the study was to evaluate the effect of an intervention including shoulder control and strengthening exercises on function in persons with shoulder impingement. Eight subjects with shoulder impingement were evaluated weekly during the nine weeks of this single-subject design study. The study was divided into three phases (A(1)-B-A(2)) and involved repeated measures of shoulder pain and function (Shoulder Pain And Disability Index (SPADI) questionnaire), painful arc of motion, peak torque and 3-dimensional scapular attitudes. During the intervention phase, each subject participated in 12 exercise sessions supervised by a physiotherapist. Measures taken during the intervention and post-intervention phases were compared to pre-intervention values. All subjects showed significant improvement in the SPADI at the end of the study. A disappearance of a painful arc of motion in flexion and abduction (n=6), an increase in isometric peak torque in lateral rotation (n=3) and abduction (n=2), and changes in the scapular kinematics, mainly in the sagittal plane, were also observed. The present results provide preliminary evidence to support the use of shoulder control exercises to reduce pain and improve function of persons with shoulder impingement."}
{"id": "18329943", "title": "Interobserver reliability of physical examination of shoulder girdle.", "content": "Interobserver reliability of physical examination of shoulder girdle. The object of this study was to assess interobserver reliability in 23 tests concerning physical examination of the shoulder girdle. A physical therapist and a physical therapist/manual therapist independently performed a physical examination of the shoulder girdle in 91 patients with shoulder complaints of varying severity and duration. The observers assessed 23 items in total: active and passive abductions, passive external rotation, hand in neck (HIN) test, hand in back (HIB) test, impingement test according to Neer, springing test of the first rib and joint play test of the acromioclavicular joint. The interobserver reliability was evaluated by means of a Cohen's Kappa, the weighted Kappa and the intraclass correlation (ICC). Criteria for acceptable reliability were: Kappa value>or=0.60, ICC>or=0.75 or an absolute agreement>or=80%. The results showed that Kappa values varied from 0.09 (springing test first rib, stiffness) to 0.66 (springing test first rib, pain), weighted Kappa varied from 0.35 (pain during HIB) to 0.73 (range of motion HIB) and ICC varied from 0.54 (abduction passive starting point painful arc) to 0.96 (active and passive ranges of motion in abduction). In total 11 (48%) items fulfilled the criteria of acceptable reliability. In conclusion, there appears to be a great deal of variation in the reliability of the tests used in the physical examination of the shoulder girdle. Over 50% of the tests did not meet the statistical criteria for acceptable reliability."}
{"id": "18282782", "title": "Quantification of shoulder tightness and associated shoulder kinematics and functional deficits in patients with stiff shoulders.", "content": "Quantification of shoulder tightness and associated shoulder kinematics and functional deficits in patients with stiff shoulders. Measurement of anterior/posterior shoulder tightness, humeral external/internal rotation range of motion (ROM), scapular upward rotation/tipping ROM, and functional limitations were made in 46 patients with unilateral stiff shoulders (SSs) using a clinical measurement (shoulder tightness), a three-dimensional electromagnetic tracking device (shoulder ROM), and self-reports of function. Patients with SSs in their dominant shoulder demonstrated statistically greater posterior shoulder tightness compared to nondominant shoulder. Control dominant shoulders demonstrated decreased internal ROM as compared with control nondominant shoulders (p=0.021). In SSs, significant relationships were found between humeral internal rotation ROM and posterior shoulder tightness (R=0.49, p<0.0005), humeral external rotation ROM and anterior shoulder tightness (R=0.59, p=0.0002), scapular tipping and anterior shoulder tightness (R=0.57, p=0.004). Specifically, in patients with dominant SSs, posterior shoulder tightness and functional limitation were related (R=0.56, p=0.002). In patients with dominant involved shoulders, emphasise on posterior tightness stretch may improve functional ability directly. In addition to stretching program in patients with SSs, internal rotation ROM of control dominant shoulder is also important to consider in the rehabilitation of patients with SSs."}
{"id": "18256834", "title": "Occult fractures of the greater tuberosity of the humerus.", "content": "Occult fractures of the greater tuberosity of the humerus. We studied the highest reported number of patients with occult fracture of the greater tuberosity of the humerus and we analysed why fracture was not diagnosed, shoulder function and prevalence of eventually associated rotator cuff tear (RCT). Twenty-four patients with a missed fracture of the greater tuberosity underwent MR study for a suspect RCT. We evaluated shoulder function and self-assessed comfort with the Constant score (CS) and Simple Shoulder Test (SST). Nine patients showed evidence of cuff tendinosis, 11 of partial (p) RCT (2: subscapularis; 6: supraspinatus and 3: supraspinatus and infraspinatus). All patients with pRCT were older than 40. Initially, the mean CS and SST were 54% and 5/12; at follow-up, values increased to 36% and 5 points. MR should be performed in patients apparently negative for fracture but with painful shoulders and decreased ROM. Of our patients, 45.8% had pRCT; nevertheless function recovery was verified in 16 weeks."}
{"id": "18094970", "title": "Difference in outcome of shoulder surgery between workers' compensation and nonworkers' compensation populations.", "content": "Difference in outcome of shoulder surgery between workers' compensation and nonworkers' compensation populations. The purpose of this study was to review the association between compensation status and surgical outcome especially of the shoulder. Given the high prevalence of shoulder injuries in the workplace and the large proportion of workers compensation (WC) claims involving such injuries, it is worth examining the correlation between WC status and surgical outcome of the shoulder. All studies published in journals (MEDLINE and PubMed) from 1980 through 2007 on surgical interventions performed on the shoulder in which workers compensation status was documented and the postoperative functional outcome was compared according to that status were pooled for meta-analysis. This systematic review shows that compensation status of an individual receiving shoulder surgery is a consistent positive predictor of poor functional outcome. The majority of questions posed in the most commonly adopted shoulder-specific functional outcome measurement tools were subjective in nature and may account for part of the phenomenon."}
{"id": "18092172", "title": "Rare anterior shoulder dislocation in a toddler.", "content": "Rare anterior shoulder dislocation in a toddler. Traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation in toddlers and pediatric patients is a very rare injury pattern. The treatment and the recurrence rate are mostly extrapolated from adult and adolescent data. A 2-year-old toddler is presented with a first-time traumatic shoulder dislocation caused by a pull on the abducted arm. The treatment included a gentle closed reduction performing the Milch maneuver and a short-sling immobilization. The 2.5-year-follow-up demonstrated a stable shoulder with free range of motion while still having a Hill-Sachs-lesion. Shoulder dislocation in toddlers maybe addressed less aggressively after closed reduction than in adults due to an unknown recurrence rate."}
{"id": "17709261", "title": "Motor unit discharge pattern and conduction velocity in patients with upper motor neuron syndrome.", "content": "Motor unit discharge pattern and conduction velocity in patients with upper motor neuron syndrome. Motor unit properties were analyzed in patients with upper motor neuron syndrome (UMNS). Multi-channel surface electromyographic (EMG) signals were recorded for 300s from the biceps brachii muscle of seven male subacute patients (time from lesion, mean+/-SE, 4.9+/-1.0 months). In three patients, both arms were investigated, leading to 10 recorded muscles. Patients were analyzed in rest-like condition with motor units activated due to pathological muscle overactivity. For a total of 12 motor units, the complete discharge pattern was extracted from EMG decomposition. Interpulse interval variability was 7.8+/-0.9%. At minimum discharge rate (6.4+/-0.4 pulses per second, pps), conduction velocity was smaller than at maximum discharge rate (12.0+/-0.9pps) in all motor units (3.60+/-0.21m/s vs. 3.84+/-0.20m/s). Conduction velocity changed by 1.35+/-0.48% (different from zero, P<0.01) for each increase of 1pps in discharge rate. It was concluded that conduction velocity of low-threshold motor units in subacute patients with UMNS had similar values as reported in healthy subjects and was positively correlated to instantaneous discharge rate (velocity recovery function of muscle fibers)."}
{"id": "19450093", "title": "A comparison of work absence periods and the associated costs for two different modes of exercise therapies for patients with longstanding subacromial pain.", "content": "A comparison of work absence periods and the associated costs for two different modes of exercise therapies for patients with longstanding subacromial pain. There are no studies on economic issues concerning rehabilitation exercises for shoulder pain. The aim of the study was to investigate sick leave and the associated costs after a medical exercise therapy programme in patients with longstanding subacromial pain/impingement. A randomised controlled trial in which 61 patients were randomly assigned either to a high-dosage medical exercise therapy group (HD) (n=31) or to a low dosage exercise therapy group (LD) (n=30). Both groups were given three treatments a week over 3 months. The differences between the groups were number of repetitions, number of sets and time performing global aerobic exercises. The outcome for the HD group was significantly (p<0.05) better compared to the LD group. The reduction in costs for sick leave for the HD group was 59.1%, whereas for the LD group, the reduction was only 42.3%, which is a significant difference. In patients with longstanding subacromial pain, HD medical exercise therapy might be an efficient treatment approach."}
{"id": "19391320", "title": "Comparison of electrical stimulation and conventional physiotherapy in functional rehabilitation in Erb's palsy.", "content": "Comparison of electrical stimulation and conventional physiotherapy in functional rehabilitation in Erb's palsy. Erb's Duchenne paralysis constitutes the single commonest form of brachial plexus injury. Treatment intervention is mainly by physical therapy and surgery. Popular or conventional physiotherapy approaches include exercise therapy, tactile stimulation, soft tissue manipulation techniques and functional splinting. The role of electrical stimulation has been reported in literature but not without differing opinions on its efficacy in early resolution of infantile Erbs palsy. The purpose of this study is to compare the effects of electrical stimulation and conventional physiotherapy in the early resolution of function in infantile brachial plexus lesion. Sixteen subjects who were diagnosed to have Erb's palsy were assigned randomly into two groups; A (n = 8) and B (n = 8). While group A was treated with electrical stimulation, group B had conventional physiotherapy treatment. Both groups were seen three times weekly and the study lasted 6 weeks. Four functional variables measured include (a) Shoulder Abduction, (b) Elbow flexion, (c) Wrist extension and (d) Arm circumference (6cm distal to the acromion process). These were evaluated at the baseline (pre-study), 3 weeks into the study and 6 weeks (end of study) periods. Functional variables did not differ significantly among the groups at the baseline (p > 0.05), shoulder range of motion showed significantly higher increase in group A. At the end of the 6-week intervention, statistically significant differences, with higher increase in group A than group B, were found in all the variables. The outcome of this study suggests that functional electrical stimulation may be preferred to conventional approach in the course of rehabilitation for an early resolution of function in Erbs paralysis."}
{"id": "19292408", "title": "Synovial chondromatosis of the radiocarpal joint.", "content": "Synovial chondromatosis of the radiocarpal joint. Synovial chondromatosis is an uncommon lesion of unknown etiology, characterized by progressive metaplasia associated with the formation of cartilage in the synovial membranes of joints, tendon sheaths, or bursae. Synovial chondromatosis is typically monoarticular and affects large joints such as the knee and hip, although it has also been described in the ankle, elbow, and shoulder. However, it rarely occurs in the wrist. Our literature review showed only 28 cases with wrist involvement, 13 cases with distal radioulnar joint involvement, 12 cases with midcarpal joint involvement, and 3 cases with radiocarpal joint involvement. This article presents a case of synovial chondromatosis of the radiocarpal joint. A 45-year-old right-handed woman presented with a 4-year history of a palpable mass and pain in her right wrist. On physical examination, 2 masses were palpable on the volar and radial aspect of the joint. Plain radiographs of the right wrist demonstrated well-defined radiopaque calcified mass lesions. Cortex and subcortical bone on the radial aspects of the radius and scaphoid were eroded. T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a low-signal-intensity lesion, and T2-weighted MRI showed a heterogeneous high-signal-intensity lesion in the radiocarpal joint, which was consistent with synovial chondromatosis. Operatively, 2 glistening white lobulated masses were removed together with attached synovia. A histologic examination confirmed synovial chondromatosis with dystrophic calcification. At the time of the most recent examination (3 years postoperatively), the patient was pain-free, had no residual motion deficit, and showed no radiographic evidence of recurrent disease."}
{"id": "19292357", "title": "Efficacy of repeat shoulder magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Efficacy of repeat shoulder magnetic resonance imaging. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is frequently used in the assessment of patients with shoulder pain. Occasionally, physicians will obtain a repeat MRI of a shoulder that has not had surgical intervention. The purpose of this study was to determine whether repeat shoulder MRI is diagnostically efficacious. All shoulder MRIs (1252 studies) performed at the University of Texas Medical Branch (UTMB) over a 5-year period were retrospectively reviewed. Patients with a surgical intervention prior to repeat MRI were excluded. A total of 19 patients with 22 repeat shoulder MRIs (1.8% of all shoulder MRIs) were identified. The initial and repeat shoulder MRI findings were compared to determine whether a change in pathology could be detected. In 12 (54%) repeat shoulder MRIs studied, significant progression of pathology was noted. The initial MRI did not depict a rotator cuff tear in 17 patients, while subsequent MRI was remarkable for a cuff tear in 8 (47%) of these patients. Furthermore, of the 12 patients demonstrating considerable progression of disease, 4 (33%) had a repeat shoulder MRI within 90 days. The results of the study demonstrate that MRI is an effective modality for detecting shoulder pathology. In select cases in which the findings may be unremarkable, repeat shoulder MRI may be indicated."}
{"id": "19292311", "title": "Decreased range of motion following arthroscopic remplissage.", "content": "Decreased range of motion following arthroscopic remplissage. The Hill-Sachs lesion is an impression fracture of the posterolateral margin of the humeral head that commonly results from impaction with the anterior glenoid rim during subluxation or dislocation of the shoulder. This bony defect has been implicated as an etiology of recurrent instability of the shoulder. The \"remplissage\" technique described by Wolf is an arthroscopic method of filling the Hill-Sachs defect via infraspinatus tenodesis and posterior capsulodesis. The purpose of this technique is to prevent recurrent instability by making the Hill-Sachs lesion extra-articular thereby eliminating engagement of the defect with the anterior glenoid rim. In addition, the infraspinatus tenodesis acts as a checkrein by preventing anterior translation of the humeral head. We report a complication of this recently described technique. A 28-year-old man who failed conservative management underwent an arthroscopic Bankart repair with a concomitant remplissage procedure. Two years postoperatively, the patient continued to struggle with the loss of external rotation. Conservative management with physical therapy and range of motion exercises failed. The patient was treated with an arthroscopic release of the tenodesed infraspinatus, which improved external rotation by 202 in circle intraoperatively. At 6 months postoperatively, the patient has maintained a significant increase external rotation. We hypothesize that the loss in external rotation occurred as a result of the tenodesis of the infraspinatus and posterior capsule into the Hill-Sachs defect. The tenodesed cuff and capsular tissue acted as a mechanical block to external rotation of the shoulder."}
{"id": "19292236", "title": "Treatment of posterior sternoclavicular dislocation with locking plate osteosynthesis.", "content": "Treatment of posterior sternoclavicular dislocation with locking plate osteosynthesis. Posterior dislocations of the sternoclavicular joint are rare injuries, representing approximately 3% of all major insults to the shoulder girdle. Despite their relative infrequency, they must be diagnosed and treated early because of the proximity of the sternoclavicular joint to sensitive anatomic structures in the superior mediastinum. Physical examination can yield limited findings, and a high index of suspicion is warranted for this injury pattern especially with impingement signs and symptoms: dyspnea, dysphagia, dysphonia, brachial plexus injury, and vascular alterations. Evaluation with plain anteroposterior radiographs is difficult because of superimposed ribs and lungs. A computed tomography scan is required for appropriate evaluation of this injury pattern. Once posterior dislocation of the sternoclavicular joint has been diagnosed, closed reduction should be attempted as soon as possible with a thoracic surgeon available. Most posterior sternoclavicular dislocations can be treated successfully with closed reduction and 6 to 8 weeks of immobilization. Recurrent dislocations or chronic dislocations require open treatment for stabilization. Precisely which technique should be used to obtain stable internal fixation is controversial, but ligament repair with reconstruction appears to be the most widely accepted. This article reports two such cases of recurrent dislocation that were treated with locking plate osteosynthesis as opposed to more commonly used soft tissue stabilization procedures. Both patients experienced a nearly full return to function and are currently doing well. A review of the current literature regarding this subject matter is also included."}
{"id": "19292164", "title": "Arthroscopically assisted mini-deltopectoral rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Arthroscopically assisted mini-deltopectoral rotator cuff repair. This study examined the technique and outcome of arthroscopically assisted mini-deltopectoral rotator cuff repair. The mini-deltopectoral approach enables the repair of large or massive rotator cuff tears while preventing injury to the deltoid muscle and axillary nerve often caused by splitting and excessive traction during conventional mini-open repair. This technique also is useful in the repair of subscapularis tears and thus could extend the indications for mini-open repair."}
{"id": "19260383", "title": "The \"Cascade\" membrane: a new PRP device for tendon ruptures. Description and case report on rotator cuff tendon.", "content": "The \"Cascade\" membrane: a new PRP device for tendon ruptures. Description and case report on rotator cuff tendon. Rotator cuff tears are common soft-tissue injuries that often require surgical treatment. Initial efforts to better tendon healing centered on improving the strength of repair. More recent studies have focused on abiologic enhancement of the healing process. Platelet rich plasma (PRP) is a fraction of plasma that has been isolated and used to enhance regeneration in bone and soft tissues. The healing potential of PRP has been attributed to the release of multiple growth factors from the highly concentrated platelets. The \"Cascade\" membrane is a thin layer of autologous fibrine that is very rich in platelets and is obtained by high speed centrifugation of a small quantity of PRP. The Authors present the case of C.U., a right-handed 53 year-old male that came to our attention complaining of severe right shoulder pain and ROM reduction. The MRI showed a thick tear of the sovraspinatus tendon with retraction of the muscle. The patient underwent surgical repair with arthroscopy and mini-open approach with acromionplasty, subacromial decompression, cuff repair by trans-bone suture and application of the \"Cascade\" membrane (A.T. Grade Milano, Italy) that was sutured side-to-side to close the 10 mm tear. A standard rehabilitation protocol for rotator cuff tears was performed. A MRI 6 months after surgical repair showed the complete integrity of the cuff under the membrane. Currently no widely accepted treatment for massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears is available. Allograft reconstruction to span the remaining defect in massive rotator cuff tears will lead to increase functional results; we believe that further studies are needed to describe and evaluate its potential in tendon healing; multiple MRI studies will demonstrate healing of the tendon with the graft."}
{"id": "19153544", "title": "Analysis of three-dimensional motion of the glenohumeral joint in impingement syndrome.", "content": "Analysis of three-dimensional motion of the glenohumeral joint in impingement syndrome. Impingement syndrome (IS) is one of the most common causes of progressive dysfunctions of the shoulder joint. The aim of the study was to evaluate the changes in the joint's mobility in patients with IS and to find correlations between the angular values of particular motion ranges. The study involved 58 people aged 24-85 years, treated for IS from 2004 to 2006. The average duration of the disease was 40 months. A comparative examination of active mobility on the healthy and affected side was carried out according to the SFTR method. A comparison of mean values of the motion ranges indicated significant limitations of active mobility in the affected shoulder. The greatest mobility deficit was found in the external rotation range. Moreover, there was a statistically significant correlation between the angular values of internal rotation and the values of the remaining motion ranges. Impingement syndrome."}
{"id": "19153543", "title": "Clinical and functional profile of patients with the Painful Shoulder Syndrome (PSS).", "content": "Clinical and functional profile of patients with the Painful Shoulder Syndrome (PSS). The Painful Shoulder Syndrome (PSS) is characterized by varying degrees of pain and functional limitation. The aim of this study is to describe the clinical and functional profile of these patients. 136 patients undergoing clinical treatment for PSS were evaluated by a questionnaire regarding the following variables: sex, age, occupation, affected shoulder and its dominance, image diagnosis, pain location, intensity and characteristics, physical activity involving the shoulder, preferential position of upper limbs during occupational activity, limitation of movements during activities o daily living, and job absenteeism. 74.3% of the patients were women (p<0.001), and 54.4% were at or below the mean age of 50+/-12.5 years. The right shoulder was affected most frequently (58.8%) and dominant (91.9%). Rotator cuff tear was the most frequent shoulder pathology (75.4%). Treatment was sought more commonly in the chronic stage of pain (61.0%). Pain, moderate in intensity, predominated in males (54.3%) and severe pain was more frequent in females (47.5%), restricted to the shoulder in 44.1% and worsening at night (50%). The upper limbs were used more frequently below shoulder level during usual daily activities (68.4%), and limitation of movements was present mainly in women (63.4%, p=0.017). Rotator cuff tear is the most frequent cause of PSS. PSS produces pain and functional limitation, especially in women."}
{"id": "19149346", "title": "Paralabral rupture of the proximal biceps tendon from light weightlifting.", "content": "Paralabral rupture of the proximal biceps tendon from light weightlifting. Rupture of the long head of the biceps is usually seen in older adults, in conjunction with rotator cuff tears or tenosynovitis secondary to chronic subacromial impingement; it is rarely seen as a result of trauma. We present the case of a young active patient who denied prodromal symptoms but ruptured the long head of the biceps brachii tendon (LHB) while performing 25-pound biceps curls. Upon examination, the patient was noted to have a readily apparent biceps defect and decreased strength. He was brought to the operating room, where open subpectoral tenodesis of the LHB was performed. At the 6-week follow-up evaluation, the patient had regained full range of motion. By 6 months, he had regained his previous strength. This case demonstrates an unusual presentation of a LHB rupture in a young healthy man with no prodromal symptoms."}
{"id": "19134085", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging findings in dogs with confirmed shoulder pathology.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging findings in dogs with confirmed shoulder pathology. To evaluate the diagnostic potential of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) compared with a reference standard, arthroscopic and/or open surgery, in dogs with soft tissue shoulder pathology. Retrospective study. Dogs (n=21). Magnetic resonance (MR) images were retrospectively evaluated in 21 dogs that had surgically identified soft tissue shoulder pathology. The musculotendinous units of the biceps, infraspinatus, teres minor, supraspinatus, subscapularis, and the medial and lateral glenohumeral ligaments (MGHL and LGHL) were graded as either normal or abnormal. Abnormal structures were further classified as being either inflamed, partially torn, or fully torn. Impingement of the biceps tendon was also evaluated. Results were reported in terms of agreement and concordance between MRI findings and surgical findings. Agreement was defined as the percentage of times MRI findings concurred with surgical findings with respect to a structure being either normal or abnormal. Concordance was defined as the percentage of times MRI concurred with the exact surgically assessed pathology when abnormality was identified. The findings were biceps tendon: 90% agreement with 100% concordance; subscapularis: 95% agreement with 62% concordance; MGHL: 84% agreement with 83% concordance; LGHL: 88% agreement with 100% concordance; infraspinatus: 100% both agreement and concordance; biceps tendon impingement: 90% agreement with 100% concordance. Soft tissue abnormalities of the canine shoulder were readily identified on preoperative MR images. MRI shows great potential as a diagnostic tool in the evaluation of canine shoulder disease."}
{"id": "19128677", "title": "IIb or not IIb: oncologic role of submuscular recess inclusion in selective neck dissections.", "content": "IIb or not IIb: oncologic role of submuscular recess inclusion in selective neck dissections. Selective neck dissections (SNDs) can yield outcomes that are oncologically similar to radical dissections but with less morbidity. The rate of metastasis to level IIb is not clear, and its dissection involves cranial nerve XI traction and devascularization, causing much morbidity. Our study examined the prevalence and predictors of cancer within the submuscular recess (SMR). All SNDs performed by the authors were prospectively included from July 1, 2002, to March 31, 2006. Level IIb was sent as a distinct specimen. One hundred fifty-two dissections were performed. Only 12 (7.9%) were node positive in IIb. The SMR contained diseased nodes in 12.2% of N+ necks and 3.0% of N0 necks (p = .04); 23.1% (3 of 13) of laryngeal (1 of 8) and hypopharyngeal (2 of 5) tumours were node positive in IIb versus 6.4% in the oral cavity (p = .07) and 5.3% in oropharyngeal lesions. This is one of the largest prospective studies examining the role of level IIb dissection. It suggests that level IIb dissection might be unnecessary, especially in an N0 neck."}
{"id": "19122404", "title": "Suprascapular nerve paralysis due to streptococcal meningoradiculitis in a cow.", "content": "Suprascapular nerve paralysis due to streptococcal meningoradiculitis in a cow. A cow, presenting with lameness with atrophy of the right supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles, was clinically diagnosed with suprascapular nerve paralysis. Histological examination revealed necrosuppurative lesions with Gram-positive cocci arranged in chains in multiple organs, including the cardiac valves, lungs, muscles, joints, brain, cerebral and spinal meninges. Spinal meningitis progressed into the roots of the right 6th to 8th cervical nerves. The suprascapular nerve showed partial loss of nerve fibers in the periphery, and innervated muscle fibers were atrophied. Bacterial culture of the cerebrospinal fluid revealed the presence of Streptococcus pyogenes. From these findings, the suprascapular nerve paralysis in this case was considered to result from meningoradiculitis associated with systemic streptococcal infection. This is a rare bovine case of suprascapular nerve paralysis due to central nerve damage of infectious cause."}
{"id": "19089538", "title": "Three-dimensional ultrasonography of shoulders with rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Three-dimensional ultrasonography of shoulders with rotator cuff tears. It is possible to evaluate the size of rotator cuff tears by ultrasonography (US) or magnetic resonance imaging. However, there are only a few reports on the imaging assessment of the configuration of cuff tears, which could provide important preoperative information that assists performing an optimal anatomical repair. The purpose of this study was to determine quantitatively the reproducibility of three-dimensional US in the assessment of rotator cuff tear configuration. Ten embalmed cadaveric shoulders with rotator cuff tears were examined. After resecting the proximal humerus with the rotator cuff, we put it in water and scanned it using high-resolution US with a three-dimensional linear probe. Actual tear lengths and widths were compared with sonographic measurements (Pearson correlation coefficient). By superimposing the real photographic image on the reconstructed three-dimensional image, we calculated the concordance rate (ratio of the concordance area to the tear area). The actual tear length (16.6 +/- 7.1 mm; mean +/- SD) and width (8.4 +/- 4.4 mm) were correlated with the tear length (16.4 +/- 7.5 mm) and width (8.2 +/- 4.4 mm) measured from reconstructed three-dimensional ultrasonograms (r = 0.998 and 0.994, respectively). The mean concordance rate was 91.4%, indicating that almost exactly the same configuration was reconstructed by US. Three-dimensional US is useful for evaluating the configuration of rotator cuff tears. This is the first report to quantify the similarity between the configuration evaluated by US and the actual configuration. Using this method, we can visualize the configuration of rotator cuff tears preoperatively, facilitating optimal repair design."}
{"id": "19086715", "title": "Shoulder muscular demand during lever-activated vs pushrim wheelchair propulsion in persons with spinal cord injury.", "content": "Shoulder muscular demand during lever-activated vs pushrim wheelchair propulsion in persons with spinal cord injury. The high demand on the upper limbs during manual wheelchair (WC) use contributes to a high prevalence of shoulder pathology in people with spinal cord injury (SCI). Lever-activated (LEVER) WCs have been presented as a less demanding alternative mode of manual WC propulsion. The objective of this study was to evaluate the shoulder muscle electromyographic activity and propulsion characteristics in manual WC users with SCI propelling a standard pushrim (ST) and LEVER WC design. Twenty men with complete injuries (ASIA A or B) and tetraplegia (C6, n = 5; C7, n = 7) or paraplegia (n = 8) secondary to SCI propelled ST and LEVER WCs at 3 propulsion conditions on a stationary ergometer: self-selected free, self-selected fast, and simulated graded resistance. Average velocity, cycle distance, and cadence; median and peak electromyographic intensity; and duration of electromyography of anterior deltoid, pectoralis major, supraspinatus, and infraspinatus muscles were compared between LEVER and ST WC propulsion. Significant decreases in pectoralis major and supraspinatus activity were recorded during LEVER compared with ST WC propulsion. However, anterior deltoid and infraspinatus intensities tended to increase during LEVER WC propulsion. Participants with tetraplegia had similar or greater anterior deltoid, pectoralis major, and infraspinatus activity for both ST and LEVER WC propulsion compared with the men with paraplegia. Use of the LEVER WC reduced and shifted the shoulder muscular demands in individuals with paraplegia and tetraplegia. Further studies are needed to determine the impact of LEVER WC propulsion on long-term shoulder function."}
{"id": "19083717", "title": "Identifying SLAP lesions: a meta-analysis of clinical tests and exercise in clinical reasoning.", "content": "Identifying SLAP lesions: a meta-analysis of clinical tests and exercise in clinical reasoning. To identify all published accounts of diagnostic accuracy for clinical tests of Superior Labral Antero-Posterior (SLAP) lesion of the shoulder, and provide an estimate of the pooled likelihood ratio for those tests that have been evaluated at least three times. A clinical reasoning exercise is presented to illustrate clinical useability of the findings. Systematic review and meta-analysis. An extensive review of international electronic databases was performed to identify all published works of diagnostic accuracy of any test proposed to be diagnostic for SLAP lesions of the shoulder. Statistical pooling of likelihood ratios was performed using a random-effects model to provide an estimate of the pooled positive likelihood ratio (PLR) for each test with at least three data points available. Twelve studies describing 14 tests were identified. Five tests had been evaluated at least 3 times in the published literature. Methodologic quality scoring was performed and data were extracted. The pooled PLR revealed that of the five tests studies, only Yergason's test demonstrates consistent evidence of significant diagnostic accuracy (PLR 2.29). Heterogeneity of effect sizes was present for the Crank test. The heterogeneity was substantially improved through removal of the effect from the study in which the test was initially described and validated. The fail-safe N statistic suggests that the findings for Yergason's test are robust to publication bias. None of the tests reviewed are very strong. Among the clinical tests for SLAP lesions that have been published to date, Yergason's test is the only one that shows a significant ability to influence clinical decision making, based on the results of the current analysis. Methodologic inadequacies in the reporting of the publications are common, and caution must be exercised when drawing inferences from the results of these studies."}
{"id": "19082409", "title": "Tako-Tsubo syndrome secondary to residual neuromuscular blockade. Case report.", "content": "Tako-Tsubo syndrome secondary to residual neuromuscular blockade. Case report. Tako-Tsubo syndrome is a rare postoperative complication with a 5% mortality rate. The objective of this report was to present residual neuromuscular blockade as a trigger for this syndrome, discuss this disorder, and call attention to the risks of residual neuromuscular blockade. A 61-year old female, physical status ASA I, who underwent general anesthesia associated with paravertebral cervical block for arthroscopic repair of a rotator cuff lesion. Physical exam after extubation detected residual neuromuscular blockade. In the post-anesthetic care unit the patient developed somnolence, tachycardia, hypertension, and severe respiratory acidosis. After reintubation the patient evolved for cardiac arrest with electrical activity without a pulse, which was reverted with the administration of adrenaline and external cardiac massage. In the postoperative period the patient presented elevation of the ST segment, increased troponin, and left ventricular medial-apical akinesia with an estimated ejection fraction of 30%. Cardiac catheterization showed absence of significant atheromatous lesions in the coronary vessels, and severe disruption of the systolic function with inferior and antero-septo-apical akinesia and compensatory basal hypercontractility. The patient had complete functional recovery with the treatment instituted. Residual neuromuscular blockade associated with diaphragmatic paralysis and possible pulmonary atelectasis leading to respiratory failure, hypercapnia, and adrenergic discharge triggered the Tako-Tsubo syndrome with severe clinical repercussion."}
{"id": "19064154", "title": "Long head of biceps tendon pathology: management alternatives.", "content": "Long head of biceps tendon pathology: management alternatives. The role of biceps tendon as a source of shoulder pain and pathology has been well documented in orthopedic literature. Recently, interest in the long head of the biceps tendon has been renewed as its association with subscapularis lesions, superior labral anterior to posterior (SLAP) lesions, rotator cuff pathology, impingement, and pulley or \"hidden\" lesions of the rotator interval are demonstrated. Advances in imaging and arthroscopy have increased our breadth of knowledge about the anatomy, pathology, and role of the biceps tendon. Management and treatment methods have evolved with improved patient selection and proper diagnosis of long head biceps pathology."}
{"id": "19064153", "title": "Tears of the subscapularis tendon in athletes--diagnosis and repair techniques.", "content": "Tears of the subscapularis tendon in athletes--diagnosis and repair techniques. Isolated injury to the subscapularis tendon is an uncommon - but potentially debilitating - injury among athletes. The most frequent injury pattern seen in younger athletes is an acute, traumatic tendon avulsion. In the older athletic population, chronic degenerative tearing of the tendon may precede sports-related rupture, particularly following shoulder dislocation. This article reviews how to diagnose this injury in athletes, and describes both conservative and operative treatment options and their outcomes."}
{"id": "19064151", "title": "New approaches to diagnosis and arthroscopic management of partial-thickness cuff tears.", "content": "New approaches to diagnosis and arthroscopic management of partial-thickness cuff tears. Partial-thickness cuff tears (PTCTs) are increasingly recognized as a source of pain and athletic impairment, especially in overhead athletes. 1,2 Improvements in diagnostic imaging have enhanced the ability to detect and quantify partial cuff disease, and arthroscopic advances have led to novel techniques by which partial cuff tears can be repaired. 2-6 Despite increasing recognition and improved understanding of this condition, the natural history, clinical evaluation, and management of partial tears remain elusive. This is because of the disparity between the extent of partial cuff tearing and the wide variability in clinical impairment and the frequent overlay of concomitant labral and subacromial pathology. When should operating on an athlete with a partial cuff tear be considered? What percentage of cuff tear justifies repair rather than debridement? Does this threshold vary according to the athlete or sport? And if the partial tear is repaired, what can be expected in terms of return to activity, particularly in a high-level thrower? The purpose of this manuscript is to provide an overview of partial cuff tears and their evaluation and management."}
{"id": "19064147", "title": "Superior labral lesions anterior to posterior-evaluation and arthroscopic management.", "content": "Superior labral lesions anterior to posterior-evaluation and arthroscopic management. Lesions of the superior labrum are complex and difficult to both diagnose and treat effectively. The clinical diagnosis is challenging due to the nonspecific history and physical examination. MRI has substantially improved our ability to detect SLAP tears, although experience is necessary to distinguish pathologic findings from normal anatomic variants. Treatment is determined by patient age, functional demands, and the type of lesion identified."}
{"id": "19064146", "title": "Imaging of shoulder injuries in sports medicine: current protocols and concepts.", "content": "Imaging of shoulder injuries in sports medicine: current protocols and concepts. The shoulder joint has a wide breadth of derangements that can occur with sports activity. Whether the mechanism of injury is acute or the sequela of repetitive microtrauma, recent advances in musculoskeletal imaging and the understanding of athletic shoulder trauma will hopefully steer the clinician and radiologist alike to the proper diagnosis. Injury is inevitable. When it occurs, the clinician cognizant of the current concepts and protocols in the imaging of shoulder injury will be better prepared to diagnose and subsequently treat these disorders."}
{"id": "19058690", "title": "Intra- and interobserver reliability of classification scores in calcific tendinitis using plain radiographs and CT scans.", "content": "Intra- and interobserver reliability of classification scores in calcific tendinitis using plain radiographs and CT scans. Calcific tendinitis is a common cause of shoulder pain; its treatment is based on the stage of the disease. Unfortunately the existing classification based on radiographs has low reliability. The aim of this study was to evaluate the contribution of CT scans to this matter. Fifty-six consecutive patients with calcific tendinitis were included in this study. Radiographs and CT scans were taken and were evaluated independently by six observers and classified according to the following systems: G\u00e4rtner, De Palma, Patte and Mole. After four months the same observers repeated their evaluation. The inter- and intraobserver reliability was calculated using Cohen's kappa analysis. The intraobserver reliability was sufficient using both CT and radiographs. Minimally better (not statistically significant) results were found for CT scans, especially for the G\u00e4rtner classification. Interobserver reliability was also better with CT scans but most of the time still hardly satisfactory. The classification scores for calcific tendinitis show insufficient reliability and reproducibility. This can be improved somewhat when using CT scans, but still remains unsatisfactory."}
{"id": "19047718", "title": "Interposition arthroplasty with an Achilles tendon allograft as a salvage procedure for the elbow.", "content": "Interposition arthroplasty with an Achilles tendon allograft as a salvage procedure for the elbow. Interposition arthroplasty is often considered to be a salvage option for the treatment of severe elbow arthritis when conservative treatment has failed and total joint replacement is contraindicated. The present retrospective study summarizes the results of a specific interposition arthroplasty technique for the treatment of inflammatory and posttraumatic arthritis of the elbow. Between 1996 and 2003, sixty-nine elbows were treated with interposition arthroplasty with an Achilles tendon allograft. Forty-five elbows, including eleven with inflammatory arthritis and thirty-four with posttraumatic arthritis, met our inclusion criteria. The mean patient age was thirty-nine years. The mean duration of clinical follow-up was 6.0 years. Seven patients subsequently underwent revision surgery and were excluded from the analysis. For the thirty-eight remaining patients with surviving allografts, the current Mayo Elbow Performance Score and Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand score were obtained and the most recent clinical outcomes and radiographs were reviewed. In the group of thirty-eight patients with surviving allografts, the mean flexion-extension arc improved from 51 degrees preoperatively to 97 degrees postoperatively (p < 0.001). The mean Mayo Elbow Performance Score improved from 41 points preoperatively to 65 points postoperatively (p < 0.0001). Thirteen patients had a good or excellent result, fourteen had a fair result, and eleven had a poor result; the remaining seven had a revision. On the basis of the Mayo Elbow Performance Score, twelve patients rated the elbow as somewhat better and nineteen rated the elbow as much better following the interposition procedure. Despite efforts to reconstruct the collateral ligaments, preoperative instability on physical examination (found in eleven patients) was associated with low Mayo Elbow Performance Scores (p = 0.03) and high Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand scores (p = 0.006). Four of five patients undergoing reconstruction of both collateral ligaments had a net decrease in the Mayo Elbow Performance Score. We consider interposition elbow arthroplasty to be a salvage procedure as it neither completely eliminates pain nor restores full function. It may be indicated for young active patients with severe inflammatory or posttraumatic arthritis, especially those with limited elbow motion. Furthermore, we do not recommend this procedure when patients present with preoperative instability on physical examination."}
{"id": "19047705", "title": "Range of impingement-free abduction and adduction deficit after reverse shoulder arthroplasty. Hierarchy of surgical and implant-design-related factors.", "content": "Range of impingement-free abduction and adduction deficit after reverse shoulder arthroplasty. Hierarchy of surgical and implant-design-related factors. Evaluations of functional outcomes of reverse shoulder arthroplasty have revealed variable improvements in the range of motion and high rates of scapular notching. The purpose of this study was to systematically examine the impact of surgical factors (location of the glenosphere on the glenoid and tilt angle of the glenosphere on the glenoid) and implant-related factors (implant size, center-of-rotation offset, and humeral neck-shaft angle) on impingement-free abduction motion. A computer model was developed to virtually simulate abduction/adduction motion and its dependence on five surgical and implant-related factors. Three conditions were tested for each factor, resulting in a total of 243 simulated combinations. The overall motion was determined from 0 degrees of abduction until maximum abduction, which would be limited by impingement of the humerosocket on the scapula. In those combinations in which 0 degrees of abduction could not be achieved, the adduction deficit was recorded. The largest average increase in the range of impingement-free abduction motion resulted from a more lateral center-of-rotation offset: the average increase was 31.9 degrees with a change in the center-of-rotation offset from 0 to 10 mm, and this change resulted in an increase in abduction motion in eighty of the eighty-one combinations. The position of the glenosphere on the glenoid was associated with the second largest average increase in abduction motion (28.1 degrees when the glenosphere position was changed from superior to inferior, with the change resulting in an increase in seventy-one of the eighty-one combinations). These factors were followed by glenosphere tilt, humeral neck-shaft angle, and prosthetic size in terms of their effects on abduction motion. The largest effect in terms of avoiding an adduction deficit was provided by a humeral neck-shaft angle of 130 degrees (the deficit was avoided in forty-nine of the eighty-one combinations in which this angle was used), followed by an inferior glenosphere position on the glenoid (deficit avoided in forty-one combinations), a 10-mm lateral offset of the center of rotation, inferior tilt of the glenosphere, and a 42-mm-diameter prosthetic size. An understanding of a hierarchy of prosthetic design and implantation factors may be important to maximize impingement-free abduction motion as well as to avoid inferior impingement."}
{"id": "19043356", "title": "Principles of physiotherapeutic management of shoulder impingement syndrome.", "content": "Principles of physiotherapeutic management of shoulder impingement syndrome. The study aimed to assess changes in shoulder joint mobility and symmetry as well as changes in the bioelectrical activity of selected muscles important for the functioning of the shoulder complex in order to determine optimal physiotherapeutic management in patients with shoulder impingement syndrome. The study involved 58 persons aged 24-85 years treated for shoulder impingement syndrome from 2004 to 2006. Symptoms had been present for 40 months on average. The examination of patients included in each case measurement of active mobility ranges using the SFTR method, photogrammetry-based assessment of shoulder symmetry and an examination of the bioelectrical activity of muscles using surface electromyography. The results demonstrated that the degree of limitation of external rotation, which considerably affects the other motion ranges, is the most important index of shoulder joint dysfunction. The decrease in the bioelectrical activity of the deltoid muscle is caused by pain avoidance, with high activity of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi muscles indicating the development of compensatory mechanisms. A spatial displacement of the scapula referred to as a wing-like position impairs the scapulobrachial rhythm. Therapeutic management should firstly aim to eliminate pain, then to restore shoulder joint stability by instructing the patient on how to properly centre the humeral head, and, subsequently, to restore normal movement patterns and the scapulobrachial rhythm, and finally to gradually increase the range of active mobility, in particular of external rotation."}
{"id": "19038713", "title": "Differential diagnosis of pain around the hip joint.", "content": "Differential diagnosis of pain around the hip joint. The differential diagnosis of hip pain is broad and includes intra-articular pathology, extra-articular pathology, and mimickers, including the joints of the pelvic ring. With the current advancements in hip arthroscopy, more patients are being evaluated for hip pain. In recent years, our understanding of the functional anatomy around the hip has improved. In addition, because of advancements in magnetic resonance imaging, the diagnosis of soft tissue causes of hip pain has improved. All of these advances have broadened the differential diagnosis of pain around the hip joint and improved the treatment of these problems. In this review, we discuss the causes of intra-articular hip pain that can be addressed arthroscopically: labral tears, loose bodies, femoroacetabular impingement, capsular laxity, tears of the ligamentum teres, and chondral damage. Extra-articular diagnoses that can be managed arthroscopically are also discussed, including: iliopsoas tendonitis, \"internal\" snapping hip, \"external\" snapping hip, iliotibial band and greater trochanteric bursitis, and gluteal tendon injury. Finally, we discuss extra-articular causes of hip pain that are often managed nonoperatively or in an open fashion: femoral neck stress fracture, adductor strain, piriformis syndrome, sacroiliac joint pain, athletic pubalgia, \"sports hernia,\" \"Gilmore's groin,\" and osteitis pubis."}
{"id": "19038712", "title": "Long-term Effect of the Use of a Pain Pump After Arthroscopic Subacromial Decompression.", "content": "Long-term Effect of the Use of a Pain Pump After Arthroscopic Subacromial Decompression. The aim of the study was to evaluate the long-term effect of the use of a pain pump after arthroscopic subacromial decompression. This prospective, randomized study included 50 patients: 25 patients had a 24-hour pain pump with 0.375% ropivacaine infusion and a continuous rate of 5 mL/h in the subacromial space after arthroscopic subacromial decompression, and 25 patients did not. Rehabilitation was similar in both groups. Evaluation methods were clinical examination, radiographic evaluation, and isometric elevation strength measurements, as well as the University of California, Los Angeles and Constant shoulder scores. All the operations were done by 1 experienced orthopaedic surgeon, and all the evaluations at follow-up were done by 1 independent, blinded examiner. There were no differences between the study groups preoperatively. Of the patients, 47 (94%) were available at a minimum follow-up of 2 years (range, 24 to 32 months). Concerning the duration of sick leave (P = .053) and ability to return to work (P = .321), the group differences were not statistically significant. At follow-up, the shoulder scores (University of California, Los Angeles and Constant) were significantly better than preoperatively (P < .001) in both groups, although no differences were found between the groups. The isometric elevation strengths of the operated shoulders were equally good in both groups (P = .976) as well, and no significant differences were observed between the operated shoulders and nonoperated shoulders at follow-up. According to this study, the use of a pain pump after arthroscopic subacromial decompression did not have any long-term effects on the patients' recovery, return to work, or final result at the minimum 2-year follow-up. The results were significantly better at follow-up than preoperatively in both groups. Level II, prospective, randomized therapeutic study lacking statistical significance and narrow confidence intervals."}
{"id": "19038709", "title": "The results of arthroscopic subscapularis tendon repairs.", "content": "The results of arthroscopic subscapularis tendon repairs. The purpose of this study was to evaluate patients after an arthroscopic subscapularis tendon repair to determine their intermediate-term results. The records of all patients who underwent an arthroscopic rotator cuff repair by the senior author (S.S.B.) between January 1, 2000, and December 31, 2003, were reviewed. Patients were excluded from the study if their rotator cuff was repaired but there was not a subscapularis tear. Forty patients were included in this study. The median follow-up from the date of surgery to the last clinical evaluation was 5.0 years (range, 3.2 to 7.1 years). All patients had a complete history, physical examination, and plain radiographs of their shoulders. Both the modified University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) and American Shoulder and Elbow Society (ASES) scores were calculated. The visual analog scale for pain (mean +/- standard deviation) improved significantly (P < .001) from 6.1 +/- 2.4 preoperatively to 0.9 +/- 1.4 at the latest clinical follow-up evaluation; similarly, the mean modified ASES score improved significantly (P < .001) from 40.5 +/- 15.7 preoperatively to 91.2 +/- 12.7, and the mean modified UCLA score improved significantly (P < .001) from 15.7 +/- 4.2 preoperatively to 31.6 +/- 4.8. According to the UCLA scoring system, there were 18 excellent, 14 good, 6 fair, and 2 poor results. Eighty-three percent of patients returned to their usual work, sport, or hobbies after the operation. At a median follow-up of 5 years, 80% (32 of 40) of patients had a good or excellent result after an arthroscopic subscapularis tendon repair. Eighty-eight percent of patients were satisfied with their shoulders at the latest follow-up evaluation. We conclude that the intermediate-term results show that arthroscopic subscapularis tendon repairs remain a good option for the treatment of patients with subscapularis tendon tears. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "19034169", "title": "Clinical presentation of femoroacetabular impingement in adolescents.", "content": "Clinical presentation of femoroacetabular impingement in adolescents. Femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) is a recently recognized hip disorder resulting from an abnormal morphology of the proximal femur and acetabulum. This morphology results in increased hip contact forces with hip motion, specifically flexion. This may lead to labral-cartilage injury and pain. The purpose of this study is to describe the clinical presentation and diagnosis of FAI as a cause of hip pain in adolescents.Thirty-five patients with FAI as the etiology of chronic hip pain from one institution were reviewed. The common symptoms, physical examination, and radiographic findings were analyzed.The age range was 13 to 18 years. There were 30 girls and 5 boys. All patients complained of anterior groin pain. All patients performed a sport/activity that contributed to the symptoms such as dancing. Patients had decreased flexion and limited internal rotation on physical examination. All patients had a positive impingement test. Fifteen patients (43%) had primarily pincer impingement with a crossover sign or acetabular retroversion. Cam impingement was the primary type in 2 patients (6%). There were findings of cam and pincer in 18 patients (51%). Sixteen of 28 patients had a positive labral tear on magnetic resonance imaging (57%). Femoroacetabular impingement is a cause of hip pain in the adolescent population. The diagnosis can be derived from reproducible history, physical examination, and radiographic findings. It is more common in female adolescents, and pincer type is more prevalent."}
{"id": "19030134", "title": "Isokinetic peak torque ratios and shoulder injury history in adolescent female volleyball athletes.", "content": "Isokinetic peak torque ratios and shoulder injury history in adolescent female volleyball athletes. Few researchers have examined shoulder strength in adolescent volleyball athletes despite increasing levels of participation in this age group. To compare medial and lateral isokinetic peak torque of the rotator cuff among skill levels and between athletes with and without a history of shoulder injury. Cross-sectional design. The Human Performance Lab and Athletic Training Lab. Thirty-eight female adolescent club volleyball athletes from 10 to 15 years of age (mean = 13.02 +/- 1.60 years). We measured concentric and eccentric peak torque of the medial and lateral rotators of the shoulder and calculated resultant cocking and spiking ratios based on peak torque values. Athletes at higher skill levels had higher peak torque measurements in concentric and eccentric medial and lateral rotation compared with the athletes at lower skill levels. No differences in peak torque existed between participants with or without an injury history 6 months before the study. Strength ratios did not differ across skill levels, but previously injured participants produced lower eccentric medial rotation to concentric lateral rotation ratios compared with participants without a history of injury (P = .02). At the highest skill level, previously injured participants produced lower eccentric lateral rotation to concentric medial rotation ratios compared with participants without an injury history (P = .04). Differences in medial and lateral shoulder rotator strength ratios appear to be related more to injury prevalence than to absolute strength. Shoulder dysfunction related to strength ratio deficits also may exist in adolescent female volleyball athletes. Preventive shoulder strengthening programs focused on improving eccentric strength and correcting imbalances between medial and lateral rotators may be warranted for all female adolescent volleyball athletes."}
{"id": "19030133", "title": "Asymmetric resting scapular posture in healthy overhead athletes.", "content": "Asymmetric resting scapular posture in healthy overhead athletes. Observation of the scapular posture is one of the most important components of the physical examination in overhead athletes. Postural asymmetry is typically considered to be associated with injuries. However, asymmetry in the overhead athlete's scapula may be normal due to the dominant use of the limb. To quantify the differences in resting scapular posture between the dominant and nondominant sides in 3 groups of healthy overhead athletes (baseball pitchers, volleyball players, and tennis players) using an electromagnetic tracking device. Cross-sectional design. University-based biomechanics laboratory. A total of 43 players participated, including 15 baseball pitchers, 15 volleyball players, and 13 tennis players. All participants were healthy college-aged men. Bilateral 3-dimensional scapular kinematics with the arm at rest were measured using an electromagnetic tracking device. Bilateral scapular position and orientation were measured. Between-groups and between-sides differences in each variable were analyzed using separate analyses of variance. In tennis players, the scapula was more protracted on the dominant side than on the nondominant side (P < .05). In all overhead athletes, the dominant-side scapula was more internally rotated (P = .001) and anteriorly tilted (P = .001) than the nondominant-side scapula was. The dominant-side scapula of the overhead athletes was more internally rotated and anteriorly tilted than the nondominant-side scapula. The dominant-side scapula of the tennis players was more protracted than that on the nondominant side. Clinicians evaluating overhead athletes need to recognize that scapular posture asymmetry in unilateral overhead athletes may be normal. Our results emphasize the importance of the baseline evaluation in this population in order to accurately assess pathologic change in bilateral scapular positions and orientations after injury."}
{"id": "19028254", "title": "Kyphoscoliosis improvement while treating a patient for adhesive capsulitis using the active therapeutic movement version 2.", "content": "Kyphoscoliosis improvement while treating a patient for adhesive capsulitis using the active therapeutic movement version 2. This article presents a case report illustrating an improvement in the curvature of idiopathic scoliosis as a secondary benefit from treatment of adhesive capsulitis with an active therapeutic movement (ATM) device. The patient was a 55-year-old school teacher who was referred to physical therapy for adhesive capsulitis. It was determined that part of the patient's limited shoulder range of motion was due to her significant kyphoscoliosis posture, which resulted in decreased mobility of her thoracic spine. The patient was treated with an ATM device as a means to help mobilize her thoracic spine. The patient completed several weeks of therapy, which consisted of using the ATM exclusively. The patient gained near-normal range of motion in both arms and had improvement in her kyphoscoliosis posture. A nonsurgical treatment was a useful intervention for some of the physical and psychosocial aspects that this patient with kyphoscoliosis encountered."}
{"id": "19028166", "title": "The management of labral tears and femoroacetabular impingement of the hip in the young, active patient.", "content": "The management of labral tears and femoroacetabular impingement of the hip in the young, active patient. The purpose of this systematic review was to determine (1) the quality of the literature assessing outcomes after surgical treatment of labral tears and femoroacetabular impingement (FAI), (2) patient satisfaction after open or arthroscopic intervention, and (3) differences in outcome with open or arthroscopic approaches. Computerized literature databases were searched to identify relevant articles from January 1980 to May 2008. Studies were eligible for inclusion if they had a level I, II, III, or IV study design and if the patient population had a labral tear and/or FAI as the major diagnosis. Patients with severe pre-existing osteoarthritis or acetabular dysplasia were excluded. Of the 19 articles with reported outcomes after surgery, none used a prospective study design and only 1 met the criteria for level III basis of evidence. Open surgical dislocation with labral debridement and osteoplasty is successful, with a good correlation between patient satisfaction and favorable outcome scores. The studies reviewed support that 65% to 85% of patients will be satisfied with their outcome at a mean of 40 months after surgery. A common finding in all series, however, was an increased incidence of failure among patients with substantial pre-existing osteoarthritis. Arthroscopic treatment of labral tears is also effective, with 67% to 100% of patients being satisfied with their outcomes. The quality of literature reporting outcomes of surgical intervention for labral tears and FAI is limited. Although open surgical dislocation with osteoplasty is the historical gold standard, the scientific data do not show that open techniques have outcomes superior to arthroscopic techniques. Level IV, systematic review."}
{"id": "19028159", "title": "Long-term outcomes of arthroscopic acromioplasty for chronic shoulder impingement syndrome: a prospective cohort study with a minimum of 12 years' follow-up.", "content": "Long-term outcomes of arthroscopic acromioplasty for chronic shoulder impingement syndrome: a prospective cohort study with a minimum of 12 years' follow-up. The purpose of this study was to evaluate long-term outcomes of arthroscopic acromioplasty for shoulder impingement syndrome. This was a prospective cohort study of 31 shoulders (24 men) that underwent arthroscopic acromioplasty for shoulder impingement syndrome during 1992 and 1993. The mean age at surgery was 49 years (range, 33 to 68 years). A group of 29 shoulders (22 men) operated on consecutively with open acromioplasty from 1985 through 1991 served as controls. The patients were evaluated with the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) score (range, 0 to 35 points) at baseline and at 2 follow-up times performed at a mean of 1 and 13 years after surgery, respectively. At the second follow-up, the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand score, the Short Form-36 bodily pain score, and the EQ-5D health utility index also were obtained. After arthroscopic acromioplasty, the mean improvement in UCLA score from baseline to long-term follow-up was 13 points (95% confidence interval, 11 to 15 points), and the scores indicated an excellent or good result in 77% of shoulders. The mean UCLA score was 32 points (SD, 5 points) for the patients treated with arthroscopic acromioplasty and 28 points (SD, 8 points) for those treated with open acromioplasty; the mean difference was 4.3 points (95% confidence interval, 0.4 to 8.2 points; P = .03). In a mixed-model analysis adjusting for age, sex, duration of symptoms, preoperative UCLA score, dominance of operated side, rotator cuff status at surgery, and time since surgery, the rate of change from baseline in UCLA score over time was significantly better after arthroscopic surgery than after open surgery. Good results of arthroscopic acromioplasty were maintained at 12 to 14 years after surgery with excellent or good results shown in 77% of shoulders, and the long-term outcomes were superior to those after open acromioplasty. Level III, therapeutic case-control study."}
{"id": "19020211", "title": "Terminal bifurcation of the biceps brachii muscle and tendon: anatomic considerations and clinical implications.", "content": "Terminal bifurcation of the biceps brachii muscle and tendon: anatomic considerations and clinical implications. The objective of our study was to describe the anatomic variation of a bifurcated distal biceps tendon with MRI, histology, and dissection in cadavers and to report the MR appearance of superimposed lesions in a patient population with this anatomic variant. Visual and histologic examinations of the distal biceps brachii tendon in eight sectioned fresh-frozen elbow specimens were performed. Dissection of 17 elbow specimens was performed to describe the distal biceps brachii tendon. In addition, all elbow MRI reports over a 3-year period (n = 411) were retrospectively reviewed to determine the presence of bifurcation of the distal biceps brachii tendon. The distal biceps brachii tendon appeared bifurcated in 25% of the sectioned specimens, and these findings were confirmed histologically. The distal biceps brachii tendon was completely separable into two components-that is, a short head and long head- throughout their proximal to distal extent in 41.2% of the dissected specimens. The distal biceps brachii tendon appeared bifurcated in 11.8% of 68 clinical cases that showed distal biceps brachii tendon abnormalities or injuries. The following patterns of injury were noted: complete rupture of both tendons (n = 1), complete rupture of the short head and normal insertion of the long head (n = 2), complete rupture of the short head and partial tear of the long head (n = 2), partial tear of both tendons (n = 2), and complete rupture of the short head and tendinosis in the long head (n = 1). A bifurcated distal biceps brachii tendon is an anatomic variant that arises from persistent division between the short head and long head of the distal biceps brachii tendon and can be characterized with MRI. Knowledge of a bifurcated distal biceps brachii tendon is important to characterize injury to the components and to avoid pitfalls in imaging diagnosis."}
{"id": "19019228", "title": "Characterization of age-related modifications of upper limb motor control strategies in a new dynamic environment.", "content": "Characterization of age-related modifications of upper limb motor control strategies in a new dynamic environment. In the past, several research groups have shown that when a velocity dependent force field is applied during upper limb movements subjects are able to deal with this external perturbation after some training. This adaptation is achieved by creating a new internal model which is included in the normal unperturbed motor commands to achieve good performance. The efficiency of this motor control mechanism can be compromised by pathological disorders or by muscular-skeletal modifications such as the ones due to the natural aging process. In this respect, the present study aimed at identifying the age-related modifications of upper limb motor control strategies during adaptation and de-adaptation processes in velocity dependent force fields. Eight young and eight elderly healthy subjects were included in the experiment. Subjects were instructed to perform pointing movements in the horizontal plane both in a null field and in a velocity dependent force field. The evolution of smoothness and hand path were used to characterize the performance of the subjects. Furthermore, the ability of modulating the interactive torque has been used as a paradigm to explain the observed discoordinated patterns during the adaptation process. The evolution of the kinematics during the experiments highlights important behavioural differences between the two groups during the adaptation and de-adaptation processes. In young subjects the improvement of movement smoothness was in accordance with the expected learning trend related to the consolidation of the internal model. On the contrary, elders did not show a coherent learning process. The kinetic analysis pointed out the presence of different strategies for the compensation of the external perturbation: older people required an increased involvement of the shoulder with a different modulation of joint torque components during the evolution of the experiments. The results obtained with the present study seem to confirm the presence of different adaptation mechanisms in young and senior subjects. The strategy adopted by young subjects was to first minimize hand path errors with a secondary process that is consistent with the optimization of the effort. Elderly subjects instead, seemed to shift the importance of the two processes involved in the control loop slowing the mechanism optimizing kinematic performance and enabling more the dynamic adaptation mechanism."}
{"id": "19015405", "title": "Morphology of exertion-triggered plaque rupture in patients with acute coronary syndrome: an optical coherence tomography study.", "content": "Morphology of exertion-triggered plaque rupture in patients with acute coronary syndrome: an optical coherence tomography study. Plaque rupture and secondary thrombus formation play key roles in the onset of acute coronary syndrome (ACS). One pathological study suggested that the morphologies of plaque rupture differed between rest-onset and exertion-triggered rupture in men who experienced sudden death. The aim of the present study was to use optical coherence tomography to investigate the relationship in patients with ACS between the morphology of a ruptured plaque and the patient's activity at the onset of ACS. The study population was drawn from 43 consecutive ACS patients (with or without ST-segment elevation) who underwent optical coherence tomography and presented with a ruptured plaque at the culprit site. Patients were divided into a rest group and an exertion group on the basis of their activities at the onset of ACS. The thickness of the broken fibrous cap correlated positively with activity at the onset of ACS. The culprit plaque ruptured at the shoulder more frequently in the exertion group than in the rest group (rest 57% versus exertion 93%, P=0.014). The thickness of the broken fibrous cap in the exertion group was significantly higher than in the rest-onset group (rest onset: 50 microm [interquartile median 15 microm]; exertion: 90 microm [interquartile median 65 microm], P<0.01). The morphologies of exertion-triggered and rest-onset ruptured plaques differ in ACS patients. Our data suggest that a thin-cap fibroatheroma is a lesion predisposed to rupture both at rest and during the patient's day-to day activity, and some plaque rupture may occur in thick fibrous caps depending on exertion levels."}
{"id": "19008580", "title": "Skeletal angiomatosis - rare cause of bone destruction: a case report with review of literature.", "content": "Skeletal angiomatosis - rare cause of bone destruction: a case report with review of literature. Classification of skeletal angiomatosis into aggressive and nonaggressive types is on the basis of their clinical behavior and pattern of skeletal involvement (regional and disseminated). Gorham's disease (massive osteolysis) is an aggressive form of skeletal angiomatosis that shows regional involvement, frequently involving the shoulder and hip areas. Cystic angiomatosis is a nonaggressive form of skeletal angiomatosis with multifocal involvement, predominantly affecting the trunk bones. The imaging modalities gave the diagnosis of cystic angiomatosis of humerus showing multicystic lytic areas. The histopathological differential diagnosis was cystic angiomatosis and Gorham's disease, as microscopically both are indistinguishable from each other. Both represent a complex network of dilated thin-walled capillaries growing in the marrow space associated with the destruction of bone and infiltration into the adjacent soft tissues. The case is presented because of its extreme rarity and due to the diagnostic dilemma, whether to label it as Gorham's disease or as cystic angiomatosis. Considering the site involved and its aggressiveness, the diagnosis is in favor of Gorham's vanishing bone disease as cystic angiomatosis is multicentric and nonaggressive, involving mostly vertebrae and skull with multicystic lytic lesions."}
{"id": "18998062", "title": "Evaluating the long-term effect of ultrasound-guided needle puncture without aspiration on calcifying supraspinatus tendinitis.", "content": "Evaluating the long-term effect of ultrasound-guided needle puncture without aspiration on calcifying supraspinatus tendinitis. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether aspiration affects patient outcome during ultrasound-guided needle puncture treatment for calcifying supraspinatus tendinitis. Eighty-one patients with calcifying supraspinatus tendinitis received needle puncture therapy under ultrasonography guidance. Group A received ultrasound-guided percutaneous needle punctures and aspiration of calcareous deposits, while Group B received ultrasound-guided punctures only. Patients were evaluated using a visual analog scale (VAS) for pain, shoulder function, and satisfaction 1, 2, 3, 6, 12, 24, and 36 weeks after treatment. The different VAS parameters were combined and the differences between groups were analyzed. In both groups, VAS scores significantly decreased over the 36 weeks following treatment (P<0.05). Overall, the majority (6/7) of the VAS scores were not statistically different between groups. The results of the study suggest that aspirating calcified deposits do not affect patient outcome. Puncturing the calcified deposits (without aspiration) appears to be an effective treatment method for calcifying supraspinatus tendinitis."}
{"id": "18996236", "title": "Shoulder ultrasound abnormalities, physical examination findings, and pain in manual wheelchair users with spinal cord injury.", "content": "Shoulder ultrasound abnormalities, physical examination findings, and pain in manual wheelchair users with spinal cord injury. To investigate the presence of ultrasound (US) abnormalities in manual wheelchair users with spinal cord injury (SCI) using a quantitative Ultrasound Shoulder Pathology Rating Scale (USPRS). To investigate physical examination (PE) findings using a quantitative Physical Examination of the Shoulder Scale (PESS), and to obtain data about pain and other subject characteristics such as age, years with SCI, and weight. Case series. National Veterans' Wheelchair Games 2005 and 2006. Volunteer sample of manual wheelchair users with SCI participating in the National Veterans' Wheelchair Games. Not applicable. Presence of relationships between US findings, PE findings, pain, and subject characteristics. The USPRS correlated with age, duration of SCI, and weight (all P<.01), and showed a positive trend with the total Wheelchair User's Shoulder Pain Index (WUSPI) score (r=.258, P=.073). Several US findings related to presence of PE findings for specific structures. The PESS score correlated with the WUSPI (r=.679, P<.001) and duration of SCI (P<.05). The presence of untreated shoulder pain that curtailed activity was noted in 24.5% of subjects, and this was related to increased WUSPI scores (P=.002). PE and US abnormalities are common in manual wheelchair users with SCI. The USPRS and PESS demonstrated evidence for external validity and hold promise as research tools. Untreated shoulder pain is common in manual wheelchair users with SCI, and further investigation of this pain is indicated."}
{"id": "18992694", "title": "Nonsurgical treatment for rotator cuff injury in the elderly.", "content": "Nonsurgical treatment for rotator cuff injury in the elderly. Shoulder pain is a common musculoskeletal complaint in the general population. The elderly population is often afflicted, and rotator cuff problems are among the most common causes of shoulder pain seen in primary care practices. The prevalence of shoulder pain in the elderly has been estimated to range from 21% to 27%, and the prevalence of rotator cuff tear increases with advanced age. The etiology of rotator cuff disease is likely multifactorial, including both extrinsic and intrinsic factors. Rotator cuff dysfunction encompasses a spectrum of pathological changes, ranging from impingement syndrome to rotator cuff tendonitis to rotator cuff tendon tear. In the elderly population, the clinical manifestations from rotator cuff dysfunction can translate into significant morbidity and disabilities, interfering with ability for self care and functional independence. The goals of managing rotator cuff disease are to regain normal shoulder function and biomechanics, and to improve functional abilities in elderly patients. Treatment can consist of various conservative therapies (including ice, simple exercises, medications), and progress to more intensive physical therapy and/or corticosteroid injections. Rotator cuff dysfunction is a common musculoskeletal disorder in elderly patients and is often underdiagnosed and undertreated. Physicians should be aware of the prevalence of rotator cuff disease in this population and provide early diagnosis and treatment to help preserve the functional ability and independence of older patients."}
{"id": "18984247", "title": "Translational manipulation after failed arthroscopic capsular release for recalcitrant adhesive capsulitis: a case report.", "content": "Translational manipulation after failed arthroscopic capsular release for recalcitrant adhesive capsulitis: a case report. This article reports the use of translational manipulation after failed arthroscopic capsular release for adhesive capsulitis. The patient was a 40-year-old woman, insulin-dependent diabetic with the insidious onset of right shoulder adhesive capsulitis. The patient underwent physical therapy 3 times a week for 6 weeks with minimal changes in her range of motion or pain. After failing physical therapy, the patient had arthroscopic capsular release and long-lever arm rotational manipulation of the right shoulder. The patient participated in physical therapy again, failing to regain her range of motion. Subsequently, the patient underwent interscalene block and translational manipulation by the same therapist followed by physical therapy. The patient's range-of-motion measures, strength testing, pain scale measurements, and functional scoring were recorded throughout her rehabilitation. She returned 2 years postdischarge for the same tests and measurements. Adhesive capsulitis in association with diabetes mellitus poses a serious treatment dilemma. Arthroscopic release may have limited benefits secondary to limited release and/or postoperative pain limiting rehabilitation. Translational manipulation under interscalene block may be considered in this difficult treatment group."}
{"id": "18978411", "title": "The clinical and structural long-term results of open repair of massive tears of the rotator cuff.", "content": "The clinical and structural long-term results of open repair of massive tears of the rotator cuff. At a mean follow-up of 3.1 years, twenty-seven consecutive repairs of massive rotator cuff tears yielded good and excellent clinical results despite a retear rate of 37%. Patients with a retear had improvement over the preoperative state, but those with a structurally intact repair had a substantially better result. The purpose of this study was to reassess the same patients to determine the long-term functional and structural results. At a mean follow-up interval of 9.9 years, twenty-three of the twenty-seven patients returned for a review and were examined clinically, radiographically, and with magnetic resonance imaging with use of a methodology identical to that used at 3.1 years. Twenty-two of the twenty-three patients remained very satisfied or satisfied with the result. The mean subjective shoulder value was 82% (compared with 80% at 3.1 years). The mean relative Constant score was 85% (compared with 83% at 3.1 years). The retear rate was 57% at 9.9 years (compared with 37% at 3.1 years; p = 0.168). Patients with an intact repair had a better result than those with a failed reconstruction with respect to the mean absolute Constant score (81 compared with 64 points, respectively; p = 0.015), mean relative Constant score (95% and 77%; p = 0.002), and mean strength of abduction (5.5 and 2.6 kg; p = 0.007). The mean retear size had increased from 882 to 1164 mm(2) (p = 0.016). Supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscle fatty infiltration had increased (p = 0.004 and 0.008, respectively). Muscles with torn tendons preoperatively showed more fatty infiltration than muscles with intact tendons preoperatively, regardless of repair integrity. Shoulders with a retear had a significantly higher mean acromion index than those without retear (0.75 and 0.65, respectively; p = 0.004). Open repair of massive rotator cuff tears yielded clinically durable, excellent results with high patient satisfaction at a mean of almost ten years postoperatively. Conversely, fatty muscle infiltration of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus progressed, and the retear size increased over time. The preoperative integrity of the tendon appeared to be protective against muscle deterioration. A wide lateral extension of the acromion was identified as a previously unknown risk factor for retearing."}
{"id": "18978266", "title": "Revision arthroscopic capsulolabral reconstruction for recurrent instability of the shoulder.", "content": "Revision arthroscopic capsulolabral reconstruction for recurrent instability of the shoulder. We have investigated the outcome of arthroscopic revision surgery for recurrent instability of the shoulder after failed primary anterior stabilisation. We identified 40 patients with failed primary open or arthroscopic anterior stabilisation of the shoulder who had been treated by revision arthroscopic capsulolabral reconstruction and followed up for a mean of 36 months (12 to 87). There were 34 men and six women with a mean age of 33.1 years (15 to 48). Details of the patients, the technique of the primary procedure, the operative findings at revision and the clinical outcome were evaluated by reviewing the medical records, physical examination and the use of the Western Ontario shoulder instability index score, the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score and the health status questionnaire 12. Recurrent instability persisted in four patients after the revision arthroscopic procedure. At the final follow-up, the mean American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score was 81.1 (17.5 to 99.5) and the mean Western Ontario shoulder instability index score was 68.2 (20 to 98.2). Quality-of-life scoring showed good to excellent results in most patients. Arthroscopic revision capsulolabral reconstruction can provide a satisfactory outcome in selected patients for recurrent instability of the shoulder provided that no large Hill-Sachs lesion is present."}
{"id": "18971056", "title": "Effect of coracoacromial ligament resection on glenohumeral stability under active muscle loading in an in vitro model.", "content": "Effect of coracoacromial ligament resection on glenohumeral stability under active muscle loading in an in vitro model. The purpose of this study was to determine whether or not the coracoacromial ligament (CAL) has a relevant effect in stabilizing the humeral head under active rotator cuff and deltoid loading compared to passive loading conditions without muscular stabilization. Nine human cadaver shoulders were tested in a dynamic shoulder simulator. Forces of the rotator cuff muscles and the middle deltoid muscle were applied using servohydraulic cylinders, while glenohumeral motion was imposed in closed-loop force-control by a sensor-guided robot. Translational movement was measured with the CAL intact and resected under two different testing conditions: (1) simulated physiologic muscle force loading and (2) the passive drawer test, with loads applied in anterior, anterio-inferior, and anterio-superior directions in different glenohumeral positions. The resection of the CAL caused a significant increase in anterior and superior translation during translational testing and muscle force loading. However, the passive testing mode revealed differences in translation from 2.4 to 4.4 mm. The differences were quantitatively minor under muscle loading conditions, ranging from 0.5 to 1.0 mm. CAL resection induces an increased glenohumeral translation under passive loading conditions without muscular stabilization, whereas the effect under rotator cuff and deltoid loading was defined to be quantitatively small. A resection of the CAL should be critically discussed in shoulders with massive rotator cuff tears. In contrast, in muscularly intact shoulders, the release of the CAL evokes a light increase of translation, the clinical relevance of which is questionable."}
{"id": "18955427", "title": "Early activation or a more protective regime after arthroscopic subacromial decompression--a description of clinical changes with two different physiotherapy treatment protocols--a prospective, randomized pilot study with a two-year follow-up.", "content": "Early activation or a more protective regime after arthroscopic subacromial decompression--a description of clinical changes with two different physiotherapy treatment protocols--a prospective, randomized pilot study with a two-year follow-up. To describe clinical changes with two protocols of physiotherapy following arthroscopic subacromial decompression (ASD) over two years. Reliability of Functional Index of the Shoulder was performed. A prospective, randomized pilot study, within-subject design. Thirty-four shoulders (13 women), mean age 46 (SD 7) years with primary shoulder impingement, listed for arthroscopic subacromial decompression. The traditional group (n = 20) started with active assisted range of motion exercises on the day of surgery, dynamic exercises for the rotator cuff after six weeks and strengthening exercises after eight weeks. The progressive group (n = 14) started active assisted range of motion and dynamic exercises for the rotator cuff on the day of surgery. Strengthening exercises started after six weeks. A clinical evaluation was made preoperatively, six weeks, three, six, 12 and 24 months after surgery. Pain, patient satisfaction, active range of motion and muscular strength were evaluated. Shoulder function was evaluated using Constant score, Hand in neck, Pour out of a pot and Functional Index of the Shoulder. Both groups showed significant improvements in pain during activity and at rest, in range of motion in extension and abduction, in strength of external rotation and in function. There were no clinical differences in changes between groups. Most patients were pain-free from six months. After two years, the majority of patients achieved > or = 160 degrees in flexion, > or = 175 degrees in abduction and 80 degrees in external rotation, the traditional achieved 67 and the progressive group 87 with Constant score. Early activation using a comprehensive, well-defined and controlled physiotherapy protocol can be used safely after arthroscopic subacromial decompression."}
{"id": "18953975", "title": "Musculoskeletal injections: a review of the evidence.", "content": "Musculoskeletal injections: a review of the evidence. Injections are valuable procedures for managing musculoskeletal conditions commonly encountered by family physicians. Corticosteroid injections into articular, periarticular, or soft tissue structures relieve pain, reduce inflammation, and improve mobility. Injections can provide diagnostic information and are commonly used for postoperative pain control. Local anesthetics may be injected with corticosteroids to provide additional, rapid pain relief. Steroid injection is the preferred and definitive treatment for de Quervain tenosynovitis and trochanteric bursitis. Steroid injections can also be helpful in controlling pain during physical rehabilitation from rotator cuff syndrome and lateral epicondylitis. Intra-articular steroid injection provides pain relief in rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis. There is little systematic evidence to guide medication selection for therapeutic injections. The medication used and the frequency of injection should be guided by the goal of the injection (i.e., diagnostic or therapeutic), the underlying musculoskeletal diagnosis, and clinical experience. Complications from steroid injections are rare, but physicians should understand the potential risks and counsel patients appropriately. Patients with diabetes who receive periarticular or soft tissue steroid injections should closely monitor their blood glucose for two weeks following injection."}
{"id": "18939988", "title": "Soft tissue non-Hodgkin lymphoma of shoulder in a HIV patient: a report of a case and review of the literature.", "content": "Soft tissue non-Hodgkin lymphoma of shoulder in a HIV patient: a report of a case and review of the literature. The risk of developing lymphoma is greatly increased in HIV infection. Musculoskeletal manifestations of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) are common and are sometimes the initial presentation of the disease. Muscle, bone, and joints are involved by septic arthritis, myopathies and neoplasms. HIV-related neoplastic processes that affect the musculoskeletal system include Kaposi's sarcoma and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, the latter being mainly localized at lower extremities, spine and skull. The Authors report a case of a 34 year-old lady. In December 2003 the patient noted a painless mass on her right shoulder whose size increased progressively. In March 2004 she was diagnosed HIV positive and contemporary got pregnant. The patient decided to continue her pregnancy and to not undergo any diagnostic procedure and treatment. At the end of August she underwent a surgical ablation of the lesion that revealed a lesion of 7 cm x 7 cm x 3.3 cm. The histology showed B-cells expressing CD20, PAX-5, CD10, BCL-6 and MUM-1 with 70% Ki67 positive nuclei. The lesion was also negative for EBV infection and showed a monoclonal rearrangement of IgH chain and a polyclonal pattern for TCR gamma and beta. A final diagnosis of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma was made. The patient underwent postoperative chemotherapy. At four-years follow up the patient is symptom free and no local nor systemic recurrence of pathology has been noted on MRI control. HIV infection is still under control. In this report, we present a case of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma localized in the soft tissue of the shoulder in a HIV infected patient. Authors want to underline this case for the rare position, the big size and the association with HIV infection."}
{"id": "18937522", "title": "Rheumatic diseases presenting as sports-related injuries.", "content": "Rheumatic diseases presenting as sports-related injuries. Most individuals seeking consultation at sports medicine clinics are young, healthy athletes with injuries related to a specific activity. However, these athletes may have other systemic pathologies, such as rheumatic diseases, that may initially mimic sports-related injuries. As rheumatic diseases often affect the musculoskeletal system, they may masquerade as traumatic or mechanical conditions. A systematic review of the literature found numerous case reports of athletes who presented with apparent mechanical low back pain, sciatica pain, hip pain, meniscal tear, ankle sprain, rotator cuff syndrome and stress fractures and who, on further investigation, were found to have manifestations of rheumatic diseases. Common systemic, inflammatory causes of these musculoskeletal complaints include ankylosing spondylitis (AS), gout, chondrocalcinosis, psoriatic enthesopathy and early rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Low back pain is often mechanical among athletes, but cases have been described where spondyloarthritis, especially AS, has been diagnosed. Neck pain, another common mechanical symptom in athletes, can be an atypical presentation of AS or early RA. Hip or groin pain is frequently related to injuries in the hip joint and its surrounding structures. However, differential diagnosis should be made with AS, RA, gout, psudeogout, and less often with haemochromatosis and synovial chondochromatosis. In athletes presenting with peripheral arthropathy, it is mandatory to investigate autoimmune arthritis (AS, RA, juvenile idiopathic arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus), crystal-induced arthritis, Lyme disease and pigmented villonodular synovitis. Musculoskeletal soft tissue disorders (bursitis, tendinopathies, enthesitis and carpal tunnel syndrome) are a frequent cause of pain and disability in both competitive and recreational athletes, and are related to acute injuries or overuse. However, these disorders may occasionally be a manifestation of RA, spondyloarthritis, gout and pseudogout. Effective management of athletes presenting with musculoskeletal complaints requires a structured history, physical examination, and definitive diagnosis to distinguish soft tissue problems from joint problems and an inflammatory syndrome from a non-inflammatory syndrome. Clues to a systemic inflammatory aetiology may include constitutional symptoms, morning stiffness, elevated acute-phase reactants and progressive symptoms despite modification of physical activity. The mechanism of injury or lack thereof is also a clue to any underlying disease. In these circumstances, more complete workup is reasonable, including radiographs, magnetic resonance imaging and laboratory testing for autoantibodies."}
{"id": "18929031", "title": "Winged scapula caused by a dorsal scapular nerve lesion: a case report.", "content": "Winged scapula caused by a dorsal scapular nerve lesion: a case report. Dorsal scapular nerve lesions are quite rare. A case of a 51-year-old man who had right shoulder pain, weakness of right arm elevation, and prominence of right scapula for 6 months is presented. The condition had been abruptly developed after lifting a heavy box overhead on which he felt a sharp pain in the right shoulder. On clinical examination, there was a prominence of the lower medial border and inferior angle of the right scapula compared with the left. In addition, the right scapula was located more lateral. Magnetic resonance imaging of the thorax revealed the presence of a thinner rhomboid major muscle with a pathologic signal compared with the other side. Needle electromyography of the right rhomboid muscle revealed a long duration, polyphasic motor unit potential with reinnervation potentials, and spontaneous activity. According to these findings, the patient was diagnosed as having a winged scapula because of dorsal scapular nerve lesion."}
{"id": "18850503", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the hip at 3 Tesla: clinical value in femoroacetabular impingement of the hip and current concepts.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the hip at 3 Tesla: clinical value in femoroacetabular impingement of the hip and current concepts. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the most promising noninvasive modality for hip joint evaluation, but it has limitations in diagnosing cartilage lesion and acetabular labrum changes, especially in early stages. This is significant due to superior outcome results of surgery intervention in hip dysplasia or femoroacetabular impingement in patients not exceeding early degeneration. This emphasizes the need for accurate and reproducible methods in evaluating cartilage structure. In this article, we discuss the impact of the most recent technological advance in MRI, namely the advantage of 3-T imaging, on diagnostic imaging of the hip. Limitations of standard imaging techniques are shown with emphasis on femoroacetabular impingement. Clinical imaging examples and biochemical techniques are presented that need to be further evaluated."}
{"id": "18847508", "title": "Outcome analysis following removal of locking plate fixation of the proximal humerus.", "content": "Outcome analysis following removal of locking plate fixation of the proximal humerus. Concerning surgical management experience with locking plates for proximal humeral fractures has been described with promising results. Though, distinct hardware related complaints after fracture union are reported. Information concerning the outcome after removal of hardware from the proximal humerus is lacking and most studies on hardware removal are focused on the lower extremity. Therefore the aim of this study was to analyze the functional short-term outcome following removal of locking plate fixation of the proximal humerus. Patients undergoing removal of a locking plate of the proximal humerus were prospectively followed. Patients were subdivided into the following groups: Group HI: symptoms of hardware related subacromial impingement, Group RD: persisting rotation deficit, Group RQ: patients with request for a hardware removal. The clinical (Constant-Murley score) and radiologic (AP and axial view) follow-up took place three and six months after the operation. To evaluate subjective results, the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form-36 (SF-36), was completed. 59 patients were included. The mean length of time with the hardware in place was 15.2 +/- 3.81 months. The mean of the adjusted overall Constant score before hardware removal was 66.2 +/- 25.2% and increased significantly to 73.1 +/- 22.5% after 3 months; and to 84.3 +/- 20.6% after 6 months (p < 0.001). The mean of preoperative pain on the VAS-scale before hardware removal was 5.2 +/- 2.9, after 6 months pain in all groups decreased significantly (p < 0.001). The SF-36 physical component score revealed a significant overall improvement in both genders (p < 0.001) at six months. A significant improvement of clinical outcome following removal was found. However, a general recommendation for hardware removal is not justified, as the risk of an anew surgical and anesthetic procedure with all possible complications has to be carefully taken into account. However, for patients with distinct symptoms it might be justified."}
{"id": "18837193", "title": "Electromyographic pattern in Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy. Part II. Electromyographic pattern in Becker muscular dystrophy in comparison with Duchenne muscular dystrophy.", "content": "Electromyographic pattern in Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy. Part II. Electromyographic pattern in Becker muscular dystrophy in comparison with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. The aim of this study was to compare the electromyographic pattern in Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD) with that found in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). Fourteen men with BMD and 51 boys with DMD were investigated. Proximal muscles were examined: m. biceps brachii (BB) and m. rectus femoris (RF). They were divided according to the clinical criteria in two groups: of those with slight changes (group AB) and of those with severe abnormalities (CD). As in the Part I of the paper our own method of Functional-QEMG was applied in the CNEMG examination. Spontaneous activity (fibrillations, complex repetitive discharges) was equally frequent in BMD and DMD. Linked potentials were rather frequent in either group. Myopathic features such as MUAPs low amplitude and area, polyphasic shape were seen in either condition, but more marked in DMD than in BMD. Evaluation of IP recordings revealed that IP amplitude (amplitude size) is low in DMD already at the early stage of lesion but normal or only slightly diminished in BMD. It might perhaps suggest different degrees of lesion in type II MUs between the compared types of muscular dystrophy."}
{"id": "18837192", "title": "Electromyographic pattern in Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy. Part I: Electromyographic pattern in subsequent stages of muscle lesion in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.", "content": "Electromyographic pattern in Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy. Part I: Electromyographic pattern in subsequent stages of muscle lesion in Duchenne muscular dystrophy. The study was aimed to evaluate the EMG pattern in myopathy, in the muscles with early, slight abnormalities and in the muscles severely affected, and to analyze the sequence of abnormalities appearing with the progress of the impairment. Fifty one boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy were studied. Ninety nine proximal muscles (biceps brachii and rectus femoris) were examined. According to clinical criteria (defective force, atrophy) the muscles were assigned to the group of slight changes (group AB: 50 muscles) and to the group of severe abnormalities (group CD: 49 muscles). An own method of Functional-QEMG was applied in the CNEMG examination. The sensitivity of the method applied allowed the detection of myogenic changes even at the subclinical, oligosymptomatic (group AB) stage of impairment. The earliest EMG abnormality detected was an increased percentage of the polyphasic potentials, even if other MUAPs parameters remained normal. However at this stage already a decrease appeared of amplitude, area and MUAPs duration, along with the decrease of IP amplitude and amplitude size. An increase of IP density and a slight increase of number of stable-shaped potentials (simple, but more often polyphasic) was also seen which we believed to reflect the compensatory process. At the further stage, when compensating mechanisms were no longer possible, a dramatic decrease appeared of the IP amplitude, amplitude size and density and, sometimes, also a decrease in the number of stable-shaped potentials. The structural changes such as decrease of amplitude, area and MUAPs duration also progressed. These findings reflect in our study the sequence of EMG abnormalities in the successive stages of myogenic lesion."}
{"id": "18836278", "title": "Outcome measures and psychomotor skills related to shoulder conditions for clinical orthopedic training.", "content": "Outcome measures and psychomotor skills related to shoulder conditions for clinical orthopedic training. This study was designed to assess the ability of physical therapy (PT) students to utilize selected outcome measures such as range of motion (ROM), pain and a number of psychomotor skills and to determine the efficacy of treatment they carried out during orthopedic clinical training. The clinical education booklets in orthopedics of all PT students over a 6-year period were reviewed. Students' application of psychomotor skills such as peripheral joint mobilizations (PJM), proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF) techniques, therapeutic exercise techniques as well as utilization of basic outcome measures such as ROM and pain were analyzed with descriptive statistics and paired t test. A majority of students used PJM techniques (78.6%) and PNF techniques (58.6%). The paired t test indicated that treatment interventions used by the students were associated with improved shoulder joint ROM and decreased pain levels (p < 0.001). At the same time, therapeutic exercises were employed by the students after PJM and PNF. The most common 'comparable joint sign' was limitation in shoulder abduction ROM, which occurred in 44% of patients seen by the students. PT students' application of PJM, PNF, and therapeutic exercise improved ROM and decreased pain in patients with shoulder pathologies."}
{"id": "18829940", "title": "The outcome and structural integrity of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with use of the double-row suture anchor technique. Surgical technique.", "content": "The outcome and structural integrity of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with use of the double-row suture anchor technique. Surgical technique. The reported rate of failure after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair has varied widely. The influence of the repair technique on the failure rates and functional outcomes after open or arthroscopic rotator cuff repair remains controversial. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the functional and anatomic results of arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs performed with the double-row suture anchor technique on the basis of computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging arthrography in order to determine the postoperative integrity of the repairs. A prospective series of 105 consecutive shoulders undergoing arthroscopic double-row rotator cuff repair of the supraspinatus or a combination of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus were evaluated at a minimum of two years after surgery. The evaluation included a routine history and physical examination as well as determination of the preoperative and postoperative strength, pain, range of motion, and Constant scores. All shoulders had a preoperative and postoperative computed tomography arthrogram (103 shoulders) or magnetic resonance imaging arthrogram (two shoulders). There were thirty-six small rotator cuff tears, forty-seven large isolated supraspinatus or combined supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendon tears, and twenty-two massive rotator cuff tears. The mean Constant score (and standard deviation) was 43.2 +/- 15.1 points (range, 8 to 83 points) preoperatively and 80.1 +/- 11.1 points (range, 46 to 100 points) postoperatively. Twelve of the 105 repairs failed. Intact rotator cuff repairs were associated with significantly increased strength and active range of motion. Arthroscopic repair of a rotator cuff tear with use of the double-row suture anchor technique results in a much lower rate of failure than has previously been reported in association with either open or arthroscopic repair methods. Patients with an intact rotator cuff repair have better pain relief than those with a failed repair. After repair, large and massive rotator cuff tears result in more postoperative weakness than small tears do."}
{"id": "18829907", "title": "Patients with workers' compensation claims have worse outcomes after rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Patients with workers' compensation claims have worse outcomes after rotator cuff repair. Previous studies have demonstrated varying correlations between Workers' Compensation status and the outcome of rotator cuff repair. However, none of those studies have formally accounted for potential confounding factors with multivariable analysis. We hypothesized that patients with Workers' Compensation claims who undergo rotator cuff repair have worse outcomes, even after controlling for confounding factors. One hundred and twenty-five patients (including thirty-nine with Workers' Compensation claims) who underwent unilateral primary repair of a chronic rotator cuff tear by a single surgeon were studied prospectively and were evaluated one year postoperatively, prior to the settlement of any claims. Outcomes were assessed with the Simple Shoulder Test (SST); the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) index; three visual analog scales (shoulder pain, shoulder function, and quality of life); and the Short Form-36 (SF-36). Patients in the Workers' Compensation group were significantly younger, had greater work demands, and had lower marital rates, education levels, and preoperative expectations for the outcome of treatment as compared with those in the non-Workers' Compensation group (p = 0.001 to 0.016). Preoperatively, patients in the Workers' Compensation group had significantly lower scores on the SST, the SF-36 Physical Function scale, and the SF-36 Social Function scale (p = 0.01 to 0.038). One year postoperatively, those patients reported worse performance on the SST, the DASH, all three visual analog scales, and the SF-36 (p = 0.0007 to 0.05) and had worse improvement on the DASH, the visual analog scales for shoulder pain and function, and the SF-36 Bodily Pain and Role Emotional scales (p = 0.0028 to 0.038). Multivariable analysis controlling for age, sex, comorbidities, smoking, marital status, education, duration of symptoms, work demands, expectations, and tear size confirmed that Workers' Compensation status was an independent predictor of worse DASH scores. Patients with Workers' Compensation claims report worse outcomes, even after controlling for confounding factors. The present study provides further evidence that the existence of a Workers' Compensation claim portends a less robust outcome following rotator cuff repair. Prognostic Level I. See Instructions to Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "18827253", "title": "A comparison of single-versus double-row suture anchor techniques in a simulated repair of the rotator cuff: an experimental study in rabbits.", "content": "A comparison of single-versus double-row suture anchor techniques in a simulated repair of the rotator cuff: an experimental study in rabbits. We compared time-dependent changes in the biomechanical properties of single-and double-row repair of a simulated acute tear of the rotator cuff in rabbits to determine the effect of the fixation techniques on the healing process. A tear of the supraspinatus tendon was created in 80 rabbits which were separated into two equal groups. A single-row repair with two suture anchors was conducted in group 1 and a double-row repair with four suture anchors in group 2. A total of ten intact contralateral shoulder joints was used as a control group. Biomechanical testing was performed immediately post-operatively and at four and eight weeks, and histological analysis at four and eight weeks. The mean load to failure in group 2 animals was greater than in group 1, but both groups remained lower than the control group at all intervals. Histological analysis showed similar healing properties at four and eight weeks in both groups, but a significantly larger number of healed tendon-bone interfaces were identified in group 2 than in group 1 at eight weeks (p < 0.012). The ultimate load to failure increased with the number of suture anchors used immediately post-operatively, and at four and eight weeks. The increased load to failure at eight weeks seemed to be related to the increase in the surface area of healed tendon-to-bone in the double-row repair group."}
{"id": "18827245", "title": "Mid-term clinical and sonographic outcome of arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Mid-term clinical and sonographic outcome of arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff. We have conducted a prospective study to assess the mid-term clinical results following arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff. Patients were evaluated using the Constant score, subjective satisfaction levels and post-operative ultrasound scans. Of 115 consecutive patients who underwent arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff at our institution, 102 were available for follow-up. The mean period of follow-up was for 35.8 months (24 to 73). The mean age of the patients was 57.3 years (23 to 78). There were 18 small (< or = 1 cm in diameter), 44 medium (1 cm to 3 cm in diameter), 34 large (3 cm to 5 cm in diameter) and six massive (> 5 cm in diameter) tears. There was a statistically significant increase in the size of the tear with increasing age (p = 0.0048). The mean pre-operative Constant score was 41.4 points (95% confidence interval, 37.9 to 44.9), which improved to 84.5 (95% confidence interval, 82.2 to 86.9). A significant inverse association (p = 0.0074), was observed between the size of the tear and the post-operative Constant score, with patients having smaller tears attaining higher Constant scores after repair. Post-operatively, 80 patients (78.4%) were able to resume their occupations and 84 (82.4%) returned to their pre-injury leisure activities. Only eight (7.8%) of 102 patients were not satisfied with the outcome. Recurrent tears were detected by ultrasound in 19 (18.6%) patients, and were generally smaller than the original ones. Patients with recurrent tears experienced a mean improvement of 31.6 points (95% confidence interval, 23.6 to 39.6) in their post-operative Constant scores. Those with intact repairs had significantly improved (p < 0.0001) Constant scores (mean improvement 46.3 points, 95% confidence interval, 41.9 to 50.6). Patient satisfaction was high in 94 cases (92%), irrespective of the outcome of the Constant score. Recurrent tears appear to be linked to age-related degeneration. Arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff leads to high rates of satisfaction (92%) and good functional results, albeit with a recurrence rate of 18.6% (19 of 102)."}
{"id": "18820310", "title": "Shoulder acute pain in primary healthcare: is retraining effective for GP principals? SAPPHIRE--a randomized controlled trial.", "content": "Shoulder acute pain in primary healthcare: is retraining effective for GP principals? SAPPHIRE--a randomized controlled trial. To address the question whether general practitioners (GPs) should receive practical training in shoulder problems and to test whether cortisone injections are better than anaesthetic injections for rotator cuff problems. A pragmatic split-plot, randomized trial with a cluster factorial design, conducted in general practices across five centres across the United Kingdom. Ninety-one practices were randomized to receive additional training in diagnosing and injecting rotator cuff problems or no additional training. Two hundred patients consulting their general practices with shoulder pain were then randomized to receive either a corticosteroid or lignocaine injection. The main outcome was score on the British Shoulder Disability Questionnaire (BSDQ). The Short-Form 36-item Health Survey and EuroQol at 12 months from entry to the trial were also scored. Over the course of the trial there was a mean difference of 0.94 (s.e. = 1.01) on the BSDQ score between the groups, with patients treated by the untrained group having a mean of 9.46 (s.e. = 0.82) and those by the trained group having a mean of 8.51 (s.e. = 0.60). There were no statistically significant differences between the groups. Analysing by substance injected, there was a mean difference of 0.15 (s.e. = 0.48) throughout the trial between the groups, with patients given the cortisone having a mean BSDQ of 9.67 (s.e. = 0.39) and those given lignocaine, 9.82 (s.e. = 0.39). This was not statistically significantly different. Training GPs in the diagnosis and treatment of shoulder disorders does not make any difference to the outcome, in terms of pain and disability, 1 yr later. Further, there is no advantage to injecting steroid in a group with predominant rotator cuff disorder. Trial registration. International Standard Randomized Controlled Trial Number 58537244. Trial steering committee comprised Prof. Paul Dieppe, Prof. Elaine Hay, Dr Brian Hazleman and Dr Kerenza Hood."}
{"id": "18818900", "title": "Arthroscopic repair of isolated type II superior labrum anterior-posterior lesion.", "content": "Arthroscopic repair of isolated type II superior labrum anterior-posterior lesion. The effectiveness of arthroscopic repair of type II superior labrum anterior-posterior lesion (SLAP) was unclear as previous studies examined this treatment with patients of combined types of SLAP lesions. To address this research gap, we evaluated the clinical and functional outcomes of arthroscopic repair for 16 patients (mean=24.2, SD=6.5) with clinical evidence of isolated type II SLAP lesion. After having arthroscopic stabilizations with Bioknotless suture anchors (Mitek), the patients were offered post-operative rehabilitation programs (e.g., physiotherapy) for 6 months. The symptoms of SLAP lesion and the functions of the shoulder were assessed pre-operatively and 28-month post-operatively by O'Brien test, Speed test, Yergason test, and University of California at Los Angeles rating for pain and function of the shoulder. Wilcoxon Signed Ranks test and McNemar test were employed to analyze the difference between assessment in pre-operation and post-operation phases. The result showed that patients' shoulder functions improved (UCLA Shoulder Score), and symptoms of SLAP lesion reduced (O'Brien test, Speed test, and Yergason test) significantly (P<0.05). Time for returning to play with pre-injury level was in average 9.4 months (range 4-24), and no complication or recurrence was detected. We concluded that arthroscopic repair is an effective operation of type II SLAP lesion with good clinical and functional outcomes; however, athletes with high demand of overhead throwing activities are likely to take longer duration of rehabilitation to attain full recovery."}
{"id": "18818103", "title": "A new arthroscopic classification of articular-sided supraspinatus footprint lesions: a prospective comparison with Snyder's and Ellman's classification.", "content": "A new arthroscopic classification of articular-sided supraspinatus footprint lesions: a prospective comparison with Snyder's and Ellman's classification. The aim of this study was to find a descriptive rationale to quantify articular-sided supraspinatus tendon tears in the transverse and coronal planes, leading to a 2-dimensional description of the tear pattern. Fifty-six consecutive patients with articular-sided, symptomatic supraspinatus tendon tears diagnosed clinically and by magnetic resonance imaging underwent standardized diagnostic arthroscopy. Intra-articular findings of the rotator cuff were classified according to Ellman and Snyder. In addition, the longitudinal tear was assessed according to the length of the peeled-off bony footprint in the coronal plane. The sagittal tear extension was defined as a tear of the lateral reflection pulley on the medial border of the supraspinatus tendon and/or a tear in the area of the crescent zone. Statistically, we found a high correlation (r = 0.920, P < .0001) between the classifications of Ellman and Snyder, and we found only a slight correlation between the classifications of Snyder and Ellman with this new classification. Neither the classification of Snyder nor that of Ellman reproduced the extension of the partial-thickness rotator cuff tear in the transverse and coronal planes related to its etiologic pathomorphology."}
{"id": "18806513", "title": "Axillary mononeuropathy after herpes zoster infection mimicking subacromial impingement syndrome.", "content": "Axillary mononeuropathy after herpes zoster infection mimicking subacromial impingement syndrome. Subacromial impingement syndrome is a frequent cause of shoulder pain and it is readily confused with other shoulder problems. We present a patient with herpes zoster infection associated with axillary mononeuropathy that was initially misdiagnosed as subacromial impingement syndrome. A 75-yr-old female patient was admitted to the internal medicine clinic because of pain and weakness in her right shoulder. As she did not respond to medical treatment and local injection therapy, magnetic resonance imaging of the right shoulder was ordered. As the magnetic resonance imaging revealed subacromial impingement of the supraspinatus tendon, the patient was referred to the physical medicine and rehabilitation department for rehabilitation. In our initial physical examination, her shoulder abductor muscle strength was 2/5 and her shoulder external rotator muscle strength was 3/5. A subacromial injection test with 10 ml of 1% lidocain was negative and the magnetic resonance imaging did not show a complete rotator tendon rupture that could explain such a muscle strength loss. So, an electrodiagnostic evaluation was performed and the patient was diagnosed to have a right axillary neuropathy. A more detailed questioning of the patient disclosed a history of herpes zoster approximately 3 mos ago. Herpes zoster-associated axillary neuropathy can mimic subacromial impingement syndrome, and magnetic resonance imaging examination alone may lead to a misdiagnosis. Therefore, we imply that clinical and electrophysiological evaluations would be of great importance in relevant patients with shoulder problems."}
{"id": "18803980", "title": "Anterior glenohumeral joint dislocations.", "content": "Anterior glenohumeral joint dislocations. The glenohumeral joint is the most mobile articulation in the body and the most commonly dislocated diarthroidal joint. Anterior dislocation is by far the most common direction and can lead to instability of the glenohumeral joint, which ranges from subtle increased laxity to recurrent dislocation. Overtime, understanding of anterior shoulder dislocations and the resulting instability has improved. Likewise, significant advances in arthroscopic equipment have allowed use of the arthroscope to address anatomically the various lesions that cause instability. This article reviews the anatomy, pathophysiology, clinical evaluation, and treatment of anterior shoulder instability."}
{"id": "18803437", "title": "A review of femoroacetabular impingement in athletes.", "content": "A review of femoroacetabular impingement in athletes. There are a multitude of well recognized hip and groin injuries that commonly affect athletes; however, a more recently recognized and possibly often overlooked cause of hip pain is that of femoroacetabular impingement (FAI). FAI is characterized by abutment of the femoral neck against the acetabular rim, which may occur by two mechanisms known as 'CAM' or 'pincer' impingement, although most commonly by a mixture of both. CAM impingement is characterized by abutment of the femoral neck against the acetabulum due to a morphological abnormality of the femoral head-neck junction. Pincer impingement occurs where an abnormality of the acetabulum results in impingement against an often normal femoral neck. Both CAM and pincer impingement are known to result in pathological consequences of cartilage delamination and labral lesions, leading to significant pain and disruption to athletic performance and activities of daily living in athletes. There are currently several methods of assessing the degree of impingement by use of CT and magnetic resonance imaging scans, which can be used in conjunction with magnetic resonance arthrography and arthroscopy to assess the damage caused to the underlying structures of the hip. Both open and arthroscopic surgical methods are used, with recent reports in athletes showing excellent results for lifestyle improvement and frequency of returning to sport. In cases of hip and groin pain in athletes, it is important to remember to look for typical history, and examination and imaging findings that may suggest a diagnosis of hip impingement. This article goes some way to explaining the principles, consequences and management of FAI."}
{"id": "18786837", "title": "Biceps tendinitis in chronic rotator cuff tears: a histologic perspective.", "content": "Biceps tendinitis in chronic rotator cuff tears: a histologic perspective. Patients with chronic rotator cuff tears frequently have anterior shoulder pain attributed to the long head of the biceps brachii (LHBB) tendon. In this study, tenodesis or tenotomy samples and cadaveric controls were assessed by use of immunohistochemical and histologic methods to quantify inflammation, vascularity, and neuronal plasticity. Patients had moderate pain and positive results on at least 1 clinical test of shoulder function. The number of axons in the distal LHBB was significantly less in patients with biceps tendinitis. Calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P immunostaining was predominantly within nerve roots and blood vessels. A moderate correlation (R = 0.5) was identified between LHBB vascularity and pain scores. On the basis of these results, we conclude that, in the context of rotator cuff disease, the etiology of anterior shoulder pain with macroscopic changes in the biceps tendon is related to the complex interaction of the tendon and surrounding soft tissues, rather than a single entity."}
{"id": "18774738", "title": "Full-thickness rotator cuff tear prevalence and correlation with function and co-morbidities in patients sixty-five years and older.", "content": "Full-thickness rotator cuff tear prevalence and correlation with function and co-morbidities in patients sixty-five years and older. The purpose of this study was to determine full-thickness rotator cuff tear prevalence in patients 65 and older and to correlate tears with comfort, function, and co-morbidities. Two-hundred shoulders without prior surgery were evaluated with a Simple Shoulder Test, a Constant Score, and ultrasound. Full thickness tear prevalence was 22%. Adjusting for age and gender, those with tears had lower scores than those without (P < .001 for each). Adjusting for many potential confounders, with a 10-year age increase, the odds of a tear increased 2.69-fold (P = .005). For those with tears, scores were no different for those who had seen a physician for their shoulder compared to those who had not. Full-thickness cuff tear prevalence was 22% in those 65 and older. Tear prevalence increased with increasing age. Shoulder scores were poorer for those with tears."}
{"id": "18774737", "title": "Shoulder rotator strength in patients with stage I-II subacromial impingement: relationship to pain, disability, and quality of life.", "content": "Shoulder rotator strength in patients with stage I-II subacromial impingement: relationship to pain, disability, and quality of life. The purpose of this study was two-fold: to determine the shoulder rotator strength in patients with stage I and II subacromial impingement syndrome and to explore its relationship with pain, disability, and quality of life. Thirteen patients with at least 2 positive tests (Neer, Hawkins, painful arc) on the dominant side and 25 unaffected control subjects were included. All individuals had an intact rotator cuff bilaterally, as evaluated by sonography. Isokinetic testing of the shoulder internal and external rotators was performed using Biodex System 3 during concentric/concentric shoulder rotations at a velocity of 60 degrees /s in the scapular plane. The Shoulder Pain and Disability Index, Simple Shoulder Test, and Nottingham Health Profile were self-reported by all subjects. Peak torque values of patients were found to be indifferent from those of controls'. External and internal rotation strength were negatively correlated with pain (r = .63, r = .66, P < .05). In spite of shoulder pain and disability, general health in stage I and II impingement patients did not show any deterioration."}
{"id": "18773481", "title": "An evaluation of the anatomical basis of the Biceps Load tests I and II for superior labral anterior and posterior (SLAP) lesions.", "content": "An evaluation of the anatomical basis of the Biceps Load tests I and II for superior labral anterior and posterior (SLAP) lesions. Both Biceps Load tests I and II rely on an increase in tension in the long head of biceps to identify a superior labral anterior and posterior (SLAP) lesion. This study aimed to evaluate the anatomical basis of Biceps Load tests I and II by measuring activity in the long head of biceps in the two clinical tests. Activity in the long head of biceps was measured in 12 healthy young participants using surface electromyography. Activity was only minimally increased in both Biceps Load I and II compared with the resting position. In the absence of convincing support for the anatomical basis of the test, investigations of diagnostic accuracy need to be replicated in order for the reported high accuracy of Biceps Load I and II tests to be supported with confidence."}
{"id": "18762651", "title": "Traumatic anterosuperior rotator cuff tears: the outcome of open surgical repair.", "content": "Traumatic anterosuperior rotator cuff tears: the outcome of open surgical repair. Anterosuperior rotator cuff tears involving the subscapularis and supraspinatus tendons are less common than posterosuperior tears and are rarely discussed in the literature. The purpose of this study was to identify the unique features of this injury and to assess the outcome of operative treatment. Thirty consecutive patients, with a mean age of fifty-seven years (range, forty-three to seventy-three years), had an open repair of a traumatic anterosuperior rotator cuff tear. Twenty-four patients (80%) were male. Sixteen patients (53%) had involvement of the dominant shoulder, twenty-three (77%) had a biceps tendon disorder, and sixteen (53%) had a positive lift-off maneuver prior to surgery. Surgical approaches included an isolated superior deltoid-splitting approach in twenty patients, an isolated deltopectoral approach in five patients, and a combined approach in five patients. Open repair was performed at a mean of 4.5 months after the injury or the onset of symptoms. The final outcomes were determined with a physical examination and patient self-assessed outcome tools. At a mean follow-up of fifty-six months, twenty-one of the thirty patients were satisfied with their symptoms, and twenty-nine would have the surgery again. The mean pain score on the visual analog scale improved from 6.2 to 1.2 (p < 0.001). The mean score on the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand questionnaire improved from 41.7 to 12.2 (p < 0.001). The mean percentage of functions that patients were able to perform on the Simple Shoulder Test improved from 36.4% to 82.8% (p < 0.001). The mean age and sex-adjusted Constant score was 93.4 postoperatively. The mean elevation, external rotation, and internal rotation of the involved shoulders were 97%, 109%, and 97%, respectively, of those of the contralateral side. The mean strength of elevation, external rotation, and internal rotation were 85%, 93%, and 101%, respectively, of those of the contralateral side. Infraspinatus involvement (p = 0.04), the extent of the supraspinatus tear (p = 0.03), and a Workers' Compensation claim (p = 0.03) were associated with worse outcomes and decreased satisfaction. Patients with a traumatic anterosuperior rotator cuff tear present with internal rotation weakness, and they usually have a biceps tendon disorder. While larger tears involving greater portions of the supraspinatus and extending into the infraspinatus are associated with poorer outcomes, early recognition of this injury and open repair can reliably restore shoulder function to near normal levels."}
{"id": "18760633", "title": "Outcome of latissimus dorsi transfer as a salvage procedure for failed rotator cuff repair with loss of elevation.", "content": "Outcome of latissimus dorsi transfer as a salvage procedure for failed rotator cuff repair with loss of elevation. Eighteen patients, referred from an outside institution with massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears and loss of elevation, were treated with a latissimus dorsi tendon transfer as a salvage procedure for failed, prior, attempted rotator cuff repair. Clinical outcomes were measured by the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeon's (ASES) score, pain level, and active range of motion. The average postoperative ASES score was 61, an increase from 43 pre-operatively (P = .05). Active elevation improved to an average of 137 degrees compared to 56 degrees pre-operatively (P < .001). The average post-operative pain level was 22 mm, down from 59 (P = .001), and the average post-operative active external rotation at the side was 45 degrees, improved from 31 degrees (P < .001). We conclude that latissimus transfer, as a salvage procedure for failed rotator cuff repair with loss of elevation, allows for significant return of active elevation and function with minimal post-operative pain."}
{"id": "18760216", "title": "A novel transosseous button technique for rotator cuff repair.", "content": "A novel transosseous button technique for rotator cuff repair. In an attempt to maximize stability by improving the lateral footprint compression of our repair in rotator cuff tears, we have been using a rotator cuff button (Arthrex, Naples, FL) passed through a transosseous tunnel as an anchor for our transosseous sutures. Our new innovation is to pass a rotator cuff button fully loaded with 4 strands around the central post, with 2 leading strands and 2 trailing strands on either end, through our transosseous tunnel. In this way, we can use the 4 central strands through our tunnel to obtain 2 good mattress sutures as a primary repair and the peripheral 4 strands passed around the lateral humerus as over sew mattress sutures to obtain good compression of the lateral tendon and so improve the footprint area. A double row equivalent is achieved. This technique has a good primary hold in the form of a device with proven history and avoids multiple anchors in the lateral humerus. Because it uses only a single fixation device, it is also significantly more economical. Theoretical risks to the axillary nerve or with osteoporosis have not been seen in practice. Tensioning the repair with suture passage through transosseous tunnels is readily achieved."}
{"id": "18760215", "title": "Bony instability of the shoulder.", "content": "Bony instability of the shoulder. Instability of the shoulder is a common problem treated by many orthopaedists. Instability can result from baseline intrinsic ligamentous laxity or a traumatic event-often a dislocation that injures the stabilizing structures of the glenohumeral joint. Many cases involve soft-tissue injury only and can be treated successfully with repair of the labrum and ligamentous tissues. Both open and arthroscopic approaches have been well described, with recent studies of arthroscopic soft-tissue techniques reporting results equal to those of the more traditional open techniques. Over the last decade, attention has focused on the concept of instability of the shoulder mediated by bony pathology such as a large bony Bankart lesion or an engaging Hill-Sachs lesion. Recent literature has identified unrecognized large bony lesions as a primary cause of failure of arthroscopic reconstruction for instability, a major cause of recurrent instability, and a difficult diagnosis to make. Thus, although such bony lesions may be relatively rare compared with soft-tissue pathology, they constitute a critically important entity in the management of shoulder instability. Smaller bony lesions may be amenable to arthroscopic treatment, but larger lesions often require open surgery to prevent recurrent instability. This article reviews recent developments in the diagnosis and treatment of bony instability."}
{"id": "18760208", "title": "The diagnostic accuracy of a clinical examination in determining intra-articular hip pain for potential hip arthroscopy candidates.", "content": "The diagnostic accuracy of a clinical examination in determining intra-articular hip pain for potential hip arthroscopy candidates. One purpose of this study was to determine whether signs and symptoms could identify when a majority of the hip pain was originating from intra-articular sources in potential arthroscopic surgery candidates. The second purpose was to quantify pain reduction after an anesthetic intra-articular injection in those with potential labral pathology. Subjects with hip pain being evaluated by an orthopaedic surgeon specializing in hip arthroscopy were prospectively enrolled in the study. Clinical examination results were recorded. Sensitivity, specificity, and likelihood ratios were calculated to determine their accuracy in identifying those who would have greater than 50% pain relief from those with 50% pain relief or less. We enrolled 105 subjects in this study. An anesthetic intra-articular injection was performed in 49 potential candidates for arthroscopic surgery (47%). The mean age in these 49 subjects was 42 years (SD, 15 years; range, 18 to 68 years), with 25 men (51%) and 24 women (49%). According to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) arthrogram, 18 individuals had a definite labral tear, 29 had a possible tear, and 2 had no labral tears. In those with definite tears or possible tears, 39% (n = 7) and 45% (n = 13), respectively, did not achieve a greater than 50% reduction of pain. Groin pain, clicking, pinching pain with sitting, lateral thigh pain, flexion abduction external rotation test, flexion-internal rotation-adduction test, and trochanteric tenderness were not useful in identifying those with greater than 50% pain relief from those with 50% relief or less. The symptoms and signs investigated in this study did not accurately or consistently identify subjects with primary intra-articular pain sources. Furthermore, candidates for hip arthroscopy with a labral tear identified on MRI arthrogram had varied responses to anesthetic intra-articular injection. Therefore all labral tears identified on MRI arthrogram may not be a major contributor to patients' pain complaints, and medical personnel should look for other causes of pain. Level III, diagnostic study of nonconsecutive patients (without consistently applied gold standard)."}
{"id": "18760207", "title": "Arthroscopic single-row supraspinatus tendon repair with a modified mattress locking stitch: a prospective, randomized controlled comparison with a simple stitch.", "content": "Arthroscopic single-row supraspinatus tendon repair with a modified mattress locking stitch: a prospective, randomized controlled comparison with a simple stitch. Our purpose was to compare the clinical results and failure rates of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair by use of a modified mattress locking stitch (MMLS) repair versus a simple stitch repair. Between December 2004 and January 2006, 78 cases of arthroscopically repaired full-thickness rotator cuff tears were evaluated prospectively. All tears were between 1.5 and 3 cm in size. The mean age of the patients was 53.4 years (range, 39 to 68 years), and the mean follow-up duration was 31.1 months (range, 24 to 37 months). Thirty-nine individuals underwent arthroscopic repair by use of an MMLS (group I). Thirty-nine individuals underwent arthroscopic repair by use of a simple stitch (group II). Postoperative visual analog scale scores for pain, scores for activities of daily living, and University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) scores were obtained at a mean of 12 months (range, 6 to 36 months). We compared the results statistically by Mann-Whitney U test. In both groups magnetic resonance imaging scans were obtained at 6 to 36 months after repair. Between groups, the visual analog scale scores for pain, scores for activities of daily living, and University of California, Los Angeles scores were not significantly different (P > .05 for all). Of the patients, 92.3% in group I and 89.7% in group II showed excellent or good results at the final follow-up (P > .05). The satisfaction rate was 94.9% (37 cases) in group I and 89.7% (34 cases) in group II (P < .05). Radiographic failure was seen in 6 of 36 cases in group I (16.7%) and 9 of 30 cases in group II (27.4%) (P < .05). Arthroscopic repair of medium-sized (1.5- to 3-cm) full-thickness rotator cuff tears by use of an MMLS improves patient satisfaction rates and radiographic repair integrity in comparison to simple stitch repair. Level II, lesser-quality randomized controlled trial."}
{"id": "18760206", "title": "Subscapularis tendon tear: an anatomic and clinical investigation.", "content": "Subscapularis tendon tear: an anatomic and clinical investigation. The purpose of this study was to clarify anatomically and clinically how the subscapularis tendon supports the superior portion of the biceps tendon to the intertubercular groove. Thirty-three embalmed shoulder girdles were examined to investigate the subscapularis tendon and the pathway of the biceps tendon. In addition, operation records of 435 consecutive arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs were retrospectively reviewed. Anatomically, the superior-most insertion of the subscapularis tendon was located on the upper margin of the lesser tuberosity. In addition, a thin tendinous slip extended from the insertion and attached to the fovea capitis of the humerus. The insertion, the tendinous slip, and the lateral portion of the cranial part of intramuscular tendons were in direct contact with the inferior side of the biceps tendon at its corner portion. The clinical study showed that 27.4% of rotator cuff tears (119/435) had subscapularis tendon tears. In cases with an unstable biceps tendon there was no intact subscapularis tendon. The superior-most insertion of the subscapularis tendon was involved in all transverse tears. Of 29 full-thickness transverse tears, 13 (44.8%) showed intra-articular dislocation. The trochlea-like structure was composed of the superior-most insertion, the tendinous slip, and the lateral portion of the cranial part of intramuscular tendons supporting the biceps tendon. The transverse tear of the subscapularis tendon, which included this trochlea-like structure, often leads to intra-articular dislocation of the biceps tendon. Instability of the biceps tendon should be carefully assessed because it is associated with subscapularis tendon tears at a very high incidence. When we repair a transverse tear of the subscapularis tendon, we should widely fix sufficiently strong tissue to support the biceps tendon on the uppermost margin, not on the anteromedial portion, of the lesser tuberosity."}
{"id": "18760204", "title": "Moderate preoperative shoulder stiffness does not alter the clinical outcome of rotator cuff repair with arthroscopic release and manipulation.", "content": "Moderate preoperative shoulder stiffness does not alter the clinical outcome of rotator cuff repair with arthroscopic release and manipulation. The purpose of this study was to determine whether moderate preoperative shoulder stiffness affects the clinical outcome of rotator cuff repair, and to evaluate the serial change in range of motion (ROM), functional scores, pain, and satisfaction after rotator cuff repair. Rotator cuff repair was performed in 125 consecutive patients (127 shoulders). Thirty patients had concomitant moderate shoulder stiffness at the time of the repair. There were no statistical differences in sex ratio, age, the size and retraction of the tear, or the associated pathologies and repair procedure between the stiffness and nonstiffness groups. Arthroscopic capsular release and manipulation were added to the stiffness group, and the same rehabilitation protocol was applied according to the size of the tear. Clinical outcomes were evaluated using ROM, American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeon (ASES) score, Constant score, Simple Shoulder Test (SST), and short form 36. Pain and postoperative patient satisfaction were measured by a visual analog scale. All clinical parameters were prospectively recorded on the day before surgery, and at 3, 6, and 9 months postoperatively, and at their last follow-up visit. Differences of ROM did not reach statistical significance after 6 months of operation. Other functional outcome instruments showed no statistical difference at any follow-up period. Postoperative cuff integrity after 1 year showed no statistical difference between 2 groups. This study suggests that moderate preoperative shoulder stiffness does not affect clinical outcomes of rotator cuff repair if arthroscopic capsular release with manipulation is added to the index procedure. Arthroscopic capsular release with manipulation and a well programmed rehabilitation program can avoid any delay of surgery and limitation of motion after cuff repair in patients with concomitant moderate shoulder stiffness. Level III, retrospective comparative study."}
{"id": "18760203", "title": "The bony apprehension test for instability of the shoulder: a prospective pilot analysis.", "content": "The bony apprehension test for instability of the shoulder: a prospective pilot analysis. We performed a prospective pilot study of the \"bony apprehension test,\" in which apprehension is experienced at or below 45 degrees of abduction and 45 degrees of external rotation, as a means of screening for a significant bony lesion causing instability of the shoulder. Over a 1-year period, 29 consecutive cases of symptomatic shoulder instability were examined with the bony apprehension test and treated with surgery. Findings at arthroscopy were used as the definitive diagnostic data point. This information was compared with the results of the test and with the results of the preoperative plain radiographs. There were 8 cases involving significant bony lesions and 21 cases involving only soft-tissue lesions. The bony apprehension test was positive in all 8 patients in the bony lesion group and in 3 of 21 patients in the soft-tissue lesion group, representing a sensitivity of 100%, specificity of 86%, positive predictive value of 73%, and negative predictive value of 100%. Preoperative radiographs were positive in 4 patients in the bony lesion group only, representing a sensitivity of 50%, specificity of 100%, positive predictive value of 100%, and negative predictive value of 84%. The bony apprehension test can reliably screen for significant osseous lesions. In this study it was more sensitive than plain radiographs, as shown by a higher sensitivity for the test (100%) than for preoperative plain radiographs (50%). Level II, development of diagnostic criteria based on consecutive patients with universally applied gold standard."}
{"id": "18758750", "title": "Biomechanical characteristics of single-row repair in comparison to double-row repair with consideration of the suture configuration and suture material.", "content": "Biomechanical characteristics of single-row repair in comparison to double-row repair with consideration of the suture configuration and suture material. The aim of the study was to evaluate the time zero mechanical properties of single- versus double-row configuration for rotator cuff repair in an animal model with consideration of the stitch technique and suture material. Thirty-two fresh-frozen sheep shoulders were randomly assigned to four repair groups: suture anchor single-row repair coupled with (1) braided, nonabsorbable polyester suture sized USP No. 2 (SRAE) or (2) braided polyblend polyethylene suture sized No. 2 (SRAH). The double-row repair was coupled with (3) USP No. 2 (DRAE) or (4) braided polyblend polyethylene suture No. 2 (DRAH). Arthroscopic Mason-Allen stitches were used (single-row) and combined with medial horizontal mattress stitches (double-row). Shoulders were cyclically loaded from 10 to 180 N. Displacement to gap formation of 5- and 10-mm at the repair site, cycles to failure, and the mode of failure were determined. The ultimate tensile strength was verified in specimens that resisted to 3,000 cycles. DRAE and DRAH had a lower frequency of 5- (P = 0.135) and 10-mm gap formation (P = 0.135). All DRAE and DRAH resisted 3,000 cycles while only three SRAE and one SRAH resisted 3,000 cycles (P < 0.001). The ultimate tensile strength in double-row specimens was significantly higher than in others (P < 0.001). There was no significant variation in using different suture material (P > 0.05). Double-row suture anchor repair with arthroscopic Mason-Allen/medial mattress stitches provides initial strength superior to single-row repair with arthroscopic Mason-Allen stitches under isometric cyclic loading as well as under ultimate loading conditions. Our results support the concept of double-row fixation with arthroscopic Mason-Allen/medial mattress stitches in rotator cuff tears with improvement of initial fixation strength and ultimate tensile load. Use of new polyblend polyethylene suture material seems not to increase the initial biomechanical aspects of the repair construct."}
{"id": "18758045", "title": "Identification of abnormal hip motion associated with acetabular labral pathology.", "content": "Identification of abnormal hip motion associated with acetabular labral pathology. Resident's case problem. Recent literature has suggested that acetabular labral pathology secondary to femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) may be a precursor to early-onset hip osteoarthritis. The purpose of this resident's case problem was to explore the extent to which abnormal movement at the hip is a possible contributor to acetabular labral pathology. The patient was a 25-year-old female with a 4-year history of anterior-medial groin pain. Based on a combination of the clinical examination and magnetic resonance imaging findings, she was given a diagnosis of acetabular labral tear by her orthopaedic surgeon and referred to a physical therapist for assessment. Movement analysis during a single-leg step down, running, and a drop jump maneuver revealed excessive hip adduction and internal rotation on the involved side, which reproduced her symptoms. Application of a hip-strapping device resulted in decreased hip adduction and internal rotation, and an immediate decrease in symptoms. The reduction in pain secondary to controlling hip motion suggests that excessive frontal and transverse plane hip motions may contribute to FAI. Accordingly, physical therapy intervention aimed at controlling and reducing hip adduction and internal rotation during activities may be indicated in patients who present with this movement pattern associated with anterior hip/groin pain."}
{"id": "18757763", "title": "The effect of neuromuscular electrical stimulation of the infraspinatus on shoulder external rotation force production after rotator cuff repair surgery.", "content": "The effect of neuromuscular electrical stimulation of the infraspinatus on shoulder external rotation force production after rotator cuff repair surgery. Muscle weakness, particularly of shoulder external rotation, is common after rotator cuff repair surgery. Neuromuscular electrical stimulation has been shown to be an effective adjunct in the enhancement of muscle recruitment. Shoulder external rotation peak force can be enhanced by neuromuscular electrical stimulation after rotator cuff repair surgery. Controlled laboratory study. Thirty-nine patients (20 men, 19 women) who had undergone rotator cuff repair surgery were tested a mean of 10.5 days after surgery. Testing consisted of placing patients supine with the shoulder in 45 degrees of abduction, neutral rotation, and 15 degrees of horizontal adduction. Neuromuscular electrical stimulation was applied to the infraspinatus muscle belly and inferior to the spine of the scapula. Placement was confirmed by palpating the muscle during a resisted isometric contraction of the external rotators. Patients performed 3 isometric shoulder external rotation contractions with and without neuromuscular electrical stimulation, each with a 5-second hold against a handheld dynamometer. Neuromuscular electrical stimulation was applied at maximal intensity within comfort at 50 pulses per second, symmetrical waveform, and a 1-second ramp time. The 3 trials under each condition were recorded, and an average was taken. The order of testing was randomized for each patient tested. A paired samples t test was used to determine significant differences between conditions (P < .05). Each group was also divided based on age, rotator cuff tear size, number of days postoperative, and neuromuscular electrical stimulation intensity. Analysis of variance models were used to determine the influence of these variables on external rotation force production (P < .05). Peak force production was significantly greater (P < .001) when tested with neuromuscular electrical stimulation (3.75 kg) as opposed to without neuromuscular electrical stimulation (3.08 kg) for all groups tested. There was no significant difference based on the size of the tear, age of the patient, number of days after surgery, or level of neuromuscular electrical stimulation intensity. Peak shoulder external rotation force was significantly increased by 22% when tested with neuromuscular electrical stimulation after rotator cuff repair surgery. Neuromuscular electrical stimulation significantly increased force production regardless of the age of the patient, size of the tear, intensity of the current, or the number of days postoperative. Neuromuscular electrical stimulation may be used concomitantly with exercises to enhance the amount of force production and potentially minimize the inhibition of the rotator cuff after repair surgery."}
{"id": "18721119", "title": "Most clinical tests cannot accurately diagnose rotator cuff pathology: a systematic review.", "content": "Most clinical tests cannot accurately diagnose rotator cuff pathology: a systematic review. Do clinical tests accurately diagnose rotator cuff pathology? A systematic review of investigations into the diagnostic accuracy of clinical tests for rotator cuff pathology. People with shoulder pain who underwent clinical testing in order to diagnose rotator cuff pathology. The diagnostic accuracy of clinical tests was determined using likelihood ratios. Thirteen studies met the inclusion criteria. The 13 studies evaluated 14 clinical tests in 89 separate evaluations of diagnostic accuracy. Only one evaluation, palpation for supraspinatus ruptures, resulted in significant positive and negative likelihood ratios. Eight of the 89 evaluations resulted in either significant positive or negative likelihood ratios. However, none of these eight positive or negative likelihood ratios were found in other studies. Of the 89 evaluations of clinical tests 71 (80%) did not result in either significant positive or negative likelihood ratio evaluations across different studies. Overall, most tests for rotator cuff pathology were inaccurate and cannot be recommended for clinical use. At best, suspicion of a rotator cuff tear may be heightened by a positive palpation, combined Hawkins/painful arc/infraspinatus test, Napoleon test, lift-off test, belly-press test, or drop-arm test, and it may be reduced by a negative palpation, empty can test or Hawkins-Kennedy test."}
{"id": "18719334", "title": "Elasticity of the supraspinatus tendon-muscle unit is preserved after acute tendon tearing in the rabbit.", "content": "Elasticity of the supraspinatus tendon-muscle unit is preserved after acute tendon tearing in the rabbit. Supraspinatus tendon tearing is one of the most common causes of the shoulder pain and dysfunction, which often requires a surgical repair. In this situation, proximal tendon stump is usually retracted medially from its original insertion. For successful reduction of the retracted tendon stump to its original insertion, the elasticity of the tendon-muscle unit should be preserved by the time of surgery. The purpose of the present study was to clarify the chronological changes in the elasticity of the supraspinatus tendon-muscle unit after acute tendon tearing to determine the optimal timing for the surgery. Right supraspinatus tendon was detached (detached side) in 40 male Japanese white rabbits, with left shoulders served as controls (control side). Eight animals were euthanized at 3 days and 1, 2, 4, or 8 weeks after surgery. Tissue sound speed that closely correlates to its elasticity was measured with a scanning acoustic microscope. In the supraspinatus tendon, tissue sound speed at 3 days after surgery was 1691.1 m/s, compared to 1714.3 m/s at the control side, but the difference was not statistically significant at any postoperative time period up to 8 weeks. In the supraspinatus muscle, tissue sound speed was not affected at all by the detachment of the tendon. The present study indicated that the elasticity of the supraspinatus tendon-muscle unit was well preserved for 8 weeks after the detachment. In the clinical practice, the retracted supraspinatus tendon stump could be repaired without excessive tension by 8 weeks from the acute tendon tearing."}
{"id": "18718766", "title": "Repair integrity and clinical outcome after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using single-row anchor fixation: a prospective study of single-tendon and two-tendon tears.", "content": "Repair integrity and clinical outcome after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using single-row anchor fixation: a prospective study of single-tendon and two-tendon tears. This prospective study determined whether single-row anchor fixation would reliably improve clinical outcome and maintain structural integrity after arthroscopic repair of single-tendon and 2-tendon rotator cuff tears. In 39 patients, 21 shoulders had single-tendon tears and 18 had 2-tendon tears. Mean follow-up was 38 months (minimum, 24 months). A standardized assessment was done preoperatively and postoperatively at yearly intervals. Postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed at a minimum 1-year follow-up. Mean forward elevation, pain, satisfaction, and American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores significantly improved for both groups (P < .01). Postoperative MRI examinations showed 19 cuffs (90%) were intact for single-tendon tears and 15 (83%) were intact for 2-tendon tears. A recurrent tear on postoperative MRI was significantly correlated with the intraoperative finding of asymmetric retraction. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using single-row anchor fixation resulted in significant improvements in clinical outcome and reliable repair integrity for both single-tendon and 2-tendon tears."}
{"id": "18712359", "title": "Clinical and structural results of partial supraspinatus tears treated by subacromial decompression without repair.", "content": "Clinical and structural results of partial supraspinatus tears treated by subacromial decompression without repair. Patients with primary impingement and articular sided partial tears of the supraspinatus are often treated by subacromial decompression without repair, if the extent of the tear is estimated to be below 50% of tendon thickness. It has been questioned whether repair of these cuff lesions is necessary, because these tears could progress to full thickness tears with deteriorating clinical results. Our hypothesis was that subacromial decompression without repair of the supraspinatus tendon leads to significant clinical improvement for patients with grade I and II articular sided tears without progression to a full thickness tear on a regular basis. 46 consecutive patients (av. Age 59.2 years, range 33-76.6 years) were retrospectively reviewed after an average follow up of 50.3 months (36-86 months). 26 patients (43.5%) had a grade I tear according to Ellman, which was left alone, 20 patients suffered from a grade II tear, which was debrided. Clinical outcome was assessed with the ASES Score and ultrasound evaluation was performed on all patients to detect possible progression to a full thickness tear. The average ASES Score significantly improved from 37.4 to 86.6 points (p < 0.0001). The mean postoperative Constant Score was 87.6 points. Only three patients (6.5%) progressed to a full thickness tear detectable on ultrasound examination. Only one of these patients had a poor result with an ASES Score of 35 points, the other two were very satisfied and had an ASES score above 90 points. 8 patients showed no more signs of partial tearing on ultrasound and these patients had an average ASES Score of 93.1 points. Overall clinical outcome was rated excellent in 35 cases (76.1%), good in 5 (10.9%), average in 2 (4.3%) and poor in 4 (8.7%). Our results indicate that good and excellent results can be achieved mid- to long term by acromioplasty without repair of the rotator cuff in articular sided partial tears grade I and II. These results reach almost 95% of the value of a healthy shoulder. A better result on ultrasound examination was associated with a superior clinical outcome, while progression to a full thickness tear was rare."}
{"id": "18708847", "title": "Adaptation of the Shoulder Disability Questionnaire to the Turkish population, its reliability and validity.", "content": "Adaptation of the Shoulder Disability Questionnaire to the Turkish population, its reliability and validity. The objective of this study was to adapt the Shoulder Disability Questionnaire (SDQ) for use in Turkey, and to test its reliability and validity. Eighty patients with shoulder pain were included in the study. Pain severity at rest, with motion and during sleeping was assessed by using a numeric pain scale. The shoulder's active and passive range of motion were measured by a goniometer and recorded. The Constant-Murley scale was used for functional assessment. The Turkish version of the SDQ, which was adapted by using guidelines, was completed by the patients. To assess reproducibility, the SDQ was completed by 32 patients who did not improve 1 week later. The reliability of the adapted version was good, with high internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha=0.76) and test-retest reliability (Pearson's correlation coefficient=0.88). The Turkish version of the SDQ was found to have a moderate correlation with pain at rest, with motion and during sleeping. The Turkish version of the SDQ was found to be reliable and valid. The moderate correlation of the questionnaire with clinical parameters including pain shows its validity, but the questionnaire should be tested extensively for detecting changes within time, for use in the follow-up and clinical practice."}
{"id": "18703980", "title": "The proximal biceps tendon: tricks and pearls.", "content": "The proximal biceps tendon: tricks and pearls. The diagnosis and treatment of proximal biceps tendon injuries continue to be a challenge. The difficulty lies on determining if there is isolated biceps pathology versus concomitant rotator cuff tears or instability. Imaging modalities, such as magnetic resonance imaging, continue to provide us with the extra tool to help us confirm our suspicion of additional pathology. Symptomatic biceps tendon tears can undergo debridement, tenotomy, or tenodesis if nonoperative measures fail to provide relief. Reports from performing a biceps tenotomy often give similar functional outcomes compared with tenodesis. Cosmetic deformity on the lateral arm may be noted with tenodesis and initial fatigue. Tenodesis may subject the patient to a longer rehabilitation process and increased pain. The decision of which one should be performed lies between the physician and the patient's expectations."}
{"id": "18697951", "title": "Clinical outcomes after subpectoral biceps tenodesis with an interference screw.", "content": "Clinical outcomes after subpectoral biceps tenodesis with an interference screw. Subpectoral biceps tenodesis with an interference screw has been shown to be an effective procedure from both an anatomic and biomechanical perspective. There have been no clinical outcome data on this procedure to date. Subpectoral biceps tenodesis is an effective procedure in eliminating biceps tendinosis symptoms. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Patients who underwent subpectoral biceps tenodesis with a minimum follow-up of 1 year were evaluated using a battery of clinical outcome measures, biceps apex difference, and pain scores. A diagnosis of biceps tendinosis was made using a specific diagnostic protocol coupled with observation of biceps tendon fraying and increased erythema on dry arthroscopy. Between November 2002 and August 2005, 50 patients underwent subpectoral biceps tenodesis. Complete follow-up examinations were performed in 41 of 50 (82%). There were 16 women and 25 men (mean age, 50 years). Follow-up averaged 29 months (range, 12-49 months). The mean scores were 86, Rowe; 81, American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES); 9, Simple Shoulder Test (SST); 87, Constant Murley; and 84, Single Assessment Numeric Evaluation (SANE). There was 1 failure as demonstrated by pull-out of the tendon from the bone tunnel resulting in a \"Popeye\" deformity on physical examination. The mean value for biceps apex distance was 0.15 cm, with 35 of 41 patients demonstrating no difference on physical examination. Twenty-three of 41 patients had complete preoperative and postoperative examinations. All clinical outcome measures demonstrated a statistically significant improvement at follow-up when compared with the preoperative scores. Thirty-one patients had identified lesions of the rotator cuff at time of arthroscopy. The mean ASES score in patients without rotator cuff lesion (89.2 +/- 10.3) was significantly greater than the mean ASES for those with rotator cuff lesion (78.0 +/- 21.0) (P = .0324). The mean SST score in patients without rotator cuff lesion (10.6 +/- 1.5) was significantly greater than the mean ASES score for those with rotator cuff lesion (8.8 +/- 2.7) (P = .0132). Subpectoral biceps tenodesis with an interference screw is a viable treatment option for patients with symptomatic biceps tendinosis. Anterior shoulder pain and biceps symptoms were resolved with this technique. Patients with coexistent rotator cuff lesion had less favorable outcomes."}
{"id": "18696196", "title": "In vivo articular cartilage contact at the glenohumeral joint: preliminary report.", "content": "In vivo articular cartilage contact at the glenohumeral joint: preliminary report. Little is known about normal in vivo mechanics of the glenohumeral joint. Such an understanding would have significant implications for treating disease conditions that disrupt shoulder function. The objective of this study was to determine articular contact locations between the glenoid and humeral articular surfaces in normal subjects during shoulder abduction with neutral, internal, and external rotations. We hypothesized that glenohumeral articular contact is not perfectly centered and is variable in normal subjects tested under physiological loading conditions. Orthogonal fluoroscopic images and magnetic resonance image-based computer models were used to characterize the centroids of articular cartilage contact of the glenohumeral joint at various static, actively stabilized abduction and rotation positions in five healthy shoulders. The shoulder was investigated at 0 degrees , 45 degrees , and 90 degrees abduction with neutral rotation and then at 90 degrees abduction combined with active maximal external rotation and active maximal internal rotation. For all the investigated positions, the centroid of contact on the glenoid surface for each individual, on average, was more than 5 mm away from the geometric center of the glenoid articular surface. Intersubject variation of the centroid of articular contact on the glenoid surface was observed with each investigated position, and 90 degrees abduction with maximal internal rotation showed the least variability. On the humeral head surface, the centroids of contact were located at the superomedial quarter for all investigated positions, except in two subjects' positions at 0 degrees abduction, neutral rotation. The data showed that the in vivo glenohumeral contact locations were variable among subjects, but in all individuals they were not at the center of the glenoid and humeral head surfaces. This confirms that \"ball-in-socket\" kinematics do not govern normal shoulder function. These insights into glenohumeral articular contact may be relevant to an appreciation of the consequences of pathology such as rotator cuff disease and instability."}
{"id": "18691376", "title": "Moment arms of the muscles crossing the anatomical shoulder.", "content": "Moment arms of the muscles crossing the anatomical shoulder. The objective of the present study was to determine the instantaneous moment arms of 18 major muscle sub-regions crossing the glenohumeral joint during coronal-plane abduction and sagittal-plane flexion. Muscle moment-arm data for sub-regions of the shoulder musculature during humeral elevation are currently not available. The tendon-excursion method was used to measure instantaneous muscle moment arms in eight entire upper-extremity cadaver specimens. Significant differences in moment arms were reported across sub-regions of the deltoid, pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, subscapularis, infraspinatus and supraspinatus (P < 0.01). The most effective abductors were the middle and anterior deltoid, whereas the most effective adductors were the teres major, middle and inferior latissimus dorsi (lumbar vertebrae and iliac crest fibers, respectively), and middle and inferior pectoralis major (sternal and lower-costal fibers, respectively). In flexion, the superior pectoralis major (clavicular fibers), anterior and posterior supraspinatus, and anterior deltoid were the most effective flexors, whereas the teres major and posterior deltoid had the largest extensor moment arms. Division of multi-pennate shoulder muscles of broad origins into sub-regions highlighted distinct functional differences across those sub-regions. Most significantly, we found that the superior sub-region of the pectoralis major had the capacity to exert substantial torque in flexion, whereas the middle and inferior sub-regions tended to behave as a stabilizer and extensor, respectively. Knowledge of moment arm differences between muscle sub-regions may assist in identifying the functional effects of muscle sub-region tears, assist surgeons in planning tendon reconstructive surgery, and aid in the development and validation of biomechanical computer models used in implant design."}
{"id": "18689639", "title": "Epizootiology and management of feline leukemia virus in the Florida puma.", "content": "Epizootiology and management of feline leukemia virus in the Florida puma. Feline leukemia virus (FeLV) was not detected in Florida pumas (Puma concolor coryi) in almost 20 yr of surveillance; however, the finding of two FeLV antigen-positive pumas during the 2002-2003 capture season led to an investigation of FeLV in the population. Between January 1990 and April 2007, the proportion of pumas testing FeLV antibody positive increased, with antibody-positive pumas concentrated in the northern portion of puma range. Five of 131 (4%) pumas sampled between July 2000 and April 2007 were viremic, with all cases clustered in Okaloacoochee Slough (OKS). Clinical signs and clinical pathology at capture were absent or included lymphadenopathy, moderate-to-severe anemia, and lymphopenia. All viremic pumas died; causes of death were septicemia (n=2), intraspecific aggression (n=2), and anemia/dehydration (n=1). Outcome after FeLV exposure in pumas was similar to that in domestic cats, with evidence of regressive, latent, and persistent infections. Management of the epizootic included vaccination, and as of April 2007, 52 free-ranging pumas had received one or more inoculations. Vaccinations were concentrated in OKS and in a band between OKS and the remainder of the puma population. There have been no new cases since July 2004; however, the potential for reintroduction of the virus remains."}
{"id": "18686469", "title": "Calcific tendinitis of the biceps-labral complex: a rare cause of acute shoulder pain.", "content": "Calcific tendinitis of the biceps-labral complex: a rare cause of acute shoulder pain. Calcific tendinitis most commonly affects the rotator cuff and has not been previously reported affecting the biceps-labral complex. We report a case of calcific tendinitis of the biceps-labral complex attachment, a rare cause of acute, severe shoulder pain. Clinically, it can be misdiagnosed as supraspinatus tendinitis or septic arthritis of the shoulder joint. Non-operative treatment failed to resolve the symptoms. Arthroscopic debridement of the calcific deposit resulted in resolution of symptoms. Knowledge of this clinical condition and its imaging features is crucial for a correct diagnosis of this uncommon cause of shoulder pain."}
{"id": "18678575", "title": "Cultural adaptation and validation of the Persian version of the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) outcome measure.", "content": "Cultural adaptation and validation of the Persian version of the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) outcome measure. To translate and validate the Persian version of the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) outcome measure (Persian DASH). Cultural translation and psychometric testing. Outpatient departments of orthopaedics surgery, primary care settings, rehabilitation medicine and physical therapy. Two hundred and seventy-one consecutive Persian-speaking patients with upper extremity disorders including subacromial impingement syndrome, rotator cuff disease, epicondylitis, ulnar nerve entrapment, bursitis, instability, carpal tunnel syndrome, tenosynovitis and adhesive capsulitis. The translation and cultural adaptation of the original questionnaire was carried out in accordance with published guidelines. The participants were asked to complete a questionnaire booklet including the Persian DASH, the Short Form General Health Survey (SF-36) and a visual analogue scale (VAS) of pain. In addition, 31 randomly selected patients were asked to complete the questionnaire 48 hours later for the second time. Cronbach's alpha coefficient for the Persian DASH was 0.96. The Persian DASH showed excellent test-retest reliability with intraclass correlation coefficient equal to 0.82 (P<0.01). The correlation between the Persian DASH and the functional scales of the Iranian SF-36 showed desirable results indicating a good convergent validity (Pearson's coefficients ranged from -0.25 to -0.72; P<0.001). The correlation between the Persian DASH and the visual analogue scale was 0.52 (P<0.01). The Persian DASH is a reliable and valid instrument to measure functional status in Persian-speaking patients with upper extremity disorders in Iran. It is simple and easy to use and now can be applied in clinical settings and future outcome studies in Iran and other Persian-speaking communities."}
{"id": "18657747", "title": "Arthroscopic intratendinous repair of the delaminated partial-thickness rotator cuff tear in overhead athletes.", "content": "Arthroscopic intratendinous repair of the delaminated partial-thickness rotator cuff tear in overhead athletes. A distinct type of partial-thickness rotator cuff tear has been observed in overhead athletes, characterized by partial failure of the undersurface of the posterior supraspinatus and anterior infraspinatus tendons with intratendinous delamination. We present a technique of percutaneous intratendinous repair using nonabsorbable mattress sutures designed for the management of articular-side delaminated partial-thickness tears. After tear evaluation and preparation, the torn rotator cuff undersurface is held in a reduced position with a grasper through an anterolateral rotator interval portal while viewing intra-articularly. Two spinal needles are then placed percutaneously through the full thickness of the torn and intact rotator cuff. A polydioxanone suture is passed through each needle, retrieved out the anterior portal, and used to shuttle a single nonabsorbable No. 2 suture through the tissue, creating a mattress suture. Multiple mattress sutures can be placed as dictated by tear size and morphology, with suture retrieval and knot securing then proceeding in the subacromial space. We have adopted this approach with the goals of anatomically re-establishing the rotator cuff insertion and sealing the area of intratendinous delamination while preventing significant alteration to the anatomy of the rotator cuff insertion, which could lead to motion deficits, internal impingement, and potential tear recurrence."}
{"id": "18657744", "title": "Single-row modified mason-allen versus double-row arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: a biomechanical and surface area comparison.", "content": "Single-row modified mason-allen versus double-row arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: a biomechanical and surface area comparison. The purpose of this study was to compare the time-zero biomechanical strength and the surface area of repair between a single-row modified Mason-Allen rotator cuff repair and a double-row arthroscopic repair. Six matched pairs of sheep infraspinatus tendons were repaired by both techniques. Pressure-sensitive film was used to measure the surface area of repair for each configuration. Specimens were biomechanically tested with cyclic loading from 20 N to 30 N for 20 cycles and were loaded to failure at a rate of 1 mm/s. Failure was defined at 5 mm of gap formation. Double-row suture anchor fixation restored a mean surface area of 258.23 +/- 69.7 mm(2) versus 148.08 +/- 75.5 mm(2) for single-row fixation, a 74% increase (P = .025). Both repairs had statistically similar time-zero biomechanics. There was no statistical difference in peak-to-peak displacement or elongation during cyclic loading. Single-row fixation showed a higher mean load to failure (110.26 +/- 26.4 N) than double-row fixation (108.93 +/- 21.8 N). This was not statistically significant (P = .932). All specimens failed at the suture-tendon interface. Double-row suture anchor fixation restores a greater percentage of the anatomic footprint when compared with a single-row Mason-Allen technique. The time-zero biomechanical strength was not significantly different between the 2 study groups. This study suggests that the 2 factors are independent of each other. Surface area and biomechanical strength of fixation are 2 independent factors in the outcome of rotator cuff repair. Maximizing both factors may increase the likelihood of complete tendon-bone healing and ultimately improve clinical outcomes. For smaller tears, a single-row modified Mason-Allen suture technique may provide sufficient strength, but for large amenable tears, a double row can provide both strength and increased surface area for healing."}
{"id": "18657743", "title": "Fatty infiltration does not progress after rotator cuff repair in a rabbit model.", "content": "Fatty infiltration does not progress after rotator cuff repair in a rabbit model. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the changes in fatty infiltration of the rotator cuff after it is repaired. The supraspinatus muscle was unilaterally detached from the greater tuberosity in 15 New Zealand white rabbits. Six weeks after muscle detachment, 5 rabbits were killed to halt the process of fatty infiltration and 10 rabbits underwent primary repair of the rotator cuff. Six months after repair, the remaining 10 rabbits were killed, and the muscle specimens were examined microscopically to evaluate the muscle with respect to fatty infiltration. Fatty infiltration was evident 6 weeks after detachment of the supraspinatus tendon (P = .0012, analysis of variance). This infiltration was greatest at the musculotendinous junction (P = .0005) and decreased toward the muscle origin (P = .29). Six months after repair of the supraspinatus, there was no progression of fatty infiltration in the repaired muscle as compared with the controls (P = .3). Fatty infiltration of the rotator cuff in this animal model occurs as early as 6 weeks after a rotator cuff tear. After repair of the rotator cuff, the process of fatty infiltration does not progress any further. The changes that take place in this rabbit model in the first 6 weeks after a rotator cuff tear appear to be irreversible even with successful rotator cuff repair. The presence of fatty infiltration of a torn rotator cuff does not preclude a successful repair. The repair can prevent further progression and atrophy of the rotator cuff, but the changes that appear in the muscle as early as 6 weeks after a rotator cuff tear appear to be irreversible."}
{"id": "18657742", "title": "Determination of anterior labral repair stress during passive arm motion in a cadaveric model.", "content": "Determination of anterior labral repair stress during passive arm motion in a cadaveric model. The actual forces encountered at the labrum after anterior labral repair have yet to be quantified. The purpose of this study was to determine the amount of force experienced at the glenoid-labrum interface with passive range of motion after an isolated Bankart repair and Bankart repair with capsular shift. In 12 fresh-frozen cadaveric shoulders, anterior-inferior labral tears were created and then instrumented with a modified load cell. The labral lesions were repaired with either an anatomic \"labral only\" technique or a labral repair along with a capsular shift by use of a transglenoid technique. Shoulders were then taken through a series of movements (forward flexion, abduction, external rotation, and abduction and then external rotation) simulating passive range-of-motion rehabilitation while force measurements were taken. Maximum force (in Newtons) on the simulated repairs was recorded. The forces experienced at the labrum showed a statistically significant difference between the group that underwent anatomic \"labral only\" repair and the group that underwent labral repair with capsular shift. The greatest mean force experienced (17.7 N) was in shoulders undergoing the labral repair with capsular shift with the arm in abduction and external rotation. In a transglenoid suture repair technique, the forces experienced at the repair site were significantly less than those determined by previous authors to be necessary to result in failure of the Bankart repair. The results of this study show that the forces experienced at the glenoid-labrum interface are higher when a capsular shift is included with a labral repair as opposed to labral repair alone. This difference was statistically significant. These data suggest that early postoperative rehabilitation may safely allow greater passive range of motion than is presently accepted."}
{"id": "18644738", "title": "Long-term outcomes after deltoid muscular flap transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Long-term outcomes after deltoid muscular flap transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tears. We reviewed 20 cases (18 patients) with massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears that were treated with a deltoid flap transfer. The mean follow-up was 13.9 years. The mean absolute Constant score increased from 49.1 points preoperatively to 71.9 points at the last follow-up (P < .001). Pain scores improved from 5.3 to 13.8 points, regardless of the state of the deltoid flap (P < .001), and the scores for activities of daily living increased from 8.6 to 17 points (P < .001). The mean muscular strength improved from 4.4 points preoperatively to 7.6 points at the last follow-up (P = .009), and 16 patients (80%) had a positive test for supraspinatus strength. Deltoid flaps were completely ruptured in 3 cases in the short term and 10 cases at later follow-up; the mean thickness of nonruptured deltoid flaps was 4.2 mm. The mean acromiohumeral distance decreased from 6.95 mm preoperatively to 3.05 mm postoperatively (P < .00001). Osteoarthritis rates increased from stage 0.6 to stage 2.0 by the classification of Samilson and Prieto (P < .0001). This study shows that the results of a deltoid flap transfer over short- or medium-term follow-up were satisfactory for individuals who wished to return to work or for pain relief, with an improvement in the total function of the shoulder. However, the long-term outcomes were poor; deltoid flaps were ruptured in 10 shoulders (50%), and stage 2 or 3 osteoarthritis occurred in 14 shoulders (70%). Therefore, we do not recommend further use of this procedure in the treatment of massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "18641370", "title": "Hip injuries and labral tears in the national football league.", "content": "Hip injuries and labral tears in the national football league. Injuries to the hip account for approximately 10% of all injuries in football, but definitive diagnosis is often challenging. Although these injuries are often uncomplicated contusions or strains, intra-articular lesions are increasingly found to be sources of hip pain. The objective was to define the incidence and etiologic factors of intra- and extra-articular hip injuries in the National Football League (NFL). Descriptive epidemiology study. The NFL Injury Surveillance System was used to define all hip-related injuries from 1997 to 2006. Injuries were included if the athlete missed more than 2 days. All hip and groin injuries were included for evaluation. The authors also report on NFL players with intra-articular injuries seen at their institution outside of the NFL Injury Surveillance System. There were a total of 23 806 injuries from 1997 to 2006, of which 738 were hip injuries (3.1%) with an average of 12.3 days lost per injury. Muscle strains were the most common injury. Intra-articular injuries resulted in the most time lost. Contact injuries most likely resulted in a contusion, and noncontact injuries most often resulted in a muscle strain. In the authors' institutional experience, many of the athletes with labral tears have persistent adductor strains that do not improve despite adequate therapy. Hip injuries represent a small but substantial percentage of injuries that occur in the NFL. A majority of these injuries are minor, with a return to play within 2 weeks. Intra-articular injuries are more serious and result in a significant loss of playing time. The \"sports hip triad\" (labral tear, adductor strain, and rectus strain) is described as a common injury pattern in the elite athlete."}
{"id": "18636397", "title": "Tumorous calcification causing carpal tunnel syndrome.", "content": "Tumorous calcification causing carpal tunnel syndrome. There is little information on solitary tumorous calcification causing carpal tunnel syndrome in the literature. This study describes our experience with surgically treated cases of solitary tumorous calcification causing carpal tunnel syndrome. Seven patients with symptomatic carpal tunnel syndrome who had tumorous calcification in the carpal tunnel confirmed by radiographical examinations and had then undergone open incisional carpal tunnel release were reviewed. The precise location and the appearance of the calcified mass were confirmed with the preoperative radiographic examinations and the operative records. The additional histology and the composition analysis of the calcified mass were also reviewed in five removed calcifications. Radiographs of each hand revealed a mass of calcification lying anterior to the capitate bone in the carpal tunnel. Intraoperatively, an oval calcified nodule, measuring 10 x 10 x 10 - 18 mm, was observed overlying the capitate, attached firmly to the palmar radiocarpal extrinsic ligament. A composition with an average of 60 % basic calcium phosphate was revealed by infrared absorption spectrometry. Histological sections showed a calcified deposit surrounded by fibrocartilagenous tissue in three cases. These facts suggest that the pathogenesis of tumorous calcification causing carpal tunnel syndrome is comparable with that of calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff in which a cell-mediated reactive process plays an important role at the tendon insertion."}
{"id": "18629425", "title": "Tuberculosis of the shoulder joint with impingement syndrome as initial presentation.", "content": "Tuberculosis of the shoulder joint with impingement syndrome as initial presentation. Tuberculosis of the shoulder can be difficult to diagnose in the early stages. If not diagnosed early, bony tuberculosis may reduce quality of life. Therefore, tuberculosis should be suspected in cases of long-standing pain in the shoulder. It is necessary to keep tuberculosis in the differential diagnosis of impingement syndrome of the shoulder. We report a young patient presenting with features suggestive of impingement syndrome. After failure to improve with adequate therapy, the patient was further investigated and diagnosed as having early tuberculosis of the shoulder joint. The patient had good clinical recovery with conservative management. The importance of considering early tuberculosis as a differential diagnosis in impingement syndrome is highlighted."}
{"id": "18621553", "title": "Consequences of a Perthes-Bankart lesion in twenty cadaver shoulders.", "content": "Consequences of a Perthes-Bankart lesion in twenty cadaver shoulders. This study investigated whether an anteroinferior capsulolabral lesion is sufficient to allow the humeral head to dislocate and whether a limited inferior approach for creating the lesions influenced the results compared with an all-arthroscopic approach. Four ligamentous zones of the glenohumeral capsule were sequentially detached from the glenoid neck and labrum in 20 cadaver shoulders through an inferior approach. Before and after each resection step, inferior stability was tested using a sulcus test and anterior stability using a drawer test and an apprehension maneuver. Dislocation was only possible when at least 3 zones were cut. This study confirmed that superior and posterior extension of the classic anteroinferior Perthes-Bankart lesion is necessary before the capsular restraint in external rotation and abduction is overcome and dislocation occurs. Lesions other than the Perthes-Bankart need to be investigated when recurrent dislocation is treated, because this anteroinferior injury is most probably not the sole factor responsible for the instability."}
{"id": "18618117", "title": "Shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Shoulder arthroplasty. Shoulder prostheses are now commonly used. Clinical results and patient satisfaction are usually good. The most commonly used types are humeral hemiarthroplasty, unconstrained total shoulder arthroplasty, and semiconstrained inversed shoulder prosthesis. Complications of shoulder arthroplasty depend on the prosthesis type used. The most common complications are prosthetic loosening, glenohumeral instability, periprosthetic fracture, rotator cuff tears, nerve injury, infection, and deltoid muscle dysfunction. Standard radiographs are the basis of both pre- and postoperative imaging. Skeletal scintigraphy has a rather limited role because there is overlap between postoperative changes which may persist for up to 1 year and early loosening and infection. Sonography is most commonly used postoperatively in order to demonstrate complications (hematoma and abscess formation) but may also be useful for the demonstration of rotator cuff tears occurring during follow-up. CT is useful for the demonstration of bone details both pre- and postoperatively. MR imaging is mainly used preoperatively, for instance for demonstration of rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "18612582", "title": "Bilateral variation of the pectoralis minor muscle discovered during practical dissection.", "content": "Bilateral variation of the pectoralis minor muscle discovered during practical dissection. We describe a case of an original insertion of the pectoralis minor on the coracohumeral ligament, supraspinatus tendon and the capsule of the glenohumeral joint. This variation has been described in anatomy textbooks since the nineteenth century. The peculiarity of this case is that the right shoulder presented type 2 and the left type 1 of the three varieties described by Le Double in 1897. Le Double (1843-1913) was a French anatomist who wrote a treaty on anatomical variations, in particular those of the muscle. Lately, only three publications have reported this variation in anatomic studies. Some authors have described the rotator cuff syndrome caused by this variation and an ultrasound study has demonstrated a frequency of 9.57% for the detection of this variation. It is possible to try and find this variation while investigating in order to diagnose impingement, through ultrasound, CT arthrography or MRI. We believe that this variation should be taken into consideration by surgeons during surgical procedures and arthroscopy."}
{"id": "18608363", "title": "Autologous platelet rich plasma for arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. A pilot study.", "content": "Autologous platelet rich plasma for arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. A pilot study. Arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears can produce excellent results. The application of platelet rich plasma during arthroscopic rotator cuff repair is safe, and produces results which do not deteriorate over time. A total of 14 patients undergoing arthroscopic repair of a rotator cuff tear received an intra-operative application of autologous platelet rich plasma in combination with an autologous thrombin component after tear repair. Following the procedure, patients were given a standardized rehabilitation protocol, and followed for 24 months. Outcome measures included a pain score (VAS) as well as functional scoring (UCLA and Constant scores). Of the original 14 patients, 13 were seen at a final follow-up appointment 24 months after the index operation. Patients demonstrated a significant decrease in VAS scores and significant increases in the UCLA and Constant scores at 6, 12 and 24-month follow-ups compared to a pre-operative score. No adverse events related to this application were noted during the procedure. The application of platelet rich plasma during arthroscopic rotator cuff repair is safe and effective, and produces results which seem to be stable with time. A prospective randomized investigation will be necessary to ascertain the efficacy of platelet rich plasma application to improve or expedite the surgical outcome following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair."}
{"id": "18608021", "title": "Shoulder magnetic resonance arthrography: a prospective randomized study of anterior and posterior ultrasonography-guided contrast injections.", "content": "Shoulder magnetic resonance arthrography: a prospective randomized study of anterior and posterior ultrasonography-guided contrast injections. Magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography is an accurate imaging method for internal shoulder derangements and rotator cuff pathologies. Both anterior and posterior contrast injection techniques, under palpatory, fluoroscopic, or ultrasonographic guidance have been described in the literature. However, clinical comparisons of the injection techniques remain few. To compare the performance of anterior and posterior ultrasonography (US)-guided arthrography injections of the shoulder regarding patient discomfort and influence on diagnostic MR reading, and to illustrate the typical artifacts resulting from contrast leakage in the respective techniques. 43 MR arthrographies were prospectively randomized into anterior and posterior US-guided contrast injections and performed by two radiologists, with the study of artifacts from contrast leakage. Pain from the injections was assessed by a survey utilizing a 100-mm visual analogue scale (VAS). Of the 23 anterior injections, nine caused contrast artifacts in the subscapular tendon, and in three the leakage extended further anteriorly. Of the 20 posterior injections, 12 showed injection artifacts of the rotator cuff, extending outside the cuff in seven. Two of the anterior and none of the posterior artifacts compromised diagnostic quality. In posterior injections, the leakage regularly occurred at the caudal edge of the infraspinatus muscle and was easily distinguishable from rotator cuff tears. All patients completed the pain survey. Mean VAS scores were 25.0 (median 18, SD 22) for anterior, and 25.4 (median 16, SD 25) for posterior injections. The two radiologists achieved different mean VAS scores but closely agreed as to anterior and posterior VAS scores. Arthrography injections were fairly simple to perform under US guidance. Patient discomfort for anterior and posterior injections was equally minor. A tailored approach utilizing anterior or posterior injections, depending on anticipated shoulder pathology, is recommended. Because in posterior injections all artifacts were posterior and readily recognizable, it seems especially suitable for suspected anterior rotator cuff, joint capsule, and labral pathologies."}
{"id": "18607647", "title": "Management in non-traumatic arm, neck and shoulder complaints: differences between diagnostic groups.", "content": "Management in non-traumatic arm, neck and shoulder complaints: differences between diagnostic groups. Arm, neck and/or shoulder complaints are common in western societies. In the Netherlands, general practice guidelines are issued on shoulder pain and epicondylitis only. Little is known about actual management of the total range of diagnoses. The objectives of the study are: to determine management in patients consulting the GP with a new episode of non-traumatic arm neck and shoulder complaints up to 6 months after the first consultation. To evaluate differences in management between patients with specific diagnoses versus non-specific diagnoses and between specific diagnostic groups. In a prospective cohort study in general practice. We recruited 682 eligible patients. Data on diagnosis, management, patient- and complaint-characteristics were collected. Co-occurrence of treatment options was presented in scaled rectangles. After 6 months, additional diagnostic tests had been performed in 18% of the patients, mainly radiographic examination (14%). Further, 49% had been referred for physiotherapy and 12% to the medical specialist. Patients with specific diagnoses were more frequently referred for specialist treatment, and patients with non-specific diagnoses for physiotherapy. Corticosteroid injections (17%) were mainly applied specific diagnoses (e.g. impingement syndrome, frozen shoulder, carpal tunnel and M. Quervain). Frequencies of prescribed medication (51%) did not differ between specific and non-specific diagnoses. In 19% of the patients no referral, prescribed analgesics or injection was applied. Braces (4%) were mainly prescribed in epicondylitis. Overall, management most frequently consisted of prescribed analgesics and referral for physiotherapy. Specific and non-specific diagnostic subgroups differed in the frequency corticosteroid injections were applied, and referrals to physiotherapy and to a medical specialist."}
{"id": "18605360", "title": "Risk factors for idiopathic frozen shoulder.", "content": "Risk factors for idiopathic frozen shoulder. Idiopathic frozen shoulder is a self-limiting regional skeletal problem of unknown etiology. Clinically, patients first experience a phase of pain, progressing to a freezing stage when glenohumeral motion is lost, followed by a thawing phase when pain gradually subsides and most of the lost motion returns. To identify possible specific and non-specific risk factors for idiopathic frozen shoulder. We compared the medical histories, drug treatment, previous hospital as well as health management organization blood tests of 126 new consecutive frozen shoulder patients from a shoulder clinic to those of an age-matched control group of 98 consecutive patients from an orthopedic foot and ankle clinic and to the regional population disease prevalence registry. Frozen shoulder was classified as idiopathic only if there was no history of trauma and no evidence of a rotator cuff tear. Among the frozen shoulder patients 29.4% had diabetes and 13.5% had thyroid disorders. The risk ratio for diabetes in the frozen shoulder group was 5.9 for males (95% confidence interval 4.1-8.4, P< 0.001) and 5.0 for females (95% CI 3.3-7.5, P< 0.001). The risk ratio for thyroid disorders among females with frozen shoulder was 7.3 (95% CI 4.8-11.1, P= 0.001). No significant difference was found in the prevalence of thyroid disorders between frozen shoulder and the control group, but there was a significantly higher prevalence of diabetes in males and a trend for higher prevalence in females in the frozen shoulder group. Physicians should be aware that diabetes is a specific risk factor for idiopathic frozen shoulder in both males and females and thyroid disorders are a non-specific risk factor in females only."}
{"id": "18599231", "title": "Radiographic evaluation of the shoulder.", "content": "Radiographic evaluation of the shoulder. Imaging evaluation of shoulder disorders should begin with radiographs. Several radiographic projections have been developed to best show areas affected by particular clinical disorders. This paper reviews the radiographic examinations that are used at our hospital for evaluating arthritis, impingement, trauma and instability. The techniques used to obtain each of these radiographs are briefly described to better understand the resulting images. An organized approach to assessment of these radiographs is delineated including evaluation of the ABCs (alignment, bone density, cartilage spaces and soft tissues). The expected radiographic findings in normal individuals and in patients with common abnormal conditions are reviewed."}
{"id": "18595743", "title": "Biomechanical comparison of single-row arthroscopic rotator cuff repair technique versus transosseous repair technique.", "content": "Biomechanical comparison of single-row arthroscopic rotator cuff repair technique versus transosseous repair technique. This study determined the effect of tear size on gap formation of single-row simple-suture arthroscopic rotator cuff repair (ARCR) vs transosseous Mason-Allen suture open RCR (ORCR) in 13 pairs of human cadaveric shoulders. A massive tear was created in 6 pairs and a large tear in 7. Repairs were cyclically tested in low-load and high-load conditions, with no significant difference in gap formation. Under low-load, gapping was greater in massive tears. Under high-load, there was a trend toward increased gap with ARCR for large tears. All repairs of massive tears failed in high-load. Gapping was greater posteriorly in massive tears for both techniques. Gap formation of a modeled RCR depends upon the tear size. ARCR of larger tears may have higher failure rates than ORCR, and the posterior aspect appears to be the site of maximum gapping. Specific attention should be directed toward maximizing initial fixation of larger rotator cuff tears, especially at the posterior aspect."}
{"id": "18594094", "title": "Tensile strain in the anterior part of the acetabular labrum during provocative maneuvering of the normal hip.", "content": "Tensile strain in the anterior part of the acetabular labrum during provocative maneuvering of the normal hip. Injury of the acetabular labrum is a well recognized cause of hip pain in the young, active patient. The exact mechanism of these injuries remains a subject of speculation, although femoroacetabular impingement and twisting maneuvers have both been proposed as critical factors. We examined the hypothesis that torsional maneuvers of the morphologically normal hip joint generate mechanical strain within the acetabular labrum, particularly in areas that are prone to injury. Seven human cadaver specimens were loaded during five separate maneuvers with external rotation or abduction torques applied to the hip in neutral alignment and in moderate flexion or extension. Tensile strain within the acetabular labrum was measured with use of the technique of roentgen stereophotogrammetric analysis. Substantial tensile strains were generated within the labrum during each of the loading maneuvers, with no significant difference in strain being noted between the maneuvers. Maximum strain in the anterior part of the labrum averaged 13.6% +/- 7.8% in the axial direction and 8.4% +/- 3.0% in the circumferential direction. The highest mean and maximum strain values were found at the two o'clock position of the labrum, with the highest strain concentration at the bone-labrum interface. External rotation and abduction maneuvers of the morphologically normal human hip joint in moderate flexion or extension can generate substantial tensile strains in the anterior part of the acetabular labrum. This finding supports the hypothesis that injury to the anterior part of the labrum may occur from recurrent twisting or pivoting maneuvers of the hip joint in moderate flexion or extension without femoroacetabular impingement."}
{"id": "18592217", "title": "The use of split deltoid-flap in the treatment of massive rotator cuff defects: a retrospective study of 61 patients.", "content": "The use of split deltoid-flap in the treatment of massive rotator cuff defects: a retrospective study of 61 patients. Massive and irreparable rotator cuff tears are a challenge for the orthopaedic surgeon. The purpose of this study was to report our experience with the treatment of massive and irreparable defects of the rotator cuff with a modified deltoid split transfer. Between 1996 and 2004, for all patients suffering from full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff (> 5 cm tears in diameter, involving two or more tendons) were operated with a modified deltoid split transfer. A total of 61 patients (39 females and 22 males; age 61.9: range 49-75 years) were operated. Duration of symptoms before surgery averaged 9.6 months (range 3.5-14 months). The patients were followed for an average of 46 months (range 24-64 months). The operation included an arthroscopic evaluation, acromioplasty with resection of the lateral clavicular end, resection of the acromioclavicular joint and where necessary biceps tenodesis. The cuff defect was repaired by transfer of half thickness anterior deltoid-flap (3 cm x 5 cm) into the defect. All patients were evaluated both preoperatively and postoperatively with regard to pain, ability to perform activities of daily life, range of motion, strength and satisfaction. The patients subjectively rated their results--49 (80%) excellent or good outcome, seven moderate and five poor. Preoperatively, the Constant amounted 33.5 +/- 7.74 points. At follow-up, the score significantly increased to 77.57 +/- 19.74 points. The acromiohumeral distance increased from 5.1 +/- 1.4 mm to 9.1 +/- 1.5 mm. Pain free flexion improved from an average 90 degrees to an average 165 degrees (P < 0.01), and abduction improved from an average 110 degrees to an average 160 degrees (P < 0.01). The mean external rotation increased from 40 degrees to 65 degrees (P < 0.01), and internal rotation increased from 50 degrees to 70 degrees (P = 0.06). In the MRI and ultrasound examination, all patients had intact flap, except the three patients with flap necrosis. There were eight complications--three haematomas, two superficial wound infections which did not influence the outcome, and three fibrotic transformation after an early aseptic necrosis of the deltoid flap, which were re-operated. This technique is easy to perform, and it is possible to obtain a satisfactory outcome after repair of massive tears of the rotator cuff. A substantial decrease of pain, increased stability, an increase range of motion and strength can be achieved, with proper rehabilitation."}
{"id": "18591761", "title": "The clinical efficacy of kinesio tape for shoulder pain: a randomized, double-blinded, clinical trial.", "content": "The clinical efficacy of kinesio tape for shoulder pain: a randomized, double-blinded, clinical trial. Prospective, randomized, double-blinded, clinical trial using a repeated-measures design. To determine the short-term clinical efficacy of Kinesio Tape (KT) when applied to college students with shoulder pain, as compared to a sham tape application. Tape is commonly used as an adjunct for treatment and prevention of musculoskeletal injuries. A majority of tape applications that are reported in the literature involve nonstretch tape. The KT method has gained significant popularity in recent years, but there is a paucity of evidence on its use. Forty-two subjects clinically diagnosed with rotator cuff tendonitis/impingement were randomly assigned to 1 of 2 groups: therapeutic KT group or sham KT group. Subjects wore the tape for 2 consecutive 3-day intervals. Self-reported pain and disability and pain-free active ranges of motion (ROM) were measured at multiple intervals to assess for differences between groups. The therapeutic KT group showed immediate improvement in pain-free shoulder abduction (mean +/- SD increase, 16.9 degrees +/- 23.2 degrees ; P = .005) after tape application. No other differences between groups regarding ROM, pain, or disability scores at any time interval were found. KT may be of some assistance to clinicians in improving pain-free active ROM immediately after tape application for patients with shoulder pain. Utilization of KT for decreasing pain intensity or disability for young patients with suspected shoulder tendonitis/impingement is not supported. Therapy, level 1b-."}
{"id": "18591599", "title": "Measurement of blood flow in the rotator cuff using laser Doppler flowmetry.", "content": "Measurement of blood flow in the rotator cuff using laser Doppler flowmetry. The aim of this study was to define the microcirculation of the normal rotator cuff during arthroscopic surgery and investigate whether it is altered in diseased cuff tissue. Blood flow was measured intra-operatively by laser Doppler flowmetry. We investigated six different zones of each rotator cuff during the arthroscopic examination of 56 consecutive patients undergoing investigation for impingement, cuff tears or instability; there were 336 measurements overall. The mean laser Doppler flowmetry flux was significantly higher at the edges of the tear in torn cuffs (43.1, 95% confidence interval (CI) 37.8 to 48.4) compared with normal cuffs (32.8, 95% CI 27.4 to 38.1; p = 0.0089). It was significantly lower across all anatomical locations in cuffs with impingement (25.4, 95% CI 22.4 to 28.5) compared with normal cuffs (p = 0.0196), and significantly lower in cuffs with impingement compared with torn cuffs (p < 0.0001). Laser Doppler flowmetry analysis of the rotator cuff blood supply indicated a significant difference between the vascularity of the normal and the pathological rotator cuff. We were unable to demonstrate a functional hypoperfusion area or so-called 'critical zone' in the normal cuff. The measured flux decreases with advancing impingement, but there is a substantial increase at the edges of rotator cuff tears. This might reflect an attempt at repair."}
{"id": "18591598", "title": "The detection of full thickness rotator cuff tears using ultrasound.", "content": "The detection of full thickness rotator cuff tears using ultrasound. We have examined the accuracy of 143 consecutive ultrasound scans of patients who subsequently underwent shoulder arthroscopy for rotator-cuff disease. All the scans and subsequent surgery were performed by an orthopaedic surgeon using a portable ultrasound scanner in a one-stop clinic. There were 78 full thickness tears which we confirmed by surgery or MRI. Three moderate-size tears were assessed as partial-thickness at ultrasound scan (false negative) giving a sensitivity of 96.2%. One partially torn and two intact cuffs were over-diagnosed as small full-thickness tears by ultrasound scan (false positive) giving a specificity of 95.4%. This gave a positive predictive value of 96.2% and a negative predictive value of 95.4%. Estimation of tear size was more accurate for large and massive tears at 96.5% than for moderate (88.8%) and small tears (91.6%). These results are equivalent to those obtained by several studies undertaken by experienced radiologists. We conclude that ultrasound imaging of the shoulder performed by a sufficiently-trained orthopaedic surgeon is a reliable time-saving practice to identify rotator-cuff integrity."}
{"id": "18589276", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging appearance of the shoulder after subacromial injection with corticosteroids can mimic a rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging appearance of the shoulder after subacromial injection with corticosteroids can mimic a rotator cuff tear. Subacromial injections have been used to treat rotator cuff problems. Previous studies have noted the difficulty in performing accurate injections into this area. In addition, one must also question the effects that misplaced corticosteroids could have on the surrounding tissues. In this case, a 51-year-old woman presented with several weeks of left shoulder pain and was diagnosed with rotator cuff tendonitis. After a subacromial injection with betamethasone and lidocaine, the patient noted 3 weeks of near complete pain relief, followed by a return of her symptoms. A magnetic resonance imaging scan obtained 7 weeks after the injection showed a full-thickness tear of the supraspinatus tendon. Five weeks later, the patient underwent arthroscopic evaluation of the shoulder and subacromial decompression. The rotator cuff tendons were noted to be intact and normal in appearance. The patient eventually had full resolution of her symptoms. Six months postoperatively, she underwent a new scan that showed a normal supraspinatus tendon. Apparently, the subacromial injection penetrated the anterior half of the supraspinatus tendon, causing a transient effect and signal change. One should use caution in the interpretation of magnetic resonance imaging scans of the shoulder soon after the injection of corticosteroids."}
{"id": "18589262", "title": "An anatomic study of the subscapularis insertion to the humerus: the subscapularis footprint.", "content": "An anatomic study of the subscapularis insertion to the humerus: the subscapularis footprint. The purpose of this study was to elucidate the morphology of the subscapularis insertion into the humerus. Using 40 cadaveric shoulders from 12 men and 8 women (mean age, 91 years), we measured the maximum longitudinal (superior-to-inferior direction) and transverse (medial-to-lateral direction) length of the subscapularis insertion. The size of the bare area between the articular cartilage edge and the most medial tendon insertion at the proximal end, at the maximum transverse distance, and at the distal end was also measured. In all cadavers the subscapularis insertion consisted of a proximal tendinous part and a distal muscular part. The mean longitudinal and transverse length of the insertion was 39.5 mm (SD, 6.7 mm) and 16.0 mm (SD, 2.2 mm), respectively. The mean longitudinal length of the tendon part was 26.3 mm (SD, 2.3 mm). The mean size of the bare area at the proximal end, at the maximum transverse distance, and at the distal end was 3.2 mm (SD, 1.7 mm), 6.5 mm (SD, 1.8 mm), and 16.8 mm (SD, 7.1 mm), respectively. The longitudinal and transverse length of the insertion and the size of the bare area at the maximum transverse distance and the distal end position were significantly greater in male specimens than in female specimens (P < .05). None of the measurements differed significantly on different sides. The subscapularis footprint was broad proximally and tapered distally, exhibiting a comma shape. It consisted of a proximal tendinous part and a distal muscular part. With the exception of the bare area at the proximal end, the measured values were significantly larger in male specimens than in female specimens. The precise anatomic measurements presented here are useful for the evaluation and repair of tears of the subscapularis."}
{"id": "18589261", "title": "Arthroscopic debridement of massive irreparable rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Arthroscopic debridement of massive irreparable rotator cuff tears. The purpose of this study was to evaluate clinical and radiologic results of arthroscopic debridement of massive irreparable rotator cuff tears. Thirty-one patients (mean age, 70.6 years) were retrospectively reviewed for a mean of 47 months (range, 24 to 69 months) after arthroscopic debridement of an irreparable rotator cuff tear. Operative treatment included biceps tenotomy in 24 cases (77.4%). No acromioplasty was performed to maintain the coracoacromial arch. Clinical outcome was assessed by use of the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) and Constant scores, as well as measurement of abduction strength and elbow flexion strength compared with the contralateral side at final follow-up. Preoperative and follow-up radiographs were evaluated for acromiohumeral distance and grade of osteoarthritis according to the Samilson-Prieto classification. The mean ASES score was significantly improved from 24.0 to 69.8 points at follow-up. Scores for pain were reduced from 7.8 to 2.9 points on a visual analog scale ranging from 0 to 10 points. The age- and gender-adjusted Constant score was 72.2%. Radiologic analysis showed progression of osteoarthritis in 10 cases (32.3%); this had no influence on the ASES score. Acromiohumeral distance decreased from 8.3 to 7.0 mm. Biceps strength was 6.1 kg on the operated side and 6.3 kg on the contralateral side. Abduction strength was significantly lower on the operated side at 2.6 kg versus 3.7 kg on the contralateral side. No complication related to the procedure was reported. For elderly patients with low functional demands, arthroscopic debridement in combination with biceps tenotomy is a safe procedure and leads to significant functional improvement without loss of biceps strength. Progression of osteoarthritic changes cannot be prevented, but no influence on the clinical result could be shown. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "18587506", "title": "Peroneal nerve compression secondary to an anomalous biceps femoris muscle in an adolescent athlete.", "content": "Peroneal nerve compression secondary to an anomalous biceps femoris muscle in an adolescent athlete. Common peroneal nerve compression is a well-recognized entity that can cause severe debilitating clinical manifestations. The current literature describes numerous locations and mechanisms of compression, including both structural and systemic causes. Anatomical variants should be considered part of the differential diagnosis in peroneal nerve impingement. We present the case of a 14-year-old basketball player with footdrop secondary to compression of the common peroneal nerve from an accessory biceps femoris muscle, which was treated by neurolysis. In addition, we review the systematic workup of patients with nerve compression."}
{"id": "18587147", "title": "Sickness absence for upper limb disorders in a French company.", "content": "Sickness absence for upper limb disorders in a French company. Many studies have shown that musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) have important economic and social consequences, including substantial costs and loss of productivity for industries. However, little is known about the impact of these conditions on sickness absence in industries. To describe the sickness absence taken for MSDs of the upper limb (ULD) in a French company and to study their association with demographic and socioeconomic factors. Sickness absence from 2000 to 2004 (5543 episodes) was studied using data from the company's epidemiology registry and a questionnaire for each episode was completed by physicians. Incidence rates were calculated according to the gender, socioeconomic status and age. The incidence rate of absence for ULD was six episodes per 1000 person-years. Rotator cuff syndrome and carpal tunnel syndrome were the most frequent diagnoses. Less frequent diagnoses, such as Guyon's canal syndrome, had longer sickness absence (55.3 days). Incidence was higher for women and blue-collar workers. Incidence also increased with age. These results are consistent with other studies. Although absenteeism cannot be a surrogate for disease burden or incidence, it may be useful in the prevention of ULD, as it identifies the most disabling diagnoses and the working groups most at risk."}
{"id": "18585063", "title": "The range of glenohumeral joint motion in activities of daily living after rotator cuff repair: a cadaveric biomechanical study.", "content": "The range of glenohumeral joint motion in activities of daily living after rotator cuff repair: a cadaveric biomechanical study. This study was conducted to quantify the restriction of glenohumeral motion and activities of daily living (ADL) after rotator cuff repair. Eight fresh cadaveric shoulders were used. The ranges of passive shoulder motions in models of the intact cuff tendon, and repaired small cuff and large cuff tears were measured using a 6-degree-of-freedom electromagnetic tracking device. The range of motion for reach, perineal care, hair combing, and washing the axilla were also measured as simulated ADL. Elevation, horizontal adduction, and abduction were significantly restricted in the repaired small-tear model, whereas glenohumeral motion in all directions was significantly restricted in the repaired large-tear model. The repair of the small tear significantly restricted perineal care alone, whereas the repair of the large tear significantly restricted all ADL except hair combing. These findings could be helpful in managing restricted shoulder motion and in instructing patients in acceptable ADL after rotator cuff repair."}
{"id": "18584164", "title": "Muscle cocontraction following dynamics learning.", "content": "Muscle cocontraction following dynamics learning. Coactivation of antagonist muscles is readily observed early in motor learning, in interactions with unstable mechanical environments and in motor system pathologies. Here we present evidence that the nervous system uses coactivation control far more extensively and that patterns of cocontraction during movement are closely tied to the specific requirements of the task. We have examined the changes in cocontraction that follow dynamics learning in tasks that are thought to involve finely sculpted feedforward adjustments to motor commands. We find that, even following substantial training, cocontraction varies in a systematic way that depends on both movement direction and the strength of the external load. The proportion of total activity that is due to cocontraction nevertheless remains remarkably constant. Moreover, long after indices of motor learning and electromyographic measures have reached asymptotic levels, cocontraction still accounts for a significant proportion of total muscle activity in all phases of movement and in all load conditions. These results show that even following dynamics learning in predictable and stable environments, cocontraction forms a central part of the means by which the nervous system regulates movement."}
{"id": "18564471", "title": "Rotator cuff strength following open subscapularis tendon repair.", "content": "Rotator cuff strength following open subscapularis tendon repair. The purpose of this study was to evaluate supraspinatus and subscapularis strength following repair of either isolated or anterosuperior subscapularis tears associated with a supraspinatus tear. Open subscapularis repairs were done in 24 patients, 12 isolated and 12 anterosuperior. At an average follow-up of 40 months, UCLA, ASES, and Constant scores were recorded. Subscapularis and supraspinatus strengths were tested using a spring gauge. Ultrasound scanning was performed in 20 patients. Average scores were 27 UCLA, 77 ASES and 90 relative Constant. Subscapularis strength was 92% of the non-operated shoulder. Supraspinatus strength was 90%. Statistical analysis showed a significant decrease in supraspinatus strength in the anterosuperior group. No other significant differences were noted. Ultrasound scanning showed an intact subscapularis tendon in all. Full thickness supraspinatus tears were found in 5 and partial thickness in 1. Not the subscapularis, but the supraspinatus determines the outcome of anterosuperior repairs, with more re-tears and decreased strength."}
{"id": "18562731", "title": "Abnormalities of the lesser tuberosity on radiography and MRI: association with subscapularis tendon lesions.", "content": "Abnormalities of the lesser tuberosity on radiography and MRI: association with subscapularis tendon lesions. The objective of our study was to retrospectively evaluate the association between abnormalities of the lesser tuberosity and subscapularis tendon lesions. Cortical irregularities and cysts of the lesser tuberosity were evaluated on radiographs and MR images in 70 patients: 31 with normal subscapularis tendons and 39 with subscapularis tendon tears. These imaging findings were correlated with subscapularis tendon tears diagnosed during arthroscopy and with fatty atrophy of the subscapularis muscle seen on MR images. Correlations between imaging findings, patient age, history of trauma, and the reference standards were assessed using gamma coefficients. Interreader agreement was calculated using kappa values. For the diagnosis of subscapularis tendon tears, the sensitivity of cortical irregularities and cysts on radiographs was 44%/51% (reader 1/reader 2) and 21%/21%, respectively; specificity was 65%/68% and 87%/87%. The sensitivity of cortical irregularities and cysts on MRI was 64%/72% and 36%/39%. Specificity was 48%/45% and 81%/77%. For fatty atrophy of the subscapularis muscle, the sensitivity of cortical irregularities and cysts on radiographs was 67%/73% and 17%/27%, respectively; the specificity was 63%/63% and 83%/85%. Significant (p < 0.05) positive correlations were found between cortical irregularities and surgical grade of subscapularis tendon tear for reader 2 (radiography, gamma = 0.39; MRI, gamma = 0.45) and between lesser tuberosity abnormalities and patient age (gamma = 0.11 and 0.43) for both readers. Interobserver agreement of imaging findings varied from moderate to substantial (kappa = 0.50-0.76). Abnormalities of the lesser tuberosity are moderately associated with subscapularis tendon tears and patient age. Cysts seen in the lesser tuberosity on shoulder radiographs or MR images are relatively specific for subscapularis tendon tears and muscle atrophy."}
{"id": "18560194", "title": "The interrater reliability of 4 clinical tests used to assess individuals with musculoskeletal hip pain.", "content": "The interrater reliability of 4 clinical tests used to assess individuals with musculoskeletal hip pain. Descriptive and reliability study. To evaluate the interrater reliability of the FABER test, flexion-internal rotation-adduction impingement test, log roll test, and the palpation of the greater trochanter for tenderness. Clinical examination for individuals with musculoskeletal hip pain is believed to provide critical diagnostic information. However, there is very limited information in the literature on the reproducibility of examination techniques for the hip region. Seventy subjects were evaluated prospectively by an orthopaedic surgeon and physical therapist. Subjects had a mean age of 42 years (range 18-76 years; SD 15.4) and included 32 (46%) females and 38 (54%) males. Subject diagnoses were as follows: degenerative joint disease (n=27 [39% of subjects]), labral tear (n=35 [50% of subjects]), femoroacetabular impingement (n=48 [69% of subjects]), capsular laxity (n=28 [40% of subjects]), trochanteric bursitis (n=29 [41% of subjects]), iliopsoas tendonitis (n=10 [14% of subjects]), and adductor strain (n=2 [3% of subjects)]. Subjects could have more than 1 diagnosis. Kappa, prevalence indexes, bias indexes, and maximal attainable kappa were calculated. Kappa (kappa) coefficients with 95% confidence intervals (CI) were as follows: FABER test kappa was 0.63 (95% CI: 0.43-0.83); flexion-internal rotation-adduction impingement test kappa was 0.58 (95% CI: 0.29-0.87); log roll test kappa was 0.61 (95% CI: 0.41-0.81); and greater trochanteric tenderness kappa was 0.66 (95% CI: 0.48-0.84). Bias indexes were low (0.06-0.08) for all 4 tests while prevalence indexes were low (0.03-0.37) for 3 of the 4 tests. The flexion-internal rotation-adduction impingement test had a high prevalence index (0.76), with a higher proportion of positive tests. The kappa values for the FABER test, log roll test, and assessment of greater trochanteric tenderness were greater than 0.40 (fair level of agreement) at a 95% confidence level. The low reliability obtained for the flexion-internal rotation-adduction impingement test may be related to a prevalence concern."}
{"id": "18559470", "title": "The relationship of the lateral cord of the brachial plexus to the coracoid process during arthroscopic coracoid surgery: a dynamic cadaveric study.", "content": "The relationship of the lateral cord of the brachial plexus to the coracoid process during arthroscopic coracoid surgery: a dynamic cadaveric study. Arthroscopic coracoid decompression is performed for coracoid impingement and has also been advocated for arthroscopic repair of tears of the subscapularis tendon, placing the lateral cord or the musculocutaneous nerve at risk of injury. The dynamic relationship of the lateral cord to the coracoid while the upper limb is in abduction and traction in the shoulder arthroscopy position is not clear. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the dynamic relationship of the lateral cord of the brachial plexus to the coracoid process during varying degrees of upper limb abduction in traction. Descriptive laboratory study. The musculocutaneous nerves of 15 fresh-frozen cadaveric shoulders were carefully dissected and identified without mobilization of the nerve. The musculocutaneous nerve was then injected with radiopaque contrast mixed with methylene blue. The contrast would infiltrate retrogradely into the lateral cord, minimizing mobilization of the lateral cord. The specimens were mounted in the lateral decubitus position with 4.5 kg of traction to the forearm and anteroposterior radiographs were taken at 30 degrees and 60 degrees of abduction. The nearest distance of the lateral cord to the coracoid process was measured off the radiographs and the displacement with increase in shoulder abduction was determined. The mean nearest distance between the lateral cord and the coracoid tip at 30 degrees of shoulder abduction was 26.6 +/- 5.2 mm and it moved nearer at 60 degrees of abduction to 23.4 +/- 5.1 mm; the difference of 3.2 mm was statistically significant (P < .0005, 95% confidence interval, 2.5-3.9 mm). The shortest distance measured was 14.4 mm in 1 specimen at 60 degrees of abduction. The lateral cord moved closer to the coracoid process at 60 degrees than at 30 degrees of abduction under traction during simulated shoulder arthroscopy position using the lateral decubitus position. The margin of safety for lateral cord injury during arthroscopic surgery around the coracoid process is improved with lower abduction angles in the lateral decubitus position."}
{"id": "18558498", "title": "In situ transtendon repair outperforms tear completion and repair for partial articular-sided supraspinatus tendon tears.", "content": "In situ transtendon repair outperforms tear completion and repair for partial articular-sided supraspinatus tendon tears. This biomechanical study compared 2 repair techniques for high-grade, partial, articular-sided supraspinatus tendon tears of the rotator cuff: transtendon in situ repair and tear completion with repair. Standardized, 50% partial, articular-sided supraspinatus lesions were created in 10 pairs of matched fresh, frozen cadaveric shoulders: 10 underwent partial lesion repair with an in situ transtendon technique using 2 suture anchors. In the contralateral 10 shoulders, the partial lesion was converted to a full-thickness tear and repaired with a double-row technique, using 4 suture anchors. Cyclic loading to failure of the supraspinatus tendon was performed using a material testing machine. Gap formation was measured for each rotational position and each incremental load. The in situ transtendon repair had statistically significant less gapping (P = .0001) and higher mean ultimate failure strength (P = .0011) than the double-row repair. In situ transtendon repair was biomechanically superior to tear completion for partial, articular-sided supraspinatus tears."}
{"id": "18555732", "title": "Lack of uniformity in diagnostic labeling of shoulder pain: time for a different approach.", "content": "Lack of uniformity in diagnostic labeling of shoulder pain: time for a different approach. Diagnostic labels for shoulder pain (e.g., frozen shoulder, impingement syndrome) are widely used in international research and clinical practice. However, about 10 years ago it was shown that the criteria to define those labels were not uniform. Since an ongoing lack of uniformity seriously hampers communication and does not serve patients, we decided to evaluate the uniformity in definitions. Therefore, we compared the selection criteria of different randomised controlled trials (RCTs). This comparison revealed some corresponding criteria, but no uniform definition could be derived for any of the diagnostic labels. Besides the lack of uniformity, the currently used labels have only a fair to moderate interobserver reproducibility and in systematic reviews none of the separate trials using a diagnostic label show a large benefit of treatment. This, altogether, seems sufficient reason to reconsider their use. Therefore, we strongly suggest to abolish the use of these labels and direct future research towards undivided populations with \"general\" shoulder pain. Possible subgroups with a better prognosis and/or treatment result, based on common characteristics that are easily and validly reproducible, can then be identified within these populations."}
{"id": "18549744", "title": "The DMD knot: a new locking, flip knot.", "content": "The DMD knot: a new locking, flip knot. To perform an arthroscopic rotator cuff or labral tear, surgeons need to know how to tie athroscopic knots. The ideal knot should be able to withstand large biomechanical loads while being easy to tie. With numerous knot configuration options available to surgeons, many recent studies have assessed the biomechanical characteristics of some of the more commonly used knots. Different studies have referred to the flip knot used by the senior author (DMD) as the \"Dines knot,\" and in many of these studies, it has exhibited the best loop security, resistance to sliding, distance to failure, knot security, knot weight, and resistance to reverse slippage. To date, there is no published technique note on how to tie the Dines knot, which is referred to in this note as the \"DMD knot.\""}
{"id": "18548557", "title": "The addition of aquatic therapy to rehabilitation following surgical rotator cuff repair: a feasibility study.", "content": "The addition of aquatic therapy to rehabilitation following surgical rotator cuff repair: a feasibility study. Rotator cuff tears are frequently encountered in medical outpatient settings and often require surgical repair to achieve desirable functional outcomes. However, the optimal form of post-operative rehabilitation of rotator cuff repairs remains unidentified by the research literature. The aim of this study was to determine the feasibility of implementing and investigating the effect of a combined aquatic and land-based rehabilitation programme in the post-operative rehabilitation of rotator cuff tears. A cohort of 18 subjects undergoing rotator cuff repair were examined over a treatment period of 12 weeks. Twelve subjects participated in a combined aquatic and land-based programme, while six subjects received a standard land-based protocol. Passive range of motion and the Western Ontario Rotator Cuff Index outcomes were measured pre-operatively and at three, six and 12 weeks, post-operatively. Subjective responses on patient's assurance and confidence in the value of the exercises (questionnaire using an 11-point Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)) were collected at 12 weeks for both groups. There was a significant improvement in both range of motion and Western Ontario Rotator Cuff scores in all subjects with treatment (p < 0.001). Furthermore, participation in aquatic therapy significantly improved passive flexion range of motion measures at three weeks (mean 46 degrees , 95% CI 17-75, p = 0.005) and six weeks (30 degrees , 95% CI 8-51, p = 0.01). There was no significant difference in the attendance rates (80% in both groups) or patients perceptions of the programmes (100% confidence and assurance in both groups). The implementation of a combined aquatic and land-based physiotherapy programme following surgical repair of the rotator cuff is feasible and presents a potential viable alternative to conventional land-based exercise with comparable outcomes."}
{"id": "18548095", "title": "On the use of lonafarnib in myelodysplastic syndrome and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia.", "content": "On the use of lonafarnib in myelodysplastic syndrome and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Lonafarnib is an orally bio-available farnesyltransferase inhibitor that prevents farnesylation of specific target proteins including Ras. In a multicenter study, 67 patients with advanced myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) were treated with a continuous oral dose of 200-300 mg of lonafarnib and were evaluated for hematologic, pathologic and pharmacodynamic response. The median age of patients was 70 years (range 44-86). There were 32 patients with MDS (RAEB-20 and RAEB-t-12) and 35 with CMML. Overall 16 (24%) of the patients responded with two patients achieving a complete remission and one a partial response. Responses were seen in 6/32 and 10/35 patients with MDS and CMML, respectively. Of the 19 patients who were platelet transfusion-dependent prior to treatment, 5 (26%) became transfusion-free for a median duration of 185 days. A decrease in the farnesylation of the HDJ-2 protein measured in patient-derived cells was observed in the majority of patients during treatment with lonafarnib, but no clear correlation between changes in farnesylation and clinical effect could be made. Gastrointestinal toxicity was significant with 19% of patients discontinuing therapy due to diarrhea, nausea and/or anorexia. Lonafarnib has demonstrable activity in patients with advanced MDS and CMML."}
{"id": "18543050", "title": "Clinical evaluation of the shoulder shrug sign.", "content": "Clinical evaluation of the shoulder shrug sign. The \"shrug sign\" (inability to lift the arm to 90 degrees abduction without elevating the whole scapula or shoulder girdle) has been associated with a diagnosis of rotator cuff disease. Based on our clinical experience, we hypothesized the shrug sign is not a specific diagnostic sign for this condition, but rather is associated with various shoulder conditions and shoulder weakness and loss of range of motion. We retrospectively reviewed 982 consecutive patients who had been examined preoperatively for the shrug sign. A positive shrug sign was present in 51.3% of the patients, and the average distance lost from the horizontal was 20.5 degrees +/- 2.2 degrees (standard error of mean). Increasing age was associated with the presence of a shrug sign. The highest incidence was in patients with adhesive capsulitis (94.7%). The shrug sign was not sensitive for tendinosis, partial rotator cuff tears, or full-thickness or massive rotator cuff tears. The shrug sign was associated with weakness in abduction, night pain, and loss of range of motion, especially passive abduction. Although the shrug sign is useful as a general sign of shoulder abnormality, particularly when associated with stiffness, it was not specific or sensitive for rotator cuff problems. Level II, diagnostic study. See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "18542952", "title": "Ironman triathletes: MRI assessment of the shoulder.", "content": "Ironman triathletes: MRI assessment of the shoulder. The objective of this paper was to demonstrate the prevalence of shoulder magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) abnormalities, including abnormal bone marrow signal at the acromioclavicular (AC) joint in symptomatic and asymptomatic Ironman Triathletes. The shoulders of 23 Ironman Triathletes, seven asymptomatic (group I) and 16 symptomatic (group II), were studied by MRI. A separate, non-triathlete group was evaluated specifically for AC joint marrow signal abnormalities to compare with the Ironman Triathletes. Partial thickness tears of the rotator cuff, rotator cuff tendinopathy, and AC joint arthrosis were common findings in both groups of triathletes. Tendinopathy was the only finding that was more prevalent in the symptomatic group, but this was not a statistically significant difference (p = 0.35). There were no tears of the glenoid labrum seen in group I or II subjects. Of note is that 71% (5/7) of group I subjects and 62% (10/16) of group II subjects had increased signal changes in the marrow of the AC joint (p = 0.68). The comparison group showed a lower prevalence (35%, p = 0.06) of this finding. No statistically significant difference was found among the findings for group 1, group 2, or the comparison group, although the difference between the comparison group and Ironman Triathletes approached statistical significance when evaluating for AC joint abnormal signal. Shoulder MRI of Ironman Triathletes should be interpreted with an appreciation of the commonly seen findings in asymptomatic subjects."}
{"id": "18539948", "title": "Functional outcome of arthroscopic repair with concomitant manipulation in rotator cuff tears with stiff shoulder.", "content": "Functional outcome of arthroscopic repair with concomitant manipulation in rotator cuff tears with stiff shoulder. Little has been reported on treatment of rotator cuff tears with shoulder stiffness. Rotator cuff tears with shoulder stiffness will show worse clinical results than will tears without stiffness. Those with stiffness are expected to take longer time in pain reduction and recovery of range of motion. Case control study; Level of evidence, 3. Among patients who underwent arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs, 15 cases with preoperative shoulder stiffness (group A) and 30 without shoulder stiffness (group B) were enrolled in this study. Preoperative mean forward flexion was 118.3 degrees in group A and 163.4 degrees in group B, whereas external rotation at the side was 34.6 degrees and 55.0 degrees , respectively. The mean follow-up period of group A was 29.8 months (range, 19.5-73.9 months) and 32.4 months (range, 16-70.6 months) in group B. The mean visual analog scale during motion at the last follow-up was 0.75 in group A and 0.76 in group B (P = .942). The mean University of California at Los Angeles score was, respectively, 33.1 and 33.2 points (P = .561). Forward flexion was 166.7 degrees in group A and 170.2 degrees in group B, whereas external rotation at the side was 48.8 degrees and 53.4 degrees , respectively (P = .157 and .384, respectively). However, the 2 groups showed a significant difference in forward flexion until 1 year postoperatively as group A recovered more slowly (P = .021). Both groups showed significant differences in external rotation at the side, internal rotation to the back, and cross-body adduction until 6 weeks postoperatively (P = .009, P < .001, and P = .026, respectively). Pain, range of motion, muscle strength, and function all significantly improved after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, regardless of the presence of shoulder stiffness. Patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears and stiffness of the shoulder can be treated with a single surgery and concomitant manipulation with overall good results. Although final outcomes were as good as those in patients without stiffness, the return of range of motion took longer in those patients undergoing manipulation for stiffness of the shoulder."}
{"id": "18539669", "title": "Pectoralis major inverse plasty for functional reconstruction in patients with anterolateral deltoid deficiency.", "content": "Pectoralis major inverse plasty for functional reconstruction in patients with anterolateral deltoid deficiency. After establishing anatomical feasibility, functional reconstruction to replace the anterolateral part of the deltoid was performed in 20 consecutive patients with irreversible deltoid paralysis using the sternoclavicular portion of the pectoralis major muscle. The indication for reconstruction was deltoid deficiency combined with massive rotator cuff tear in 11 patients, brachial plexus palsy in seven, and an isolated axillary nerve lesion in two. All patients were followed clinically and radiologically for a mean of 70 months (24 to 125). The mean gender-adjusted Constant score increased from 28% (15% to 54%) to 51% (19% to 83%). Forward elevation improved by a mean of 37 degrees , abduction by 30 degrees and external rotation by 9 degrees . The pectoralis inverse plasty may be used as a salvage procedure in irreversible deltoid deficiency, providing subjectively satisfying results. Active forward elevation and abduction can be significantly improved."}
{"id": "18523035", "title": "Screening the athlete's shoulder for impingement symptoms: a clinical reasoning algorithm for early detection of shoulder pathology.", "content": "Screening the athlete's shoulder for impingement symptoms: a clinical reasoning algorithm for early detection of shoulder pathology. Chronic shoulder pain and dysfunction are common complaints among overhead athletes seeking care from physical medicine and rehabilitation. Impingement is a frequently described pathological condition in the overhead athlete. Impingement symptoms may be the result of rotator cuff pathology, shoulder instability, scapular dyskinesis or muscle dysfunction, biceps pathology, SLAP lesions and chronic stiffness of the posterior capsule. At present, numerous different shoulder tests have been described in literature and discussed with respect to their individual diagnostic accuracy. However, in view of the number of shoulder tests, it is often a challenge for the clinician to select the appropriate tests for diagnosing the underlying pathology. The purpose of this paper is to present and discuss a clinical algorithm which may be used in the early detection of the underlying causes of impingement symptoms. In this algorithm, a specific chronology and selection of diagnostic tests may offer the clinician a guideline in his physical examination of the athlete with shoulder pain."}
{"id": "18515961", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of clinical tests for superior labral anterior posterior lesions: a systematic review.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of clinical tests for superior labral anterior posterior lesions: a systematic review. Systematic literature review. To conduct a systematic review of case series and clinical trials that investigate the diagnostic accuracy of clinical tests for superior labral anterior posterior (SLAP) lesions. Primary contact practitioners are often presented with shoulder problems and use a battery of clinical tests to reach a diagnosis. Early detection of SLAP pathology may lead to more optimal interventions and better outcomes for patients. The OVID search interface was utilized with MEDLINE, AHMED, CINAHL, and SPORTDiscus databases searched from 1996-2006. Studies were retrieved that included patients with shoulder pain who underwent at least 1 clinical shoulder test for SLAP lesions. For an article to be included in this review, the results of the clinical tests needed to be compared with findings on arthroscopy. Quality of the manuscripts included in this review were rated using the QUADAS appraisal tool, so comparisons could be made across studies. Seventeen published manuscripts fit the inclusion/exclusion criteria and were used for this review. Eight studies were found to be of high quality. Within these 8 studies, 1 group of authors reported high diagnostic accuracy values for the crank test: sensitivity, 91% (95% confidence interval [CI], 76%-97%); specificity, 93% (95% CI, 79%-88%); positive likelihood ratio, 13.6 (95% CI, 3.6-52.1); and negative likelihood ratio, 0.1 (95% CI, 0.0-0.3). One study on the resisted supination external rotation test also scored high on the QUADAS and reported diagnostic accuracy values of 83% (95% CI, 66-92), 82% (95% CI, 52-95), 4.6 (95% CI, 1.3-16.1), and 0.20 (95% CI, 0.1-0.5), respectively. Of significance is the fact that the majority of papers reporting highly accurate clinical diagnostic tests were of low quality with the results not supported by other authors. It appears that no single test is sensitive or specific enough to determine the presence of a SLAP lesion accurately. Further research is required to determine whether subgrouping of patients by mechanism of injury or the type of SLAP lesion may improve diagnostic accuracy. Determining the diagnostic accuracy of a combination of 2 or more tests is also needed."}
{"id": "18514115", "title": "Arthroscopic treatment of multidirectional shoulder instability with minimum 270 degrees labral repair: minimum 2-year follow-up.", "content": "Arthroscopic treatment of multidirectional shoulder instability with minimum 270 degrees labral repair: minimum 2-year follow-up. The purpose of this study was to analyze results of arthroscopic stabilization with labral repair in a subset of patients with multidirectional shoulder instability and frank labral tear. A review of 13 patients (10 male and 3 female; mean age, 27.2 years) with multidirectional instability involving a labral tear of 270 degrees or greater requiring arthroscopic labral repair was performed at a mean follow-up of 56 months (range, 29 to 72 months). All patients were evaluated by use of the Short Form 12, Western Ontario Shoulder Instability Index, Simple Shoulder Test, American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score, and visual analog pain scale. Physical examination included range of motion, strength testing, and stability testing. Of the 13 patients, 2 (15%) had recurrent instability after repair (subluxation or dislocation). Of the patients, 9 (69%) were completely satisfied, 2 (15%) were mostly satisfied, and 2 (15%) were completely unsatisfied. At final follow-up, the median scores were as follows: Western Ontario Shoulder Instability Index, 471; American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score, 96.7; Simple Shoulder Test score, 12; visual analog pain scale, 0; and Short Form 12 mental component/physical component, 57/44. There were no differences in range of motion compared with the opposite extremity. Cybex strength testing (Lumex, Ronkonkoma, NY) did show a statistically different difference in forward elevation (P < .005). There were no complications, and no patient has undergone reoperation. Arthroscopic stabilization with labral repair in patients with multidirectional instability and a minimum 270 degrees labral pathology provided good results (85%) in terms of pain relief and clinical stability at a minimum 2-year follow-up."}
{"id": "18514110", "title": "Relationship between offset angle alpha and hip chondral injury in femoroacetabular impingement.", "content": "Relationship between offset angle alpha and hip chondral injury in femoroacetabular impingement. The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship between the size of cam lesions and the presence of cartilage damage, labral damage, or changes in range of motion in the hips with signs and symptoms of femoroacetabular impingement (FAI). Cross-table lateral radiographs were available for 102 consecutive patients presenting with signs and symptoms of FAI. Radiographs with excessive external rotation, dysplasia, severe arthritis, avascular necrosis, or Legg-Calv\u00e9-Perthes syndrome were excluded, leaving 82 patients available for analysis (47 men, 35 women; average age, 25 yr [range, 12 to 55 yr]). Offset angle alpha was measured from the films with a digital goniometer. Patients subsequently underwent hip arthroscopy and the surgical findings and hip range of motion were prospectively recorded. Higher offset angle alpha was associated with the presence of acetabular rim chondral defects (P = .044) and full-thickness delamination of the acetabular cartilage (P = .034). Patients with detachment of the base of the labrum had a higher offset angle alpha (P = .016). Higher offset angle alpha was related to male sex (P = .001) and decreased range of motion (P < .05), but not to age. Cam-type FAI, as measured by an increased offset angle alpha, was correlated with increased chondral damage, labral injury, and decreased range of motion."}
{"id": "18511530", "title": "Effectiveness of corticosteroid injection in adhesive capsulitis.", "content": "Effectiveness of corticosteroid injection in adhesive capsulitis. To assess whether intraarticular corticosteroids improve the outcome of a comprehensive home exercise programme in patients with adhesive capsulitis. The study was undertaken in the Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Department of a Ministry of Health hospital in Turkey. Eighty patients with adhesive capsulitis were enrolled in the study. The patients were randomly assigned to two groups: Group 1 patients were given intraarticular corticosteroid (1 mL, 40 mg methylprednisolone acetate) followed by a 12-week comprehensive home exercise programme. Group 2 patients were given intraarticular serum physiologic (1 mL solution of 0.9% sodium chloride) followed by a 12-week comprehensive home exercise programme. The outcome parameters were Shoulder Pain and Disability Index and University of California-Los Angeles end-result scores, night pain and shoulder passive range of motion. Mean actual changes in abduction range of motion, Shoulder Pain and Disability Index-total score and Shoulder Pain and Disability Index-pain score were statistically different between the two groups at the second week, with the better scores determined in group 1. However, there were no significant differences between the groups at the 12th week. Medians of University of California-Los Angeles scores in the second week were significantly different between the two groups (P = 0.02), with better scores in group 1; however, the difference in 12th week scores was insignificant. Intraarticular corticosteroids have the additive effect of providing rapid pain relief, mainly in the first weeks of the exercise treatment period. In patients with adhesive capsulitis who have pain symptom predominantly, intraarticular corticosteroid therapy could be advised concomitantly with exercise."}
{"id": "18509791", "title": "External impingement of the shoulder.", "content": "External impingement of the shoulder. The relationship between external shoulder impingement and rotator cuff disease has been the subject of much research, but the theories of cause and effect remain controversial. Patients with symptoms of external impingement are referred for imaging to identify bony abnormalities of the coracoacromial arch and associated bursal and rotator cuff disease. Attempts have been made to identify objective imaging criteria that confirm the diagnosis of impingement, but at present external impingement remains primarily a clinical diagnosis. Therapeutic management varies from rehabilitation with physiotherapy to surgical procedures aimed at decompressing the subacromial space and repairing rotator cuff tears. This article reviews the relevant anatomy, biomechanics, and theories of external impingement, the role of imaging in the diagnosis of external impingement and rotator cuff disease, and implications upon management."}
{"id": "18503815", "title": "The validity of the lag signs in diagnosing full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff: a preliminary investigation.", "content": "The validity of the lag signs in diagnosing full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff: a preliminary investigation. To investigate whether the lag signs were valid tools in diagnosing full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff. A same-subject, correlation, double-blinded design was used. The results of the external rotation lag sign, drop sign, and internal rotation lag sign were compared with the criterion standard of diagnostic ultrasound to establish their accuracy. A regional orthopedic hospital. Consecutive subjects (N=37), 21 women and 16 men, with shoulder pain referred to a consultant orthopedic surgeon specializing in shoulder conditions were recruited for this investigation. Not applicable. Sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative likelihood ratios of the lag signs when using ultrasound as the reference test. The specificities of the drop sign and internal rotation lag sign were 77% and 84%, respectively, which, together with low positive likelihood ratios 3.2 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.5-6.7) and 6.2 (95% CI, 1.9-12.0), indicate that a positive result was poor at recognizing the presence of full-thickness tears. The drop sign had a sensitivity of 73% with a negative likelihood ratio of .34 (95% CI, 0.2-0.8), suggesting that a negative test was fair at ruling out the presence of full-thickness tears. The sensitivity of the internal rotation lag sign (100%) supported by the negative likelihood ratio of 0 (95% CI, 0.0-2.5) suggests that a negative test will effectively rule out the presence of full-thickness tears of the subscapularis. A positive external rotation lag sign is the clinical test most likely to indicate that full-thickness tears of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus are present (specificity, 94%). However, the external rotation lag sign did demonstrate a low sensitivity score of 46% and negative likelihood ratio of .57 (95% CI, 0.4-0.9), which means that a negative test will not rule out the presence of full-thickness tears. The findings of this investigation suggest that a clinical diagnosis of a full-thickness tear of the rotator cuff cannot be conclusively reached using one or more of the lag signs."}
{"id": "18499376", "title": "SLAP lesions: anatomy, clinical presentation, MR imaging diagnosis and characterization.", "content": "SLAP lesions: anatomy, clinical presentation, MR imaging diagnosis and characterization. Superior labral anterior posterior (SLAP) tears are an abnormality of the superior labrum usually centered on the attachment of the long head of the biceps tendon. Tears are commonly caused by repetitive overhead motion or fall on an outstretched arm. SLAP lesions can lead to shoulder pain and instability. Clinical diagnosis is difficult thus imaging plays a key diagnostic role. The normal anatomic variability of the capsulolabral complex can make SLAP lesions a diagnostic challenge. Concurrent shoulder injuries are often present including rotator cuff tears, cystic changes or marrow edema in the humeral head, capsular laxity, Hill-Sachs or Bankart lesion. The relevant anatomy, capsulolabral anatomic variants, primary and secondary findings of SLAP tears including MR arthrography findings, types of SLAP lesions and a practical approach to labral lesions are reviewed."}
{"id": "18495968", "title": "Trans-rotator cuff portal is safe for arthroscopic superior labral anterior and posterior lesion repair: clinical and radiological analysis of 58 SLAP lesions.", "content": "Trans-rotator cuff portal is safe for arthroscopic superior labral anterior and posterior lesion repair: clinical and radiological analysis of 58 SLAP lesions. There are numerous accessory portals for the arthroscopic repair of superior labral anterior and posterior lesions. Many surgeons are reluctant to make a portal through the cuff because of concern about iatrogenic injury to the cuff. An arthroscopic superior labral anterior and posterior lesion repair procedure using the trans-rotator cuff portal may yield favorable clinical and radiological outcomes, and cuffs may heal properly. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Fifty-eight consecutive patients undergoing superior labral anterior and posterior lesion repair using the trans-rotator cuff portal, who had available both functional and radiological outcomes after 1 year of the operation, were enrolled. We evaluated the structural outcomes for the labrum and cuff using computed tomographic arthrography and measured various clinical outcomes (the supraspinatus power, visual analog scale for pain and satisfaction, American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons shoulder evaluation form, University of California-Los Angeles shoulder score, Constant score, and Simple Shoulder Test) at the final visit. All functional outcomes were improved significantly (P < .001). On computed tomographic arthrography, labral healing to the bony glenoid was achieved in all patients. Subacromial leakage of contrast media was observed in 3 patients (5.2%) through the muscular portion without any retraction or gap of the tendon. Two of 3 had preoperative cuff pathologic changes, and they were older than 45 years of age. Partial articular cuff tears were observed in 6 patients (10.3%), and 4 had the lesion preoperatively. There were no statistical differences in functional scores according to the presence of preoperative lesion, postoperative leakage, or partial cuff tear. The data demonstrate favorable outcomes for arthroscopic superior labral anterior and posterior lesion repair using the trans-rotator cuff portal. We suggest that the trans-rotator cuff portal is an efficient and safe portal for superior labral anterior and posterior lesion repair, although there are some valid concerns of damaging the cuff in patients with a superior labral anterior and posterior lesion with concurrent cuff disorders, as well as in older patients."}
{"id": "18483248", "title": "Fhit-deficient hematopoietic stem cells survive hydroquinone exposure carrying precancerous changes.", "content": "Fhit-deficient hematopoietic stem cells survive hydroquinone exposure carrying precancerous changes. The fragile FHIT gene is among the first targets of DNA damage in preneoplastic lesions, and recent studies have shown that Fhit protein is involved in surveillance of genome integrity and checkpoint response after genotoxin exposure. We now find that Fhit-deficient hematopoietic cells, exposed to the genotoxin hydroquinone, are resistant to the suppression of stem cell in vitro colony formation observed with wild-type (Wt) hematopoietic cells. In vivo-transplanted, hydroquinone-exposed, Fhit-deficient bone marrow cells also escaped the bone marrow suppression exhibited by Wt-transplanted bone marrow. Comparative immunohistochemical analyses of bone marrow transplants showed relative absence of Bax in Fhit-deficient bone marrow, suggesting insensitivity to apoptosis; assessment of DNA damage showed that occurrence of the oxidized base 8-hydroxyguanosine, a marker of DNA damage, was also reduced in Fhit-deficient bone marrow, as was production of intracellular reactive oxygen species. Treatment with the antioxidant N-acetyl-l-cysteine relieved hydroquinone-induced suppression of colony formation by Wt hematopoietic cells, suggesting that the decreased oxidative damage to Fhit-deficient cells, relative to Wt hematopoietic cells, accounts for the survival advantage of Fhit-deficient bone marrow. Homology-dependent recombination repair predominated in Fhit-deficient cells, although not error-free repair, as indicated by a higher incidence of 6-thioguanine-resistant colonies. Tissues of hydroquinone-exposed Fhit-deficient bone marrow-transplanted mice exhibited preneoplastic alterations, including accumulation of histone H2AX-positive DNA damage. The results indicate that reduced oxidative stress, coupled with efficient but not error-free DNA damage repair, allows unscheduled long-term survival of genotoxin-exposed Fhit-deficient hematopoietic stem cells carrying deleterious mutations."}
{"id": "18475240", "title": "The prevalence of a diabetic condition and adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder.", "content": "The prevalence of a diabetic condition and adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder. Adhesive capsulitis is characterized by a progressive and painful loss of shoulder motion of unknown etiology. Previous studies have found the prevalence of adhesive capsulitis to be slightly greater than 2% in the general population. However, the relationship between adhesive capsulitis and diabetes mellitus (DM) is well documented, with the incidence of adhesive capsulitis being two to four times higher in diabetics than in the general population. It affects about 20% of people with diabetes and has been described as the most disabling of the common musculoskeletal manifestations of diabetes. Consented patients presenting with adhesive capsulitis reporting no history of DM had blood testing for diabetes and prediabetes. An anonymous database was analyzed for a diabetic condition. The prevalence of diabetes in patients with adhesive capsulitis was 38.6% (34 of 88). The prevalence of prediabetes was 32.95% (29 of 88). The total prevalence of a diabetic condition in patients with adhesive capsulitis was 71.5% (63 of 88). Previous literature fails to reveal the incidence of newly diagnosed diabetes, 2 of 88 (2%), and prediabetes, 25 of 88 (28.4%) in patients presenting with adhesive capsulitis. Early diagnosis and effective management of DM reduces the risk of microvascular complications. DM is believed to play a role in the development of musculoskeletal complications. Awareness of these findings alerts the practitioner to the risk of diabetes and prediabetes in patients presenting with adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder."}
{"id": "18458243", "title": "Acute traumatic posterior shoulder dislocation: MR findings.", "content": "Acute traumatic posterior shoulder dislocation: MR findings. To retrospectively evaluate the appearance of lesions of osseous and soft-tissue structures of the glenohumeral joint on magnetic resonance (MR) images after first-time traumatic posterior shoulder dislocation. The study was institutional review board approved and HIPAA compliant, as appropriate, for the four institutions at which the involved patients were treated. Informed patient consent was obtained, were applicable. Thirty-six male patients (age range, 15-80 years; mean age, 40.2 years) with clinically documented first-time traumatic posterior shoulder dislocation were examined with MR arthrography (18 patients) or conventional shoulder MR imaging (18 patients). Causes of posterior shoulder dislocation were electric shock in one patient, seizure in one patient, and trauma in 34 patients. Hill-Sachs lesions, rotator cuff tears, biceps tendon abnormalities, posterior labrocapsular complex lesions, humeral head translation, and osseous glenoid version angle were evaluated. Spearman rank correlation and Student t test analyses were performed. In 31 (86%) of the 36 patients, a reverse Hill-Sachs lesion was found. Eleven (31%) patients had a reverse osseous Bankart lesion. Twelve full-thickness rotator cuff tears were seen in seven (19%) patients: four supraspinatus tendon, three infraspinatus tendon, and five subscapularis tendon tears. Six (17%) patients had biceps tendon abnormalities. Posterior labrocapsular complex tears were identified in 21 (58%) patients: 10 (48%) with posterior labral sleeve avulsions and 11 (52%) with reverse Bankart lesions. Twenty-seven (75%) patients had a retroverted scaphoglenoid angle (mean, 4.5 degrees ). The mean humeral translation distance relative to the osseous glenoid fossa was -4.8 mm; in 33 (92%) patients, this distance was translated posteriorly. The MR appearance of traumatic posterior shoulder dislocation was characterized by reverse Hill-Sachs lesions in 86% of patients and posterocaudal labrocapsular lesions in nearly 60% of patients. Full-thickness rotator cuff tears were seen in approximately 20% of patients."}
{"id": "18455944", "title": "Effectiveness of therapeutic ultrasound in adhesive capsulitis.", "content": "Effectiveness of therapeutic ultrasound in adhesive capsulitis. There is a lack of evidence about the effectiveness of therapeutic ultrasound (US) compared with placebo US in the treatment of adhesive capsulitis. This study was performed to assess the effectiveness of therapeutic US in the treatment of adhesive capsulitis. Forty-nine patients with adhesive capsulitis were randomized to US (n=25) and sham US (n=24) groups. Superficial heat and an exercise program were given to both groups. Ultrasound was applied to US group and imitative ultrasound was applied to sham US group for 2 weeks. Shoulder range of motion (ROM), pain and Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI) were assessed at the beginning, after treatment and after 3 months (control). Short Form-36 (SF-36) was applied for assessing general health status at the beginning and after 3 months. Compliance with the home exercise program was recorded daily on a chart for 3 months. Shoulder ROM, pain with motion, two subscales and total score of SPADI and physical component summary score of SF-36 were improved significantly in both groups after the treatment and after 3 months (p<0.0001). Improvements in flexion, inner and outer rotation values were significantly higher in the US group when we compared the differences between post- and pre-treatment values of shoulder ROM. The differences between control and pre-treatment values of inner and outer rotation were also significantly higher in the US group (p=0.002 and p=0.02 respectively). No significant difference was detected in pain, SPADI and SF-36 scores between groups. The exercise compliance was significantly higher in the sham US group (p=0.04). Our results suggest that US compared with sham US gives no relevant benefit in the treatment of adhesive capsulitis. Effectiveness of US might be masked by worse pre-treatment values of the US group and higher exercise compliance of the sham US group."}
{"id": "18451387", "title": "Treatment of persistent shoulder pain with sodium hyaluronate: a randomized, controlled trial. A multicenter study.", "content": "Treatment of persistent shoulder pain with sodium hyaluronate: a randomized, controlled trial. A multicenter study. Presently, there are no approved nonoperative therapies for the ongoing treatment of persistent shoulder pain. Preliminary data suggest that intra-articular sodium hyaluronate injections may be beneficial for the treatment of persistent shoulder pain resulting from various etiologies. The present study evaluated the efficacy and safety of sodium hyaluronate (Hyalgan; molecular weight, 500 to 730 kDa) for these patients. Six hundred and sixty patients with persistent shoulder pain and limitation resulting from glenohumeral joint osteoarthritis, rotator cuff tear, and/or adhesive capsulitis who had had a failure of conventional therapy were enrolled in this double-blind, randomized, phosphate-buffered saline solution-controlled study, and 456 patients completed twenty-six weeks of follow-up. Patients were randomized to receive either five weekly intra-articular injections of sodium hyaluronate, three weekly intra-articular injections of sodium hyaluronate followed by two weekly intra-articular injections of saline solution, or five weekly intra-articular injections of saline solution. The main outcomes were improvement in terms of shoulder pain on movement at thirteen weeks after the initiation of treatment (as assessed with use of a 100-mm visual analog scale) and the treatment effect throughout twenty-six weeks. For the overall intent-to-treat population, patients who were managed with sodium hyaluronate had greater pain relief than controls did; significant differences were noted at Week 7 (for the five-injection hyaluronate group), Week 17 (for the three and five-injection hyaluronate groups), and Week 26 (for the three-injection hyaluronate group). Analysis of the stratified populations clearly established that this effect was due to benefits experienced by the patients with osteoarthritis. The treatment effect through twenty-six weeks was significant in patients with osteoarthritis in the three-injection (p = 0.003) and five-injection (p = 0.002) groups, with no significant difference for either regimen in patients without osteoarthritis. The safety profile was very favorable, with no product-related serious adverse effects and no between-group differences for any reported adverse event. Although the primary end point of this study (that is, improvement in terms of shoulder pain at thirteen weeks) was not achieved, the overall findings, including secondary end points, indicate that sodium hyaluronate (500 to 730 kDa) is effective and well tolerated for the treatment of osteoarthritis and persistent shoulder pain that is refractory to other standard nonoperative interventions."}
{"id": "18450641", "title": "Identifying the cellular basis for reimplantation failure in repair of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Identifying the cellular basis for reimplantation failure in repair of the rotator cuff. We examined cultured osteoblasts derived from paired samples from the greater tuberosity and acromion from eight patients with large chronic tears of the rotator cuff. We found that osteoblasts from the tuberosity had no apparent response to mechanical stimulation, whereas those derived from the acromion showed an increase in alkaline phosphatase activity and nitric oxide release which is normally a response of bone cells to mechanical strain. By contrast, we found that cells from both regions were able to respond to dexamethasone, a well-established promoter of osteoblastic differentiation, with the expected increase in alkaline phosphatase activity. Our findings indicate that the failure of repair of the rotator cuff may be due, at least in part, to a compromised capacity for mechanoadaptation within the greater tuberosity. It remains to be seen whether this apparent decrease in the sensitivity of bone cells to mechanical stimulation is the specific consequence of the reduced load-bearing history of the greater tuberosity in these patients."}
{"id": "18449121", "title": "Arthroscopic evaluation of ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging for diagnosis of rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Arthroscopic evaluation of ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging for diagnosis of rotator cuff tear. Rotator cuff tear--diagnosis; comparison of MRI, ultrasonographic and arthroscopic findings. Retrospective study--20 patients treated for shoulder pain due to rotator cuff tear, initially conservatively and after more than 6 months by arthroscopic shoulder surgery. Comparison of intraoperative findings with preoperative US and MRI images. Sensitivity of USG--1.0, specificity 0.9. Sensitivity of MRI--0.92, specificity 1.0. Clinical examination and physical tests are not fully reliable diagnostic tools in patients with shoulder pain, because symptoms of different conditions overlap. Using ultrasound to visualize the shoulder area has some advantages to other imaging techniques such as CT scan or MRI, and has a very good sensitivity and good specificity. Many authors agree that MRI is one of the most effective methods for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tear. Ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging are both very sensitive techniques for diagnosis of rotator cuff abnormalities. Ultrasonography can be used as a primary method owing to its fast procedure and affordable cost.<br />"}
{"id": "18449120", "title": "Crystal-associated synovitis- ultrasonographic feature and clinical correlation.", "content": "Crystal-associated synovitis- ultrasonographic feature and clinical correlation. The aim of this paper is to describe the ultrasonographic findings in rheumatologic pathology due to crystal deposition. There are four main types of crystals involved: monosodium urate, calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate, basic calcium phosphate (hydroxyapatite), and calcium oxalate. In gout the joint fluid is anechoic only at the first gouty attack; afterwards the synovium begins to proliferate. Double contuour sign, a focal or diffuse enhancement of the superficial margin of the articular cartilage is a specific finding. Bursitis has chronic features from the beginning. The ultrasonographic aspect of tophi depends on their age and size (at first small, hypoechoic and homogenous nodules, then echoic with hyperechoic edges and finally pseudotumoral, inhomogeneous). The depositions in the superficial layer are hyperechoic, well delimited only in the absence of inflammatory reaction. The depositions at the entheseal level are leading to the gouty enthesopathy. In knee involvement irregularities of the anterior surface of patella are found. In chondrocalcinosis the most important ultrasonographic signs are the thin hyperechoic band, parallel to the surface of the hyaline cartilage and the punctuated pattern of the fibrocartilage. In hydroxyapatite associated disease, calcifications are frequent in the shoulder or in the great trochanter of the hip, with aspects depending of the calcification phase. Milwakee shoulder is an advanced form of this pathology, associated with rotator cuff arthropathy. Oxalate crystal deposition disease is seen rarely, in patients with primary hyperoxaluria and in patients with end-stage renal disease. Therefore ultrasonography is useful in characterize the articular and juxta-articular alterations in crystal related diseases."}
{"id": "18448579", "title": "Open capsular repair without bone block for recurrent anterior shoulder instability in patients with and without bony defects of the glenoid and/or humeral head.", "content": "Open capsular repair without bone block for recurrent anterior shoulder instability in patients with and without bony defects of the glenoid and/or humeral head. Bony defects of the humeral head and glenoid have been associated with high failure rates after arthroscopic stabilization for anterior instability. Biomechanical studies have indicated that such lesions reduce stability and may predispose to failure and motion loss after capsular repair. The present investigation was designed to evaluate the effect of bony deficiency of the glenoid and/or humeral head on recurrence rates with a conventional open technique of anterior stabilization without a bone block. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. One hundred nineteen consecutive patients with recurrent anterior shoulder instability were treated by a single surgeon with an open anterior stabilization procedure. Patients were studied prospectively for recurrent instability after the presence and size of bony defects of the humeral head and/or glenoid were recorded during an arthroscopic examination before the open procedure. One hundred three patients (mean age, 20.7 years), including 98 men and 5 women, were available for 2-year minimum follow-up. Eighty-three of the patients participated in contact athletics. Eighty-four percent of the patients had demonstrable Hill-Sachs lesions at the time of arthroscopy (27% \"engaging\" and 57% \"nonengaging\"). Fourteen percent had deficiency of the anterior glenoid, 9% had large (Rowe classification) defects of the humeral head, and 4% had severe (>20%) defects of the glenoid. The overall recurrence rate was 2%. Both recurrences were noted in patients with Hill-Sachs lesions, but the recurrence rate in patients with Hill-Sachs lesions was not significantly higher (P = .71). There was 1 recurrence among the 9 patients with large defects of the humeral head (P = .17). Patients with engaging Hill-Sachs lesions did not have a statistically significant increase in recurrence (4%) (P = .47). There were no recurrences in patients with glenoid deficiency. Patients with large defects of the glenoid lost a mean of 7 degrees of external rotation (P = .001) when compared with the remaining population (12 degrees vs 5 degrees ). Patients with large defects of the humeral head lost a mean of 4 degrees more external rotation (P = .003) when compared with the remaining population (9 degrees vs 5 degrees ). Two patients in the series lost > or =20 degrees of external rotation. When contact athletes were isolated as a population, there were no statistically significant increases in recurrence due to the presence of bony lesions of the glenoid or humeral head. Bony defects of the humeral head or glenoid did not appear to result in a statistically significant increase in the risk of recurrence with conventional open techniques of stabilization. Large defects on either side of the joint were uncommon in the study population. Bone-block or grafting procedures do not appear to be necessary to restore stability in the majority of patients with bone loss. Although the loss of external rotation in patients with large defects is a relative cause for concern, the author recommends open capsular repair as the primary method of treatment given the high complication rate historically associated with bone-block techniques."}
{"id": "18443279", "title": "Bridging the gap in immobile massive rotator cuff tears: augmentation using the tenotomized biceps.", "content": "Bridging the gap in immobile massive rotator cuff tears: augmentation using the tenotomized biceps. Numerous operative techniques have been described for the treatment of massive rotator cuff tears with severe retraction where anatomical repair is impossible. To evaluate the outcome of massive rotator cuff tears repaired using the biceps interposition technique. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Between April 2000 and April 2004, 31 shoulders with irreparable massive rotator cuff tears and associated degenerative lesions of the biceps tendon were included for analysis. Open procedures were performed in 15 cases (open group), while 16 patients underwent arthroscopic procedures (arthroscopic group). The mean follow-up period was 32 months (range, 24-67 months). The overall University of California at Los Angeles score at the last follow-up was 31.1 points (range, 21-35). The clinical outcome was excellent in 15 (48.4%) and good in 13 (41.9%) cases. Three patients (9.7%) had poor outcome. There was 1 case of reoperation in the open group for a retear. The mean preoperative Constant score, which was 44.6 points (range, 8-70) in the open group and 51.8 points (range, 24-70) in the arthroscopic group, improved to 80.7 points (range, 37-88) in the former and 83.5 points (range, 57-96) in the latter. The University of California at Los Angeles score improved from preoperative means of 11.3 points (range, 6-16) and 13.6 points (range, 6-19) to 29.5 points (range, 9-33) and 32.6 points (range, 21-35), respectively. However, the differences between the scores in both the categories were not statistically significant (P = .412 and .198, respectively). According to the postoperative repair integrity analyzed with use of magnetic resonance imaging in 14 of 16 cases with arthroscopic augmentation, 9 (64.3%) presented complete healing. The biceps tendon interposition technique for massive rotator cuff tears offers a possible improvement in the clinical outcomes and is comparable to that of conventional repair. As well, the augmentation technique using the tenotomized biceps as potential graft for rotator cuff tears is particularly useful in bridging the gap in immobile massive rotator cuff tears with posterior defects and retraction."}
{"id": "18443274", "title": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair in overhead-throwing athletes.", "content": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair in overhead-throwing athletes. When overhead-throwing athletes suffer from a rotator cuff tear, their ability to perform sporting activities is significantly impaired. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair allows amateur overhead-throwing athletes to return to their preoperative level of overhead-throwing sports. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 3. Twenty-one overhead-throwing athletes (14 male and 7 female; average age, 58.9 years, range, 46-69 years) were reviewed for clinical outcome with the Constant Score and structural integrity of the repair on magnetic resonance imaging. The average follow-up was 25.7 months (24-29 months). Athletes were asked to retrospectively assess their sporting activity for pain, strength, endurance, and range of motion before onset of symptoms, preoperatively and at follow-up. They also were asked to evaluate their overall performance as a percentage of their original performance (0% to 100%). Retear rates and Constant Scores were compared with those of 32 patients who were not overhead-throwing athletes and who were operated on during the same time span. Patients significantly improved their Constant Score from 54.9 to 84.2 (P < .001). Sporting activity was not significantly influenced by repair integrity; the retear rate was 23.8% (5/21). There was no significant difference for retear rate (25%; 8/32) or clinical outcome (Constant Score 84.5, P = .993) compared with patients who were not involved in overhead-throwing sports or any sports. All patients returned to their overhead-throwing sport an average of 6.3 months (3-12 months) after the surgery. Participation (2.1 per week) and duration (2.3 hours) of overhead-throwing activity postoperatively were not significantly lower than before the patient was injured (2.2 per week, P = .290; and 2.4 hours, P = .285). Patients estimated their overall activity level to be 91.9% of their original, noninjured condition, which was significantly improved from the preoperative condition of 34.8% (P < .001). Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair led to good clinical results in this group of overhead-throwing athletes. Patients were able to return to overhead-throwing sports, most of them at the same preoperative level."}
{"id": "18442686", "title": "Arthroscopic management of femoroacetabular impingement: early outcomes measures.", "content": "Arthroscopic management of femoroacetabular impingement: early outcomes measures. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the early outcomes of arthroscopic management of femoroacetabular impingement (FAI). Ninety-six consecutive patients (100 hips) with radiographically documented FAI were treated with hip arthroscopy, labral debridement or repair/refixation, proximal femoral osteoplasty, or acetabular rim trimming (or some combination thereof). Outcomes were measured with the impingement test, modified Harris Hip Score, Short Form 12, and pain score on a visual analog scale preoperatively and postoperatively at 6 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months, as well as yearly thereafter. Preoperative and postoperative radiographic alpha angles were measured to evaluate the adequacy of proximal femoral osteoplasty. There were 54 male and 42 female patients with up to 3 years' follow-up (mean, 9.9 months). The mean age was 34.7 years. Isolated cam impingement was identified in 17 hips, pincer impingement was found in 28, and both types were noted in 55. Thirty hips underwent labral repair/refixation. A comparison of preoperative scores with those obtained at most recent follow-up revealed a significant improvement (P < .001) for all outcomes measured: Harris Hip Score (60.8 v 82.7), Short Form 12 (60.2 v 77.7), visual analog score for pain (6.74 v 1.88 cm), and positive impingement test (100% v 14%). The alpha angle was also significantly improved after resection osteoplasty. Complications included heterotopic bone formation (6 hips) and a 24-hour partial sciatic nerve neurapraxia (1 hip). No hip went on to undergo repeat arthroscopy, and three hips have subsequently undergone total hip arthroplasty. Arthroscopic management of patients with FAI results in significant improvement in outcomes measures, with good to excellent results being observed in 75% of hips at a minimum 1-year follow-up. Alteration in the natural progression to osteoarthritis and sustained pain relief as a result of arthroscopic management of FAI remain to be seen. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "18442682", "title": "The value of arthroscopy before an open modified latarjet reconstruction.", "content": "The value of arthroscopy before an open modified latarjet reconstruction. The purpose of this study was to identify the presence of intra-articular pathology in patients undergoing shoulder arthroscopy immediately before modified Latarjet reconstruction for recurrent anterior instability with bone deficiency. The records of 33 consecutive patients who underwent shoulder arthroscopy immediately before the modified Latarjet reconstruction were analyzed. Arthroscopy was performed just before the open procedure to identify and treat intra-articular pathology that would otherwise have been missed or not well treated during the routine open anterior approach to the shoulder. In 24 of 33 cases (73%) associated pathologic lesions were identified and addressed arthroscopically (lesions not likely to have been discovered and treated optimally during the open deltopectoral approach). We identified and addressed 21 type 2 SLAP lesions (64%) as well as 1 posterior Bankart lesion, 2 loose bodies, 2 rotator cuff tears, and 2 localized areas of grade 4 chondromalacia. Arthroscopic examination before modified Latarjet reconstruction is recommended because it allows the surgeon to identify and arthroscopically address associated pathologic entities that are present in over two thirds of the cases. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "18442680", "title": "A new SLAP test: the supine flexion resistance test.", "content": "A new SLAP test: the supine flexion resistance test. This study describes a new test to detect SLAP lesions. The sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values with respect to the diagnosis of a SLAP lesion were determined in comparison to Speed's test and the O'Brien test. One hundred fifty patients presenting for arthroscopic surgery with persisting pain or functional disability of the shoulder underwent a complete shoulder examination. All patients underwent Speed's test, the O'Brien test, and the new supine flexion resistance test. The clinical results of the tests were correlated with the presence of a SLAP lesion by direct arthroscopic visualization. The supine flexion resistance test had a sensitivity of 80% and a specificity of 69%, whereas Speed's test and the O'Brien test had sensitivities of 60% and 94%, respectively, and specificities of 38% and 28%, respectively. Regarding isolated SLAP lesions, the supine flexion resistance test was highly sensitive, with a sensitivity of 92% (58% for Speed's test and 75% for the O'Brien test). For isolated tears of the supraspinatus, the specificity of the supine flexion resistance test was 75% (14% for Speed's test and 17% for the O'Brien test). Compared with the O'Brien test and Speed's test, the supine flexion resistance test proves to be more specific, with a specificity of 69% for the whole study population (28% for the O'Brien test and 38% for Speed's test) and with a specificity of 75% for the group of patients with isolated supraspinatus lesions (17% for the O'Brien test and 14% for Speed's test). The new test is a useful and effective test for detecting type II SLAP lesions. The high specificity enables the elimination of false-positive results of other clinical tests that are more sensitive but not specific. Level II, development of diagnostic criteria with consecutive patients and universally applied gold standard."}
{"id": "18438933", "title": "Progressive resistance training in patients with shoulder impingement syndrome: a randomized controlled trial.", "content": "Progressive resistance training in patients with shoulder impingement syndrome: a randomized controlled trial. To assess pain, function, quality of life, and muscle strength in patients with shoulder impingement syndrome who participated in muscle strengthening exercises. A total of 60 patients diagnosed with shoulder impingement syndrome were selected from the clinics of the Federal University of S\u00e3o Paulo and randomly distributed into experimental and control groups. Patients were evaluated regarding pain, function, quality of life, muscle strength, and the number of antiinflammatory drugs and analgesics taken. Patients then participated in the progressive resistance training program for the musculature of the shoulder, which was held twice a week for 2 months, while the control group remained on a waiting list. Sixty patients were randomly allocated to the experimental group (21 women and 9 men, mean age 56.3 years) and control group (25 women and 5 men, mean age 54.8 years). Patients from the experimental group showed an improvement from 4.2 cm to 2.4 cm on a 10-cm visual analog scale (P < 0.001) regarding pain at rest and from 7.4 cm to 5.2 cm (P < 0.001) regarding pain during movement. Function went from 44.0 to 33.2 (P < 0.007) using the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand assessment and domains from the Short Form 36. There was a statistically significant difference in improvement in pain and function between patients in the experimental group and those in the control group (P < 0.05). The progressive resistance training program for the musculature of the shoulder in patients with shoulder impingement syndrome was effective in reducing pain and improving function and quality of life."}
{"id": "18434667", "title": "Snapping popliteus tendon in a 21-year-old female.", "content": "Snapping popliteus tendon in a 21-year-old female. Case report. Determining the cause of painful snapping on the lateral aspect of the knee can be a challenge. The differential diagnosis includes iliotibial band friction syndrome, lateral meniscus tear, intra-articular loose body, discoid lateral meniscus, snapping biceps femoris tendon, degenerative joint disease, proximal tibiofibular joint instability, and snapping popliteus tendon. A 21-year-old female presented with a 7-year history of a painful snapping on the lateral aspect of her left knee. She reported the snapping occurred with all activities involving knee flexion and extension, including running and walking. With a diagnosis of snapping iliotibial band, she had received a variety of physical therapy interventions, including various lower extremity stretching and strengthening exercises. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications were also prescribed by her physician. Conservative and pharmoclogical interventions were unsuccessful in improving her symptoms. Similarly, our attempt with conservative treatment consisting of ice, taping, and a short period of immobilization was not successful. The patient underwent a surgical procedure consisting of removal of a prominent tubercle on the lateral femoral condyle and tenodesis of the popliteus tendon to the proximal aspect of the fibular (lateral) collateral ligament, followed by a postoperative program of physical therapy including range-of-motion and progressive strengthening exercises. At 6 weeks following surgery, the patient had returned to all activities with complete resolution of her symptoms. Painful snapping at the lateral aspect of the knee may be caused by a variety of disorders, including the popliteus tendon. Clinical diagnosis is challenging. Clinical suspicion of a snapping popliteus tendon as a source of the signs and symptoms of the condition is important for inclusion in the differential diagnosis. Differential diagnosis, level 4."}
{"id": "18434666", "title": "Three-dimensional acromioclavicular joint motions during elevation of the arm.", "content": "Three-dimensional acromioclavicular joint motions during elevation of the arm. Descriptive laboratory study. To determine the 3-dimensional motions occurring between the scapula relative to the clavicle at the acromioclavicular joint during humeral elevation in the scapular plane. Shoulder pathology is commonly treated through exercise programs aimed at correcting scapular motion abnormalities. However, little is known regarding how acromioclavicular joint motions contribute to normal and abnormal scapulothoracic motion. Thirty subjects (16 males, 14 females) participated. Subjects with positive symptoms on clinical exam or past history of shoulder pathology, trauma, or surgery were excluded. Electromagnetic surface motion analysis was performed tracking the thorax, clavicle, scapula, and humerus. Subjects performed 3 repetitions of scapular plane abduction. Passive motion data were also collected for scapular plane abduction from cadaver specimens. Data were analyzed using within-session reliability and descriptive statistics as well as repeated measures analyses of variance (ANOVAs) to determine the effect of elevation angle from rest to 90 masculine humeral elevation. Reliability was determined from repeated trials in the same session without removing sensors or redigitizing landmarks. Angular values were highly repeatable within session (ICC>0.94; SEM, < 2.3 degrees ). During active scapular plane abduction from rest to 90 degrees , average acromioclavicular joint angular values demonstrated increased internal rotation (approximately 4.3 degrees ), increased upward rotation (approximately 14.6 degrees ), and increased posterior tilting (approximately 6.7 degrees ) (P<.05). Passive motions on cadavers demonstrated similar kinematic patterns. Significant motion occurs at the acromioclavicular joint during active humeral elevation, contributing to scapular motion on the thorax. This information provides a foundation for understanding normal acromioclavicular joint motion as a basis for further investigation of pathology and rehabilitation approaches."}
{"id": "18430594", "title": "Latissimus dorsi transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tears: a longitudinal study.", "content": "Latissimus dorsi transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tears: a longitudinal study. Latissimus dorsi transfer is indicated for isolated posterior superior defects of the rotator cuff. Additional lesions limit the success of the outcome, but they are relatively frequent in revision surgery. We analyzed their influence on the postoperative function in 52 patients with an irreparable tear of the rotator cuff (35 primary operations, 17 revision surgeries). We observed a continuous improvement in the Constant score from 36 to 69 points, also in ROM, strength, relief of pain and of different subjective parameters for the entire group in consecutive examinations at 11.1, 35.7 and 50.2 months. We found increased osteoarthritis (from 1.0 to 1.5 mm), as well as a decrease in the acromiohumeral distance (from 5.6 to 4.7 mm). In contrast, we detected a slight decrease in the values in the revision group and in the presence of an additional subscapularis lesion."}
{"id": "18430593", "title": "Latissimus dorsi transfer to restore external rotation with reverse shoulder arthroplasty: a biomechanical study.", "content": "Latissimus dorsi transfer to restore external rotation with reverse shoulder arthroplasty: a biomechanical study. In patients with pseudoparesis of the shoulder resulting from irreparable rotator cuff tears, reverse shoulder arthroplasty (RSA) can restore active elevation, but external rotation remains less predictable. Latissimus dorsi transfer (LDT) has been shown to be effective in restoring external rotation in patients with posterosuperior tears of the rotator cuff. The aim of this study is to determine the capacity of the LDT to restore external rotation in combination with RSA and to investigate the mechanical advantage produced by 3 different insertion sites. A biomechanical model was created using a reverse total shoulder prosthesis with 3 different transfer insertions. Moment arms were measured for 2 static positions and 1 motion of the humerus. The moment arm analysis showed that LDT can improve active external rotation in the setting of a reverse prosthesis. An insertion site on the posterior side of the greater tuberosity (adjacent to the teres minor insertion) produced a greater external rotation moment arm."}
{"id": "18420213", "title": "A musculoskeletal model of the upper extremity for use in the development of neuroprosthetic systems.", "content": "A musculoskeletal model of the upper extremity for use in the development of neuroprosthetic systems. Upper extremity neuroprostheses use functional electrical stimulation (FES) to restore arm motor function to individuals with cervical level spinal cord injury. For the design and testing of these systems, a biomechanical model of the shoulder and elbow has been developed, to be used as a substitute for the human arm. It can be used to design and evaluate specific implementations of FES systems, as well as FES controllers. The model can be customized to simulate a variety of pathological conditions. For example, by adjusting the maximum force the muscles can produce, the model can be used to simulate an individual with tetraplegia and to explore the effects of FES of different muscle sets. The model comprises six bones, five joints, nine degrees of freedom, and 29 shoulder and arm muscles. It was developed using commercial, graphics-based modeling and simulation packages that are easily accessible to other researchers and can be readily interfaced to other analysis packages. It can be used for both forward-dynamic (inputs: muscle activation and external load; outputs: motions) and inverse-dynamic (inputs: motions and external load; outputs: muscle activation) simulations. Our model was verified by comparing the model calculated muscle activations to electromyographic signals recorded from shoulder and arm muscles of five subjects. As an example of its application to neuroprosthesis design, the model was used to demonstrate the importance of rotator cuff muscle stimulation when aiming to restore humeral elevation. It is concluded that this model is a useful tool in the development and implementation of upper extremity neuroprosthetic systems."}
{"id": "18418574", "title": "Transosseous arthroscopic repair of partial articular-surface supraspinatus tendon tears.", "content": "Transosseous arthroscopic repair of partial articular-surface supraspinatus tendon tears. Partial articular-surface tendon avulsion (PASTA) lesions of the supraspinatus muscle represent a common cause for shoulder impairment and a preceding pathology for full-thickness tendon tears. Arthroscopic tendon repair is a possible surgical method of treatment. The purposes of cuff repair are anatomical tendon healing, prevention of tear size progression to completion and reduction of shoulder pain. In this report, we describe a transtendon arthroscopic technique of transosseous refixation of articular-side partial tears leaving the bursal layer of the supraspinatus tendon intact. A curved hollow needle is used to perform an all arthroscopic transosseous mattress suture. Thus, anatomical tendon-to-bone contact of the rotator cuff to the footprint is restored. Preliminary clinical results of 16 patients are convincing with significant pain relief and functional improvement."}
{"id": "18416592", "title": "Scapular positioning in athlete's shoulder : particularities, clinical measurements and implications.", "content": "Scapular positioning in athlete's shoulder : particularities, clinical measurements and implications. Despite the essential role played by the scapula in shoulder function, current concepts in shoulder training and treatment regularly neglect its contribution. The 'scapular dyskinesis' is an alteration of the normal scapular kinematics as part of scapulohumeral rhythm, which has been shown to be a nonspecific response to a host of proximal and distal shoulder injuries. The dyskinesis can react in many ways with shoulder motion and function to increase the dysfunction. Thoracic kyphosis, acromio-clavicular joint disorders, subacromial or internal impingement, instability or labral pathology can alter scapular kinematics. Indeed, alteration of scapular stabilizing muscle activation, inflexibility of the muscles and capsule-ligamentous complex around the shoulder may affect the resting position and motion of the scapula. Given the interest in the scapular positioning and patterns of motion, this article aims to give a detailed overview of the literature focusing on the role of the scapula within the shoulder complex through the sports context. Such an examination of the role of the scapula requires the description of the normal pattern of scapula motion during shoulder movement; this also implies the study of possible scapular adaptations with sports practice and scapular dyskinesis concomitant to fatigue, impingement and instability. Different methods of scapular positioning evaluation are gathered from the literature in order to offer to the therapist the possibility of detecting scapular asymmetries through clinical examinations. Furthermore, current concepts of rehabilitation dealing with relieving symptoms associated with inflexibility, weakness or activation imbalance of the muscles are described. Repeating clinical assessments throughout the rehabilitation process highlights improvements and allows the therapist to actualize rationally his or her intervention. The return to the field must be accompanied by a transitory phase, which is conducive to integrating new instructions during sports gestures. On the basis of the possible scapular disturbance entailed in sports practice, a preventive approach that could be incorporated into training management is encouraged."}
{"id": "18413680", "title": "Comparison of the clinical outcomes of single- and double-row repairs in rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Comparison of the clinical outcomes of single- and double-row repairs in rotator cuff tears. Although research has demonstrated the superiority of double-row rotator cuff repair over single-row methods from a biological and mechanical point of view, few studies have compared clinical outcome of the 2 methods, and no articles have been published describing the superiority of double-row methods in clinical aspects. Arthroscopic double-row repair of a rotator cuff tear has superior clinical outcome to single-row repair. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 2. The study included 78 patients operated on for full-thickness rotator cuff tears between May 2002 and May 2004. A single-row fixation method was used in the first consecutive 40 patients, and a double-row fixation method was used in the next consecutive 38 patients. The mean age at surgery was 56 years. At 2 years after surgery, final evaluation was done with American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons and Constant scoring systems and the Shoulder Strength Index. The Shoulder Strength Index is a new evaluation method to estimate relative shoulder strength compared with the unaffected shoulder. At final follow-up, the average American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores were 91.6 in the single-row group and 93.0 in the double-row group. The Constant score was 76.7 in the single-row group and 80.0 in the double-row group. Functional outcome was improved in both groups after surgery, but there was no significant difference between the 2 groups. When the patients were further divided by size of tear, there was still no difference between the repair techniques in the patients with small to medium (<3 cm) tears. However, in patients with large to massive tears (>3 cm), the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons and Constant scores and Shoulder Strength Index were all significantly better in the group that had double-row repair. Small to medium rotator cuff tears should be repaired with the single-row method, and large to massive tears should be repaired with the double-row method."}
{"id": "18412933", "title": "A 'one-stop clinic' for the diagnosis and management of rotator cuff pathology: Getting the right diagnosis first time.", "content": "A 'one-stop clinic' for the diagnosis and management of rotator cuff pathology: Getting the right diagnosis first time. We have introduced a one-stop clinic for the diagnosis and management of rotator cuff tears (RCTs). The aim of the study was to determine the effect of the one-stop clinic on the interval and delay in management for patients with suspected rotator cuff pathology. Seventy-four patients were reviewed retrospectively; 39 had an ultrasound of the shoulder before (group 1), and 35 patients after (group 2) the new protocol was introduced. Patients in group 2 had a shoulder ultrasound scan (USS) on the day of their clinic appointment or beforehand based upon the General Practitioners (GP) letter. Indications included patients over the age of 30, or patients with a history of trauma or a painful shoulder. Twenty-four patients were diagnosed with RCTs on USS with an overall sensitivity of 93.75%, specificity 100% and accuracy of 91% for full thickness tears. Clinical detection alone had an overall sensitivity of 80%, a specificity of 91% and accuracy of 87%. Mean time from GP referral to definitive management plan was 6.49 months (SD 2.74) in group 1, compared with 4.63 months (SD 1.43) in group 2 with an overall reduction in half the number of clinic appointments. This was statistically significant (p < 0.001). Ultrasound scan of the shoulder is an accurate and reliable method of detecting full thickness RCTs. The one-stop clinic significantly shortened the interval between GP referral and definitive management."}
{"id": "18410039", "title": "Shoulder joint pathology--improved diagnosis by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): a pictorial essay and review.", "content": "Shoulder joint pathology--improved diagnosis by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): a pictorial essay and review. This paper describes the personal experience of the author with Shoulder Arthro MR. This imaging method is put into perspective with other, more widely used diagnostic methods, which also have their advantages. Indications for Shoulder Arthro MR are discussed and details on the technique and interpretaton are given. Also major shoulder pathology as impingement, rotator cuff tears and instability is discussed. Furthermore a review of the spectrum of pathology in 100 consecutively examined patients is made and treatment and outcome are listed. Lastly a pictorial review of typical pathologies in MR pictures is supplemented. After x-ray, Shoulder MR is now considered the standard among the imaging methods to diagnose shoulder disorders, as it allows for optimal depiction of pathology and diagnosis in all major imaging planes. At the same time the method gives the arthroscopist an excellent roadmap for his intervention. All in all, the treatment outcome of shoulder trauma has been improved by shoulder MR in conjunction with modern surgical and arthroscopic therapies."}
{"id": "18406951", "title": "Functional disability of the wrist: direct correlation with decreased wrist motion.", "content": "Functional disability of the wrist: direct correlation with decreased wrist motion. Motion-limiting wrist procedures have demonstrated both efficacy and reproducibility as a treatment for alleviating painful wrist conditions, but the reduction of pain achieved is necessarily accompanied by a marked loss of wrist motion. However, no study demonstrates a functional difference between variable degrees of wrist motion. The hypothesis of this study is that wrist motion is directly correlated with functional ability. Using a prospective, randomized, crossover design, we randomized 42 men and women above 45 years of age with normal wrists to wear both a partially restricted and a highly restricted splint for 24 hours each. Serving as their own controls, objective and subjective outcome measurements were taken at baseline and after each of the 2 splinting periods. The specific measurements included range of motion parameters (flexion/extension, radioulnar deviation, supination/pronation, circumduction), subjective surveys (Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand; Patient Rated Wrist Evaluation; and Modern Activity Subjective Survey), and an objective timed test (Modern Activity Timed Test; MATT). The simulated flexion/extension arc of motion for baseline, partially restricted, and highly restricted conditions were 138 degrees , 58 degrees , and 20 degrees , respectively. Median Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand scores for the 3 conditions significantly increased from 1.8 to 14.4 and 20.8 (p <.01), respectively. In addition, Patient Rated Wrist Evaluation results increased from 2.5 to 16.4 and 27.1, and the Modern Activity Subjective Survey results increased from 0.3 to 9.1 and 14.9 across restricted motion conditions. Modern Activity Timed Test results matched the perceived difficulty reflected by the subjective surveys, demonstrating significant increases in performance time for 6 of the 8 individual MATT items as well as significant differences for the sum of all tasks (MATT score) between the highly and partially restricted conditions. Use of low-profile splinting to restrict wrist motion demonstrates a direct correlation between restriction of wrist motion and functional disability."}
{"id": "18406557", "title": "Miscellaneous conditions of the shoulder: anatomical, clinical, and pictorial review emphasizing potential pitfalls in imaging diagnosis.", "content": "Miscellaneous conditions of the shoulder: anatomical, clinical, and pictorial review emphasizing potential pitfalls in imaging diagnosis. The purpose of this article is to review the key imaging findings in major categories of pathology affecting the shoulder joint including hydroxyapatite deposition disease, rotator cuff interval pathology, acromioclavicular joint pathology, glenohumeral osteoarthrosis, and synovial inflammatory processes, with specific emphasis on findings that have associated pitfalls in imaging diagnosis. The pathophysiology and clinical manifestations of the above mentioned categories of pathology will be reviewed, followed in each section by a detailed pictorial review of the key imaging findings in each category including plain film, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging findings as applicable. Imaging challenges that relate to both diagnosis and characterization will be addressed with each type of pathology. The goal is that after reading this article, the reader will be able to recognize the key imaging findings in major categories of pathology affecting the shoulder joint and will become familiar with the potential pitfalls in their imaging diagnosis."}
{"id": "18405388", "title": "Range of shoulder motion in patients with adhesive capsulitis; intra-tester reproducibility is acceptable for group comparisons.", "content": "Range of shoulder motion in patients with adhesive capsulitis; intra-tester reproducibility is acceptable for group comparisons. Measurements of range of motion play a key role in shoulder research. The purpose of this study is to investigate intra-observer reproducibility of measurements of active and passive range of motion in patients with adhesive capsulitis. The study was carried out in a population consisting of 32 patients with clinical signs of adhesive capsulitis. A specified measurement protocol was used, and range of motion in affected and non-affected shoulders was measured twice for each patient with a one-week interval. For most of the investigated individual movements, test-retest differences in range of motion score of more than approximately 15 degrees are not likely to occur as a result of measurement error only. Point-estimates for the intraclass correlation coefficient ranged from 0.61 to 0.93. Range of motion of patients with adhesive capsulitis can be measured with acceptable reproducibility in settings where groups are compared. Scores for individual patients should be interpreted with caution."}
{"id": "18403402", "title": "Single-point acupuncture and physiotherapy for the treatment of painful shoulder: a multicentre randomized controlled trial.", "content": "Single-point acupuncture and physiotherapy for the treatment of painful shoulder: a multicentre randomized controlled trial. Evaluate the efficacy of acupuncture associated with physiotherapy for patients with painful shoulder. In a multicentre controlled randomized study, participants were recruited with a clinical diagnosis of unilateral subacromial syndrome from six rehabilitation medicine departments belonging to the Public Health System in two Spanish regions. All participants received 15 sessions of physiotherapy during the 3 weeks that the treatment lasted and were randomized to additionally receive, once a week, acupuncture or mock TENS (transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation). The primary outcome measure was the change in the Constant-Murley Score (CMS) for functional assessment of the shoulder, at 4 weeks after randomization. This study is registered as an International Standard Randomized Controlled Trial, number ISRCTN28687220. A total of 425 patients were recruited. The mean score (s.d.) on the CMS had increased by 16.6 (15.6) points among the acupuncture group, compared with 10.6 (13.5) points in the control group, and the mean difference between the two groups was statistically significant (6.0 points; 95% CI 3.2, 8.8 points; P < 0.001). By the end of the treatment, 53% of the patients in the acupuncture group had decreased their consumption of analgesics, compared with a corresponding 30% among the control group (P < 0.001). Single-point acupuncture in association with physiotherapy improves shoulder function and alleviates pain, compared with physiotherapy as the sole treatment. This improvement is accompanied by a reduction in the consumption of analgesic medicaments."}
{"id": "18400443", "title": "Multidetector spiral CT arthrography of the shoulder. Clinical applications and limits, with MR arthrography and arthroscopic correlations.", "content": "Multidetector spiral CT arthrography of the shoulder. Clinical applications and limits, with MR arthrography and arthroscopic correlations. Although MR imaging and MR arthrography are the first choice modalities for shoulder imaging, CT arthrography (CTA) may be used successfully to address many clinical questions. The advent of submillimeter multiple detector CT technology and subsequent excellent three-plane resolution has considerably increased the quality of CTA examinations and has propelled this technique to the forefront in a growing number of indications. The combined use of iodinated contrast material for fluoroscopic confirmation of the articular position of the needle before injection of gadolinium chelates for MR arthrography offers the unique opportunity to compare CTA and MRA findings in carefully selected cases. This paper illustrates capabilities and limits of CTA for the study of rotator cuff tears, shoulder instability, cartilage lesions, anatomical variants and abnormalities of the glenoid labrum, with correlations to MR arthrography and surgical findings."}
{"id": "18399607", "title": "Biceps tendon and superior labrum injuries: decision making.", "content": "Biceps tendon and superior labrum injuries: decision making. Although the anatomy of the biceps tendon and the restraining structures within the rotator interval are well defined, biceps function is not clearly understood. Biceps pathology is often associated with rotator cuff disease. Although careful clinical examinations along with diagnostic testing can accurately identify patients with biceps pathology, arthroscopy is extremely valuable in the diagnosis and treatment of biceps pathology. Surgical treatment options for biceps pathology include decompression, d\u00e9bridement, tenotomy, and tenodesis. Several factors must be considered in this decision. The most important factors when deciding between tenodesis or tenotomy are the activity expectations of the patient, cosmesis, patient compliance, associated pathology, and patient age. Those older than 60 years tolerate a tenotomy with the fewest adverse effects. Various arthroscopic tenodesis techniques exist, including an interference screw in bone, suture anchor fixation, and suture to adjacent tissue fixation. An open subpectoral tenodesis is another option and appropriate for a retracted biceps rupture or when the biceps disease extends distal to the bicipital groove. A superior labrum anterior and posterior (SLAP) lesion at the attachment site of the biceps tendon to the superior glenoid labrum is uncommon. Clinically significant SLAP lesions are found in about 5% of all shoulder arthroscopies and may be mistaken for normal superior labral variations. Clinical examinations and diagnostic imaging tests for SLAP lesions are often unreliable, and the ultimate diagnostic confirmation is made by arthroscopy. Surgical treatment is focused on the reattachment of the unstable biceps-labral complex."}
{"id": "18399578", "title": "The reverse total shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "The reverse total shoulder arthroplasty. A reverse total shoulder arthroplasty is a prosthesis that should be used in patients who have specific contraindications to the more conventional total shoulder prosthetic replacements. The patient and surgeon should understand that this reconstruction is technically more difficult and is associated with more complications than conventional shoulder reconstructions. The reverse total shoulder arthroplasty has been used in Europe more than in North America, and the experience in Europe is guiding its use in North America. An understanding of the mechanics of the reverse total shoulder arthroplasty and the technical details of its implantation will help in understanding its role in shoulder reconstruction."}
{"id": "18399573", "title": "What went wrong and what to do about it: pitfalls in the treatment of shoulder impingement.", "content": "What went wrong and what to do about it: pitfalls in the treatment of shoulder impingement. Shoulder impingement is a commonly treated disorder; however, the absence of a clear understanding of pathophysiology and causation can create variability in treatment. Pitfalls that can impede optimal patient outcomes can occur in the areas of diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation. Diagnostic pitfalls include failing to identify some of the multiple extrinsic diagnoses as well as the intrinsic subacromial pathology in patients with symptoms of impingement. Surgical pitfalls include not addressing the entire pathology and doing an incomplete or excessive decompression. Rehabilitation pitfalls include prescribing the wrong exercises at the wrong time and omitting steps in the rehabilitation process. Every patient who presents for primary treatment of impingement or secondary treatment following failed treatment should have a thorough evaluation of all intrinsic and extrinsic factors that can contribute to the symptoms of shoulder impingement."}
{"id": "18398679", "title": "An integer programming model for optimizing shoulder rehabilitation.", "content": "An integer programming model for optimizing shoulder rehabilitation. Strength restoration is one goal of shoulder rehabilitation following rotator cuff repair surgery. However, the time spent in a physical rehabilitation setting is limited. The objective of this study was to develop a novel mathematical formulation for determining the optimal shoulder rehabilitation exercise protocol to restore normal shoulder strength given a time-constrained rehabilitation session. Strength gain was modeled using a linear dose-response function and biomechanical parameters of the shoulder musculature. Two different objective functions were tested: (1) one based on a least squares support vector machine using healthy and pathologic shoulder strengths (normative objective function), and (2) one which seeks to match the strength of the contralateral shoulder (contralateral objective function). The normative objective function was subject-independent and the optimal protocol consisted of four sets each of adduction and external rotation. The contralateral objective function was subject-specific and the typical optimal protocol consisted of various set combinations of abduction and internal and external rotation. These results are only partially consistent with current practice. Improvement of the current model is dependent on a better understanding of strength training adaptation and shoulder rehabilitation."}
{"id": "18394503", "title": "Fibular collateral ligament-biceps femoris calcific bursitis causing flexion contracture in the knee, external rotation in the leg, and equinus deformity in the ankle.", "content": "Fibular collateral ligament-biceps femoris calcific bursitis causing flexion contracture in the knee, external rotation in the leg, and equinus deformity in the ankle. The fibular collateral ligament (FCL)-biceps femoris (BF) bursa is not a commonly known location for calcific bursitis. A case of FCL-BF calcific bursitis is presented. An 18-year-old man had a blunt trauma on the lateral side of his right knee approximately 1 year before his examination. The pain and physical distortion developed in the trauma region over time. Physical examination revealed a 30 degrees flexion contracture and slight valgus deformity in the right knee. There was 30 degrees of external rotation in the leg and a 15 degrees equinus deformity in the ankle. The patient had toe-toe gait. There was a tender swelling 3 x 4 cm in size on the posterolateral aspect of the right knee. Plain radiography and computed tomography revealed a calcific mass, approximately 1.5 x 4 cm in size, between soft tissues adjacent to the posterolateral side of the right lateral femoral condyle. There were articular cartilage thinning and joint space narrowing at the lateral site of the knee joint, and magnetic resonance imaging showed bone marrow edema at the lateral condyles of the tibia and femur. The enlarged calcified bursa was excised. A segment of the contracted iliotibial tract was excised, and a fractional lengthening was performed on the BF tendon. This case report revealed that calcific bursitis can occur in the FCL-BF bursa, which may lead to complications when neglected."}
{"id": "18387766", "title": "MRI of the rotator cuff and internal derangement.", "content": "MRI of the rotator cuff and internal derangement. Disease to the rotator cuff is the most common cause of shoulder pain and dysfunction in adults. This group of muscles performs multiple functions and is often stressed during various activities. The anatomy and physiology of the rotator cuff is complex and interconnected to other muscle groups in the shoulder. One must take the anatomic status of the rotator cuff tendons into account when planning the treatment of the rotator cuff injury. Diagnostic imaging of the rotator cuff, performed by MRI, provides valuable information about the nature of the injury. In this article, we will review the various types and causes of rotator cuff injuries, normal MR anatomy, function, patho-anatomy, and the biomechanics of the rotator cuff. We will also review shoulder impingement syndromes."}
{"id": "18375785", "title": "In vivo comparison of changes in glenohumeral translation after arthroscopic capsulolabral reconstructions.", "content": "In vivo comparison of changes in glenohumeral translation after arthroscopic capsulolabral reconstructions. The objective of this study was to quantify anteroposterior glenohumeral translation of patients undergoing arthroscopic capsulolabral repairs using cutaneous electromagnetic position sensors. Anteroposterior translation will be restored after arthroscopic capsulolabral repairs to values similar to the contralateral or uninjured shoulder. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 2. With use of an electromagnetic tracking system, preoperative anteroposterior translation was measured in the injured and uninvolved shoulders of 32 patients with a diagnosis of glenohumeral labral tears. Testing was done with patients placed in the supine position with the arm suspended in 90 degrees of abduction and neutral rotation. The American Shoulder and Elbow Society index and range of motion were also measured. Patients with capsulolabral injuries requiring arthroscopic repair were reexamined at 3 and 6 months postoperatively. In patients with anteroinferior/posteroinferior capsulolabral repairs, glenohumeral translation at 3 and 6 months postoperative (P < .0001) was significantly decreased compared with preoperative values (P = .0007) and the uninvolved side (pre-operative, P = .04; postoperative, P = .002). In patients with superior capsulolabral (superior labral anterior-posterior) repairs, the mean glenohumeral translation at 3 and 6 months postoperative was decreased significantly compared with the preoperative value; however, no significant differences were found between the uninvolved side (preoperative, P = .5) and the operative shoulder (postoperative, P = .2). By 6-month follow-up, no significant difference existed in external rotation when compared with pre-operative values for either repair group. Arthroscopic superior capsulolabral reconstructions successfully restored anteroposterior translation. However, arthroscopic capsulolabral techniques for treating recurrent anterior or posterior instability resulted in decreased anteroposterior translation compared to the uninvolved side while restoring external rotation."}
{"id": "18375587", "title": "Controlling cardiac transport and plaque formation.", "content": "Controlling cardiac transport and plaque formation. Macro-particles transported in the bloodstream, such as LDL particles and macrophages, are considered to be one of the initiating factors of atherosclerotic plaque development. LDL infiltration from the bloodstream into a blood vessel's wall, whether the coronary, peripheral, or carotid arteries, is considered a major inflammatory factor, recruiting macrophages from the blood flow and leading to the formation of vulnerable atherosclerotic plaques. Infiltration sites are influenced by patterns of blood flow, as regions of lower shear stresses and high oscillations may give rise to higher infiltration rates through the endothelium, exacerbating the growth of a plaque and its tendency to rupture. Previous studies demonstrated a high prevalence of rupture sites proximal to the minimum lumen area, which raised the question of whether the existence of two distinct adjacent plaques, in which the distal plaque is more severe, can give rise to hemodynamic forces that can push the non-stenotic plaque to rupture. Models of the coronary arteries with one and two eccentric and concentric stenotic narrowings were built into a closed flow loop. The single stenosis model had a 75% area reduction narrowing (representing the vunerable atherosclerotic plaque) with relevant elastic properties. The double stenosis model included an additional distal 84% area reduction narrowing. The flow in the area between the two stenoses was recorded and analyzed using continuous doppler particle image velocimetry (CDPIV), together with the hydrostatic pressure acting on the proximal plaque. Results indicated that the combined shear rates and pressure effects in a model with a significant distal stenosis can contribute to the increase in plaque instability by LDL and enhanced macrophage uptake. The highly oscillatory nature of the disturbed flow near the shoulder of the vulnerable atherosclerotic plaque enriches its lipid soft core, and the high hydrostatic pressures acting on the same lesion in this geometry induce high internal maximal stresses that can trigger the rupture of the plaque."}
{"id": "18375403", "title": "Accuracy of physical examination in subacromial impingement syndrome.", "content": "Accuracy of physical examination in subacromial impingement syndrome. Shoulder pain is a common complaint, frequently caused by subacromial impingement syndrome (SIS). There are a number of physical examination (PE) manoeuvres that explore the subacromial space. MRI provides an accurate anatomic image of the subacromial space, being the current gold standard in the diagnosis of SIS. The aim of this study is to evaluate the accuracy of the PE in the diagnosis of SIS and/or subacromial-subdeltoid bursitis (SSB) confirmed by MRI. Consecutive outpatients with an episode of shoulder pain were prospectively included in the study. They were examined by a rheumatologist and, within 3 days, an MRI was done. Sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values, and accuracy of PE manoeuvres were calculated using a 2 x 2 table. Fourteen males and 16 females were included. All the tests exhibited acceptable sensitivity. As a result Yocum manoeuvre was considered the most sensitive and most accurate for SIS. With regard to SSB, the Gerber test was the most sensitive. The majority of the PE manoeuvres showed low specificity. Most PE manoeuvres identify reasonably well subacromial impingement of the shoulder, although, in general, they have low specificity. The Yocum test has the best sensitivity and precision. Our data suggest that imaging techniques should be recommended to better define shoulder lesions."}
{"id": "18375285", "title": "Supermarket hip: an unusual cause of injury to the hip joint.", "content": "Supermarket hip: an unusual cause of injury to the hip joint. Sporting activity can be a significant cause of injury to the hip joint, in particular tears of the acetabular labrum and, less commonly, tears of the ligamentum teres. Femoroacetabular impingement and acetabular dysplasia are also commonly associated with labral tears. However, shopping in a supermarket would not normally be regarded as an at-risk activity for the hip joint. Despite this, we report 3 separate cases of hip injury (2 labral tears, 1 partial avulsion of the ligamentum teres), each of which was sustained while shopping in a supermarket. None of the 3 patients involved had radiographic evidence of acetabular dysplasia or arthroscopic evidence of femoroacetabular impingement. All patients were successfully treated by arthroscopic surgery of the hip. We therefore suggest that shopping in a supermarket may need to be reclassified as an at-risk activity for the hip joint."}
{"id": "18375271", "title": "Arthroscopic replacement of massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears using a GraftJacket allograft: technique and preliminary results.", "content": "Arthroscopic replacement of massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears using a GraftJacket allograft: technique and preliminary results. Our purpose was to assess the short-term results and describe the technique of arthroscopic repair of irreparable rotator cuff tears by use of a GraftJacket allograft (Wright Medical Technology, Arlington, TN). Between March 2003 and February 2004, 16 patients with massive, contracted, immobile rotator cuff tears were treated with arthroscopic placement of a GraftJacket allograft by a single surgeon. Patients were followed up for 1 to 2 years. All were evaluated preoperatively and postoperatively by use of the modified University of California, Los Angeles scoring system, Constant score, and Simple Shoulder Test. Magnetic resonance imaging was performed postoperatively at 3 months and 1 year. At a mean follow-up of 26.8 months (range, 12 to 38 months), 15 of 16 patients were satisfied with the procedure. The mean University of California, Los Angeles score increased from 18.4 preoperatively to 30.4 postoperatively (P = .0001). The Constant score increased from 53.8 to 84.0 (P = .0001). Statistically significant improvements were seen in pain, forward flexion, and external rotation strength. Thirteen patients had full incorporation of the graft into the native tissue as documented on magnetic resonance imaging. There were no complications in this cohort of patients. Our study supports GraftJacket allograft as a viable solution for surgical salvage in select cases of massive, irreparable rotator cuff pathology. This treatment option may provide patients with decreased pain and increased function despite a previously irreparable rotator cuff tear. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "18375269", "title": "Arthroscopic management of posterior instability: evolution of technique and results.", "content": "Arthroscopic management of posterior instability: evolution of technique and results. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of arthroscopic posterior shoulder reconstruction. We treated 136 shoulders in 131 patients with a diagnosis of primary posterior instability who failed 6 months of vigorous rehabilitation by operative stabilization between 1989 and 2001. Inclusion criterion was primary posterior instability that failed an extensive rehabilitative program with functional impairment and pain. Exclusion criterion was less than 12 months of follow-up and Suretac (Smith & Nephew, Andover, MA) or laser stabilization, leaving 92 shoulders in 90 patients available for the study (69 male, 21 female). Follow-up ranged from 12 to 132 months (average, 28 months). Each patient underwent diagnostic arthroscopy and surgical repair at the same time using one of several primary procedures. The procedure used was based on the pathologic entity noted at the time of surgery. At an average follow-up of 28 months, 97% of the shoulders were stable and considered a success based on the Neer-Foster rating scale. Posterior pathology varied, and a reverse Bankart lesion alone was found 51% of the time, a stretched posterior capsule 67% of the time, and a combination of a reverse Bankart lesion and capsular stretching 16% of the time. The rotator interval was obviously damaged in 61% of cases. Multiple accompanying lesions were found, including anterior-superior labral tears and SLAP tears (20%), superior glenohumeral ligament injury (7%), middle glenohumeral ligament injury (38%), anteroinferior glenohumaral ligament injury (37%), and an enlarged axillary pouch (20%). No essential lesion is present for posterior instability. Multiple varied pathologies will be present in a shoulder presenting with posterior instability. Arthroscopic surgery allows inspection of the joint and anatomic-specific repairs based on pathology. Careful attention to all the supporting structures of the shoulder, including the rotator interval, the anterior-superior labrum, and its attached superior glenohumeral ligament, the coracohumeral ligament, the inferior glenohumeral ligament complex, and the infraspinatus, in addition to the posterior labrum and capsule, allows excellent outcomes to be achieved with arthroscopic posterior reconstruction techniques. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "18375268", "title": "A biomechanical comparison of two suture anchor configurations for the repair of type II SLAP lesions subjected to a peel-back mechanism of failure.", "content": "A biomechanical comparison of two suture anchor configurations for the repair of type II SLAP lesions subjected to a peel-back mechanism of failure. The purpose of this study was to biomechanically compare 2 different suture anchor configurations in the repair of type II SLAP lesions. Standardized type II SLAP lesions were created in 8 matched pairs of cadaveric shoulders. Two different suture anchor configurations were used to repair the type II SLAP lesions. Group 1 SLAP lesions were repaired with 1 suture anchor placed at the anterior border and a second suture anchor placed at the posterior border of the biceps tendon. Group 2 SLAP lesions were repaired with 2 suture anchors placed posterior to the biceps tendon. Biomechanical testing was conducted in 1 direction. A posterior-directed force, in the plane of the glenoid, simulated the peel-back mechanism that occurs during the late cocking phase of throwing. Biceps-labral complex displacement from the glenoid was measured with 2 miniature displacement transducers. Repair failure (2 mm of posterior labral displacement), ultimate failure, and construct stiffness were measured for each specimen. The mean load to repair failure was 43.66 N in group 1 and 40.70 N in group 2. The mean load to ultimate failure was 156.28 N in group 1 and 162.06 N in group 2. The mean construct stiffness was 25.91 N/mm in group 1 and 30.28 N/mm in group 2. The differences between the 2 groups were not statistically significant in terms of repair failure, ultimate failure, and construct stiffness. When repaired type II SLAP lesions were subjected to a posterior vector load to simulate the peel-back mechanism, the 2 suture anchor configurations were biomechanically equivalent. Placement of an anterior suture anchor could, theoretically, tension the anterior capsulolabral structures via the superior and middle glenohumeral ligaments to the superior labrum. The results of this study suggest that there is no biomechanical advantage to placing an anterior suture anchor and so the use of 2 posterior suture anchors may be preferable in the repair of type II SLAP lesions."}
{"id": "18372195", "title": "A novel lesion of the infraspinatus characterized by musculotendinous disruption, edema, and late fatty infiltration.", "content": "A novel lesion of the infraspinatus characterized by musculotendinous disruption, edema, and late fatty infiltration. Isolated, atraumatic rupture of the infraspinatus (IS) with associated edema of its muscle is a previously undescribed lesion. We retrospectively identified 19 patients with MRI detected, isolated lesions of the IS tendon or musculotendinous junction with associated muscle edema. The average age at the time of presentation was 47.7 years (range, 30-66). There were 15 females and 4 males. Fourteen patients were treated nonoperatively; 5 underwent an open repair. All patients underwent clinical and MRI follow-up at an average of 50.3 months (range, 24-79) after the initial MRI. Constant scores were recorded as was a detailed physical examination. Two patients had a clear history of trauma with no preceeding shoulder problems; 17 had a history of chronic shoulder pain. We identified disruption occurring within the IS tendon in 9 patients and at the level of the musculotendinous junction in 8, while the level of disruption was inconclusive in 2. No patient had other full thickness tears. Electromyographic studies were normal, as were nerve conduction velocities in the suprascapular nerve in the 15 patients tested. There was a significant improvement in the Constant score comparing the score at presentation (53 points; range, 24-69) with the score at final follow-up (67.2 points; range, 28-95; P = .009). There was no significant benefit seen comparing the gain in the Constant score between those treated operatively and nonoperatively (P = .61). All 19 patients had progressed to stage 4 fatty infiltration of the IS muscle at latest follow-up."}
{"id": "18369594", "title": "Suprascapular nerve block as a method of preemptive pain control in shoulder surgery.", "content": "Suprascapular nerve block as a method of preemptive pain control in shoulder surgery. The purpose of the study was to evaluate the effect of suprascapular nerve block (SSNB) in shoulder surgery. The study group consisted of 260 patients, which were subjected to shoulder operations. The patients were divided into two equal groups: group I with nerve block compared to a control group II without a nerve block. The mean age of the patients in group I was 56.2 +/- 6.86 years and that in group II was 54.5 +/- 7.06 years. The female to male ratio was 71:59 in group I and was 69:61 in group II. Surgical procedures were arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, arthroscopic subacromial decompression, arthroscopic acromioclavicular resection, arthroscopic removal of calcific tendonitis, arthroscopic reconstruction of instability, arthroscopic capsular release and shoulder replacement. In all cases the pain was documented by the visual analogue scale (VAS) preoperative, at the first, the second as well as at the third day after surgery. In order to evaluate the amount of fluid, which is needed for infiltration of the area of the supraspinatus fossa, we injected different amount of local anesthetic in combination with contrast dye in five patients. In this study to document the fluid distribution, after injecting with different milliliters, 10 ml is proved to be more than enough to have sufficient local anesthetic to block the SSN. Pre-operatively the mean VAS was comparable between both groups. We documented a significant difference in favour of SSNB from day 1 to day 3 after surgery. No specific complications due to this nerve block procedure were found in any patient post-operatively."}
{"id": "18363045", "title": "Mini-open versus all-arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: comparison of the operative costs and the clinical outcomes.", "content": "Mini-open versus all-arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: comparison of the operative costs and the clinical outcomes. Rotator cuff injury is one of the most frequently encountered problems of the shoulder in the daily practice of orthopaedic surgeons. This study compared all-arthroscopic cuff repair (ARCR) and mini-open rotator cuff repair (MORCR) methods in regard to clinical outcomes and costs. Fifty patient charts and operative repairs were analysed (25 ARCR and 25 MORCR). Pre-and postoperative Constant-Murley and UCLA scores along with factors such as tear size, tear type, pre-operative physical therapy, motion and satisfaction levels were compared for the two procedures. Cost-benefit analysis was also performed for comparison between procedures. The duration of follow-up was 31.20 and 21.56 months for MORCR and ARCR groups, respectively. Tear sizes (P=0.68), pre-and postoperative Constant-Murley and UCLA scores (P=0.254) and satisfaction levels were not significantly different between groups. However, the differences between pre-and postoperative Constant-Murley and UCLA scores were statistically significant within both groups (P<0.01). The MORCR group stayed 1 day longer in hospital than the ARCR group, which was statistically significant (P=0.036). The differences regarding mean pain scores, abductions, internal and external rotations in Constant-Murley scores and forward flexion scores in UCLA scores were not significant. The ARCR group cost more, leaving less profit. Results suggest that ARCR yields similar clinical results but at a higher cost compared with MORCR."}
{"id": "18359822", "title": "Biomechanical assessment of Type II superior labral anterior-posterior (SLAP) lesions associated with anterior shoulder capsular laxity as seen in throwers: a cadaveric study.", "content": "Biomechanical assessment of Type II superior labral anterior-posterior (SLAP) lesions associated with anterior shoulder capsular laxity as seen in throwers: a cadaveric study. Type II superior labral anterior-posterior lesions in throwers are often associated with anterior shoulder capsular laxity. Shoulder instability in patients with type II superior labral anterior-posterior lesions may result from the associated shoulder capsular laxity rather than the superior labral anterior-posterior lesion alone. Controlled laboratory study. Six cadaveric shoulders were externally rotated to 20% beyond the maximum humeral external rotation at 60 degrees of glenohumeral abduction, which simulated 90 degrees of shoulder abduction, to detach the superior labrum and elongate the anterior shoulder capsular ligaments. The detached labrum was then repaired to isolate the effect of the detached superior labrum and that of the capsular laxity. Rotational range of motion was measured at 60 degrees of glenohumeral abduction. Anterior-posterior glenohumeral translation was measured at 30 degrees and 60 degrees of glenohumeral abduction. Superior-inferior glenohumeral translation was measured at 0 degrees and 60 degrees of glenohumeral abduction. The experimentally created type II superior labral anterior-posterior lesion and capsular laxity significantly increased anterior translation at 30 degrees (mean difference, 1.0 +/- 0.8 mm; P < .05) and 60 degrees (mean difference, 2.2 +/- 2.0 mm; P < .05) of glenohumeral abduction. Subsequent superior labral anterior-posterior repair restored the anterior translation but only at 30 degrees of glenohumeral abduction (mean difference, 0.9 +/- 0.6 mm; P < .05). Because of the anterior capsular laxity associated with type II superior labral anterior-posterior lesions, superior labral anterior-posterior repair of the peeled-back superior labrum may not restore anterior glenohumeral translation at 90 degrees of shoulder abduction. Anterior shoulder capsular laxity associated with type II superior labral anterior-posterior lesions may cause anterior shoulder instability at 90 degrees of shoulder abduction in throwers even after superior labral anterior-posterior lesion repair."}
{"id": "18357656", "title": "Effect of the Scapula Reposition Test on shoulder impingement symptoms and elevation strength in overhead athletes.", "content": "Effect of the Scapula Reposition Test on shoulder impingement symptoms and elevation strength in overhead athletes. Two group, repeated measures design. To determine whether manually repositioning the scapula using the Scapula Reposition Test (SRT) reduces pain and increases shoulder elevation strength in athletes with and without positive signs of shoulder impingement. Symptom alteration tests may be useful in determining a subset of those with shoulder pathology who may benefit from interventions aimed at improving scapular motion abnormalities. One hundred forty-two college athletes underwent testing for clinical signs of shoulder impingement. Tests provoking symptoms were repeated with the scapula manually repositioned into greater retraction and posterior tilt. A numeric rating scale was used to measure symptom intensity under both conditions. Isometric shoulder elevation strength was measured using a mounted dynamometer with the scapula in its natural position and with manual repositioning. A paired t test was used to compare the strength between positions. The frequency of a significant increase in strength with scapular repositioning, defined as the minimal detectable change (90% confidence interval), was also assessed. Of the 98 athletes with a positive impingement test, 46 had reduced pain with scapular repositioning. Although repositioning produced an increase in strength in both the impingement (P=.001) and non-impingement groups (P=.012), a significant increase in strength was found with repositioning in only 26% of athletes with, and 29% of athletes without positive signs for shoulder impingement. The SRT is a simple clinical test that may potentially be useful in an impairment based classification approach to shoulder problems."}
{"id": "18354718", "title": "Sclerotherapy of Baker's cyst with imaging confirmation of resolution.", "content": "Sclerotherapy of Baker's cyst with imaging confirmation of resolution. Baker's cysts are commonly encountered in pain management practices. To ascertain if sclerotherapy treatment of a Baker's cyst could produce objectively verifiable MRI imaging changes. Case report. A 52-year-old white male with a posterior horn of the medial meniscus tear and a large Baker's cyst who had failed conservative care and drainage was imaged before treatment with sclerosing. Three injections of 12.5% dextrose and anesthetic with sodium morrhuate were injected intraarticular into the right knee after drainage. The Baker's cyst resolved on both postoperative imaging after the completion of care as well as on physical examination. Prolotherapy in this case study seemed to be an effective treatment for Baker's cyst in this patient."}
{"id": "18354142", "title": "Analysis of interobserver and intraobserver variability in the diagnosis and treatment of SLAP tears using the Snyder classification.", "content": "Analysis of interobserver and intraobserver variability in the diagnosis and treatment of SLAP tears using the Snyder classification. Superior labral anterior posterior lesions are a relatively rare entity, and classification as a basis for selection of treatment has remained a point of controversy. There will be substantial interobserver and intraobserver variability in the diagnosis and treatment of superior labral anterior posterior tears by experienced arthroscopic specialists. Cohort study (diagnosis), Level of evidence, 2. Compact discs containing 22 video vignettes of approximately 15 seconds duration were sent to the membership of the Arthroscopy Association of North America, American Shoulder and Elbow Society, and AOSSM. Each surgeon was asked to review the vignettes, classify the superior labral anterior posterior lesion type, and provide a treatment recommendation for each vignette. Seventy-three expert surgeons responded to the solicitation with a completed analysis. The same CD-ROM was re-sent to each of these 73 surgeons at a minimum of 12 months after the first viewing to obtain data on intraobserver reliability. Seventeen of the 73 surgeons returned this second CD-ROM with a complete analysis. Demographic data were also obtained from each surgeon. Multivariable logistic regression analysis was used to analyze the data, and 95% confidence intervals were established for each superior labral anterior posterior type (I-IV) with regard to diagnosis and treatment decision. The 22 vignettes analyzed by 73 surgeons resulted in 1606 responses. Several significant trends were noticed with regard to diagnosis and treatment from the responses: (1) surgeons had difficulty distinguishing type III lesions from type IV lesions, (2) the treatment of type III lesions is much more variable than that of any other subtype, and (3) surgeons had difficulty distinguishing normal shoulders from type II superior labral anterior posterior tears. No relationship was identified between correct treatment decisions based on diagnosis and any of the demographic factors analyzed. Our analysis of intraobserver variability showed only moderate agreement. The analysis of interobserver variability improved significantly when the diagnoses were analyzed based on treatment decision. There is substantial interobserver and intraobserver variability among experienced shoulder arthroscopic specialists with regard to diagnosis and treatment of superior labral anterior posterior tears. Intraobserver agreement using the Snyder classification indicated only moderate agreement. Analysis of interobserver agreement based on treatment decisions results in superior concordance among experienced surgeons for the diagnosis of superior labral anterior posterior lesions."}
{"id": "18354140", "title": "A randomized clinical trial comparing open to arthroscopic acromioplasty with mini-open rotator cuff repair for full-thickness rotator cuff tears: disease-specific quality of life outcome at an average 2-year follow-up.", "content": "A randomized clinical trial comparing open to arthroscopic acromioplasty with mini-open rotator cuff repair for full-thickness rotator cuff tears: disease-specific quality of life outcome at an average 2-year follow-up. Rotator cuff tears affect patients' quality of life. The evolution toward less invasive operative techniques for rotator cuff repair requires appropriate comparisons with the standard open procedure, using validated outcomes in a randomized fashion. There is no difference in disease-specific quality of life outcomes at 2 years between an open surgical repair (open) versus an arthroscopic acromioplasty with mini-open (scope mini-open) repair for patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Randomized controlled trial; Level of evidence, 1. Patients with unremitting pain, failed nonoperative treatment, and imaging indicating full-thickness rotator cuff tears were included in the study. Massive irreparable cuff tears were excluded. Patients were assessed using the disease-specific Rotator Cuff-Quality of Life index, which produces a maximum score of 100, representing a high quality of life. Secondary shoulder-specific outcomes (American Shoulder and Elbow Society, Shoulder Rating Questionnaire, and Functional Shoulder Elevation Test) were also measured at baseline, 3 and 6 months, and 1 and 2 years. The mean Rotator Cuff-Quality of Life scores at an average follow-up of 28 months were not statistically different: open, 86.9 (95% confidence interval: 81.8-92.0); and scope mini-open, 87.2 (95% confidence interval: 80.6-93.8). At 3 months, the patients who underwent scope mini-open showed statistically significantly better outcomes (55.6 vs 71.3; P = .005). The baseline to 3-month difference in Rotator Cuff-Quality of Life scores between the scope mini-open and open groups was also statistically significant. Patient outcomes improved from baseline to all postoperative measurement intervals. There was no difference in outcome at 1 and 2 years after surgery between the scope mini-open and open procedures. The quality of life of patients undergoing the arthroscopic acromioplasty with mini-open rotator cuff repair improved statistically significantly and clinically at 3 months compared with the open group."}
{"id": "18347887", "title": "Treatment of primary isolated shoulder sepsis in the adult patient.", "content": "Treatment of primary isolated shoulder sepsis in the adult patient. Isolated shoulder sepsis is an uncommon clinical problem with little information in the literature on causative organisms and potential sequelae. We examined the organisms involved, surgical treatments, antibiotic treatments rendered, and complications in these cases. We retrospectively reviewed the records of 19 adult patients (19 shoulders) who underwent operative treatment of isolated shoulder sepsis from 1996 to 2005. Patient age, gender, laboratory studies, previous treatment, surgical procedures, surgical findings, cultured organism, antibiotic treatment, and complications were reviewed. The organisms included methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus (five), Streptococcus B beta hemolytic (five), Staphylococcus epidermidis (three), negative cultures (two), Streptococcus viridans (one), Escherichia coli (one), methicillin-resistant S. aureus (one), and Propionibacterium acnes (one). We treated patients with intravenous antibiotics an average of 4.2 weeks (range, 3-8 weeks). One patient underwent humeral head resection with an antibiotic spacer. Another patient died during hospitalization. Open or arthroscopic d\u00e9bridement in conjunction with appropriate antibiotics appears effective in eradicating infection in most adults who present with shoulder sepsis. Functional outcome is poor in those patients with irreparable rotator cuff tears and/or cartilage loss. Level IV, therapeutic study. See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "18347778", "title": "Influence of deposit stage and failed ESWT on the surgical results of arthroscopic treatment of calcifying tendonitis of the shoulder.", "content": "Influence of deposit stage and failed ESWT on the surgical results of arthroscopic treatment of calcifying tendonitis of the shoulder. The purpose of the present study is the evaluation of a possible influence of the preoperative deposit stage, the postoperative deposit elimination and failed preoperative extracorporeal shockwave therapy on the surgical outcome of arthroscopic treatment of tendinosis calcarea. From 1997 to 2004, 65 patients underwent arthroscopic resection of calcific deposits of the shoulder after failed conservative treatment. Patients with rotator cuff tears, major cartilage damage, or previous surgery were excluded. Out of 50 patients 45 (17 men, 28 women) that could be contacted with a mean age of 49 +/- 8 years could be followed-up with a mean of 36 months (14-89) after surgery. A total of 24 patients (53.3%) underwent preoperative extracorporeal shock-wave therapy (ESWT). For the clinical evaluation the Constant and Murley Score, the Simple Shoulder Test, the Western Ontario Rotator Cuff Index (WORC) and visual analog scales for pain, function and satisfaction were used. For the radiological evaluation, the classifications according to Gaertner and Bosworth were used. Statistical analysis was done with the Wilcoxon test, the Mann-Whitney test and ANOVA. The Constant and Murley Score improved significantly from preoperative 63.5 +/- 11.4 to postoperative 93.9 +/- 9.9 points (P < .0001) at follow-up, the Simple Shoulder Test from 1.7 +/- 2 to 9.9 +/- 2.8 points (P < .0001), the WORC score from 1,591.2 +/- 337.4 to 345.4 +/- 392 points (P < .0001). The visual analog scales for pain, function and patient satisfaction also significantly improved (P < .0001). Preoperative radiological evaluation according to the Gaertner classification revealed 37 type I deposits, 6 type II and 2 type III deposits; postoperative no calcific deposits were seen in 37 patients, 6 type I and 2 type III deposits. According to the Bosworth classification 13 type I, 19 type II and 13 type III deposits were seen preoperatively. Postoperative X-rays showed 6 type I and 1 type II and III deposits. There was no significant correlation of the clinical results with the pre- or postoperative findings. The 24 patients who underwent ESWT before surgery did not show significantly better results than patients without ESWT. In conclusion, arthroscopic removal of calcific deposits of the shoulder shows good clinical results for pain reduction, shoulder function and patient satisfaction. The type of calcific deposit and the preoperative treatment of the shoulder with ESWT did not have any significant impact on the postoperative results."}
{"id": "18341417", "title": "Low-power laser treatment in patients with frozen shoulder: preliminary results.", "content": "Low-power laser treatment in patients with frozen shoulder: preliminary results. In this study I sought to test the efficacy of low-power laser therapy (LLLT) in patients with frozen shoulder. The use of low-level laser energy has been recommended for the management of a variety of musculoskeletal disorders. Sixty-three patients with frozen shoulder were randomly assigned into one of two groups. In the active laser group (n = 31), patients were treated with a 810-nm Ga-Al-As laser with a continuous output of 60 mW applied to eight points on the shoulder for 30 sec each, for a total dose of 1.8 J per point and 14.4 J per session. In the placebo group (n = 32), patients received placebo laser treatment. During 8 wk of treatment, the patients in each group received 12 sessions of laser or placebo, two sessions per week (for weeks 1-4), and one session per week (for weeks 5-8). Relative to the placebo group, the active laser group had: (1) a significant decrease in overall, night, and activity pain scores at the end of 4 wk and 8 wk of treatment, and at the end of 8 wk additional follow-up (16 wk post-randomization); (2) a significant decrease in shoulder pain and disability index (SPADI) scores and Croft shoulder disability questionnaire scores at those same intervals; (3) a significant decrease in disability of arm, shoulder, and hand questionnaire (DASH) scores at the end of 8 wk of treatment, and at 16 wk posttreatment; and (4) a significant decrease in health-assessment questionnaire (HAQ) scores at the end of 4 wk and 8 wk of treatment. There was some improvement in range of motion, but this did not reach statistical significance. The results suggested that laser treatment was more effective in reducing pain and disability scores than placebo at the end of the treatment period, as well as at follow-up."}
{"id": "18332687", "title": "Scapular muscular activity with shoulder impingement syndrome during lowering of the arms.", "content": "Scapular muscular activity with shoulder impingement syndrome during lowering of the arms. To compare isolated electromyographic (EMG) activity of the serratus anterior, upper, middle, and lower trapezius, as well as the coactivation of the upper and middle trapezius/serratus anterior in subjects with and without shoulder impingement syndrome (IS), during lowering of the arms. Cross-sectional study. University laboratory. Twenty young adults, 10 with unilateral IS degree I or II (mean age 28.6 +/- 5.89 years) and 10 without any complaints or history of previous shoulder lesions (mean age 29.0 +/- 5.35 years), matched by gender, age, and levels of physical activity. Isolated EMG activity of the serratus anterior, upper, middle, and lower trapezius, as well as the coactivation of the upper trapezius and middle trapezius/serratus anterior. The EMG activity was quantified by root mean square calculations and normalized by maximal voluntary isometric contractions. Significant differences between groups were found only for the coactivation of the middle trapezius/serratus anterior (F = 6.81; P = 0.02). No significant differences were found between sides (F = 0.05; P = 0.83) nor for interactions between sides and groups (F = 3.85; P = 0.07). These findings pointed out the importance of evaluating the lowering of the arms in individuals with IS and suggested that measures of coactivation, besides reflecting the real purpose of the muscular actions during functional activities, are more sensitive to detect changes between groups. The evaluation of the coactivation of the middle trapezius/serratus anterior should be included in clinical assessment of individuals with IS and investigations on the etiology and progression of IS."}
{"id": "18328740", "title": "Pulsed radiofrequency applied to the suprascapular nerve in painful cuff tear arthropathy.", "content": "Pulsed radiofrequency applied to the suprascapular nerve in painful cuff tear arthropathy. The purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy of pulsed radiofrequency (PRF) applied to the suprascapular nerve for pain relief in medically unfit patients with painful cuff tear arthropathy. Twelve patients with chronic shoulder pain due to cuff tear arthropathy were recruited. The mean age was 68 years (range, 60-83 years). The suprascapular nerve was targeted at the suprascapular notch with PRF. The patients were assessed with the Oxford score, Constant score, and visual analog scale (VAS) pain score before ablation and 3 and 6 months after ablation. Statistical analysis was undertaken by use of the Friedman test. Ten patients showed improvement in the VAS score (P = .24) and Constant score (P = .005) and eleven in the Oxford score (P = .001). There was a deterioration in the VAS scores between 3 and 6 months, suggesting that the benefits were starting to wear off with time (P > .05). We conclude that PRF may be a useful therapeutic adjunct in patients with painful, end-stage rotator cuff tear arthropathy who are medically unfit for surgery."}
{"id": "18327800", "title": "Upregulation of alpha-skeletal muscle actin and myosin heavy polypeptide gene products in degenerating rotator cuff muscles.", "content": "Upregulation of alpha-skeletal muscle actin and myosin heavy polypeptide gene products in degenerating rotator cuff muscles. Impaired function of shoulder muscles, resulting from rotator cuff tears, is associated with abnormal deposition of fat in muscle tissue, but corresponding cellular and molecular mechanisms, likely reflected by altered gene expression profiles, are largely unknown. Here, an analysis of muscle gene expression was carried out by semiquantitative RT-PCR in total RNA extracts of supraspinatus biopsies collected from 60 patients prior to shoulder surgery. A significant increase of alpha-skeletal muscle actin (p = 0.0115) and of myosin heavy polypeptide 1 (p = 0.0147) gene transcripts was observed in parallel with progressive fat deposition in the muscle, assessed on parasagittal T1-weighted turbo-spin-echo magnetic resonance images according to Goutallier. Upregulation of alpha-skeletal muscle actin and of myosin heavy polypeptide-1 has been reported to be associated with increased muscle tissue metabolism and oxidative stress. The findings of the present study, therefore, challenge the hypothesis that increased fat deposition in rotator cuff muscle after injury reflects muscle degeneration."}
{"id": "18327798", "title": "Increased IL-1beta expression and myofibroblast recruitment in subacromial bursa is associated with rotator cuff lesions with shoulder stiffness.", "content": "Increased IL-1beta expression and myofibroblast recruitment in subacromial bursa is associated with rotator cuff lesions with shoulder stiffness. We evaluated whether proinflammatory cytokine expression and myofibroblast recruitment in subacromial bursa was linked to rotator cuff lesions with shoulder stiffness. We analyzed expressions of IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNF-alpha in subacromial bursa and joint fluid collected from 14 patients with cuff tears with stiffness as a study group (Group I) and 14 patients with rotator cuff tears without shoulder stiffness as a control group (Group II) using real-time RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry, and ELISA. Myofibroblast apoptosis in subacromial bursa was analyzed using terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase -mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick end-labeling (TUNEL) and alpha-smooth muscle actin immunofluorescence staining. Shoulder function was evaluated using the Constant score. Group I had higher mRNA expression (p < 0.001) and immunoreactivities (p < 0.001) of IL-1beta. They also had higher levels of IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNF-alpha in joint fluid. Increased IL-1beta mRNA expression in the subacromial bursa and IL-1beta levels in joint fluid were correlated with a preoperative deficit in shoulder motion (p < 0.001) and preoperative Constant scores (p < 0.001). Immunofluorescence observations showed that Group I subjects had more myofibroblasts (p < 0.001) than Group II. In Group II, a significant correlation was found between apoptotic myofibroblasts and total myofibroblasts (p = 0.002), but not in Group I (p = 0.510). Increased expression of IL-1beta and myofibroblast recruitment in the subacromial bursa in rotator cuff lesions are linked to shoulder stiffness."}
{"id": "18326164", "title": "Chronic shoulder pain: part I. Evaluation and diagnosis.", "content": "Chronic shoulder pain: part I. Evaluation and diagnosis. Shoulder pain is defined as chronic when it has been present for longer than six months. Common conditions that can result in chronic shoulder pain include rotator cuff disorders, adhesive capsulitis, shoulder instability, and shoulder arthritis. Rotator cuff disorders include tendinopathy, partial tears, and complete tears. A clinical decision rule that is helpful in the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears includes pain with overhead activity, weakness on empty can and external rotation tests, and a positive impingement sign. Adhesive capsulitis can be associated with diabetes and thyroid disorders. Clinical presentation includes diffuse shoulder pain with restricted passive range of motion on examination. Acromioclavicular osteoarthritis presents with superior shoulder pain, acromioclavicular joint tenderness, and a painful cross-body adduction test. In patients who are older than 50 years, glenohumeral osteoarthritis usually presents as gradual pain and loss of motion. In patients younger than 40 years, glenohumeral instability generally presents with a history of dislocation or subluxation events. Positive apprehension and relocation are consistent with the diagnosis. Imaging studies, indicated when diagnosis remains unclear or management would be altered, include plain radiographs, magnetic resonance imaging, ultrasonography, and computed tomography scans. Plain radiographs may help diagnose massive rotator cuff tears, shoulder instability, and shoulder arthritis. Magnetic resonance imaging and ultrasonography are preferred for rotator cuff disorders. For shoulder instability, magnetic resonance imaging arthrogram is preferred over magnetic resonance imaging."}
{"id": "18325787", "title": "Distinct horizontal patterns in the spatial organization of superficial zone chondrocytes of human joints.", "content": "Distinct horizontal patterns in the spatial organization of superficial zone chondrocytes of human joints. A better understanding of the unique cellular and functional properties of the superficial zone of articular cartilage may aid current strategies in tissue engineering which attempts a layered design for the repair of cartilage lesions to avert or postpone the onset of osteoarthritis. However, data pertaining to the cellular organization of non-degenerated superficial zone of articular cartilage is not available for most human joints. The present study analyzed the arrangement of chondrocytes of non-degenerated human joints (shoulder, elbow, knee, and ankle) by using fluorescence microscopy of the superficial zone in a top-down view. The resulting horizontal chondrocyte arrangements were tested for randomness, homogeneity or a significant grouping via point pattern analysis and were correlated with the joint type in which they occurred. The present study demonstrated that human superficial chondrocytes occurred in four distinct patterns of strings, clusters, pairs or single chondrocytes. Those patterns represented a significant grouping (p < 0.0001) with horizontal alignment. Each articular joint surface was dominated by only one of these four patterns (p < 0.001). Specific patterns correlated with specific diarthrodial joint types (p < 0.001). Further studies need to establish whether these organizational patterns are a consequence of their surrounding environment or whether they are linked to a functional purpose."}
{"id": "18325640", "title": "Detecting AIDS restriction genes: from candidate genes to genome-wide association discovery.", "content": "Detecting AIDS restriction genes: from candidate genes to genome-wide association discovery. The screening of common genetic polymorphisms among candidate genes for AIDS pathology in HIV exposed cohort populations has led to the description of 20 AIDS restriction genes (ARGs), variants that affect susceptibility to HIV infection or to AIDS progression. The combination of high-throughput genotyping platforms and the recent HapMap annotation of some 3 million human SNP variants has been developed for and applied to gene discovery in complex and multi-factorial diseases. Here, we explore novel computational approaches to ARG discovery which consider interacting analytical models, various genetic influences, and SNP-haplotype/LD structure in AIDS cohort populations to determine if these ARGs could have been discovered using an unbiased genome-wide association approach. The procedures were evaluated by tracking the performance of haplotypes and SNPs within ARG regions to detect genetic association in the same AIDS cohort populations in which the ARGs were originally discovered. The methodology captures the signals of multiple non-independent AIDS-genetic association tests of different disease stages and uses association signal strength (odds ratio or relative hazard), statistical significance (p-values), gene influence, internal replication, and haplotype structure together as a multi-facetted approach to identifying important genetic associations within a deluge of genotyping/test data. The complementary approaches perform rather well and predict the detection of a variety of undiscovered ARGs that affect different stages of HIV/AIDS pathogenesis using genome-wide association analyses."}
{"id": "18322690", "title": "Axillary nerve palsy after retrograde humeral nailing: clinical confirmation of an anatomical fear.", "content": "Axillary nerve palsy after retrograde humeral nailing: clinical confirmation of an anatomical fear. Locked antegrade or retrograde nailing of humeral shaft and proximal humerus fractures is a well established treatment option. Anatomic-morphological studies revealed a potential high risk of axillary nerve injury within proximal interlocking screw insertion. However, clinical experiences do not seem to confirm this, as there is a lack of interlocking screw insertion associated axillary lesions in literature. We report about a 69-year-old man with a humeral shaft fracture (AO-type 12-A3) stabilized by a retrograde implanted interlocking nail. Proximal interlocking screw insertion was performed in a posterior-to-anterior direction. The fracture healed uneventfully. In a follow-up examination 2 years later, an atrophy and paralysis of the deltoid muscle were visible. Electrophysiological evaluation confirmed an isolated axillary nerve injury. Nevertheless, the patient showed good functional recovery with almost free range of motion. Even for clinical practise proximal interlocking screw insertion is associated with a substantial risk of axillary nerve injury. Particularly for posterior-to-anterior screw insertion anatomic conditions should be considered. In spite of axillary nerve lesion, recovery of almost full shoulder function is possible by compensating the loss of deltoid function by rotator cuff muscles."}
{"id": "18320386", "title": "Incidence of risk in shoulder surgery : medical-legal repercussions.", "content": "Incidence of risk in shoulder surgery : medical-legal repercussions. It is generally recognised that any medical-surgical activity entails the risk of failure, placing the physician at risk of malpractice claims. In order to protect both the physician and the patient, it is important to identify the risk factors relating to the various pathological situations and assess both the incidence and significance of such risks. Hence, a \"Potential Failure Rating\" could be devised already during the preliminary stages for every type of medical process. Such a rating would be useful both in clinical and medicolegal settings. This article considers the most common and important risk factors involved in typical diseases of the shoulder, from which a relative failure rating is formulated."}
{"id": "18320381", "title": "Subacromial space in adult patients with thoracic hyperkyphosis and in healthy volunteers.", "content": "Subacromial space in adult patients with thoracic hyperkyphosis and in healthy volunteers. The assumption that subacromial space decreases in patients with thoracic hyperkyphosis arises from sporadic and personal observations. The purpose of this study was to compare width of subacromial space calculated on radiographs and CT scans of a high number of patients with thoracic hyperkyphosis that registered on exams of healthy volunteers. We measured the subacromial space, using Petersson's method, on radiographs of 47 patients with idiopathic or acquired thoracic hyperkyphosis and of 175 healthy shoulder volunteers. Both groups were further distinguished considering gender and age. Females with hyperkyphosis were also divided in two subgroups: those with a kyphotic curve of less (24 patients) or more (19 patients) than 50 degrees , respectively. Subacromial space of all patients and of 21 volunteers was also evaluated using CT. Acromio-humeral space was less wide in patients with hyperkyphosis with respect to coeval volunteers of the same gender; in females and in subjects older than 60. Subacromial width of females with hyperkyphosis whose curve was more than 50 degrees was significantly narrower (p<0.05) than that measured on radiograms or CT scans of females with a less severe spinal deformity. Decrease of subacromial space may be attributed to less posterior tilting of the scapula and to dyskinesis of the scapular movement. Scapular malposition causes an anomalous orientation of the acromion that may contribute to subacromial impingement. Patients with thoracic hyperkyphosis greater than 50 degrees had a subacromial space narrower than that measured in patients with a less severe kyphosis. This suggests that subacromial width is directly related to severity of thoracic kyphosis. Because hyperkyphosis of patients with osteoporotic vertebral fractures may worsen over the time, subacromial decompression could give only temporary shoulder pain relief."}
{"id": "18320380", "title": "New perspectives in rotator cuff tendon regeneration: review of tissue engineered therapies.", "content": "New perspectives in rotator cuff tendon regeneration: review of tissue engineered therapies. Tissue engineering may play a major role in the treatment of rotator cuff tendon lesions through replacement of an injured tendon segment. Tendons have very poor spontaneous regenerative capabilities, and despite intensive remodelling, complete regeneration is never achieved and the strength of tendon and ligaments remains as much as 30% lower than normal even months or years following an acute injury. Tendons seem to be the least complex of the connective tissues with respect to their composition and architecture and this leads to the expectation that they would be more amenable to tissue engineered approaches than other tissues. An accurate literature revision was done in order to know the state of the art of tissue engineering therapies in the field of rotator cuff regeneration. The following techniques of tissue engineering were considered: local injection of stem cells or growth factors, gene transfer, in situ tissue engineering and in vitro production of bioengineered tendons to be further transplanted in the lesion site. So far, few experimental or clinical studies have been done on tendon tissue engineering compared to the extensive work on other tissues of orthopaedic interest, such as bone and cartilage. The existing studies are related to the following tissue engineering methodologies: gene transfer, in situ tissue engineering and in vitro production of bioengineered tendons. In our opinion the previously described literature revision showed the necessity for future studies in this area also because of recent advances in biological and bioactive scaffolds."}
{"id": "18320379", "title": "A new test of resistance in the diagnosis of postero-superior rotator cuff tears.", "content": "A new test of resistance in the diagnosis of postero-superior rotator cuff tears. The aim of this study was to assess the diagnostic accuracy of a new clinical test for the diagnosis of subacromial impingement and full thickness postero-superior rotator cuff tears. One hundred and twenty patients who underwent arthroscopic treatment for acromioplasty or cuff repair were previously submitted to a new test of resistance. The test is performed in the standing position with the involved arm in 90 degrees abduction, 20 degrees -30 degrees anteposition and in external rotation (as for full-can test). Thus, the patient was invited to follow the way of a spiral drawn on a drawing sheet for 20 turns; 1 turn = from the centre to the end of the spiral and vice versa (spiral width = 20 cm). The test was considered positive when the patient was not able to conclude it due to strength decrease or to shoulder pain. Sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values as well as diagnostic accuracy were calculated for our test of resistance. The test resulted scarcely reliable as detector of subacromial impingement and not very reliable as detector of small tear. When the test is positive there is a high probability that a subacromial disease exists; instead, when it is negative there is a high probability that the patient has not a large or massive cuff tear. The resistance test (Gum-Turn test) adds to our armamentarium of physical examination signs in patients with painful shoulder and furnishes further information on possible dimensions of tendinous tear."}
{"id": "18316156", "title": "Factors associated with umbilical artery acidemia in term infants with low Apgar scores at 5 min.", "content": "Factors associated with umbilical artery acidemia in term infants with low Apgar scores at 5 min. To evaluate predictors of umbilical artery acidemia in term neonates with low Apgar score. From a cohort of term singleton deliveries over a 13-year period, we selected neonates with 5-min Apgar score < 7. Acidemia was defined as umbilical artery pH < 7.00 or base excess (BE) < or = -12 mmol/L. Three pathogenic processes of neonatal acidemia were evaluated: (1) intrauterine vascular disease, defined as preeclampsia, clinical diagnosis of placental abruption, birth weight < 10th centile, or histologic evidence of placental infarction or severe vascular pathology, (2) intrauterine infection, defined as clinical chorioamnionitis, histologic chorioamnionitis, or early neonatal sepsis, and (3) acute intrapartum events, which included cases of cord prolapse, amniotic fluid embolism, uterine rupture, sudden and sustained fetal bradycardia or absence of FHR variability with a previously normal pattern, shoulder dystocia or complicated breech extraction. The associations of such processes with umbilical artery evidence of acidemia were tested using chi(2), Fisher's exact test, Student's t-test, and logistic regression, with P < 0.05 or odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval (CI) not inclusive of the unity considered significant. Among the 27,395 neonates in the cohort, an Apgar score at 5 min < 7 was recorded in 94 (0.32%) and it was associated with umbilical artery acidemia in 33 cases. Logistic regression analysis showed that intrauterine vascular disease was independently associated with umbilical cord acidemia (P=0.035, OR=3.2, 95% CI=1.1-9.7) whereas intrauterine infection (OR=1.1, 95% CI 0.4-3.4) and acute intrapartum events (OR=2.1 95% CI 0.6-7.0) were not. Umbilical artery evidence of acidemia is present in 38% of term babies with low Apgar score and it is predominantly associated with chronic antepartum vascular disease. Neither intrauterine infection nor acute intrapartum events are significantly associated with umbilical artery acidemia."}
{"id": "18315376", "title": "Diagnosis of degenerative lesions of supraspinatus rotator cuff tendons by Fourier transform-Raman spectroscopy.", "content": "Diagnosis of degenerative lesions of supraspinatus rotator cuff tendons by Fourier transform-Raman spectroscopy. The Fourier transform (FT)-Raman spectroscopy technique is used to assess the biochemical alterations that occur in the degenerative process of the rotator cuff supraspinatus tendon. The main alterations observed occur in the glycine, proline, hydroxyproline, cysteine, cistine, phenylalanine, tyrosine, collagen I and III, nucleic acid, lipids, glycosaminoglycans, and metalloproteinases bands. An increasing intensity for these bands is found in degenerated tendons, a finding well correlated with hyaline state and cellular activity. Statistical analysis (principal components analysis and clustering) shows a clear separation of the spectra into nonhyalinized and hyalinized clusters, which enables the construction of a binary diagnosis model based on logistic regression. Best diagnosis provided a sensitivity of 66.0% and a specificity of 74.7% with 79.6% concordant pairs. The discriminating power of the diagnostic test is assessed by computing the area under the receiving-operator characteristic curve (AUC), which indicates good accuracy (AUC=0.81). In principle, these results indicate that Raman spectroscopy can be used as an auxiliary aid to improve shoulder tendon surgery quality by guiding anchoring onto more healthy (nonhyaline) pieces of tendons. This should contribute to a decrease in the current high rerupture rate (13 to 68%) for this procedure."}
{"id": "18312783", "title": "The effectiveness of diagnostic imaging methods for the assessment of soft tissue and articular disorders of the shoulder and elbow.", "content": "The effectiveness of diagnostic imaging methods for the assessment of soft tissue and articular disorders of the shoulder and elbow. There are no clear guidelines for diagnostic imaging of articular and soft tissue pathologies of the shoulder and elbow. Several methods are used, including magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), magnetic resonance arthrography (MRA) and ultrasound (US). Their cost-effectiveness is still unclear. We performed a meta-analysis of the relevant literature and discussed the role of MR imaging of the shoulder and elbow compared with other diagnostic imaging modalities. For the shoulder impingement syndrome and rotator cuff tears, MRI and US have a comparable accuracy for detection of full-thickness rotator cuff tears. MRA and US might be more accurate for the detection of partial-thickness tears than MRI. Given the large difference in cost of MR and US, ultrasound may be the most cost-effective diagnostic method for identification of full-thickness tears in a specialist hospital setting (Evidence level 3). Both MRA and CT arthrography (CTA) are effective methods for the detection of labrum tears. More recently, multidetector CTA has offered the advantages of thinner slices than with MRA in a shorter examination time. Still, MRA has the advantage towards CTA to directly visualize the affected structures with a better evaluation of extent and location and to detect associated capsuloligamentous injuries. For the elbow pathologies, plain MRI or MRA have the advantage towards CTA to detect occult bone injuries. CTA is better for the assessment of the thin cartilage of the elbow. Both US and MRI are reliable methods to detect chronic epicondylitis; US is more available and far more cost-effective (Evidence level 2). MRA can differentiate complete from partial tears of the medial collateral ligament. US or MRI can detect partial and complete biceps tendon tears and/or bursitis. MRI can provide important diagnostic information in lesions of the ulnar, radial, or median nerve."}
{"id": "18310705", "title": "Hemiarthroplasty for the rotator cuff-deficient shoulder.", "content": "Hemiarthroplasty for the rotator cuff-deficient shoulder. Hemiarthroplasty is a common treatment for cuff tear arthropathy and glenohumeral arthritis associated with a massive tear of the rotator cuff; however, to our knowledge, long-term outcomes and preoperative factors affecting results have not been reported. Thirty-four shoulders in thirty-one patients with cuff tear arthropathy or a massive rotator cuff tear with glenohumeral arthritis underwent hemiarthroplasty at an average age of seventy-two years. Outcomes in all patients were evaluated by direct physical examination and according to the limited goals criteria of Neer et al. at a mean of 3.7 years postoperatively. In twenty-five shoulders, long-term outcomes were measured with use of the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) scoring system and follow-up data were obtained at a mean of ten years (range, four to sixteen years) postoperatively. Twenty-six of thirty-four shoulders satisfied the limited goals criteria described by Neer et al. The mean active forward elevation improved from 78 degrees preoperatively to 111 degrees postoperatively (p < 0.001). The mean active external rotation improved from 15 degrees preoperatively to 38 degrees postoperatively (p < 0.0001). One patient with a history of four failed rotator cuff repairs had anterosuperior instability develop after surgery. The mean final total ASES score was 67 points (range, 35 to 100 points). Of the sixteen shoulders in patients who could actively elevate the arm to >or=90 degrees preoperatively, fourteen achieved satisfactory results according to the limited goals criteria of Neer et al. Patients who could actively elevate the arm to 90 degrees had significantly better function (mean ASES function score, 31 compared with 23 points; p = 0.05), pain relief (mean ASES pain score, 48 compared with 30 points; p = 0.002), and higher total ASES scores (mean, 80 compared with 54 points; p < 0.001) than the patients who were unable to actively elevate the arm to 90 degrees . Hemiarthroplasty can provide good long-term results in rotator cuff-deficient patients with glenohumeral arthritis. Patients who have preoperative forward elevation of >or=90 degrees benefit the most. A low complication rate can be expected for this procedure."}
{"id": "18309381", "title": "Quantification of two-dimensional glenohumeral rhythm in persons with and without symptoms of shoulder impingement.", "content": "Quantification of two-dimensional glenohumeral rhythm in persons with and without symptoms of shoulder impingement. A repeated-measures design was used to assess glenohumeral rhythm in 10 patients with shoulder impingement and 10 pain-free persons and to assess the effects of subacromial injection on glenohumeral rhythm within the impingement group. Scapular-plane anterior-to-posterior x-rays of the scapula and humerus were obtained at 5 angles of arm elevation (resting, 30 degrees, 60 degrees, 90 degrees, 120 degrees). For the impingement group, x-rays were repeated after subacromial injection (10 mL of 1% lidocaine). No significant differences in glenohumeral rhythm were found between the impingement and control groups across all arm-elevation angles."}
{"id": "18309180", "title": "Three-dimensional scapular kinematics during the throwing motion.", "content": "Three-dimensional scapular kinematics during the throwing motion. Proper scapular motion is crucial for normal shoulder mechanics. Scapular motion affects glenohumeral joint function during throwing, yet little is known about this dynamic activity. Asymptomatic subjects (10 male and 10 female), ages 21 to 45, were analyzed. Electromagnetic surface sensors on the sternum, acromion, and humerus were used to collect 3-D motion data during three trials of low-velocity throwing. Scapular angular position data were described or five predetermined events throughout the throw corresponding with classic descriptions of throwing phases, and trial-to-trial reliability was determined. ANOVA compared scapular angles across events. Subjects demonstrated good to excellent reliability between trials of the throw (ICC 0.74-0.98). The scapula demonstrated a pattern of external rotation, upward rotation (peak of approx. 40 degrees), and poster humeral horizontal abduction. During the arm acceleration phase, the scapula moved toward greater internal rotation and began anteriorly tilting. At maximum humeral internal rotation, the scapula ended in internal rotation (55 degrees), upward rotation (20 degrees), and anterior tilting (3 degrees). Significant differences in scapular position (p<0.05) were identified across the throwing motion. Scapular data identify events in the throwing motion in which throwers may be more susceptible to shoulder pathologies related to abnormal scapular kinematics."}
{"id": "18308870", "title": "Circulating substance P levels and shoulder joint contracture after arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Circulating substance P levels and shoulder joint contracture after arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff. To determine the plasma levels of substance P (SP) in patients with postoperative stiffness after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. Plasma samples were obtained at 15 months from surgery from two groups of patients who underwent arthroscopic repair of a rotator cuff tear. In group 1, 30 subjects (14 men, 16 women; mean age 64.6 years, range 47 to 78) with shoulder stiffness 15 months after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair were recruited. In group 2, 30 patients (11 men, 19 women; mean age 57.8 years, range 45 to 77) were evaluated 15 months after successful arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. Immunoassays were performed with commercially available assay kits to measure the plasma levels of SP. Plasma levels of SP in patients with postoperative stiffness were significantly greater than those in the control group (mean 81.06 (SD 27.76) versus 23.49 (5.64), p<0.05). The plasma concentrations of substance P in patients with shoulder stiffness after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair are higher compared with plasma levels of SP in patients with a good postoperative outcome. The neuronal upregulation of SP shown in the plasma of patients with postoperative shoulder stiffness may underlie not only the symptoms but also its development of adhesive capsulitis."}
{"id": "18308190", "title": "Direct arthroscopy of the bicipital groove: a new approach to evaluation and treatment of bicipital groove and biceps tendon pathology.", "content": "Direct arthroscopy of the bicipital groove: a new approach to evaluation and treatment of bicipital groove and biceps tendon pathology. Assessment of the intra-articular and intertubercular regions of the long tendon of the biceps forms an important aspect of routine glenohumeral arthroscopic examination. We describe a new technique of direct visualization of the bicipital groove and tendon by positioning the arthroscope in linear alignment with the bicipital groove. A 4.5-mm cannula is introduced through a superior-medial (Neviaser) portal, into the glenohumeral joint, parallel and adjacent to the superior aspect of the biceps tendon, and is used as a viewing portal. The arm is then positioned in abduction, external rotation, and forward flexion, to align the groove with the arthroscope, thereby attempting to \"look down the groove.\" The biceps tendon, as well as the structures forming its medial and lateral pulleys, can be evaluated from the glenohumeral and intertubercular aspects. A greater length of the medial and lateral lips and the floor and roof of the bicipital groove can be visualized by advancing the arthroscope deeper within the groove. A fat pad along the lateral wall of the groove serves as an anatomic landmark to limit dissection in this region, thereby preventing damage to the anterolateral ascending branch of the anterior circumflex artery. An extension of this technique, to facilitate instrumentation for arthroscopic biceps tenodesis, is described."}
{"id": "18308183", "title": "Physical examination and magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of superior labrum anterior-posterior lesions of the shoulder: a sensitivity analysis.", "content": "Physical examination and magnetic resonance imaging in the diagnosis of superior labrum anterior-posterior lesions of the shoulder: a sensitivity analysis. The overall purpose of our study was to examine the sensitivity of physical examination, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and magnetic resonance (MR) arthrogram for the identification of arthroscopically confirmed SLAP lesions of the shoulder. An analysis of 51 consecutive patients with arthroscopically confirmed SLAP lesions and no history of shoulder dislocation was performed. Before undergoing surgery, all patients underwent a standardized physical examination and had either an MRI and/or MR arthrogram performed. Sensitivity analysis was then performed on the results of both the physical examination maneuvers and the radiologic imaging compared to the arthroscopic findings at surgery. The sensitivity of O'Brien's (active compression) test was 90%, whereas the Mayo (dynamic) shear was 80% and Jobe's relocation test was 76%. The sensitivity of a physical examination with any 1 of these 3 SLAP provocative tests being positive was 100%. Neer's sign (41%) and Hawkin's impingement tests (31%) each had low sensitivity for SLAP lesions. The sensitivity of MRI for SLAP lesions was 67% when interpreted by the performing surgeon, 53% when read by a radiologist. When the MR arthrograms were analyzed alone, the sensitivity was 72% (surgeon) and 50% (radiologist), respectively. All 3 physical examination maneuvers traditionally considered provocative for SLAP pathology (O'Brien's, Mayo shear, and Jobe's relocation) were sensitive for the diagnosis of SLAP lesions. MRI and MR arthrogram imaging had lower sensitivity than these physical examination tests in diagnosing SLAP lesions. Patient history, demographics, and the surgeon's physical examination should remain central to the diagnosis of SLAP lesions. Level II, development of diagnostic criteria on basis of consecutive patients with universally applied gold standard."}
{"id": "18301053", "title": "Malignant diffuse-type tenosynovial giant cell tumors: a series of 7 cases comparing with 24 benign lesions with review of the literature.", "content": "Malignant diffuse-type tenosynovial giant cell tumors: a series of 7 cases comparing with 24 benign lesions with review of the literature. Malignant diffuse-type tenosynovial giant cell tumor (D-TSGCT), an unusual sarcoma with concurrent or previous benign D-TSGCTs, poses challenges to diagnosis and prognostication. We described the radiologic, clinicopathologic, and immunophenotypical findings of 5 primary and 2 metachronous malignant D-TSGCTs and reviewed published cases to better delineate their morphologic spectrum and behavior. Twenty-four benign D-TSGCTs were also statically compared to analyze the diagnostic values of various variables. The 7 malignant cases affected 4 females and 3 males aged 45 to 78 (mean, 60.9) years, which included 1 intraarticular and 6 extra-articular lesions. These tumors were 5 to 17 cm (mean, 9.4) and located within or near the large joints of extremities. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed expansile or infiltrative masses with frequent lobulation and heterogeneous signals. Histologically, areas of benign D-TSGCTs blended abruptly or gradually with frank sarcomas composed of pleomorphic, spindle, or enlarged oval cells, forming malignant fibrous histiocytomalike (n = 4), fibrosarcomatous (n = 1), myxosarcomatous (n = 1), or giant cell tumorlike (n = 1) patterns. One patient experienced recurrences twice, and another 3 developed metastases to the lymph nodes (n = 2), lung (n = 1), or vertebrae (n = 1), with 1 dying from disseminated diseases. An older age (P = 0.003), a larger size (P = 0.036), tumor necrosis (P < 0.001), atypical mitoses (P < 0.001), and Ki-67 overexpression (P < 0.001) appeared preferentially in malignant lesions, but these parameters had overlap between few benign and malignant tumors. Malignant D-TSGCTs are a distinct sarcoma with considerable morphologic variability, metastatic propensity, and lethality. Altered architecture with anaplastic cells represents an important distinguishing feature, while abnormalities of other parameters should not be directly equated with malignancy."}
{"id": "18295091", "title": "Peripheral nerve injuries in baseball players.", "content": "Peripheral nerve injuries in baseball players. Baseball players place significant stress across their shoulders and elbows during the throwing motion, causing unique patterns of injuries in the overhead throwing athlete. Specific nerve injuries include suprascapular neuropathy, quadrilateral space syndrome, and cubital tunnel syndrome. Nonoperative treatment includes cessation of throwing and symptom management. As symptoms improve, athletes should start rehabilitation, focusing on restoring shoulder and trunk flexibility and strength. The final rehabilitation phase involves an interval throwing program with attention directed at proper mechanics, with the goal of returning the athlete to competitive throwing. Surgery may assist in a positive outcome in particular patients who fail to improve with nonoperative treatment. Additional indications for surgery may include more profound neuropathy and nerve compression by a mass lesion."}
{"id": "18288547", "title": "Imaging in the surgical management of developmental dislocation of the hip.", "content": "Imaging in the surgical management of developmental dislocation of the hip. Although the use of ultrasound in the diagnosis and early treatment of developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH) has reduced the number of patients diagnosed late and decreased the number of operative procedures, surgical treatment is still needed in some patients. Late cases continue to occur as a result of missing the screening examination, being normal at initial screening and missing followup. Dysplasia may persist despite appropriate nonoperative or operative treatment. Many of these patients subsequently undergo closed or open reduction and femoral or acetabular reconstruction. Ultrasound of the hips is generally used up to 6 or 8 months of age, during which time the hips are largely cartilaginous, and radiographs after that time when bony development is more complete. Options to supplement ultrasound and radiography include arthrography, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging. Several advances have been made in the imaging of DDH and its complications including acetabular labral pathology and of femoroacetabular impingement (FAI). We review imaging techniques other than ultrasound used in the management of DDH. Level V, diagnostic study. See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "18282725", "title": "The effect of screw position on the initial fixation of a reverse total shoulder prosthesis in a glenoid with a cavitary bone defect.", "content": "The effect of screw position on the initial fixation of a reverse total shoulder prosthesis in a glenoid with a cavitary bone defect. Patients with rotator cuff tear arthropathy can be treated successfully with a reverse total shoulder prosthesis. In patients with significant glenoid bone loss, achieving stable bone fixation can be challenging, as the surgeon must know when bone grafting is necessary and when the plan to implant the reverse total shoulder prosthesis should be abandoned because of the likelihood of early implant loosening. The purposes of this study were (1) to determine the initial stability of a metal glenoid implant fixed in a glenoid with a central cavitary defect and (2) to determine whether an altered screw configuration would sufficiently resist implant micromotion and, thereby, allow bone ingrowth to occur. The Delta III reverse total shoulder glenoid implant was fixed into foam scapulae with a uniform density similar to normal glenoid bone density. The control group implants were fixed into foam scapulae without a glenoid defect, by use of the standard surgical technique for screw placement. The second group was fixed into foam scapulae containing a central cavitary glenoid defect, by use of the standard surgical technique for screw placement. The central cavitary defect was meant to simulate the bone loss typically found after the removal of a loose pegged glenoid implant, and it was created with a 4-pegged glenoid drill guide. A third group was fixed into foam scapula with a central cavitary glenoid defect, with an experimental screw configuration by use of a posterior screw directed toward the spine of the scapula and an anterior screw directed inferior to the central peg. All specimens were loaded with 500 cycles of 1 body weight (70 kg) to simulate the forces generated during arm elevation that occur during the first 3 months after surgery. Micromotion between the implant and the foam bone was measured with a digital video motion analysis system (accuracy, +/- 2.6 microm). After loading of the implant with 70 kg for 500 cycles in the superior direction, the mean micromotion was 54 microm (SD, 22) in the control group, 159 microm (SD, 70) in the second group, and 86 microm (SD, 32) in the third group (P = 0.003). Fixing the posterior screw into the spine of the scapula and directing the anterior screw below the central peg decreased the micromotion of a metal glenoid implant fixed in a glenoid with a cavitary defect by 46% and, more importantly, reduced the micromotion below the critical threshold of 150 microm, which is necessary for bone ingrowth and long-term survival of the implant."}
{"id": "18280016", "title": "A stochastic analysis of glenoid inclination angle and superior migration of the humeral head.", "content": "A stochastic analysis of glenoid inclination angle and superior migration of the humeral head. Superior glenoid inclination, which is a relatively upward facing of the glenoid in the plane of the scapula, has been associated with rotator cuff pathology. Increased glenoid inclination may cause superior humeral head migration, which can cause impingement of the supraspinatus tendon. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that inclination angle affects the probability of superior humeral head migration. A three-dimensional model of the glenohumeral joint was developed in which muscle forces were modeled as random variables. Monte Carlo simulation was used to compute the probability that the glenohumeral reaction force was directed such that superior humeral head migration should occur. An electromyogram-driven model was used to estimate shoulder muscle forces in healthy volunteers performing arm elevation. The model predicted that the probability of superior humeral head migration increased as glenoid inclination angle was increased. This finding was independent of the assumed shape of the muscle force probability distributions. The results support the theory that glenoid inclination may be a risk factor for rotator cuff pathology."}
{"id": "18273602", "title": "Arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tear with a modified Mason-Allen stitch: mid-term clinical and ultrasound outcomes.", "content": "Arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tear with a modified Mason-Allen stitch: mid-term clinical and ultrasound outcomes. One of the most discussed point about arthroscopic full-thickness rotator cuff (RTC) repair is the strength of tendon-stitch interface. In the period between November 2003 and September 2004, in a series of 29 patients with primary isolated supraspinatus tear measuring > 2 cm a reconstruction using one titanium anchor and a modified Mason-Allen (MMA) stitch was done. These patients were prospectively collected in this study and then retrospectively evaluated. There were 21 men and 8 women with a mean age of 59.3 years. Patients were examined pre-operatively by a single sport medicine doctor, very experienced on shoulder pathology problem. Constant score, University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) scale and Simple Shoulder Test (SST) were administered. After a minimum follow-up of 24 months patients were revaluated clinically by the same independent examiner. At the same time patients underwent an ultrasound shoulder examination to evaluate rotator cuff integrity. Clinically there was a significant improvement of Constant score, SST score and UCLA scale at followup. Twenty-five patients (86.2%) were satisfied, whether the other four patients (13.8%) stated that they would decline procedure. Recurrent rotator cuff tear was found in 11 patients (38%), who were all older than 60. All the patients but one with a pre-operative MRI grade III tendon tissue fatty infiltration, had a cuff re-tear. Arthroscopic supraspinatus tendon repair with one single anchor and MMA stitch is a reliable technique leading to a re-tear of 38% that is comparable with results reported in literature."}
{"id": "18272798", "title": "Simulated type II superior labral anterior posterior lesions do not alter the path of glenohumeral articulation: a cadaveric biomechanical study.", "content": "Simulated type II superior labral anterior posterior lesions do not alter the path of glenohumeral articulation: a cadaveric biomechanical study. Previous studies have demonstrated increased glenohumeral translations with simulated type II superior labral anterior posterior lesions, which may explain the sensation of instability in the overhead-throwing athlete. It is unknown whether this amount of increased translation alters glenohumeral kinematics. To determine whether type II superior labral anterior posterior lesions significantly alter glenohumeral kinematics as defined by path of glenohumeral articulation in a simulated cadaveric model of the throwing shoulder. Controlled laboratory study. Six cadaveric shoulders were tested for glenohumeral rotational range of motion and translation using a custom shoulder testing system and the Microscribe 3DLX. The path of glenohumeral articulation was measured by calculating the humeral head center with respect to the glenoid articular surface at maximal internal rotation, 30 degrees, 60 degrees, 90 degrees, and maximal external rotation. Data were recorded for vented intact shoulders, shoulders with arthroscopically created type II superior labral anterior posterior lesions, and shoulders with arthroscopically repaired superior labral anterior posterior lesions. A subtle but significant increase in external rotation (2.7 degrees) was seen after creating a type II lesion. Small increases in glenohumeral translation were found in the anterior (0.9 mm) and inferior (0.9 mm) directions with application of a 15-N force in the superior labral anterior posterior group. Increases in glenohumeral rotation and translation were restored to the intact state after repair of the lesion. No significant differences were found in the path of glenohumeral articulation for the superior labral anterior posterior condition compared with the intact shoulder. The small amounts of increased external rotation and translation found with arthroscopically created type II superior labral anterior posterior lesions do not significantly affect glenohumeral kinematics in this passive motion model as quantified by the path of glenohumeral articulation. Findings suggest that in the absence of pain or mechanical symptoms, type II superior labral anterior posterior lesions that do not significantly involve the superior and middle glenohumeral ligaments may not need surgical repair."}
{"id": "18270389", "title": "Proximal humeral epiphyseal plate fracture in a collegiate track and field decathlete: a case study.", "content": "Proximal humeral epiphyseal plate fracture in a collegiate track and field decathlete: a case study. To present the case of an 18-year-old collegiate decathlete with a Salter-Harris type I epiphyseal plate fracture of the proximal humerus. A collegiate decathlete was playing flag football and fell on an outstretched arm. He was taken to the emergency room and diagnosed with a type I epiphyseal plate fracture. AC sprain, dislocation or subluxation, rotator cuff tear, labral tear. Active and passive range of motion exercises were completed after two days of immobilization. He then started strengthening exercises and returned to competitive activity in 10 weeks. Proximal humeral epiphyseal plate fractures are uncommon injuries, especially in athletes over the age of 15. If an accurate diagnosis is made, an appropriate conservative rehabilitation program can be implemented to safely return an athlete to participation without permanent deformity following a type I Salter-Harris fracture."}
{"id": "18265897", "title": "Arthroscopic management of superior labral anterior and posterior (SLAP) and associated lesions: clinical features and functional outcome.", "content": "Arthroscopic management of superior labral anterior and posterior (SLAP) and associated lesions: clinical features and functional outcome. The superior labral anterior and posterior (SLAP) lesion is a cause of chronic shoulder pain and significant disability. This study aims to review the distribution of types of SLAP lesions, associated lesions and the outcome of arthroscopic management. This series involved all 33 patients who underwent arthroscopic management of SLAP and associated lesions by a single surgeon. The pre- and postoperative disability scores were assessed using the disabilities of the arm, shoulder and hand (DASH) outcome measure. Type 2 SLAP lesion (64%) was the most common. Forty-eight per cent of the cases were associated with an ipsilateral shoulder lesion. A 10- point pre- and postoperative DASH score reduction was noted in 63% of the patients with isolated SLAP lesions and 73% of those with associated lesions. Arthroscopic management of the SLAP and its associated lesions results in improved functional outcome. The presence of associated lesions should be actively sought and managed in the same operative session."}
{"id": "18264855", "title": "Hierarchy of stability factors in reverse shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Hierarchy of stability factors in reverse shoulder arthroplasty. Reverse shoulder arthroplasty is being used more frequently to treat irreparable rotator cuff tears in the presence of glenohumeral arthritis and instability. To date, however, design features and functions of reverse shoulder arthroplasty, which may be associated with subluxation and dislocation of these implants, have been poorly understood. We asked: (1) what is the hierarchy of importance of joint compressive force, prosthetic socket depth, and glenosphere size in relation to stability, and (2) is this hierarchy defined by underlying and theoretically predictable joint contact characteristics? We examined the intrinsic stability in terms of the force required to dislocate the humerosocket from the glenosphere of eight commercially available reverse shoulder arthroplasty devices. The hierarchy of factors was led by compressive force followed by socket depth; glenosphere size played a much lesser role in stability of the reverse shoulder arthroplasty device. Similar results were predicted by a mathematical model, suggesting the stability was determined primarily by compressive forces generated by muscles."}
{"id": "18259822", "title": "Clinical significance of BMP7 in human colorectal cancer.", "content": "Clinical significance of BMP7 in human colorectal cancer. Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are secreted signaling molecules belonging to the transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta superfamily. Recent studies demonstrated that the expression patterns of BMPs are altered in several tumors. The purpose of the current study was to examine the expression of BMP7 in malignant and normal colorectal tissues, and to analyze whether BMP7 expression levels correlate with clinicopathological variables and prognosis in colorectal cancer. Paired colorectal tissue samples from cancer and corresponding nonmalignant tissues were obtained from 65 patients who underwent surgical resection for colorectal cancer. The expression status of BMP7 mRNA was investigated by quantitative real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and protein expression was analyzed by an immunohistochemical study. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR showed that BMP7 mRNA expression in cancerous tissue was significantly higher than that in normal tissue (p < 0.0001). An immunohistochemical study revealed that BMP7 was predominantly expressed in cancer cells. Elevated BMP7 expression was significantly correlated with depth of tumor invasion, liver metastasis, liver recurrence, advanced Dukes' classification, and cancer-related death (p < 0.05, 0.001, 0.01, 0.05 and 0.01, respectively). Furthermore, patients with the highest levels of BMP7 expression showed the poorest prognosis (p < 0.01). A multivariate analysis showed that BMP7 expression status was an independent prognostic factor of overall survival (relative risk, 2.29; 95% confidence interval, 1.08-5.30; p < 0.05). Expression of BMP7 in colorectal tumors correlates with parameters of pathological aggressiveness such as liver metastasis and poor prognosis. Thus, BMP7 could be a useful clinical marker for colorectal cancer patients."}
{"id": "18254085", "title": "Surgery for rotator cuff disease.", "content": "Surgery for rotator cuff disease. This review is one in a series of Cochrane reviews of interventions for shoulder disorders. To determine the effectiveness and safety of surgery for rotator cuff disease. We searched the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, (The Cochrane Library Issue 1, 2006), MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, Sports Discus, Science Citation Index (Web of Science) in March 2006 unrestricted by date or language. Only studies described as randomised or quasi-randomised clinical trials (RCTs) studying participants with rotator cuff disease and surgical interventions compared to placebo, no treatment, or any other treatment were included. Two independent review authors assessed methodological quality of each included trial and extracted data. We included 14 RCTs involving 829 participants. Eleven trials included participants with impingement, two trials included participants with rotator cuff tear and one trial included participants with calcific tendinitis. No study met all methodological quality criteria and minimal pooling could be performed. Three trials compared either open or arthroscopic subacromial decompression with active non operative treatment (exercise programme, physiotherapy regimen of exercise and education, or graded physiotherapy strengthening program). No differences in outcome between these treatment groups were reported in any of these trials. One trial which also included a placebo arm (12 sessions detuned soft laser) reported that the Neer score of participants in both active treatment arms improved significantly more than those who received placebo at six months. Six trials that compared arthroscopic with open subacromial decompression reported no significant differences in outcome between groups at any time point although four trials reported a quicker recovery and/or return to work with arthroscopic decompression. Adverse events, which occurred in three trials and included infection, capsulitis, pain, deltoid atrophy, and reoperation, did not differ between surgical groups. Based upon our review of 14 trials examining heterogeneous interventions and all susceptible to bias, we cannot draw firm conclusions about the effectiveness or safety of surgery for rotator cuff disease. There is \"Silver\" (www.cochranemsk.org) level evidence from three trials that there are no significant differences in outcome between open or arthroscopic subacromial decompression and active non-operative treatment for impingement. There is also \"Silver\" level evidence from six trials that there are no significant differences in outcome between arthroscopic and open subacromial decompression although four trials reported earlier recovery with arthroscopic decompression."}
{"id": "18245591", "title": "Biomechanics of massive rotator cuff tears: implications for treatment.", "content": "Biomechanics of massive rotator cuff tears: implications for treatment. Some individuals with massive rotator cuff tears maintain active shoulder abduction, and some maintain good postoperative active range of motion despite high rates of repeat tears after repair. We devised a biomechanical rationale for these observations and measured the increases in residual muscle forces necessary to maintain active shoulder motion with rotator cuff tears of various sizes. A custom cadaver shoulder controller utilizing position and orientation closed-loop feedback control was used. Six cadaver glenohumeral joint specimens were tested in open-chain scapular plane abduction with equivalent upper extremity weight. The shoulder controller limited superior translation of the humeral head to 3.0 mm while maintaining neutral axial rotation by automatically controlling individual rotator cuff forces. Three-dimensional position and orientation and rotator cuff and deltoid force vectors were recorded. Specimens were tested with an intact rotator cuff and with 6, 7, and 8-cm tears. All six specimens achieved full abduction with <or=3.0 mm of superior translation of the humeral head for all rotator cuff tear sizes. The effect of rotator cuff tear was significant for all tear sizes (p < 0.01). Compared with the intact condition, the subscapularis force requirements for the 6, 7, and 8-cm tears were increased by 30%, 44%, and 85%, respectively. For the combined infraspinatus and teres minor, the forces were increased by 32%, 45%, and 86%, respectively. The maximum deltoid force for the simulated tear condition never exceeded the deltoid force required at maximum abduction for the intact condition. However, between 10 degrees and 45 degrees of abduction, the average deltoid force requirement increased 22%, 28%, and 45% for the three tear sizes. In the presence of a massive rotator cuff tear, stable glenohumeral abduction without excessive superior humeral head translation requires significantly higher forces in the remaining intact portion of the rotator cuff. These force increases are within the physiologic range of rotator cuff muscles for 6-cm tears and most 7-cm tears. Increases in deltoid force requirements occur in early abduction; however, greater relative increases are required of the rotator cuff, especially in the presence of larger rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "18243202", "title": "Functional results of angular-stable plate fixation in displaced proximal humeral fractures.", "content": "Functional results of angular-stable plate fixation in displaced proximal humeral fractures. The availability of angular-stable plate/screw systems led to a euphoric use of these implants for the treatment of displaced proximal humerus fractures. The high implant costs seem to be justified by a potentially improved outcome. Thirty one patients (20 female, 11 male, mean age: 62+/-16 years) with two-, three- and four-part proximal humerus fractures (Neer classification) were operated using the proximal humeral internal locking system (PHILOS). The mean follow-up time was 19+/-3 postoperative months (range: 340-720 days). Functional results (Constant score, UCLA-score) were analysed and compared to an equivalent historic control group of 60 patients operated for the same fracture types using two one-third tubular plates. Additionally, total implant costs for each technique were compared. Complications in the PHILOS group included one implant failure with refracture, one secondary dislocation, two cases of subacromial impingement, and two cases of partial avascular necrosis of the humeral head. The mean Constant score (age- and sex-matched) was 80+/-11% for the affected side and 104+/-13% for the healthy side. The UCLA scores were excellent in 10%, good in 67%, and fair in 23% of the patients. Complication rate and functional results did not differ significantly from the control group treated with one-third tubular plates. Implant costs were significantly higher for the PHILOS group (684+/-40 Euro vs. 158+/-20 Euro, p<0.05). Our study showed similar functional results using either plate. Although the PHILOS plate may provide important advantages in specific situations, such as osteoporotic bone, its use as a standard must be carefully judged under the economic aspect of the significant higher implant costs."}
{"id": "18237707", "title": "Arthroscopic transfer of the long head of the biceps tendon: functional outcome and clinical results.", "content": "Arthroscopic transfer of the long head of the biceps tendon: functional outcome and clinical results. We sought to evaluate clinical and functional outcome in a cohort of patients who underwent transfer of the long head of the biceps tendon (LHBT). Patients who were diagnosed with biceps pathology or instability underwent an arthroscopic assisted or all arthroscopic transfer LHBT as either an isolated procedure or part of another shoulder procedure by the senior author. The procedure was performed using a new arthroscopic subdeltoid technique. Forty shoulders in 39 patients were examined at a minimum of 2 years. Patients underwent complete shoulder evaluation and clinical outcomes were scored based on American Society of Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES), University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA), and L'Insalata questionnaires. Ipsilateral and contralateral metrics were also evaluated. Forty shoulders (13 female, 26 male, 1 bilateral; average age, 38.5 years) were evaluated with L'Insalata, UCLA, and ASES questionnaires, scoring 75.57, 27.32, and 78.72, respectively. In the 25 patients who had an isolated LHBT transfer, the L'Insalata, UCLA, and ASES scores were 85.2, 29.5, and 84.8, respectively. Three patients had early traumatic failure related to noncompliance with postoperative rehabilitation protocol. This included the only 2 patients who had a Popeye sign at follow-up during active elbow flexion. There was not a statistically significant side-to-side strength difference using a 10-pound weight. Eighty percent of patients were self-rated as good to excellent, and 20% of patients were self-graded as fair or poor, which includes the 3 failures mentioned above. All of the patients reported no arm pain at rest with regard to the biceps. Ninety-five percent of patients reported no biceps tenderness upon palpation of the bicipital groove. Five patients complained of fatigue discomfort (soreness) isolated to the biceps muscle following resisted elbow flexion. Arthroscopic subdeltoid transfer of the LHBT is an appropriate and reliable intervention for active patients with chronic, refractory biceps pathology. There was no loss of strength for biceps curls. All patients reported no pain isolated to biceps muscle at rest. Ninety-five percent of patients had resolution of their preoperative biceps symptoms. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "18236730", "title": "Masquerade: nonspinal musculoskeletal disorders that mimic spinal conditions.", "content": "Masquerade: nonspinal musculoskeletal disorders that mimic spinal conditions. Nonspinal musculoskeletal disorders frequently cause neck and back pain and thus can mimic conditions of the spine. Common mimics are rotator cuff tears, bursitis in the hip, peripheral nerve compression, and arthritis in the shoulder and hip. A thorough history and physical examination, imaging studies, and ancillary testing can usually help determine the source of pain."}
{"id": "18230127", "title": "Interventional microadhesiolysis: a new nonsurgical release technique for adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder.", "content": "Interventional microadhesiolysis: a new nonsurgical release technique for adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder. A nonsurgical intervention, interventional microadhesiolysis, was developed to release adhesions in joints and soft tissues. This paper introduces the procedure and evaluates the efficacy of the intervention for adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder. Ten patients (five men and five women) with primary adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder were treated at a chronic pain management center in Korea. Three specially made needles are used in interventional microadhesiolysis: the Round, Flexed Round, and Ahn's needles. A Round Needle is inserted on the skin over middle of supraspinatus and advanced under the acromion and acromioclavicular joint (subacromial release). A Flexed Round Needle is inserted two-fingers caudal to the inferior border of the scapular spine and advanced over the capsule sliding on the surface of infraspinatus muscle-tendon fascia. The capsule is released while an assistant simultaneously passively abducts the shoulder to full abduction (posteroinferior capsule release). An Ahn's Needle is inserted on the skin over the lesser tubercle and advanced under the coracoid process sliding on the surface of the subscapularis muscle (subcoracoid release). After the patients underwent interventional microadhesiolysis, the self-rated pain score or severity declined significantly (p < .01), the shoulder range of motion increased significantly (p < .01), and joint effusion in the affected shoulder decreased or disappeared in nine of ten patients on magnetic resonance imaging compared to their initial status. Our findings suggest that interventional microadhesiolysis is effective for managing adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder."}
{"id": "18218328", "title": "Measurements of shoulder mobility by patient and surgeon correlate poorly: a prospective study.", "content": "Measurements of shoulder mobility by patient and surgeon correlate poorly: a prospective study. A questionnaire, which allowed graphing of self-assessment of active and passive shoulder motion by drawing lines onto prepared diagrams, was sent to 221 consecutive patients scheduled to attend our outpatient clinic. At consultation, shoulder motion was measured using a goniometer by surgeons, who were blinded to the results of the patient-based self-assessment. One-hundred and fifty-eight complete data sets were available for evaluation. Mean differences between patient and surgeon measurements were 18 degrees +/- 19 degrees . While mean values for most degrees of freedom were similar between patient and surgeon measurements, some rotational movements were overestimated by patients. Correlation of patient and surgeon based assessments were poor for all degrees of freedom (r(2) <or= .52). Dominance (right/left handed), gender, age, pathology, pain, and subjective shoulder value did not significantly impact on the correlation. Combining surgeon and patient based information in the same study is inappropriate. Comparisons and meta-analysis of shoulder studies need to take the type of data acquisition into account."}
{"id": "18218327", "title": "A review of the Constant score: modifications and guidelines for its use.", "content": "A review of the Constant score: modifications and guidelines for its use."}
{"id": "18216272", "title": "An analysis of capsular area in patients with anterior, posterior, and multidirectional shoulder instability.", "content": "An analysis of capsular area in patients with anterior, posterior, and multidirectional shoulder instability. Although increased capsular volume has been implicated in shoulder instability, there is a paucity of clinical evidence to quantify the size of the capsule with specific instability conditions of the shoulder. Shoulder capsular area, as measured by magnetic resonance arthrography, is increased with specific patterns of shoulder instability. Cross-sectional study; Level of evidence, 4. During an 8-month period, all patients with a diagnosis of anterior (n = 19), posterior (n = 14), or multidirectional (n = 13) instability of the shoulder and who were assessed with a magnetic resonance arthrogram were reviewed. A group of 10 control patients without clinical instability were also identified. The magnetic resonance arthrograms of all groups were randomly mixed, and 5 reviewers recorded measures of capsular length and area and determined labral abnormalities. The magnetic resonance arthrogram measurements were compared between groups, and interobserver agreement was determined. The cross-sectional area of the capsule was increased in patients with posterior (P = .017) or multidirectional instability (P = .021) versus controls, but not in patients with anterior instability. Additionally, the posteroinferior cross-sectional area was increased in patients with posterior (P = .001), multidirectional (P = .003), and anterior (P = .008) instability. In patients with a posterior labral tear, the mean axial (P = .043) and mean posteroinferior sagittal cross-sectional area (P = .011) was increased, but there were no differences in cross-sectional area for those with an anterior labral tear. The overall interobserver reliability was very good (correlation coefficient range, 0.68-0.94). Our results reinforce the concept that capsular elongation and laxity, either preexisting or acquired, play a role in certain instability conditions of the shoulder. Additional work is needed to determine how to correlate surgical decision making with the cross-sectional area measurements demonstrated in this study."}
{"id": "18212348", "title": "The effect of glenohumeral position on the shoulder after traumatic anterior dislocation.", "content": "The effect of glenohumeral position on the shoulder after traumatic anterior dislocation. Previous cadaveric studies suggest that positioning the shoulder in an externally rotated position reduces displaced Bankart lesions through a coaptation effect. We hypothesized that positioning the glenohumeral joint in an externally rotated position creates contact pressure between the subscapularis and the anterior labrum. Descriptive laboratory study. Eight cadaveric shoulders were used. Contact pressure between the subscapularis and labrum was measured in varying glenohumeral positions using a Tekscan pressure monitor. The position of the anterior band of the inferior glenohumeral ligament was also digitized in those positions. All shoulders were tested in the intact condition, following a surgically created Bankart lesion and following anterior shoulder dislocation. These conditions were also verified by measuring glenohumeral translation and joint forces. For all 8 specimens, the contact pressure between the subscapularis and the anterior labrum was negligible with the humerus externally rotated up to 90 degrees at all abduction angles in intact, surgically created Bankart, and dislocated specimens. There were several glenohumeral positions where the anterior band of the inferior glenohumeral ligament strain in the intact specimens was similar to the postdislocation condition, that is, no statistically significant difference between intact and dislocated specimens. These positions included 30 degrees of glenohumeral abduction with external rotation between 0 degrees and 60 degrees, as well as 45 degrees of abduction with external rotation of 0 degrees and 60 degrees. The anterior band of the inferior glenohumeral ligament strain and glenohumeral anterior-posterior translation measurements revealed that the surgically created Bankart lesion does not simulate the conditions after anterior dislocation of the shoulder. External rotation of the shoulder does not create contact pressure between the subscapularis and the anterior labrum before or after anterior dislocation. The efficacy of external rotation immobilization after anterior-inferior shoulder dislocation is not likely to be related to coaptation of the Bankart lesion by the subscapularis."}
{"id": "18207431", "title": "Beach chair position with instrumental distraction for arthroscopic and open shoulder surgeries.", "content": "Beach chair position with instrumental distraction for arthroscopic and open shoulder surgeries. Arthroscopy is widely used in the diagnosis and treatment of shoulder disorders. It can be performed in the lateral or sitting position (beach chair). Both have advantages and disadvantages. We present a simple, inexpensive, versatile, portable, continuous distraction device for arthroscopic, combined, and open shoulder surgeries in the sitting position that offers the advantages of the 2 classic positions without their disadvantages. The device was used in 101 consecutive procedures: 61 rotator cuff repairs (29 arthroscopic, 18 mini-open, 14 open), 4 two-part humeral fractures, 1 septic arthritis, 3 calcifying tendinitis, 9 capsular releases, 8 Bankart repairs (6 arthroscopic, 2 open), 13 acromioplasty and biceps tenotomy, and 2 superior labrum anteroposterior repairs. Our experience with this device is extremely positive. We have had no complications and have used it for shoulder arthroscopy, open, and combined surgeries. We have also not had difficulty visualizing or approaching the glenohumeral and subacromial spaces in the treatment of shoulder disorders. It is a safe, practical, easy, and fast set up. Its versatility makes it particularly helpful for the less experienced arthroscopic surgeon."}
{"id": "18205566", "title": "The clinical utility of ultrasonography for rotator cuff disease, shoulder impingement syndrome and subacromial bursitis.", "content": "The clinical utility of ultrasonography for rotator cuff disease, shoulder impingement syndrome and subacromial bursitis. Periarticular shoulder disorders are common in clinical practice, and diagnosis is often difficult. Medicare statistics indicate that between 2001 and 2006 the use of diagnostic shoulder ultrasonography increased significantly. Rotator cuff disease, shoulder impingement syndrome and subacromial bursitis are among the most common diagnoses reported on shoulder ultrasonography. Shoulder ultrasonography is useful in the diagnosis of full thickness tears, but its utility for other rotator cuff disorders, shoulder impingement syndrome and subacromial bursitis is less well established."}
{"id": "18201659", "title": "The accuracy of subacromial corticosteroid injections: a comparison of multiple methods.", "content": "The accuracy of subacromial corticosteroid injections: a comparison of multiple methods. Corticosteroids are commonly used in the treatment of the impingement syndrome. Efficacy, as well as accurate placement, have been questioned. The purpose of this prospective, randomized study is to assess the accuracy of subacromial injections and to correlate accuracy with short term clinical outcome at 3 months. Sixty shoulders, which were diagnosed with impingement syndrome, were randomized to receive a subacromial injection of corticosteroids, local anesthetic, and contrast dye from 1 of 3 locations: anterolateral, lateral, or posterior. Accuracy was confirmed by 3 radiographic views of the shoulder, while clinical ratings were assessed by the UCLA shoulder score and a 10-point visual pain analog scale during the initial, post-injection, and 3-month visits. The overall accuracy was 70%, with no difference among the 3 portals. Accuracy was not related to body mass index. Furthermore, accurate injections did not significantly improve the UCLA score, pain scale, or patient satisfaction at 3 months. In contrast, accurate injections produced a positive Neer's impingement test more often (35/39 vs 9/16; P = .009). Overall, there was an improvement in the UCLA score (26.2-32.2; P < .001) and a decrease in the pain scale (7.2-3.43; P < .001) at 3-month follow-up. In conclusion, the accuracy of injection was 70%. Clinical improvement did not correlate with accuracy; however, accuracy did reliably produce a positive impingement test. This multimodal treatment plan did produce significant improvement in shoulder function and pain level in the short term."}
{"id": "18201657", "title": "Scapular muscle recruitment patterns and isokinetic strength ratios of the shoulder rotator muscles in individuals with and without impingement syndrome.", "content": "Scapular muscle recruitment patterns and isokinetic strength ratios of the shoulder rotator muscles in individuals with and without impingement syndrome. The aim of this study was to compare the recruitment patterns and latencies of the scapular muscles, as well as the isokinetic performance of the shoulder rotators in 10 subjects with unilateral impingement syndrome who comprised the impingement group (IG) with a control group (CG) of 10 asymptomatic subjects. The recruitment patterns and latencies were evaluated by electromyographic activity during arm elevation in the scapular plane. Isokinetic work ratios of the shoulder rotator muscles were used to analyze muscular performance. A 2 x 2 ANOVA detected that muscular performance and recruitment patterns were similar for both groups and sides. However, the ANOVA revealed a significant side and group interaction, indicating that the scapular muscle latencies of the affected shoulder was greater than that of the nonaffected side only for the IG (p < .001). These findings indicated that subjects with light to moderate impingement syndrome showed late recruitment of the scapular muscles during arm elevation. However, muscular performance of the shoulder rotator muscles was not affected."}
{"id": "18201656", "title": "Kinematic evaluation of the Hawkins and Neer sign.", "content": "Kinematic evaluation of the Hawkins and Neer sign. To study the kinematics of the glenohumeral joint during the testing of the Neer and Hawkins signs, we used dynamic radiostereometry. Eighteen patients with impingement syndrome (Neer stage 2) and eleven controls were included. During testing of the Neer sign, there was no significant difference in humeral rotation and translation between patients and controls. During testing of the Hawkins sign, the center of the humeral head was positioned more laterally and superiorly in controls than in patients. The maximum amount of abduction, either relative glenohumeral rotation or as absolute rotation, was not influenced by the presence of impingement symptoms. Absence of kinematic abnormalities during the Neer maneuver and changed humeral translation in the Hawkins position suggest that the latter test is a more sensitive diagnostic tool. Our findings do not support that abnormal passive shoulder motions precede development of impingement syndrome."}
{"id": "18201655", "title": "An assessment of porcine dermal xenograft as an augmentation graft in the treatment of extensive rotator cuff tears.", "content": "An assessment of porcine dermal xenograft as an augmentation graft in the treatment of extensive rotator cuff tears. Porcine dermal collagen (Zimmer Patch, formerly known as Permacol; Tissue Science Laboratories plc, Aldershot, Hampshire, UK) has been used for reinforcement of several human body tissues with success and has been shown to act as a durable, permanent tissue scaffold that assists healing. The purpose of this study was to determine the effectiveness of porcine dermal collagen as a tendon augmentation graft in the repair of extensive rotator cuff tears. This prospective study evaluated the clinical, ultrasound, and magnetic resonance imaging outcome 4.5 years (range, 3-5 years) after the treatment of extensive rotator cuff tears with porcine dermal collagen tendon augmentation grafting. The study group consisted of 10 patients (5 men, 5 women) with a mean age of 66 years (range, 46-80 years). Patients were evaluated clinically using the Constant score preoperatively, at 1 year, and at final follow-up when ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging scans were performed to assess for graft and rotator cuff integrity. Average Constant scores improved from 41 preoperatively to 62 at final follow-up (P = .0003). Pain, abduction power, and range of motion significantly improved after surgery (P < .05), and patient satisfaction levels were high. Imaging studies identified intact grafts in 8 patients and graft detachment in 2. No adverse side effects were reported during the study period. The use of porcine dermal collagen as an augmentation graft in the treatment of massive rotator cuff tears is safe and, in most patients, is associated with improved clinical outcome. Randomized trials are required to assess any benefit over standard current surgical treatment regimens."}
{"id": "18201653", "title": "Influence of psychomotor skills and innervation patterns on results of latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Influence of psychomotor skills and innervation patterns on results of latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tears. This investigation was performed to analyze the influence of innervation and psychomotor skills on the outcome of latissimus dorsi transfer. Patients with the 10 best and 10 worst results after latissimus dorsi transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tears were selected. All patients meeting the inclusion criteria (n = 12) were subject to a psychomotor test battery (Motorische Leistungsserie) and electromyographic innervation assessment. There was no statistical difference between the 2 groups preoperatively in terms of the commonly tested factors known to influence the results of this procedure adversely. There was a significant difference in both the pattern and selectivity of innervation in the group that had better clinical results. The psychomotor findings were negatively correlated with the range of motion and the strength of the operative shoulder. Function of the operative shoulder could also be predicted by psychomotor function of the uninjured contralateral side. Psychomotor skills testing appears to be a new, potential method by which to predict the outcome of latissimus dorsi transfer."}
{"id": "18201652", "title": "Small full-thickness tears do well ten to thirteen years after arthroscopic subacromial decompression.", "content": "Small full-thickness tears do well ten to thirteen years after arthroscopic subacromial decompression. A consecutive series of 181 patients with clinical signs of subacromial impingement underwent arthroscopic subacromial decompression (ASD). All patients had the same surgical procedure, and all pathological findings at the arthroscopy were recorded. Ten to 13 years (mean, 11.2) after the procedure, 162 patients (91%) were available for follow-up consisting of clinical examination and the Constant-Murley and DASH scores. The overall mean value of the age correlated Constant score was 77 points. Men had significantly better Constant score than women. The state of the rotator cuff at the index procedure was found to affect the outcome significantly. Patients with isolated full-thickness supraspinatus tears had the best results, followed by those with partial tears, intact cuffs, or large tears involving more than 1 tendon. ASD in the treatment of subacromial impingement yields good long-term results. Small full-thickness supraspinatus tears had the best results, indicating that the ASD might prevent further cuff deterioration and that repair of these lesions may be unnecessary."}
{"id": "18196406", "title": "Hip damage occurs at the zone of femoroacetabular impingement.", "content": "Hip damage occurs at the zone of femoroacetabular impingement. Although current concepts of anterior femoroacetabular impingement predict damage in the labrum and the cartilage, the actual joint damage has not been verified by computer simulation. We retrospectively compared the intraoperative locations of labral and cartilage damage of 40 hips during surgical dislocation for cam or pincer type femoroacetabular impingement (Group I) with the locations of femoroacetabular impingement in 15 additional hips using computer simulation (Group II). We found no difference between the mean locations of the chondrolabral damage of Group I and the computed impingement zone of Group II. The standard deviation was larger for measures of articular damage from Group I in comparison to the computed values of Group II. The most severe hip damage occurred at the zone of highest probability of femoroacetabular impact, typically in the anterosuperior quadrant of the acetabulum for both cam and pincer type femoroacetabular impingements. However, the extent of joint damage along the acetabular rim was larger intraoperatively than that observed on the images of the 3-D joint simulations. We concluded femoroacetabular impingement mechanism contributes to early osteoarthritis including labral lesions. Level II, diagnostic study. See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "18191958", "title": "Ipsilesional and contralesional sensorimotor function after hemispherectomy: differences between distal and proximal function.", "content": "Ipsilesional and contralesional sensorimotor function after hemispherectomy: differences between distal and proximal function. Previous studies have reported mainly on contralesional somatosensory and motor function after hemispherectomy. So far, ipsilesional impairments have received little attention even though these have been reported in patients with less extensive lesions. In the current study we assessed ipsilesional and contralesional sensorimotor function in a group of 12 patients with hemispherectomy. In addition, we focused on differences between distal and proximal function and investigated several factors that may have contributed to individual differences between patients. The tests included tapping, force production, tactile double simultaneous stimulation, pressure sensitivity, passive joint movement sense and sensitivity to hot and cold. Ipsilesional impairments were found on all tests, except passive joint movement sense. Unexpectedly, no significant ipsilateral distal-proximal gradient was found for any of the measures. Both the removal of the diseased cerebral hemisphere and possible changes to the remaining brain structures may have affected ipsilesional sensorimotor function. Contralesional performance was impaired on all tests except for passive joint movement in the shoulder. The contralesional impairments were characterized by a distal-proximal gradient measured on all tests, except that of sensitivity to hot and cold. Distal function was always most impaired. The difference between distal and proximal motor function is in agreement with the established concepts of the motor pathways, with the motoneurons innervating proximal muscles receiving bilateral cortical and subcortical input. Age at onset of original brain damage correlated significantly with passive joint movement sense. Patients with known abnormalities to the remaining brain structures performed inferior on the tapping test only. No effect was found of the hemispheric side of removal."}
{"id": "18183574", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the hip.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the hip. Standard magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as well as MR arthrography (MRA) have been important diagnostic tools to assess for a spectrum of clinical presentations related to the hip. MRA has allowed the radiologist to closely examine intracapsular structures such as the acetabular labrum. In this article, we provide a general review of soft tissue and osseous anatomy of hips, especially focusing on the MR appearances of the acetabular labrum and the osseous morphology of the greater trochanter and ischial tuberosity with their muscle and tendon attachments. In addition, current topics in recent literature will be discussed such as femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) and rotator cuff tears of the hip."}
{"id": "18182198", "title": "The time for functional recovery after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: correlation with tendon healing controlled by computed tomography arthrography.", "content": "The time for functional recovery after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: correlation with tendon healing controlled by computed tomography arthrography. We investigated how soon postoperative functional recovery became significant after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair and the influence of tendon healing. We conducted a prospective study on 114 cases of full-thickness rotator cuff tears arthroscopically repaired from January 2001 to December 2003. All patients were evaluated by the Constant scoring system at 3, 6, 12, and 24 months after surgery and at last follow-up. Computed tomography arthrography was done at 6 months postoperatively to study the progression of tendon healing. The Constant score significantly improved from the third month after surgery (P < .0001) until the twelfth month, after which it stabilized (P < .0001). At last follow-up (31 months), the mean score was 80.1 points (range, 50 to 95 points). Female sex (P < .0001), upper-limb heavy work (P < .0001), poor bone quality (P = .039), and absence of healing (P = .002) were negative predictive factors. In particular, the absence of tendon healing leads to a worsening of the results from the twelfth month onward. Arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff lesions as performed in this study gives very good results in terms of functional recovery. Our study showed functional recovery as early as 3 months after surgery and further improvement over the first year, followed by stabilization. We found that female sex, upper-limb heavy work, poor bone quality, and lack of tendon healing were all negatively associated with outcome. Patients presenting with a retear differed from the other patients, in that their clinical progression showed a significant rise in the Constant score over the first year, with a lowering of the score thereafter. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "18182197", "title": "Ultimate tensile failure loads of a human dermal allograft rotator cuff augmentation.", "content": "Ultimate tensile failure loads of a human dermal allograft rotator cuff augmentation. The purpose of this study was to examine the failure mode of supraspinatus tendon repairs with and without human dermal allograft augmentation. Ten matched pairs of human cadaveric supraspinatus muscles and tendons were detached from their greater tuberosity insertions and then reattached with four simple sutures in 2 suture anchors as a control group. One shoulder from each matched pair was augmented with human dermal allograft secured to the humerus and the supraspinatus tendon using the same sutures and suture anchors. Additional interrupted mattress sutures secured the edges of the dermal allograft to the supraspinatus tendon. Each construct was preloaded at 10 N and then cyclically loaded between 10 N and 100 N for 10 cycles at 20 N/s followed by destructive testing at 33 mm/s. Force and displacement were recorded. The mean failure strengths for the control and augmented constructs were 273 +/- 116 N and 325 +/- 74 N, respectively (P = .047). No significant displacement occurred during the cyclic phase, and no anchors failed. These constructs failed by 2 different mechanisms: tendon-suture interface failure (8/10 non-augmented repairs and 6/10 augmented repairs) and suture breakage (2/10 non-augmented repairs and 4/10 augmented repairs). This examination of the failure characteristics and ultimate failure load of supraspinatus tendon tears augmented with GraftJacket (Wright Medical Technology, Arlington, TN) supported the study hypothesis that a human dermal allograft significantly increases the strength of a repaired tendon. The human dermal allograft can be expected to significantly increase the initial strength of a rotator cuff repair."}
{"id": "18162415", "title": "Relative contributions of the infraspinatus and deltoid during external rotation in patients with symptomatic subacromial impingement.", "content": "Relative contributions of the infraspinatus and deltoid during external rotation in patients with symptomatic subacromial impingement. A principal cause of subacromial impingement (SAI) is failure of the rotator cuff to center the humeral head in the glenoid during shoulder motion, counteracting the effect of the deltoid. As rehabilitation of the rotator cuff endeavors to restore balance between these muscle groups, the purpose of this companion study was to evaluate, in the symptomatic shoulders of patients with SAI, (1) the conditions of resisted isometric external rotation (ER) that optimized the contribution of the infraspinatus and (2) the load of ER at which adduction was most effective at reducing the deltoid contribution and then to compare this with the relative contribution of the infraspinatus and the posterior and middle deltoid in asymptomatic shoulders. In 14 subjects (18 shoulders) with SAI, surface electromyographic activity of the infraspinatus and the posterior and middle deltoid and pectoralis major was recorded at low, medium, and high loads of resisted isometric ER, with and without adduction. These data were normalized to find each muscle's relative contribution to the task and were compared with normalized data from subjects with healthy shoulders. In subjects with SAI, low loads of isometric ER (10%-40% maximum voluntary isometric contraction) optimized the relative contribution of the infraspinatus. Adduction with isometric ER at 10% maximum voluntary isometric contraction reduced the middle deltoid involvement. Higher loads preferentially activated the middle deltoid over the infraspinatus and may have effected unwanted humeral head superior translation, counteracting the presumed benefits of rotator cuff ER exercises. An individualized loading regimen and the use of surface electromyography may have significant implications during rotator cuff rehabilitation."}
{"id": "18162412", "title": "Intermethod agreement and interobserver correlation of radiologic acromiohumeral distance measurements.", "content": "Intermethod agreement and interobserver correlation of radiologic acromiohumeral distance measurements. The acromiohumeral distance (AHD) measured on conventional, true anteroposterior radiographs taken with the patient standing and the arm held in neutral rotation can predict the presence or absence of a large, chronic rotator cuff tears, and narrowing of the acromiohumeral distance can predict irreparability of rotator cuff tears. The relation between AHD measured on conventional radiographs and the integrity of the rotator cuff tendons is well known. Conversely, the correlation between the AHD on conventional radiographs and that measured on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed tomography (CT) scans is unknown. It has also not been determined which method correlates better with fatty infiltration of the rotator cuff muscles and might thereby be a better prognostic value for the outcome of rotator cuff repair. Conventional radiographs, plus MRI and or CT studies taken at the same time of patients with rotator cuff tears, shoulder instability, primary glenohumeral osteoarthritis, or idiopathic frozen shoulder, were randomly selected, and the AHD was measured both on conventional radiographs and on MRI or CT. The values were correlated with the stage of fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff muscles in the cases of rotator cuff tears. The AHD on conventional radiographs was larger than on MRI and CT, and correlation of the values measured (conventional radiography vs MRI and CT) could be demonstrated. For rotator cuff diseases, a significant but moderate correlation (r = 0.6; P < .05) between conventional and MRI was identified, and the conventional values were approximately 0.6 mm greater than the corresponding MRI values. It is, therefore, possible to use the AHD read on MRI or CT studies for prognostic reasons, provided the values obtained are converted accordingly and remembering that the correlation of the values is only moderate."}
{"id": "18157491", "title": "Ultrasound measurement of rotator cuff thickness and acromio-humeral distance in the diagnosis of subacromial impingement syndrome of the shoulder.", "content": "Ultrasound measurement of rotator cuff thickness and acromio-humeral distance in the diagnosis of subacromial impingement syndrome of the shoulder. The usefulness of ultrasound measurements in the diagnosis of the subacromial impingement syndrome of the shoulder was evaluated. Fifty-seven patients with unilateral symptoms of the impingement syndrome underwent ultrasound examination of both shoulder joints, which included assessment of rotator cuff integrity, measurement of rotator cuff thickness and the distance between the infero-lateral edge of acromion and the apex of the greater tuberosity of humerus (AGT distance) in the standard ultrasonographic positions. As a control group, 36 volunteers (72 shoulders) with no history of shoulder pain were examined sonographically. Ultrasonographic assessment of humeral head elevation, measured as the AGT distance, proved to be useful in establishing the diagnosis of the subacromial impingement syndrome of the shoulder. A difference in rotator cuff thickness of more than 1.1 mm and a difference in the AGT distance of more than 2.1 mm between both shoulder joints may reflect dysfunction of rotator cuff muscles."}
{"id": "18069016", "title": "A pilot randomized, controlled trial of treatment for painful arc of the shoulder.", "content": "A pilot randomized, controlled trial of treatment for painful arc of the shoulder. There is a lack of evidence about the efficacy of routinely used interventions in shoulder pain, such as corticosteroid injection and physiotherapy. This pilot study was set up to assess the feasibility of a larger, randomized controlled trial. Patients with the clinical presentation of a painful arc of less than 6 months' duration were recruited through their general practitioners. A total of 112 patients were randomized to 4 groups: control, physiotherapy, a course of subacromial steroid injections, or both physiotherapy and steroid injections. The primary outcome measure was the Oxford Shoulder Score (OSS). Follow-up was 18 weeks and by postal questionnaire at 1 year. No significant differences were found within groups between the OSS scores or the Physical Health total of the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form 36 (SF-36) Health Survey at the beginning and end of the trial or at 1 year. By analysis of covariance, no significant differences were found between treatment groups. Larger studies are needed. A power calculation from our data suggests recruitment of more than 800 patients would be required to achieve a 90% chance of a clinically significant difference being detected between these groups."}
{"id": "18069014", "title": "The strength of the rotator cuff before and after subacromial injection of lidocaine.", "content": "The strength of the rotator cuff before and after subacromial injection of lidocaine. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the strength of the shoulder before and after the impingement test. This study included 153 cases of impingement syndrome, 20 cases of partial-thickness rotator cuff tear, and 60 cases of full-thickness rotator cuff tear. We divided each of the groups into 2 subgroups according to the mean percentage decrease in pain to evaluate the correlation between pain and muscle weakness. We also divided the impingement syndrome group into 2 groups based on stiffness. After the test, the subgroup with stiffness had a greater reduction in pain compared with the subgroup without stiffness. The results show no statistically significant difference in the strength of the shoulder, except for increased external rotation strength in patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears and increased supraspinatus strength in patients with impingement syndrome with stiffness. In cases in which the continuity of the rotator cuff is maintained, pain is not an important factor in the cause of shoulder weakness. Preoperative muscle testing can be done despite pain, but if a full-thickness rotator cuff tear is confirmed, re-examination of external rotator strength is necessary. In patients with impingement syndrome, particularly with shoulder stiffness, supraspinatus strength can be decreased."}
{"id": "18069013", "title": "Contrast-enhanced ultrasound characterization of the vascularity of the rotator cuff tendon: age- and activity-related changes in the intact asymptomatic rotator cuff.", "content": "Contrast-enhanced ultrasound characterization of the vascularity of the rotator cuff tendon: age- and activity-related changes in the intact asymptomatic rotator cuff. The natural history of the blood supply to the rotator cuff and its role in the etiology of rotator cuff disease has not been definitively established. To date, there has not been an in-vivo dynamic assessment of the baseline vascularity of the asymptomatic rotator cuff. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that regional variations in supraspinatus tendon vascularity exist with an age-dependent decrease in asymptomatic individuals with intact rotator cuffs. Lipid microsphere, contrast-enhanced ultrasound shoulder examinations were done in 31 patients with a mean age of 41.5 years (range, 22-65 years). Images were obtained at baseline, after contrast administration at rest, and after contrast administration following exercise to visualize the intratendinous blood flow to the supraspinatus tendon. Qualitative and quantitative analysis was performed by determining 4 regions of interest (bursal medial, articular medial, bursal lateral, and articular lateral) with quantification and analysis software (QLAB Philips, Andover, MA) to examine each region of interest and normalize data for interpretation of the mean intensity per pixel. A statistically significant decrease in blood flow to the supraspinatus tendon with age was observed in a comparative analysis of patients aged younger than 40 and older than 40, (P < .05 for all 4 zones after exercise and for the bursal medial, articular medial, and bursal lateral zones after exercise; P = .07 for the articular lateral zone after exercise). A statistically significant increase in blood flow with exercise was observed in an analysis of all patients (P < .001). The age-related decrease in the vascular supply of the tendon observed in this study is consistent with published reports demonstrating an increasing prevalence of rotator cuff pathology with age and may predispose to the development of rotator cuff tendinopathy and, ultimately, attritional tears."}
{"id": "18069008", "title": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair in patients younger than fifty years of age.", "content": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair in patients younger than fifty years of age. Thirty-seven patients (41 shoulders) younger than 50 years of age (mean age, 43.7 years) underwent all-arthroscopic repairs of rotator cuff tears between 1994 and 2002. With a minimum 3-year follow-up (average 69 months, range 37-161 months), postoperative function was assessed by means of a UCLA scoring system, range of motion measurements, strength exam, and VAS pain score. Tears were categorized into 4 groups by type and size: partial undersurface tears, complete tears that were small (<1 cm), medium (1-3 cm), or large/massive (4-5 cm). All but 1 patient (97%) was subjectively satisfied and felt to be improved postoperatively. Average postoperative UCLA score improved significantly, and 95% of the shoulders achieved good or excellent postoperative results. Postoperative pain scores and strength evaluation also improved significantly. There was no significant loss of motion postoperatively and outcomes were independent of tear size and type. To date, there have been no revisions. These treatment results suggest that arthroscopic management in patients younger than 50 can achieve predictably good to excellent results regardless of tear size."}
{"id": "18066578", "title": "Effects of experimental muscle pain on shoulder-abduction force steadiness and muscle activity in healthy subjects.", "content": "Effects of experimental muscle pain on shoulder-abduction force steadiness and muscle activity in healthy subjects. We previously demonstrated that the steadiness of shoulder abduction is reduced in patients with subacromial impingement syndrome (SIS), which might be related to shoulder pain associated with the SIS. The aim of the present study was to examine the acute effects of experimental shoulder muscle pain on shoulder motor function in healthy subjects. The fluctuations in exerted force (force steadiness) and electromyographic (EMG) activity from eight shoulder muscles were determined during sub-maximal isometric and dynamic contractions with the shoulder abductors in nine healthy subjects (27.7 +/- 4.2 years, mean +/- 1 SD) before, during and after experimental pain induction. Experimental pain was induced by bolus injections of 6% hypertonic saline into the supraspinatus muscle. Experimental muscle pain reduced shoulder-abduction force steadiness on average by 21% during isometric contractions (P = 0.012) and tended to do so during concentric contractions (P = 0.083). Middle deltoid, and infraspinatus and lower trapezius muscle activity increased (3-5% EMG(max)) during isometric and concentric contractions, respectively (P < 0.05). Thus, experimental shoulder muscle pain reduced the steadiness of isometric shoulder abduction and caused small changes in the abduction activation strategy. The observed effects of experimental pain on shoulder motor function differed from that observed previously in patients with SIS and chronic pain during the same types of contractions. A possible explanation may be that, even though the adopted experimental pain-paradigm may reflect the SIS in terms of the painful structures, it might not reflect the adaptations in the central nervous system seen with chronic pain."}
{"id": "18066527", "title": "The surgical outcome of immediate arthroscopic Bankart repair for first time anterior shoulder dislocation in young active patients.", "content": "The surgical outcome of immediate arthroscopic Bankart repair for first time anterior shoulder dislocation in young active patients. This study evaluated the surgical outcomes of young active patients with arthroscopic Bankart repair within 1 month after first-time anterior shoulder dislocation. From July 2002-October 2004, patients presented with first-time traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation and treated with arthroscopic stabilization within 1 month of injury were retrospectively reviewed. Magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography were performed before the operation in all cases. Cases with contralateral shoulder multidirectional instability or glenoid bone loss of more than 30% on preoperative computed tomography on the injury side were excluded. All patients were treated with arthroscopic Bankart repair, using metallic suture anchors or soft tissue bio-absorbable anchors by a same group of surgeons and followed the same rehabilitation protocol. Recurrence, instability signs, range of motion, WOSI score, Rowe score and complications were assessed. Thirty-eight patients were recruited: the average age was 21 (16-30). All patients had definite trauma history. Radiologically, all patients had Bankart/Hill-Sachs lesion. All the operations were done within 1 month after injury (6-25 days). The average hospital stay was 1.2 days (1-5 days). The average follow-up was 28 months (24-48 months). There were two cases of posttraumatic re-dislocation (5.2%). The average external rotation lag was 5 degrees (0-15) in 90 degrees shoulder abduction when compared with contralateral side. 95% of patients had excellent or good Rowe score. The average WOSI score was 83%. There was one case of transient ulnar nerve palsy and one case of superficial wound infection. This study concluded that immediate arthroscopic Bankart repair with an accelerated rehabilitation program is an effective and safe technique for treating young active patients with first-time traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation."}
{"id": "18036846", "title": "Subacromial bursa block is an effective alternative to interscalene block for postoperative pain control after arthroscopic subacromial decompression: a randomized trial.", "content": "Subacromial bursa block is an effective alternative to interscalene block for postoperative pain control after arthroscopic subacromial decompression: a randomized trial. Subacromial decompression surgery is associated with significant postoperative pain. We compared interscalene block (ISB) with subacromial bursa block (SBB). Sixty consecutive patients with subacromial impingement syndrome, scheduled for arthroscopic subacromial decompression surgery, were randomized into 3 groups receiving ISB (n = 19), SBB (n = 19), or no block (n = 15 [controls]). Patients with rotator cuff tears were excluded (n = 7). The postoperative consumption of morphine, time to the first bolus of morphine, oral analgesia, pain, sickness, and sedation scores were recorded. The pain scores in the ISB and SBB groups were lower than those in the control group in the first 12 hours postoperatively. The control group consumed more morphine (mean, 32.3 mg) compared with the SBB group (mean, 21.21 mg) and ISB group (mean, 14.00 mg) (P < .001). The time to first bolus was earlier in the control group (mean, 42.1 minutes) compared with both the SBB (mean, 92.6 minutes) and ISB (mean, 119.0 minutes) groups (P < .001). The oral analgesic intake was less in the SBB and ISB groups than in the controls (P = .004). Although ISB remains the gold standard, SBB provides effective, safe, and easily administered postoperative analgesia in patients with an intact rotator cuff undergoing arthroscopic subacromial decompression."}
{"id": "18036841", "title": "The relationship between greater tuberosity osteopenia and the chronicity of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "The relationship between greater tuberosity osteopenia and the chronicity of rotator cuff tears. This study investigated whether a relationship exists between greater tuberosity osteopenia and chronicity of rotator cuff tears. In a retrospective study, anteroposterior radiographs of 28 shoulders in 27 patients who had undergone surgical repair for rotator cuff tears were reviewed. Greater tuberosity osteopenia scores were created using National Institutes of Health digital image software. There was no significant difference in the mean age between patients with minimal to mild rotator cuff tear retraction (63.1 +/- 6.14 years) and patients with moderate to severe rotator cuff tear retraction (63.4 +/- 9.76 years; P = .77). Of the 13 patients with minimal to mild rotator cuff tear retraction, 10 (77%) were women and 3 (23%) were men. Of 14 patients (50%) with moderate to severe rotator cuff tear retraction, 7 were men and 7 were women. The mean greater tuberosity osteopenia score in the 15 patients with moderate to severe retraction (0.48 +/- 0.095) was significantly less than the greater tuberosity osteopenia score in the 13 patients with minimal to mild retraction (0.58 +/- 0.135; P < .05). Furthermore, the mean greater tuberosity osteopenia score in 6 patients with chronic retracted rotator cuff tears (0.48 +/- 0.125) was significantly less than in the 6 patients with acute minimally retracted tears (0.64 +/- 0.119, P < .05). There were significantly greater osteopenic changes in the greater tuberosity in patients with chronic retracted rotator cuff tears. The greater tuberosity osteopenia may affect anchor pullout strength and the healing biology that influences overall rotator cuff repair healing rates."}
{"id": "18036840", "title": "The coracoacromial ligament: the morphology and relation to rotator cuff pathology.", "content": "The coracoacromial ligament: the morphology and relation to rotator cuff pathology. We dissected 80 shoulders from 44 fresh cadavers to define variants of the coracoacromial ligament and their relationship to rotator cuff degeneration. The shapes and the geometric data of the ligaments were investigated, and the rotator cuffs of the cadavers were evaluated macroscopically. Five main types of coracoacromial ligaments were found: Y-shaped, broad band, quadrangular, V-shaped, and multiple-banded. The Y-shaped ligament was the most frequent type, with a frequency of 41.3%, and the V-shaped ligament (11.2%) has not been previously reported. Of the cadavers that were dissected bilaterally, 64% showed the same type of ligament. There was no statistical significance between rotator cuff degeneration and the type or geometric measurement of the ligament. However, the coracoacromial ligaments with more than 1 bundle showed significant association with rotator cuff degeneration with a longer lateral border and larger coracoid insertion."}
{"id": "18036839", "title": "Shoulder kinematics in patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears after a subacromial injection.", "content": "Shoulder kinematics in patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears after a subacromial injection. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that scapulohumeral rhythm (SHR) is altered in patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears due to pain. Fifteen subjects (mean age, 60.2 +/- 8.9 years; mean height, 1.72 +/- 0.10 m; mean weight, 85.43 +/- 18.32 kg) performed humeral elevation in the 3 planes before and after a lidocaine injection. Pain was assessed by use of a visual analog scale, and data were collected with an electromagnetic tracking system. Three-dimensional scapular kinematics (scapulothoracic motion) and glenohumeral elevation were assessed. A linear regression model was used to calculate SHR (ratio of scapulothoracic motion to glenohumeral elevation) for equal phases of elevation (I, II, and III) and lowering (IV, V, and VI). Pain was significantly reduced (P </= .05), causing shifts in SHR to occur for frontal plane elevation (phase III, 1:1.72 to 1:2.78; phase V, 1:1.56 to 1:2.56), resulting in an increase in glenohumeral motion and a reduced reliance on scapular rotation for humeral motion. As SHR decreased, the contribution of glenohumeral elevation increased significantly whereas scapular upward and downward rotation tended to decrease. Differences in anterior-posterior and medial-lateral tilting of the scapula did not correspond with changes in SHR. The findings provide evidence of compensatory increases in SHR due to pain associated with full-thickness rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "18036836", "title": "Long-term outcome of anterior stabilization of the shoulder.", "content": "Long-term outcome of anterior stabilization of the shoulder. This study reports long-term experience with anterior shoulder capsule stabilization by performing the Bankart repair when labral tearing was present with a laterally based T-capsule repair in both primary and revision surgery. Between 1979 and 1983, 34 patients underwent this procedure. They were categorized into a primary group of 22 patients and a revision group of 12 patients who had previous surgery to correct anterior shoulder instability. Patients completed our shoulder questionnaire and a Rowe questionnaire. The mean follow-up was 22 years (range, 11-27 years). No recurrent dislocations developed, 4 patients reported shoulder subluxation, and 11 felt apprehension. No patient had further anterior instability surgery. Two received total shoulder arthroplasty. Postoperative average pain was 1.6, average strength was 9.0, and average satisfaction was 8.3 (1-10 scales). Active elevation averaged 169 degrees, external rotation, 65 degrees; and internal rotation was to T12. There was an average of 10.2 \"yes\" responses on the Simple Shoulder Test. The total American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score averaged 84.3. Applying the Rowe rating, results were excellent in 16, good in 10, fair in 2, and poor in 4. Ratings were better in the primary surgery group (P = .0535). The use of this procedure for correction of shoulder instability can prevent recurrent dislocation, but some degree of instability remains. Clinically important arthritis seldom develops."}
{"id": "18026174", "title": "Comparative shoulder kinematics during free standing, standing depression lifts and daily functional activities in persons with paraplegia: considerations for shoulder health.", "content": "Comparative shoulder kinematics during free standing, standing depression lifts and daily functional activities in persons with paraplegia: considerations for shoulder health. Case series; nonparametric repeated-measures analysis of variance. To compare and contrast three-dimensional shoulder kinematics during frequently utilized upper extremity weight-bearing activities (standing depression lifts used in brace walking, weight-relief raises, transfers) and postures (sitting rest, standing in a frame) in spinal cord injury (SCI). Movement Analysis Laboratory, Department of Physical Therapy, Ithaca College, Rochester, NY, USA. Three female and two male subjects (39.2+/-6.1 years old) at least 12 months post-SCI (14.6+/-6.7 years old), SCI distal to T2 and with an ASIA score of A. The Flock of Birds magnetic tracking device was used to measure three-dimensional positions of the scapula, humerus and thorax during various activities. Standing in a frame resulted in significantly less scapular anterior tilt (AT) and greater glenohumeral external rotation (GHER) than standing depression lifts and weight-relief raises. Standing frame posture offers the most favorable shoulder joint positions (less scapular AT and greater GHER) when compared to sitting rest posture, weight-relief raises, transfers and standing depression lifts. Knowledge of kinematic patterns associated with each activity is an essential first step to understanding the potential impact on shoulder health. Choosing specific activities or modifying techniques within functional activities that promote favorable shoulder positions may preserve long-term shoulder health."}
{"id": "18006679", "title": "Anterior translation at the glenohumeral joint: a cause of axillary artery compression?", "content": "Anterior translation at the glenohumeral joint: a cause of axillary artery compression? Lesions to the axillary artery are reported in overhead athletes. One speculated cause is repeated transient compression by the humeral head due to excessive laxity at the glenohumeral joint. (1) Anterior translation of the glenohumeral joint alters axillary artery diameter and blood flow characteristics, and (2) individuals demonstrating inducible axillary artery compression with the arm in an overhead position (as indicated by diameter and blood flow characteristics) will demonstrate greater magnitudes of anterior translation. Descriptive laboratory study. After receiving ethical approval and screening for problematic conditions/injuries, 26 subjects were tested (10 men and 16 women; mean age [standard deviation], 25 years [4]). Axillary artery diameter and peak systolic velocity were measured with B-mode and Doppler ultrasound before, during, and after glenohumeral anterior translation at 90 degrees of abduction, 60 degrees of external rotation, and 30 degrees of horizontal flexion, and at baseline and a simulated overhead throwing position (120 degrees of abduction, 90 degrees of external rotation, and 30 degrees of horizontal extension). The magnitude of anterior translation was captured with B-mode ultrasound using a posterior transverse approach. Application of the glide resulted in a significant (F(2,21) = 9.965, P = .001) reduction in axillary artery diameter and a significant increase in peak systolic velocity (F(2,21) = 5.286, P = .014). Subjects demonstrating clinically significant levels of axillary artery compression ( > 50% reduction in vessel diameter with the arm in the overhead throwing position) exhibited significantly (t = -2.260, P = .040) greater ranges of anterior translation at the glenohumeral joint than the 9 subjects who exhibited < 10% reduction in arterial diameter. This investigation provides the first empirical support for the clinical opinion that glenohumeral anterior translation could be a mechanism for inducible axillary artery compression. The response of axillary artery hemodynamics in normal, healthy individuals is the first step in the process of determining whether the finding of inducible axillary artery compression in overhead athletes with arterial pathology is related to glenohumeral translation."}
{"id": "18006676", "title": "Histopathology of the supraspinatus tendon in rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Histopathology of the supraspinatus tendon in rotator cuff tears. Causes of rotator cuff pathology are poorly understood. Macroscopically intact supraspinatus tendon may show profound light microscopy changes. These changes may be the pathogenic precursor to a subsequent rotator cuff tear. Comparative laboratory study. Tendon samples were harvested from 88 individuals (49 men, 39 women; mean age, 58.2 years) who had sustained a rotator cuff tear and underwent arthroscopic repair of the lesion, and from 5 male patients who died of cardiovascular events (mean age, 69.6 years). A full-thickness supraspinatus tendon biopsy specimen was harvested en bloc within the arthroscopically intact middle portion of the tendon between the lateral edge of the tendon tear and the muscle-tendon junction. Slides stained with hematoxylin and eosin were interpreted twice by the same observer using a semiquantitative grading scale assessing fiber structure and arrangement, rounding of the nuclei, regional variations in cellularity, increased vascularity, decreased collagen stainability, and hyalinization. Intraobserver reliability of the subscore readings was calculated. The mean pathologic sum-score of ruptured tendons was significantly greater than the mean pathologic score of control tendons (15.66 +/- 1.82 vs 3.7 +/- 2.31, P = .001). Within each specific category of tendon abnormalities, the control and ruptured tendons were significantly different (chi(2) test); all variables were significantly different (Mann-Whitney U test <0.05; P = .001). The agreement between the 2 readings ranged from 0.56 to 0.86 (kappa statistics). Nonruptured supraspinatus tendons, even at an advanced age, and ruptured supraspinatus tendons are clearly part of 2 distinct populations. During cuff repair, it is not necessary to excessively freshen the torn tendon to bleeding tissue: the macroscopically intact supraspinatus tendon is degenerated as well, and the failed healing response is not limited to the ends of the torn tendon."}
{"id": "18006674", "title": "The evaluation of various physical examinations for the diagnosis of type II superior labrum anterior and posterior lesion.", "content": "The evaluation of various physical examinations for the diagnosis of type II superior labrum anterior and posterior lesion. Many types of physical examinations have been used to diagnose superior labrum anterior and posterior lesions; no decisive clinical test is available for confirming the diagnosis. A selection from 10 well-established physical tests, alone or in combination, can be used to differentiate lesions with biceps anchor detachment from those with an intact biceps anchor with arthroscopic correlation. Case control study (diagnosis); Level of evidence, 3. Among 297 patients who underwent shoulder arthroscopy between January 2004 and July 2005, 146 patients were enrolled in the study as a type II superior labrum anterior and posterior lesion group and an age-matched control group. Sensitivity, specificity, and predictive values of each test and all possible combinations of 2 and 3 tests were analyzed. The same procedures were repeated in patients younger than and older than 40 years. The sensitivities of the Whipple, O'Brien, apprehension, and compression-rotation tests and the specificities of the Yergason, biceps load II, and Kibler tests were relatively high. No single physical examination was found to be simultaneously highly sensitive and specific for the diagnosis of a type II superior labrum anterior and posterior lesion. When 2 of the 3 relatively sensitive tests (O'Brien, apprehension, or compression-rotation test) were combined with 1 of the 3 relatively specific tests (Speed, Yergason, or biceps load II test), sensitivity and specificity reached approximately 70% and 95%, respectively. Similar trends were noted in the younger and older patient groups and in the isolated type II superior labrum anterior and posterior lesion group. The data suggest that some combinations of 2 relatively sensitive clinical tests and 1 relatively specific clinical test increase the diagnostic efficacy of superior labrum anterior and posterior lesions. Requiring 1 of the 3 chosen tests to be positive will result in a sensitivity of about 75%, whereas requiring all 3 to be positive will result in a specificity of about 90%."}
{"id": "18000651", "title": "Arthroscopic screw fixation of large anterior glenoid fractures.", "content": "Arthroscopic screw fixation of large anterior glenoid fractures. Ten patients after traumatic shoulder dislocation with resulting instability due to an acute anterior glenoid fracture involving at least 21 percent of the glenoid length were treated by arthroscopic screw fixation of the fragment. The average fragment size measured 26.2% of the glenoid length. Pre- and postoperative radiographic evaluations were performed with three-dimensional CT scans. A cannulated titanium screw system was used for fragment fixation. All ten patients were followed up radiographically and, by evaluation of the Rowe score, clinically after a minimum of 2 years. At follow-up the Rowe score averaged 94 points. According to the rating scale, seven patients had an excellent result, two patients a good result, and one, fair result. In all patients CT scan confirmed that the fracture had healed in an anatomical position. One patient had one episode of traumatic redislocation with a positive apprehension test at follow up. In one case, removal of the screw was necessary due to mechanical impingement. We recommend this arthroscopic technique allowing for closed reduction and internal screw fixation of large anterior glenoid fractures, ensuring anatomical fracture healing and gleno-humeral joint stability."}
{"id": "17998780", "title": "Exogenous application of platelet-leukocyte gel during open subacromial decompression contributes to improved patient outcome. A prospective randomized double-blind study.", "content": "Exogenous application of platelet-leukocyte gel during open subacromial decompression contributes to improved patient outcome. A prospective randomized double-blind study. Platelet-leukocyte gel (PLG) is being used during various surgical procedures in an attempt to enhance the healing process. We studied the effects of PLG on postoperative recovery of patients undergoing open subacromial decompression (OSD). PLG was produced from platelet-leukocyte-rich plasma (P-LRP), prepared from a unit of whole blood. Forty patients were included in the study. Self-assessed evaluations, using the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scoring system of activities of daily living (ADL), joint instability, pain levels, pain medications, and clinical evaluations for range of motion were conducted. Platelet and leukocyte counts were significantly increased in the P-LRP compared to baseline counts. Treated patients demonstrated decreased visual analog scales for pain and used significantly less pain medication, had an improved range of motion during passive forward elevation, external rotation, external rotation with arm at 90 degrees abduction, internal rotation, and cross body adduction compared to control patients (p < 0.001). No differences in the instability score were observed between the groups. Furthermore, treated patients performed more ADL (p < 0.05). In the PLG-treated group, recovery was faster and patients returned earlier to daily activities and also took less pain medication than control subjects."}
{"id": "17996874", "title": "Measuring dynamic in-vivo glenohumeral joint kinematics: technique and preliminary results.", "content": "Measuring dynamic in-vivo glenohumeral joint kinematics: technique and preliminary results. Rotator cuff tears are a common injury that affect a significant percentage of the population over age 60. Although it is widely believed that the rotator cuff's primary function is to stabilize the humerus against the glenoid during shoulder motion, accurately measuring the three-dimensional (3D) motion of the shoulder's glenohumeral joint under in-vivo conditions has been a challenging endeavor. In particular, conventional motion measurement techniques have frequently been limited to static or two-dimensional (2D) analyses, and have suffered from limited or unknown in-vivo accuracy. We have recently developed and validated a new model-based tracking technique that is capable of accurately measuring the 3D position and orientation of the scapula and humerus from biplane X-ray images. Herein we demonstrate the in-vivo application of this technique for accurately measuring glenohumeral joint translations during shoulder motion in the repaired and contralateral shoulders of patients following rotator cuff repair. Five male subjects were tested at 3-4 months following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. Superior-inferior humeral translation was measured during elevation, and anterior-posterior humeral translation was measured during external rotation in both the repaired and contralateral shoulders. The data failed to detect statistically significant differences between the repaired and contralateral shoulders in superior-inferior translation (p=0.74) or anterior-posterior translation (p=0.77). The measurement technique overcomes the limitations of conventional motion measurement techniques by providing accurate, 3D, in-vivo measures of glenohumeral joint motion during dynamic activities. On-going research is using this technique to assess the effects of conservative and surgical treatment of rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "17991739", "title": "OSBP-related protein 8 (ORP8) suppresses ABCA1 expression and cholesterol efflux from macrophages.", "content": "OSBP-related protein 8 (ORP8) suppresses ABCA1 expression and cholesterol efflux from macrophages. ORP8 is a previously unexplored member of the family of oxysterol-binding protein-related proteins (ORP). We now report the expression pattern, the subcellular distribution, and data on the ligand binding properties and the physiological function of ORP8. ORP8 is localized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) via its C-terminal transmembrane span and binds 25-hydroxycholesterol, identifying it as a new ER oxysterol-binding protein. ORP8 is expressed at highest levels in macrophages, liver, spleen, kidney, and brain. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed ORP8 in the shoulder regions of human coronary atherosclerotic lesions, where it is present in CD68(+) macrophages. In advanced lesions the ORP8 mRNA was up-regulated 2.7-fold as compared with healthy coronary artery wall. Silencing of ORP8 by RNA interference in THP-1 macrophages increased the expression of ATP binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) and concomitantly cholesterol efflux to lipid-free apolipoprotein A-I but had no significant effect on ABCG1 expression or cholesterol efflux to spherical high density lipoprotein HDL(2). Experiments employing an ABCA1 promoter-luciferase reporter confirmed that ORP8 silencing enhances ABCA1 transcription. The silencing effect was partially attenuated by mutation of the DR4 element in the ABCA1 promoter and synergized with that of the liver X receptor agonist T0901317. Furthermore, inactivation of the E-box in the promoter synergized with ORP8 silencing, suggesting that the suppressive effect of ORP8 involves both the liver X receptor and the E-box functions. Our data identify ORP8 as a negative regulator of ABCA1 expression and macrophage cholesterol efflux. ORP8 may, thus, modulate the development of atherosclerosis."}
{"id": "17983693", "title": "Influence of component positioning on impingement in conventional total shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Influence of component positioning on impingement in conventional total shoulder arthroplasty. Clinical experience suggests that component impingement can lead to eccentric implant loading and thereby cause glenoid loosening in conventional total shoulder arthroplasty. This study tests the hypothesis that certain implant component positioning configurations may lead to impingement within the physiological range of motion. A rigid-body model of the shoulder comprising the scapula and humerus was constructed. Within this 3D model, a commercially available total shoulder arthroplasty implant was positioned according to manufacturer guidelines. The configuration was modified around this default position to investigate the associated angle of inferior and superior impingement during glenohumeral elevation, as well as in lateral impingement during axial rotation at both 0 degrees and 60 degrees of glenohumeral elevation. Glenoid component size, version, inclination and inferior-superior offset as well as humeral component size, torsion, inclination, offset and height were examined. The influence of the humeral calcar anatomy was also investigated. Certain implant configurations caused component impingement in the physiological range of motion. The most sensitive parameters affecting impingement were: (1) the inclination of the glenoid component, (2) the inferior-superior position of the humeral component along the resection line and (3) the prominence of the humeral calcar. Glenoid offset and inclination and humeral head offset and height directly affected subacromial impingement. This study suggests that several intraoperatively adjustable implant positioning parameters can influence the likelihood of implant impingement in conventional total shoulder arthroplasty, and that the geometry of the humeral calcar should be taken into consideration when designing an operative strategy for shoulder joint replacement."}
{"id": "17982742", "title": "Slap lesion type IV and a Buford complex: a case report.", "content": "Slap lesion type IV and a Buford complex: a case report. The improvement of shoulder arthroscopy during the last decades has led to the description of several new conditions or anatomical variations and their associated pathologies. The variable pathologies of the superior labral complex represent a difficult entity to diagnose and treat for every shoulder surgeon. Interpretation and proper treatment of superior labral pathologies could also be further complicated by anatomical variations. We describe a rare case of a SLAP lesion type IV associated with a Buford Complex in a young patient with a painful shoulder after a trauma."}
{"id": "17967482", "title": "The clinical, electrophysiologic, and surgical characteristics of peripheral nerve injuries caused by gunshot wounds in adults: a 40-year experience.", "content": "The clinical, electrophysiologic, and surgical characteristics of peripheral nerve injuries caused by gunshot wounds in adults: a 40-year experience. There are few large-volume studies on the repair of peripheral nerve lesions caused by gunshot wounds. In this study, the results of peripheral nerve repair are analyzed, and the factors influencing the outcome are investigated. During a 40-year period, 2210 peripheral nerve lesions in 2106 patients who sustained gunshot injury were treated surgically in the Department of Neurosurgery. One thousand thirty-four patients had shrapnel injury, and 1072 patients had missile injury. Twelve peripheral nerves were included in this study, and all of them were repaired by direct suture, using nerve graft, or neurolysis. All patients underwent neurologic and electrophysiologic evaluations in the preoperative period and postoperatively at the end of the follow-up period. The mean time of follow-up was 2.6 years. Final outcome was based on the motor, sensory, and electrophysiologic recoveries, and a patient judgment scale. Using the muscle grading scale, sensory grading scale, EMNG, and patient judgments, the maximal recovery was achieved in the subscapular nerve, but there were only 4 subscapular nerve lesions, which is not sufficient for a statistically significant outcome. Furthermore, the tibial, median, and femoral nerve lesions showed the best recovery rate, whereas the peroneal nerve, ulnar nerve, and brachial plexus lesions had the worst. Type of the peripheral nerve, injury (repair) level, associated injuries, electrophysiologic findings, operation time, intraoperative findings, surgical techniques, and postoperative physical rehabilitation are the prognostic factors for peripheral nerve lesions due to gunshot wounds."}
{"id": "17964819", "title": "Surgical treatment of AO type C distal humeral fractures: internal fixation with a Y-shaped reconstruction (Lambda) plate.", "content": "Surgical treatment of AO type C distal humeral fractures: internal fixation with a Y-shaped reconstruction (Lambda) plate. Although surgical repair is considered the standard treatment for intraarticular distal humeral fractures, most investigators have assessed its results using dual-plate fixation in 2 planes. The purpose of this study was to determine the functional outcome of open reduction and internal fixation of these complex fractures using Y-shaped reconstruction plates. We identified 17 patients who had operative treatment for Arbeitsgemeinschaft F\u00fcr Osteosynthesefragen (AO) type 1, 3-C fractures using a Y-shaped Lambda plate (Zimmer, Warsaw, IN). Patients were recalled for follow-up that included recording of a complete history, physical examination, radiographic evaluation, and completion of a limb-specific questionnaire. The mean duration of follow-up was 37.3 months. The average loss of extension was 13 degrees , and the average arc of flexion-extension was 112 degrees . As determined by the Mayo Elbow Performance Index, 6 were graded excellent; 8, good; 3, fair; and none, poor. Surgical repair of intraarticular distal humeral fractures by open reduction and internal fixation with a Lambda plate is an effective procedure that allows for stable osteosynthesis without loss of reduction or fixation as a basis for good functional outcome."}
{"id": "17940825", "title": "'Telangiectatic' transformation in soft tissue sarcomas. a clinicopathology analysis of an aggressive feature of high-grade sarcomas.", "content": "'Telangiectatic' transformation in soft tissue sarcomas. a clinicopathology analysis of an aggressive feature of high-grade sarcomas. 'Telangiectatic' change, which contains a large fluid hemorrhagic component, occurs in a variety of high-grade soft tissue sarcomas. In a retrospective database review, we identified 20 consecutive patients (3%) with 'telangiectatic' change in soft tissue sarcomas. Tumors were located in the thigh (55%), shoulder (15%), calf (15%), upper arm (10%), and buttock in one patient. All 20 tumors were high grade. Histological diagnoses were MFH (40%), leiomyosarcoma (15%), synovial sarcoma (10%), and one each of seven other sarcomas (35%). Tumor size was often large-more than 10 cm (35%), between 5 and 10 cm (60%), and less than 5 cm in one case. A history of contusion to the tumor site followed by swelling was recorded in 30% of patients and 80% presented with a painful mass. On MRI imaging, 60% of tumors appeared to contain more than 50% blood, 50% had a hemosiderin-laden rim, and 55% had well-defined tumor nodules within the wall of the hematoma. Limb-sparing surgery was carried out in 90% of patients, the other 10% underwent primary amputation. The 5-year, event-free survival rate was 30%. Of the patients, 15% presented initially with metastatic disease; in 53%, it developed within 2 years of diagnosis. The overall local recurrence rate was 30%. Telangiectatic transformation in soft tissue sarcomas is a rare feature of aggressive high-grade soft tissue sarcomas and is unique in its clinical presentation, MRI characteristics, pathological pattern, and a tendency for a worse-off prognosis."}
{"id": "17940144", "title": "No advantages in repairing a type II superior labrum anterior and posterior (SLAP) lesion when associated with rotator cuff repair in patients over age 50: a randomized controlled trial.", "content": "No advantages in repairing a type II superior labrum anterior and posterior (SLAP) lesion when associated with rotator cuff repair in patients over age 50: a randomized controlled trial. Arthroscopic management has been recommended for some superior labrum anterior and posterior (SLAP) lesions, but no studies have focused on patients over 50 years of age with rotator cuff tear and a type II SLAP lesion. In patients over 50 years of age with an arthroscopically confirmed lesion of the rotator cuff and a type II SLAP lesion, there is no difference between (1) repair of both lesions and (2) repair of the rotator cuff tear without repair of the SLAP II lesion but with a tenotomy of the long head of the biceps. Randomized controlled clinical trial; Level of evidence, 1. We recruited 63 patients. In 31 patients, we repaired the rotator cuff and the type II SLAP lesion (group 1). In the other 32 patients, we repaired the rotator cuff and tenotomized the long head of the biceps (group 2). Seven patients (2 in group 1 and 5 in group 2) were lost to final follow-up. At a minimum 2.9 years' follow-up, statistically significant differences were seen with respect to the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) score and range of motion values. In group 1 (SLAP repair and rotator cuff repair), the UCLA showed a statistically significant improvement from a preoperative average rating of 10.4 (range, 6-14) to an average of 27.9 (range, 24-35) postoperatively (P < .001). In group 2 (biceps tenotomy and rotator cuff repair), the UCLA showed a statistically significant improvement from a preoperative average rating of 10.1 (range, 5-14) to an average of 32.1 (range, 30-35) postoperatively (P <.001) There was a statistically significant difference in total postoperative UCLA scores and range of motion when comparing the 2 groups postoperatively (P < .05). There are no advantages in repairing a type II SLAP lesion when associated with a rotator cuff tear in patients over 50 years of age. The association of rotator cuff repair and biceps tenotomy provides better clinical outcome compared with repair of the type II SLAP lesion and the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "17936055", "title": "Reliability of stiffness measured in glenohumeral joint and its application to assess the effect of end-range mobilization in subjects with adhesive capsulitis.", "content": "Reliability of stiffness measured in glenohumeral joint and its application to assess the effect of end-range mobilization in subjects with adhesive capsulitis. End-range mobilization techniques are recommended for the treatment of patients with hypomobile joints. The purposes of this study were (1) to assess the reliability of a glenohumeral (GH) stiffness measurement technique and (2) apply the measurement technique on subjects with adhesive capsulitis to compare the GH end-range stiffness and rotational range of motions (ROMs) before and immediately after the application of end-range translational mobilization techniques. Fifteen normal subjects were recruited for assessment of test-retest reliability. Four men and two women with adhesive capsulitis in the glenohumeral joint (mean disease duration=6.5 months, SD=2.7) were treated with end-range mobilization by an experienced physical therapist. The passive abduction angles, rotational ROM and GH joint stiffness were measured by the same observer before and immediately after end-range mobilization treatment. The test-retest reliability was assessed and revealed good to excellent reliability in anterior-posterior glenohumeral joint stiffness and fair to excellent reliability of GH stiffness in posterior-anterior direction. The GH joint stiffness decreased and passive abduction range of motion increased immediately after end-range mobilization of the shoulder joint. The use of intensive mobilization techniques may help to decrease the risk of further stiffness or joint contracture progression in patients with adhesive capsulitis."}
{"id": "17936025", "title": "An evaluation of the anatomic basis of the O'Brien active compression test for superior labral anterior and posterior (SLAP) lesions.", "content": "An evaluation of the anatomic basis of the O'Brien active compression test for superior labral anterior and posterior (SLAP) lesions. It has been suggested that the positive position of the O'Brien test (shoulder flexion, horizontal adduction, and internal rotation) tensions the bicipital labral complex relative to the negative position (shoulder flexion, horizontal adduction, and external rotation). This study measured active and passive tension in the long head of biceps in the 2 positions of the O'Brien test to validate the proposed anatomic basis of the test. Active tension was measured using surface electromyography of the long head of biceps in 12 healthy young adults. Passive tension was measured using a load cell attached to the intracapsular tendon of the long head of biceps in 5 cadaver specimens. Active and passive tension were higher in the negative position, thus refuting the proposed anatomic basis of the test. Although there may be an alternative basis for the test, the failure to support the proposed anatomic basis may partly explain the variable likelihood ratios obtained in clinical accuracy studies of the O'Brien test. The results of this study reinforce the need for anatomic validation during the development of clinical testing procedures."}
{"id": "17932406", "title": "Interobserver agreement in the classification of rotator cuff tears using magnetic resonance imaging.", "content": "Interobserver agreement in the classification of rotator cuff tears using magnetic resonance imaging. Although magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a standard method of assessing the extent and features of rotator cuff disease, the authors are not aware of any studies that have assessed the interobserver agreement among orthopaedic surgeons reviewing MRI scans for rotator cuff disease. Fellowship-trained orthopaedic shoulder surgeons will have good interobserver agreement in predicting the more salient features of rotator cuff disease such as tear type (full thickness versus partial thickness), tear size, and number of tendons involved but only fair agreement with more complex features such as muscle volume, fat content, and the grade of partial-thickness cuff tears. Cohort study (diagnosis); Level of evidence, 3. Ten fellowship-trained orthopaedic surgery shoulder specialists reviewed 27 MRI scans of 27 shoulders from patients with surgically confirmed rotator cuff disease. The ability to interpret full-thickness versus partial-thickness tears, acromion type, acromioclavicular joint spurs or signal changes, biceps lesions, size and grade of partial-thickness tears, acromiohumeral distance, number of tendons involved and amount of retraction for full-thickness tears, size of full-thickness tears, and individual muscle fatty infiltration and atrophy were assessed. Surgeons completed a standard evaluation form for each MRI scan. Interobserver agreement was determined and a kappa level was derived. Interobserver agreement was highest (>80%) for predicting full- versus partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff, and for quantity of the teres minor tendon. Agreement was slightly less (>70%) for detecting signal in the acromioclavicular joint, the side of the partial-thickness tear, the number of tendons involved in a full-thickness tear, and the quantity of the subscapularis and infraspinatus muscle bellies. Agreement was less yet (60%) for detecting the presence of spurs at the acromioclavicular joint, a tear of the long head of the biceps tendon, amount of retraction of a full-thickness tear, and the quantity of the supraspinatus. The best kappa statistics were found for detecting the difference between a full- and partial-thickness rotator cuff tear (0.77), and for the number of tendons involved for full-thickness tears (0.55). Kappa for predicting the involved side of a partial-thickness tear was 0.44; for predicting the grade of a partial-thickness tear, it was -0.11. Fellowship-trained, experienced orthopaedic surgeons had good agreement for predicting full-thickness rotator cuff tears and the number of tendons involved and moderate agreement in predicting the involved side of a partial-thickness rotator cuff tear, but poor agreement in predicting the grade of a partial-thickness tear."}
{"id": "17932402", "title": "Reliability and diagnostic accuracy of history and physical examination for diagnosing glenoid labral tears.", "content": "Reliability and diagnostic accuracy of history and physical examination for diagnosing glenoid labral tears. Glenoid labral tears provide a diagnostic challenge. Combinations of items in the patient history and physical examination will provide stronger diagnostic accuracy to suggest the presence or absence of glenoid labral tear than will individual items. Cohort study (diagnosis); Level of evidence, 1. History and examination findings in patients with shoulder pain (N = 55) were compared with arthroscopic findings to determine diagnostic accuracy and intertester reliability. The intertester reliability of the crank, anterior slide, and active compression tests was 0.20 to 0.24. A combined history of popping or catching and positive crank or anterior slide results yielded specificities of 0.91 and 1.00 and positive likelihood ratios of 3.0 and infinity, respectively. A positive anterior slide result combined with either a positive active compression or crank result yielded specificities of 0.91 and positive likelihood ratio of 2.75 and 3.75, respectively. Requiring only a single positive finding in the combination of popping or catching and the anterior slide or crank yielded sensitivities of 0.82 and 0.89 and negative likelihood ratios of 0.31 and 0.33, respectively. The diagnostic accuracy of individual tests in previous studies is quite variable, which may be explained in part by the modest reliability of these tests. The combination of popping or catching with a positive crank or anterior slide result or a positive anterior slide result with a positive active compression or crank test result suggests the presence of a labral tear. The combined absence of popping or catching and a negative anterior slide or crank result suggests the absence of a labral tear."}
{"id": "17931909", "title": "Arthroscopic prevalence of pulley lesions in 1007 consecutive patients.", "content": "Arthroscopic prevalence of pulley lesions in 1007 consecutive patients. This study retrospectively analyzed 1007 diagnostic shoulder arthroscopies. The study included 72 patients with an arthroscopically verified pulley lesion as the main pathologic finding. Epidemiologic data and arthroscopic findings were evaluated in all patients, and 53 were clinically examined with the Constant score after a minimum follow-up of 2 years. We observed an incidence of 7.1% for pulley lesions. An isolated rupture of the superior glenohumeral ligament (SGHL) was seen in 53 patients (73.6%) and a combined partial articular-side tear of the rotator cuff adjacent to rotator interval in 19 (26.4%). Thirty-one patients (43%) had a history of trauma, whereas 41 (57%) had none. Overall, the mean postoperative Constant score adjusted for age and gender was 80.1% (range, 47%-135%). Patients with a SGHL lesion only (85.7%) exhibited a significant (P = .047) higher age- and gender-adjusted Constant score compared with patients with a combined partial surface tendon tear (73.1%). Our epidemiologic data accentuate the need for careful evaluation of the superolateral aspect of rotator interval to avoid underdiagnosis of pulley lesions at shoulder arthroscopy. Our findings provide evidence that the clinical outcome of isolated SGHL lesions is better compared with combined partial articular-side rotator cuff tear. With respect to the progressive pathologic process of pulley lesions, we recommend an early surgical treatment."}
{"id": "17931908", "title": "Long-term functional outcomes after repair of rotator cuff tears correlated with atrophy of the supraspinatus muscles on magnetic resonance images.", "content": "Long-term functional outcomes after repair of rotator cuff tears correlated with atrophy of the supraspinatus muscles on magnetic resonance images. We determined the relationship between atrophy of the supraspinatus muscle and functional outcomes in 27 patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears who underwent arthroscopic acromioplasty and mini-open cuff repair. Before surgery, all underwent a physical examination and magnetic resonance imaging of the involved shoulder. Using image-processing software, we measured the cross-sectional area of the total supraspinatus muscle (including regions of fatty degeneration and atrophy) and of the atrophic supraspinatus muscle on sagittal oblique images obtained about 20 mm proximal to the glenoid surface. The atrophic-to-total ratio (A/T ratio) of these areas was then calculated. We assessed functional outcomes by the Constant and Murley functional score at long-term follow-up. The correlation between the A/T ratios and the functional ratings was statistically analyzed. The results demonstrated a significant positive correlation between A/T ratios of the supraspinatus muscle and functional outcomes."}
{"id": "17913564", "title": "Shoulder kinematic features using arm elevation and rotation tests for classifying patients with frozen shoulder syndrome who respond to physical therapy.", "content": "Shoulder kinematic features using arm elevation and rotation tests for classifying patients with frozen shoulder syndrome who respond to physical therapy. Physical therapy is an intervention commonly used in the treatment of subjects with frozen shoulder symptoms, with limited proven effect. The purpose of this study was to identify the kinematic features of patients with frozen shoulder who are more likely to respond to physical therapy. Thirty-four subjects presenting frozen shoulder syndrome were studied to determine altered shoulder kinematics and functional disability. Subjects received the same standardized treatment with passive mobilization/stretching techniques, physical modalities (i.e. ultrasound, shortwave diathermy and/or electrotherapy) and active exercises twice a week for 3 months. Initially, subjects were asked to perform full active motion in 3 tests: abduction in the scapular plane, hand-to-neck and hand-to-scapula. During the test, shoulder kinematics were measured using a 3-D electromagnetic motion-capturing system. In the initial and follow-up sessions, the self-reported Flexilevel Scale of Shoulder Function (FLEX-SF) was used to determine functional disability from symptoms. Improvement with treatment was determined using percent change in FLEX-SF scores over three months of treatment [(final score-initial score)/initial score x 100, >20% improvement and < = 20% nonimprovement]. Shoulder kinematics were first analysed for univariate accuracy in predicting improvement and then combined into a multivariate prediction method. A prediction method with two variables (scapular tipping >8.4 degrees during arm elevation, and external rotation >38.9 degrees during hand to neck) were identified. The presence of these two variables (positive likelihood ratio=15.71) increased the probability of improvement with treatment from 41% to 92%. It appears that shoulder kinematics may predict improvement in subjects with frozen shoulder syndrome. Prospective validation of the proposed prediction method is warranted."}
{"id": "17885223", "title": "Intra-articular partial-thickness rotator cuff tears: analysis of injured and repaired strain behavior.", "content": "Intra-articular partial-thickness rotator cuff tears: analysis of injured and repaired strain behavior. There are few biomechanical studies regarding partial-thickness rotator cuff tears and subsequent repair. Partial-thickness intra-articular supraspinatus tendon tears increase articular-sided tendon strain as they increase in size. Repair of these tears will return strain to the intact state. Controlled laboratory study. Twenty fresh-frozen human cadaveric shoulders were prepared by dissecting to the supraspinatus tendon and leaving the native footprint intact. The tendon footprint was measured with digital calipers and divided into thirds (anterior, middle, and posterior). The middle third was the area where a consistent partial tear was created based on the thickness of the specimens' particular footprint. Created were 25%, 50%, and 75% tears. Image analysis software and differential variable reluctance transducers strain gauges were used to measure strain. A 100 N load at 1 Hz for 30 cycles was conducted for glenohumeral angles of 45 degrees, 60 degrees, and 90 degrees. This was completed for the intact tendon, 25%, 50%, and 75% tears. Shoulders were then repaired using the in situ fixation method. The in situ method consisted of either a parachute anchor or metal corkscrew anchor. Eight shoulders were examined for load-to-failure testing with the Materials Testing System. There was a significant difference (P < .05) in rotator cuff strain between the intact rotator cuff tendon and 50% and 75% partial-thickness tears. The cuff strain was returned to the intact state with repair. This was consistent for 3 different glenohumeral abduction angles and for all 3 intra-articular tendon areas. The bursal strain did not have any significant differences between groups. Articular-sided tendon strain increases consistently across the supraspinatus tendon with greater partial tears. Repair returned strain close to the intact state. This study may add credence to the clinical practice of repairing intra-articular partial-thickness rotator cuff tears greater than 50%."}
{"id": "17851709", "title": "Quality of life assessments with SF 36 in different musculoskeletal diseases.", "content": "Quality of life assessments with SF 36 in different musculoskeletal diseases. The aim of this study is to evaluate comparatively the life quality of patients with knee osteoarthritis (KO), shoulder impingement syndrome(SIS), fibromialgia(FM), or osteoporosis(OP) using SF 36 and establish the impact of these diseases on quality of life (QoL). A total of 193 patients with one of the above-mentioned different diagnoses completed SF 36 scale. The diseases were compared to each other with SF 36 subgroups scores. There were significant differences among patients with KO and SIS, SIS and FM with respect to all SF 36 subgroups scores. According to these assessments, QoL of KO and FM patients was worst than that of SIS. The QoL scores of KO patients were worse than those of FM patients considering the physical function, while QoL scores of FM patients were lower than those of KO patients with respect to their general well-being. Scores of physical function and pain in KO patients were lower than those of OP patients. In domains of social functioning, emotional role, energy, pain, and general health condition QoL of FM patients was worse than that of OP patients. Quality of life of SIS patients was less affected than the patients of the other disease groups. In spite of their young age, FM patients appear to be the group with the worst quality of life scores."}
{"id": "17720798", "title": "Physical examination tests of the shoulder: a systematic review with meta-analysis of individual tests.", "content": "Physical examination tests of the shoulder: a systematic review with meta-analysis of individual tests. To compile and critique research on the diagnostic accuracy of individual orthopaedic physical examination tests in a manner that would allow clinicians to judge whether these tests are valuable to their practice. A computer-assisted literature search of MEDLINE, CINAHL, and SPORTDiscus databases (1966 to October 2006) using keywords related to diagnostic accuracy of physical examination tests of the shoulder. The Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies (QUADAS) tool was used to critique the quality of each paper. Meta-analysis through meta-regression of the diagnostic odds ratio (DOR) was performed on the Neer test for impingement, the Hawkins-Kennedy test for impingement, and the Speed test for superior labral pathology. Forty-five studies were critiqued with only half demonstrating acceptable high quality and only two having adequate sample size. For impingement, the meta-analysis revealed that the pooled sensitivity and specificity for the Neer test was 79% and 53%, respectively, and for the Hawkins-Kennedy test was 79% and 59%, respectively. For superior labral (SLAP) tears, the summary sensitivity and specificity of the Speed test was 32% and 61%, respectively. Regarding orthopaedic special tests (OSTs) where meta-analysis was not possible either due to lack of sufficient studies or heterogeneity between studies, the list that demonstrates both high sensitivity and high specificity is short: hornblowers's sign and the external rotation lag sign for tears of the rotator cuff, biceps load II for superior labral anterior to posterior (SLAP) lesions, and apprehension, relocation and anterior release for anterior instability. Even these tests have been under-studied or are from lower quality studies or both. No tests for impingement or acromioclavicular (AC) joint pathology demonstrated significant diagnostic accuracy. Based on pooled data, the diagnostic accuracy of the Neer test for impingement, the Hawkins-Kennedy test for impingement and the Speed test for labral pathology is limited. There is a great need for large, prospective, well-designed studies that examine the diagnostic accuracy of the numerous physical examination tests of the shoulder. Currently, almost without exception, there is a lack of clarity with regard to whether common OSTs used in clinical examination are useful in differentially diagnosing pathologies of the shoulder."}
{"id": "17684730", "title": "Comparison between single-row and double-row rotator cuff repair: a biomechanical study.", "content": "Comparison between single-row and double-row rotator cuff repair: a biomechanical study. The aim of this study was to compare the mechanical behavior under cyclic loading test of single-row and double-row rotator cuff repair with suture anchors in an ex-vivo animal model. For the present study, 50 fresh porcine shoulders were used. On each shoulder, a crescent-shaped full-thickness tear of the infraspinatus was performed. Width of the tendon tear was 2 cm. The lesion was repaired using metal suture anchors. Shoulders were divided in four groups, according the type of repair: single-row tension-free repair (Group 1); single-row tension repair (Group 2); double-row tension-free repair (Group 3); double-row tension repair (Group 4); and a control group. Specimens were subjected to a cyclic loading test. Number of cycles at 5 mm of elongation and at failure, and total elongation were calculated. Single-row tension repair showed significantly poorest results for all the variables considered, when compared with the other groups. Regarding the mean number of cycles at 5 mm of elongation and at failure, there was a nonsignificant difference between Groups 3 and 4, and both of them were significantly greater than Group 1. For mean total elongation, the difference between Groups 1, 3, and 4 was not significant, but all of them were significantly lower than the control group. A single-row repair is particularly weak when performed under tension. Double-row repair is significantly more resistant to cyclic displacement than single-row repair in both tension-free and tension repair. Double-row repair technique can be primarily considered for large, unstable rotator cuff tears to improve mechanical strength of primary fixation of tendons to bone."}
{"id": "17622545", "title": "Biceps long head tendon revisited: a case report of split tendon arising from single origin.", "content": "Biceps long head tendon revisited: a case report of split tendon arising from single origin. A 27-year-old, right-hand-dominant woman with a posttraumatic anterior shoulder dislocation 3 months earlier after traffic accident presented because of pain and limited range of motion in the right shoulder. On physical examination, the patient had negative instability tests and a sulcus sign. On arthroscopic examination, a bifurcate long biceps tendon with two limbs was observed about 1 cm distal to the origin in the supraglenoid tubercle. We found no evidence of a tear in the long biceps tendon on probing, and the margin of each limb was smooth and round. Although this anatomic variant may be benign, its presence might be associated with other shoulder pathology. It is interesting to speculate whether the aberrant biceps anatomy in our patient contributed to transfer of injury at dislocation to the rotator cuff rather than to the classic anterior-inferior capsulolabral complex. In addition, recognition of the described anatomic variant on arthroscopy can aid the shoulder surgeon in focusing treatment on the actual pathology."}
{"id": "17614031", "title": "Dynamic ultrasound for the golfer shoulder.", "content": "Dynamic ultrasound for the golfer shoulder. Although golf is a popular sport amongst different age groups, it can result in injury, usually from overuse and from poor technique. The shoulder is a commonly affected site, with the lead shoulder (e.g., the left shoulder in the right-handed golfer) most vulnerable to injury. In our present study, we used ultrasound to analyze if a hyperlaxity of the lead shoulder was present. In total, 33 asymptomatic golf-players were investigated by questionnaire, clinical examination and static, as well as dynamic ultrasonography. Neither clinically nor through ultrasound hyperlaxity of the shoulder was found. However, in golfers with shoulder pain, hyperlaxity followed by secondary impingement should be considered as a possible cause."}
{"id": "17459709", "title": "Complete 3D kinematics of upper extremity functional tasks.", "content": "Complete 3D kinematics of upper extremity functional tasks. Upper extremity (UX) movement analysis by means of 3D kinematics has the potential to become an important clinical evaluation method. However, no standardized protocol for clinical application has yet been developed, that includes the whole upper limb. Standardization problems include the lack of a single representative function, the wide range of motion of joints and the complexity of the anatomical structures. A useful protocol would focus on the functional status of the arm and particularly the orientation of the hand. The aim of this work was to develop a standardized measurement method for unconstrained movement analysis of the UX that includes hand orientation, for a set of functional tasks for the UX and obtain normative values. Ten healthy subjects performed four representative activities of daily living (ADL). In addition, six standard active range of motion (ROM) tasks were executed. Joint angles of the wrist, elbow, shoulder and scapula were analyzed throughout each ADL task and minimum/maximum angles were determined from the ROM tasks. Characteristic trajectories were found for the ADL tasks, standard deviations were generally small and ROM results were consistent with the literature. The results of this study could form the normative basis for the development of a 'UX analysis report' equivalent to the 'gait analysis report' and would allow for future comparisons with pediatric and/or pathologic movement patterns."}
{"id": "17342555", "title": "3D bicipital groove shape analysis and relationship to tendopathy.", "content": "3D bicipital groove shape analysis and relationship to tendopathy. The bicipital groove of the proximal humerus is formed by the medial and lateral tuberosities and serves to retain the long biceps tendon in its proper place as the arm moves. Bicipital root and proximal tendon disorders are an important symptom generator in the shoulder. The accuracy of the diagnosis of many shoulder disorders visually without quantitative shape analysis is limited, motivating a clinical need for some ancillary method to assess the proximal biceps. In previous studies, measurements of bicipital groove shape were 2-dimensional (2D), taken from a single axial slice. Because of significant variations in groove shape from one axial slice to another in a single patient, such approaches risk overlooking shape features important to long biceps tendon pathology. In this paper, we present a study of the relationship between bicipital groove shape and long biceps tendon pathology using a novel 3-dimensional (3D) shape descriptor for the bicipital groove. In addition to providing quantitative measures of the shape of the groove and its relation to tendopathy, the new descriptor allows for intuitive, descriptive visualization of the shape of the groove."}
{"id": "17254801", "title": "Reliability of EMG power-spectrum and amplitude of the semitendinosus and biceps femoris muscles during ramp isometric contractions.", "content": "Reliability of EMG power-spectrum and amplitude of the semitendinosus and biceps femoris muscles during ramp isometric contractions. Appropriate reliability is a necessary condition for the use of surface EMG for evaluation of hamstring muscle function in cases of knee joint pathologies or ligament injuries. The aim of the study was to investigate the test-retest reliability of power spectrum and amplitude of surface electromyographic (EMG) measurements of semitendinosus (ST) and biceps femoris (BF) during ramp isometric contractions. Eleven males performed maximum isometric contractions (MVC) of the knee flexors in two sessions, a week apart with simultaneous recording of surface EMG of the BF and ST. Intra class correlation (ICC) and standard error measurements (SEM) were applied to assess test-retest reliability of the averaged EMG (aEMG) and the median frequency (MF) over 10 levels of force, from 0% to 100% of the maximum. The ICC values ranged from 0.38 to 0.96 for the aEMG with SEM values reaching 11.37% of MVC. For the MF, the ICCs ranged from 0.44 to 0.98 (SEM range 4.49-18.19Hz). In our set up, ramp contractions can be used to examine hamstring EMG patterns with acceptable reliability."}
{"id": "17203268", "title": "Development of a content-valid standardized orthopedic assessment tool (SOAT).", "content": "Development of a content-valid standardized orthopedic assessment tool (SOAT). Content validation of an instrument that measures student performance in OSCE-type practical examinations is a critical step in a tool's overall validity and reliability [Hopkins (1998), Educational and Psychological Measurement and Evaluation (8th ed.). Toronto: Allyn & Bacon]. The purpose of the paper is to outline the process employed to create a content-valid Standardized Orthopedic Assessment Tool (SOAT). Orthopedic assessment skills are employed by athletic therapists, physiotherapists and physicians. All follow very similar diagnostic algorithms and that system was used to develop the original SOAT [Cyriax (1982). Textbook of Orthopaedic Medicine, (vol. 1) Bailliere Tindall]. To validate the tool, the study followed procedures outlined by Violato, Salami, and Muiznieks (2002), Journal of Manipulative Physiological Therapeutics, 25, 111-115, and Butterwick, Paskevich, Vallevand and Lafave (2006), Journal of Allied Health: a modified Ebel procedure. An expert group of athletic therapists from across Canada were chosen to create the content valid tool. Representation from all accredited athletic therapy programs in Canada was sought. Experts participated in three stages of content validation: Stage one consisted of individuals grading tasks on difficulty (hard, medium, easy) and importance (essential, important, not important) for 8 body regions (cervical spine, lumbar spine, shoulder, elbow, wrist/hand/thumb, hip, knee and lower leg/foot/ankle) and three diagnoses for each body region (24 total). If 80% consensus was not achieved in the first stage, then in stage two, face to face discussion is meant to clarify positions and achieved consensus, if possible. The history component, the observation component, scanning exams, clearing joints above and below the lesion site and active range of motion, passive range of motion and isometric resisted testing all yielded 80% consensus in the first two stages of development. A third stage was added to this process because a new model of measurement was conceptualized during the second stage due to a lack of consensus on two orthopedic assessment categories: special testing and palpation. The new model consisted of a ;;clinical reasoning\" metric that tied each section of an orthopedic assessment (history; observation; scanning and clearing; examination, special testing; palpation; conclusion) together and would permit the expert rater to evaluate the student performance based on the student's rationale for tests chosen rather than the traditionally rigid checklists. At least 80% consensus was achieved with the new ;;clinical reasoning\" metric and the originally contentious special testing and palpation categories. The new SOAT that underwent content validation may be a hybrid between the traditional OSCE-type checklists and global scales that provide a more realistic and thus more valid depiction of orthopedic assessment clinical competence. Now that content validation has been established, the next steps include inter-rater reliability testing."}
{"id": "18198786", "title": "The canine shoulder: selected disorders and their management with physical therapy.", "content": "The canine shoulder: selected disorders and their management with physical therapy. The shoulder joint is the most mobile of all main limb joints. While its primary motion is in a sagittal plane, the shoulder has a significant amount of abduction and adduction, and internal and external rotation. Its stability is ensured by the joint capsule, by its specialized bands (medial and lateral glenohumeral ligaments), and by large tendons located inside (eg, tendon of origin of the biceps brachii muscle) or immediately outside the joint (eg, supraspinatus, infraspinatus, teres minor, and subscapularis). Sprains or strains of all supporting structures of the canine shoulder have now been reported and the shoulder pathology resembles the pathology of the human shoulder that includes strains and tears of the rotator cuff muscles, adhesive capsulitis, and calcific tendonitis."}
{"id": "18156593", "title": "Ossification of the infraspinatus tendon-bursa in 13 dogs.", "content": "Ossification of the infraspinatus tendon-bursa in 13 dogs. Ossification of the infraspinatus tendon-bursa was diagnosed in 13 labrador retrievers, 12 of which were lame in one thoracic limb and the other in both. They ranged in age from 28 to 121 months (mean 69.4 months). The lameness developed gradually and was progressive in 11 of the 14 affected joints. Scapular muscle atrophy and signs of pain on direct pressure over the infraspinatus tendon of insertion were key clinical signs. Caudocranial radiographs revealed multiple mineralised masses lateral to the proximal humerus or glenohumeral joint in 11 of the 26 joints and single masses in 12. An arthroscopic examination revealed concomitant ligament or tendon abnormalities in six of seven shoulders. The dogs were followed up from one to 55 months (mean 20 months). Of five shoulders treated with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (nsaids), one resolved, two improved and two were managed surgically. Of six shoulders treated by the injection of long-acting intra-articular corticosteroid (five before and one after surgery), three resolved, two improved and one was unchanged. Of six shoulders treated by the surgical resection of the infraspinatus tendon and bursa (three before and two after treatment with nsaids, and one after treatment with a long-acting intra-articular corticosteroid), four improved, one was unchanged and one was managed with an intra-articular long-acting corticosteroid. One shoulder was managed by restricted exercise and the lameness resolved. Histological examination of the excised tissues revealed heterotopic bone within the infraspinatus tendon and/or bursa."}
{"id": "18095244", "title": "Ultrasound evaluation of the shoulder.", "content": "Ultrasound evaluation of the shoulder. This article discusses ultrasound examination of the shoulder and highlights some of its utility. The focus is on normal shoulder anatomy and pathology involving the rotator cuff, biceps tendon, and other related miscellaneous conditions."}
{"id": "18085187", "title": "MR arthrography of the rotator cuff.", "content": "MR arthrography of the rotator cuff. This article addresses the role of MR arthrography in the evaluation of the rotator cuff, including impingement, tendon degeneration and rotator cuff tears. Additionally, pathologic conditions of the long head of the biceps tendon, and mimickers of rotator cuff pathology are discussed as well. The drawbacks of conventional MR imaging and indirect MR arthrography, compared to the merit of direct MR arthrography are emphasized. The manuscript focusses on the potential clinical consequences of each finding and summarizes which relevant imaging findings should be reported by the radiologist."}
{"id": "18085186", "title": "Ultrasound of the shoulder.", "content": "Ultrasound of the shoulder. Ultrasound has been widely used for the evaluation of the shoulder, mainly for rotator cuff pathology. Developments in technology, as well as better knowledge of the pathology and the anatomy make this examination one of the most useful in the exploration of the shoulder, especially in the hands of the experienced radiologist. Ultrasound is low-cost, readily available and should be considered with plain films as the first step examination of the shoulder. Ultrasound is not only useful for the evaluation of the rotator cuff pathology and impingement syndrome, but is also performing in the evaluation of non rotator cuff pathology such as biceps tendon pathology, shoulder instability, mass evaluation, infection, degenerative and inflammatory arthropathies and nerve entrapment syndromes. Making a complete evaluation of the shoulder helps to differentiate between rotator cuff pathology and others that can mimic rotator cuff disorders. This article will review shoulder anatomy and examination technique and the different pathologies that can be assessed by ultrasound."}
{"id": "18063188", "title": "SLAP tear associated with a minimally displaced proximal humerus fracture.", "content": "SLAP tear associated with a minimally displaced proximal humerus fracture. Nondisplaced proximal humerus fracture may be associated with soft tissue injury. This case report examines 2 cases of superior labral anterior-posterior (SLAP) tears in association with nondisplaced fractures of the proximal humerus. In the first case, the patient fell from a jet ski, causing a traction injury to his arm. A greater tuberosity fracture was identified. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) did not reveal a definitive labral tear. After conservative management had failed, a type IV SLAP tear and a small rotator cuff tear were arthroscopically identified and repaired. In the second case, a power company lineman fell from a lift and attempted to hold on with his dominant arm. A nondisplaced greater tuberosity and a surgical neck fracture were discovered. MR arthrography revealed no evidence of SLAP tear. Four months after injury, a type II SLAP tear was arthroscopically identified and repaired. In these 2 cases, the presence of the fracture likely slowed operative intervention because pain was attributed to the fracture itself, and not to the SLAP tear. If patients do not follow the usual course of improvement after a proximal humerus fracture from a superior traction mechanism, consideration should be given to associated superior labral tears that may require surgical intervention."}
{"id": "18063173", "title": "Radiologic and intraoperative findings in revision hip arthroscopy.", "content": "Radiologic and intraoperative findings in revision hip arthroscopy. The purpose of this study was to identify possible causes of failure of hip arthroscopy by reviewing the intraoperative and radiologic findings in a series of patients requiring revision hip arthroscopy. We retrospectively reviewed 24 revision hip arthroscopy cases performed in 23 patients (14 female and 9 male; mean age, 33.6 years; 1 bilateral). The review included indications for surgery, intraoperative findings, and arthroscopic interventions for both the primary and revision surgeries. Imaging studies, including radiography, magnetic resonance imaging, and 3-dimensionally reconstructed computed tomography scans, were analyzed for the presence of preoperative bony impingement lesions (e.g., femoral head-neck junction \"cam\" lesions or anterosuperior acetabular \"pincer\" lesions). The mean interval between previous hip arthroscopy and recurrence of symptoms was 6.1 months. In 13 of 24 cases (54%), patients had no significant improvement at any point after the primary hip arthroscopy. The mean interval between the previous hip arthroscopy and revision surgery was 25.6 months. Unaddressed or undertreated bony impingement lesions were found in 19 of 24 cases (79%) and were identified on imaging studies before revision hip arthroscopy. A tight psoas tendon and corresponding labral impingement lesion were identified by arthroscopic visualization in 7 of 24 cases, for which partial psoas tendon release was performed. Eight cases of failed labral repair were addressed with labral debridement and removal of suture material. Of these 8 cases, 6 also had bony impingement, which was also addressed at the time of the revision surgery. Failure to address bony impingement lesions of the hip and a tight psoas tendon are key factors in unsuccessful hip arthroscopy and may require revision surgery. Furthermore, failure of labral repairs may be the result of unrecognized bony impingement at the time of initial surgery. Level IV, prognostic case series."}
{"id": "18063172", "title": "Usefulness of radial contrast-enhanced computed tomography for the diagnosis of acetabular labrum injury.", "content": "Usefulness of radial contrast-enhanced computed tomography for the diagnosis of acetabular labrum injury. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of radial contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) in the diagnosis of acetabular labrum injury. We studied 21 hip joints in 21 patients (8 joints in 8 male patients and 13 joints in 13 female patients), aged between 16 and 81 years (mean, 43 years) at examination, who underwent both radial contrast-enhanced CT and hip arthroscopy. Plain radiography showed no abnormalities in the bone and joint in 19 joints and acetabular dysplasia in 2 joints. When we performed radial contrast-enhanced CT, a mixture of 5 mL of 2% lidocaine chloride and 10 mL of 64% iotrolan was injected intra-articularly under x-ray fluoroscopy. CT was conducted with a 4-slice multidetector CT system operated at a voltage of 120 kilovolt peak, current of 300 mA, collimation beam of 2 mm, field of view of 320 mm, slice thickness of 0.5 mm, table speed of 44 mm/s, and helical pitch of 5.5. Images were reconstructed by computer software for radial slices at 15 degrees intervals perpendicular to the labral rim. The mean interval between the CT scan and arthroscopy was 13.2 days. By contrast-enhanced CT, acetabular labrum tears were observed in 12 joints, loss of acetabular labrum was found in 1 joint, and no abnormalities were present in 8 joints. By arthroscopy, acetabular labrum tears were observed in 13 joints, loss of acetabular labrum was found in 1 joint, and no abnormalities were present in 7 joints. When the results of the 2 methods were compared, 12 joints had true-positive findings, 8 joints had true-negative findings, and 1 joint had a false-negative finding. Therefore contrast-enhanced CT had a sensitivity of 92.3%, specificity of 100%, and accuracy of 95.2%. The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of radial contrast-enhanced CT for the diagnosis of acetabular labrum injury are 92.3%, 100%, and 95.2%, respectively. We recommend radial contrast-enhanced CT for the diagnosis of acetabular labrum injury in patients in whom magnetic resonance imaging is contraindicated. Level IV, diagnostic study."}
{"id": "18063171", "title": "Hip arthroscopy after previous surgical hip dislocation for femoroacetabular impingement.", "content": "Hip arthroscopy after previous surgical hip dislocation for femoroacetabular impingement. The purpose of this study was to examine whether arthroscopic adhesiolysis can relieve symptoms of patients with persistent pain after open surgical hip dislocation for femoroacetabular impingement syndrome without osseous or cartilaginous alterations. This study comprised 16 consecutive patients (6 men and 10 women; mean age, 33.5 years [range, 19 to 60 years]) with persistent pain without osseous or cartilaginous alterations after surgical hip dislocation for the treatment of femoroacetabular impingement. At index surgery, all patients had osteochondroplasty of the head-neck junction and resection of the acetabular rim with reattachment of the labrum in 9 cases. All patients had preoperative magnetic resonance imaging-arthrogram and were treated with arthroscopy of the hip. At arthroscopy, all reattached labra were stable. In the cases without preservation of the labrum at the index operation, the joint capsule was attached at the level of the acetabular rim and synovitis was noticed. All patients had adhesions between the neck of the femur and joint capsule or between the labrum and capsule. In 3 patients the arthroscopic procedure was technically limited by massive thickening of the capsule. Overall, 81% of patients (13/16) showed less pain or were pain-free. The Merle d'Aubign\u00e9 score improved from 13 points preoperatively to 16 points at the last follow-up. Persistent pain after surgical dislocation of the hip without evidence of cartilaginous and osseous alterations could result from intra-articular adhesions. Hip arthroscopy after previous surgery can be demanding because of scarring. If the adhesions can be released, good results can be achieved. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "18061116", "title": "Functional outcome of arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs: a correlation of anatomic and clinical results.", "content": "Functional outcome of arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs: a correlation of anatomic and clinical results. Even though several studies have revealed excellent clinical results with arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tendons, poor healing of the repair and retearing of the tendon occur in many cases. Patterns of outcome correlating functional capacity and anatomic integrity of the repaired rotator cuff are not well defined. The goal of this prospective study was to determine the pattern of anatomic and functional outcomes among patients undergoing single-row arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. This study confirmed that single-row arthroscopic repair of small- and medium-sized supraspinatus tendon tears significantly improves rotator cuff integrity and functional outcomes. A completely healed tendon was observed in 60% of the cases. Age is a predictor of cuff integrity after the operation. Functional improvement was greater and significant in patients with complete healing at follow-up; however, a recurrent tear did not preclude positive functional results."}
{"id": "18061114", "title": "Comparison of the subjective shoulder value and the Constant score.", "content": "Comparison of the subjective shoulder value and the Constant score. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the subjective shoulder value (SSV) and to compare it with the Constant score (CS). The SSV is defined as a patient's subjective shoulder assessment expressed as a percentage of an entirely normal shoulder, which would score 100%. Patients who underwent operative treatment for rotator cuff repair (n = 247), arthroplasty (n = 83), or stabilization for recurrent anterior instability (n = 111) were included in this study. Correlation between the SSV and CS was highest postoperatively and was higher in the rotator cuff group (0.80) than in the osteoarthritis (0.69) and instability (0.61) groups. The relative CS could reliably predict the variance in the SSV in patients with rotator cuff tears (54%) and osteoarthritis (41%) and, to a lesser extent, in instability patients (23%). The SSV is an easily administered, responsive, and valid measure of shoulder function. The SSV may offer an improvement over the CS in assessing shoulder instability patients, as the CS may overestimate the results of these patients."}
{"id": "18061113", "title": "Modified latissimus dorsi and teres major transfer through a single delto-pectoral approach for external rotation deficit of the shoulder: as an isolated procedure or with a reverse arthroplasty.", "content": "Modified latissimus dorsi and teres major transfer through a single delto-pectoral approach for external rotation deficit of the shoulder: as an isolated procedure or with a reverse arthroplasty. Definitive loss of active external rotation of the shoulder impacts an individual's ability to perform ADL's, creating severe disability. To restore active external rotation, we modified the L'Episcopo procedure by transferring both the latissimus dorsi and teres major (LD/TM) through a single delto-pectoral approach. The two tendons were rerouted and reattached laterally on the humerus to the stump of the pectoralis major which was partially transected to the posterior epiphysis. Fifteen consecutive patients who underwent this procedure; (mean age 63.2 years), have been followed for at least one year (range 14-63). The transfer was indicated alone in 7 patients with an isolated loss of active external rotation (ILER) related to an irreparable postero-superior cuff tear. It was associated with a reverse shoulder prosthesis in 8 patients with combined loss of active elevation and external rotation (CLEER): 6 cases of rotator cuff tear arthropathy and 2 of tumor reconstruction. For the series as a whole, the mean increase in active elevation was 34.7 degrees . The gain in active external rotation was +27 degrees for ILER patients and +28 degrees for CLEER patients. Constant score improved to 65.6 (range, 51-79). Subjective shoulder value (SSV) was significantly improved from 34% to 72% (P < .0009). All but one patient was satisfied or very satisfied with the result. The major contributor to their satisfaction was the ability to control the spatial positioning of the arm, eliminating the tendency of the forearm to swing in toward the trunk. One patient had a return of a lag sign after a fall. The modified tendon transfer, performed in the beach chair position through a delto-pectoral approach, is less invasive than the classic two-incisions procedure and provides good functional results in patients with absent or atrophic infraspinatus and teres minor. When the modified LD/TM transfer is associated with a reverse shoulder arthroplasty, it allows to restore both active elevation and external rotation."}
{"id": "18057671", "title": "The effects of scapular taping on the surface electromyographic signal amplitude of shoulder girdle muscles during upper extremity elevation in individuals with suspected shoulder impingement syndrome.", "content": "The effects of scapular taping on the surface electromyographic signal amplitude of shoulder girdle muscles during upper extremity elevation in individuals with suspected shoulder impingement syndrome. Multifactorial, repeated-measures, within-subjects design. To investigate the immediate effects of scapular taping on surface electromyographic (EMG) signal amplitude of shoulder girdle muscles during upper extremity elevation in individuals with suspected shoulder impingement syndrome. Individuals with shoulder impingement syndrome may present with increased activity of the upper trapezius and inhibition of other shoulder muscles active during upper extremity elevation. Scapular taping is theorized to normalize shoulder girdle function during scapular upward rotation by decreasing upper trapezius activity and increasing the activity of the lower trapezius and other muscles. assessed for each muscle. Upper trapezius activity was significantly lower with tape during shelf task elevation (P = .002), especially above 90 degrees (P<.002). Lower trapezius activity was significantly higher with tape (P = .043). No significant differences were found between the tape and no tape for other muscles for the shelf task. During shoulder abduction in the scapular plane, the main effect for upper trapezius showed a significant decrease of EMG signal amplitude (P = .047) for tape versus no tape, but no significant interactions were found among components of this activity, or for other muscles. Scapular taping decreased upper trapezius and increased lower trapezius activity in people with suspected shoulder impingement during a functional overhead-reaching task, and decreased upper trapezius activity during shoulder abduction in the scapular plane. Taping did not affect the other muscles under the loads tested, but it is possible that the activity of these muscles was not deficient at the time of testing."}
{"id": "18057358", "title": "Radiological evidence of femoroacetabular impingement in mild slipped capital femoral epiphysis: a mean follow-up of 14.4 years after pinning in situ.", "content": "Radiological evidence of femoroacetabular impingement in mild slipped capital femoral epiphysis: a mean follow-up of 14.4 years after pinning in situ. Conventional treatment of mild slipped capital femoral epiphysis consists of fixation in situ with wires or screws. Recent contributions to the literature suggest that even a mild slip may lead to early damage of the acetabular labrum and adjacent cartilage by abutment of a prominent femoral metaphysis. It has been suggested that the appropriate treatment in mild slipped capital femoral epiphysis should not only prevent further slipping of the epiphysis, but also address potential femoroacetabular impingement by restoring the anatomy of the proximal femur. Between October 1984 and December 1995 we treated 16 patients for unilateral mild slipped capital femoral epiphysis by fixation in situ with Kirschner wires. In this study we have reviewed these patients for clinical and radiological evidence of femoroacetabular impingement. There was little clinical indication of impingement but radiological evaluation assessing the femoral head-neck ratio and measuring the N\u00f6tzli alpha angle on the anteroposterior and cross-table radiographs showed significant alterations in the proximal femur. None of the affected hips had a normal head-neck ratio and the mean alpha angle was 86 degrees (55 degrees to 99 degrees ) and 55 degrees (40 degrees to 94 degrees ) on the anteroposterior and lateral cross-table radiographs, respectively. While our clinical data favours conventional treatment, our radiological findings are in support of restoring the anatomy of the proximal femur to avoid or delay the development of femoroacetabular impingement following mild slipped capital femoral epiphysis."}
{"id": "18046179", "title": "Delayed union of a scapular fracture-an unusual cause of persistent shoulder pain.", "content": "Delayed union of a scapular fracture-an unusual cause of persistent shoulder pain. Scapular fractures in athletes are rare, although they have been reported in football and baseball players. Most scapular fractures heal with nonoperative management; delayed union is rarely a problem. A 15-yr-old male fell onto his posterior shoulder after he had been pushed into the boards and then fell to the ice during a hockey check. He was diagnosed with a rotator cuff injury at an outside facility. Initial radiographs were negative. The patient was not immobilized, and he continued to play hockey despite intermittent pain. Seven months later, he presented to our sports medicine clinic, complaining of an aching pain at the base of his left shoulder. Examination revealed point tenderness along the base of the scapula, restriction of shoulder abduction, rhomboid weakness, scapular winging, and anterior impingement-type shoulder pain. A new radiograph, obtained at our sports medicine clinic, was nondiagnostic. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed increased signal on T2, with bone edema at the lateral margin of the scapular neck. A computed tomography scan revealed an unhealed, left-transverse, subglenoid scapular fracture. The fracture was nondisplaced. The patient was treated with transcutaneous electrical stimulation for 6 months and a physical therapy regimen focusing on periscapular strengthening. A final computed tomography scan, 6 months after initial presentation to our clinic, revealed healing of the fracture. Examination was normal. The patient was asymptomatic and was able to fully return to sports without any complications. Although scapular fractures in athletes are rare, they may occur, particularly in \"contact sports\" that share the energies of injury seen in high-speed motor vehicle collisions. Early identification and proper management are integral to decrease symptoms and to avoid protracted disability, particularly in athletes."}
{"id": "18043780", "title": "Oral corticosteroids--their place in the management of adhesive capsulitis.", "content": "Oral corticosteroids--their place in the management of adhesive capsulitis. The incidence of intrinsic disorders of the shoulder presenting in general practice has been estimated to be 14.7/1000 per year with adhesive capsulitis (also termed frozen shoulder, stiff painful shoulder or periarthritis) accounting for around 20% of cases (incidence 2.4/1000 per year), but occurring more frequently in the middle aged and those with diabetes. The aetiology of pathological findings of intra-articular inflammation and fibrosis is not known. Adhesive capsulitis is diagnosed clinically based on characteristic symptoms and signs: spontaneous onset of severe shoulder pain that interferes with activities of daily living and sleep, and progressive stiffness or restriction of both active and passive movements, especially elevation and external rotation."}
{"id": "18043022", "title": "DNA extraction: an anthropologic aspect of bone remains from sixth- to seventh-century ad bone remains.", "content": "DNA extraction: an anthropologic aspect of bone remains from sixth- to seventh-century ad bone remains. In the archeological site of the early Christian Episcopal complex of Saint Peter, in Canosa di Puglia (Bari, Italy), during the operations of archaeological excavations, tombs were discovered. They were dated between the sixth and seventh centuries ad with carbon 14 methodology. Five skeletons were found in the 5 tombs: 28A: male individual, 43 years old. The height was 170 cm; the biomass was 65.7 kg. The analysis of the bones indicated several noteworthy pathologies, such as a number of hypoplasia lines of the enamel, the presence of Schmorl hernias on the first 2 lumbar vertebrae, and the outcome of subacromial impingement syndrome. 28E was a male individual, with a biologic age of death of between 44 and 60 years. The height was 177 cm. He had a posttraumatic fracture callus of the medial third of the clavicle, with an oblique fracture rima. 29B was a female individual, 44-49 years old. The height was 158.8 cm; the biomass was 64.8 kg. There was Wells bursitis on the ischial tuberosity on both sides. 29E was a male individual, 45-50 years old. The height was 169.47 cm; the biomass was 70.8 kg. The third and the fourth vertebrae showed Baastrup syndrome (compression of the vertebral spine). There were radiologic signs of deformity on the higher edge of the acetabula and results of frequent sprains of the ankles. 31A was a male individual, 47-54 years old. The height was 178.65 cm; the biomass was 81 kg. The vertebral index showed a heavy overloading in the thoracic lumbar region. There were bony formations under the periosteum on both on the higher and medium facets of the first metatarsus and on the higher and lateral facets of the fifth metatarsus on both sides. As the topography indicates, these small ossifications coincided with the contact points between the back of the foot and parts of the upper shoe. From the osseous remains, in particular from the teeth (central incisors), the DNA was extracted and typed to identify potential family ties among all the subjects. The extraction technique used came from the DNA Promega technique, partially modified by the authors. Stay times of the sample in the extraction buffer were increased and were increased the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) cycles."}
{"id": "18033608", "title": "Botulinum toxin injection to facilitate rehabilitation of muscle imbalance syndromes in sports medicine.", "content": "Botulinum toxin injection to facilitate rehabilitation of muscle imbalance syndromes in sports medicine. Intramuscular injection of Botulinum toxin to produce reduction of focal muscle overactivity, and localized muscle spasm, has been utilized therapeutically for almost two decades. Muscle overactivity in neurologically normal muscle, where an imbalance exists between a relatively overactive muscle and its less active synergist or antagonist, can inhibit control of the antagonist producing a functional muscle imbalance. This brief review provides an overview of the role of muscle imbalance in sports-related pain and dysfunction, and outlines the potential for intramuscular injection of Botulinum toxin to be used as an adjunct to specific muscle re-education and functional rehabilitation in this patient group. A comprehensive understanding of normal movement and the requirements of the sporting activity are essential to allow accurate diagnosis of abnormal motor patterns and to re-educate more appropriate movement strategies. Therapeutic management of co-impairments may include stretching of tight soft tissues, specific re-education aimed at isolation of the non-dominant weak muscles and improvement in their activation, 'unlearning' of faulty motor patterns, and eventual progression onto functional exercises to anticipate gradual return to sporting activity. Intramuscular injection of Botulinum toxin, in carefully selected cases, provides short term reduction of focal muscle overactivity, and may facilitate activation of relatively 'inhibited' muscles and assist the restoration of more appropriate motor patterns."}
{"id": "18019988", "title": "Transfer of the latissimus dorsi as a salvage procedure for failed debridement and attempted repair of massive rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Transfer of the latissimus dorsi as a salvage procedure for failed debridement and attempted repair of massive rotator cuff tears. Seven patients who had a previously failed attempt at debridement and repair of a massive rotator cuff tear were managed with latissimus dorsi transfer. Patient age averaged 63 years and average follow-up was 31 months. All patients were evaluated with shoulder radiographs, Constant and Murley Scores, UCLA Shoulder Score, visual analog pain score, range of motion, and the Short Shoulder Form. Modest improvement was noted in forward flexion and abduction. Significant improvement was noted in shoulder function. Transfer of the latissimus dorsi as salvage for a previously failed repair of a massive rotator cuff tear is effective in providing pain relief and improving shoulder function."}
{"id": "18019983", "title": "The multi-suture technique for rotator cuff repair: a biomechanical evaluation.", "content": "The multi-suture technique for rotator cuff repair: a biomechanical evaluation. Multi-suture fixation of supraspinatus rotator cuff tears provides excellent fixation and biomechanical failure characteristics."}
{"id": "18004606", "title": "Multimodality imaging of the postoperative shoulder.", "content": "Multimodality imaging of the postoperative shoulder. Multimodality imaging of the postoperative shoulder includes radiography, magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, MR arthrography, computed tomography (CT), CT arthrography, and ultrasound. Target-oriented evaluation of the postoperative shoulder necessitates familiarity with surgical techniques, their typical complications and sources of failure, knowledge of normal and abnormal postoperative findings, awareness of the advantages and weaknesses with the different radiologic techniques, and clinical information on current symptoms and function. This article reviews the most commonly used surgical procedures for treatment of anterior glenohumeral instability, lesions of the labral-bicipital complex, subacromial impingement, and rotator cuff lesions and highlights the significance of imaging findings with a view to detection of recurrent lesions and postoperative complications in a multimodality approach."}
{"id": "18004222", "title": "Superior labral repair.", "content": "Superior labral repair. Advances in shoulder arthroscopy have led to a greater understanding of the importance of lesions of the superior labrum and biceps tendon complex. Diagnosis of superior labrum anterior to posterior tears requires a high index of suspicion and is made by careful attention to the history, physical examination, and magnetic resonance arthrography. The diagnosis is confirmed with arthroscopy. The form of treatment is dependent on the type of tear and the stability of the superior labrum and biceps anchor. Appropriate treatment of the tear and any associated pathologies should lead to reliable improvements in the patient's symptoms. The purpose of this review article is to describe the anatomy, pathophysiology, classification, indications, and surgical technique of arthroscopic repair of superior labral tears. The surgical technique we present involves using 1 anchor with 2 sutures to anchor the superior labrum anterior to posterior tear to the superior glenoid tubercle."}
{"id": "17998184", "title": "The instability severity index score. A simple pre-operative score to select patients for arthroscopic or open shoulder stabilisation.", "content": "The instability severity index score. A simple pre-operative score to select patients for arthroscopic or open shoulder stabilisation. There is no simple method available to identify patients who will develop recurrent instability after an arthroscopic Bankart procedure and who would be better served by an open operation. We carried out a prospective case-control study of 131 consecutive unselected patients with recurrent anterior shoulder instability who underwent this procedure using suture anchors. At follow-up after a mean of 31.2 months (24 to 52) 19 (14.5%) had recurrent instability. The following risk factors were identified: patient age under 20 years at the time of surgery; involvement in competitive or contact sports or those involving forced overhead activity; shoulder hyperlaxity; a Hill-Sachs lesion present on an anteroposterior radiograph of the shoulder in external rotation and/or loss of the sclerotic inferior glenoid contour. These factors were integrated in a 10-point pre-operative instability severity index score and tested retrospectively on the same population. Patients with a score over 6 points had an unacceptable recurrence risk of 70% (p < 0.001). On this basis we believe that an arthroscopic Bankart repair is contraindicated in these patients, to whom we now suggest a Bristow-Latarjet procedure instead."}
{"id": "17986401", "title": "Reversal of suprascapular neuropathy following arthroscopic repair of massive supraspinatus and infraspinatus rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Reversal of suprascapular neuropathy following arthroscopic repair of massive supraspinatus and infraspinatus rotator cuff tears. The purpose of this study was to study the prevalence of suprascapular neuropathy (SSN) in the setting of massive rotator cuff tears and to determine if arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, even if partial, was associated with reversal of SSN and clinical improvement in pain and function. Over a 13-month period, 26 of 216 patients with rotator cuff tears treated operatively were identified to have massive tears associated with retraction and moderate to severe fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles. All patients had pain and marked weakness in abduction and external rotation which did not improve with conservative treatment. Electrodiagnostic electromyographic/nerve conduction velocity (EMG/NCV) evaluation, as well as pre- and postoperative questionnaire and physical examination, were performed. An arthroscopic repair, either partial or complete, was performed on patients identified to have a massive rotator cuff tear in association with SSN. Fourteen of 26 patients with massive rotator cuff tears (54%) were identified to have a peripheral nerve injury. Seven of these 26 (38%) had isolated suprascapular nerve injury, 4 had axillary nerve injury, 2 had an associated upper trunk brachial plexus injury, and 1 had a cervical radiculopathy. All 7 patients with isolated suprascapular injury underwent arthroscopic treatment, 1 of which was not technically reparable at the time of surgery. In the 6 patients who underwent either partial or complete arthroscopic repair, follow-up EMG/NCV after 6 months demonstrated partial or full recovery of the suprascapular nerve palsy that correlated with complete pain relief and marked improvement in function. SSN is found in a significant proportion of patients with massive rotator cuff tears, and is associated with pain and dysfunction. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair can result in reversal of SSN, which may correlate with substantial improvement in pain and function. Level IV, case series."}
{"id": "17985541", "title": "Did the partial contralateral C7-transfer fulfil our expectations? Results after 5 year experience.", "content": "Did the partial contralateral C7-transfer fulfil our expectations? Results after 5 year experience. Within the last decade contralateral C7-transfer has become a new source of axon donor in complete brachial plexus lesions. Ten adult patients with a complete posttraumatic brachial plexus lesion and a follow-up of more than 5 years are analyzed. As shown by GU we are using a two stage procedure with exploration and extraplexuel neurotization of the suprascapular nerve using 1/2 spinal acessory nerve. Depending on the intraoperative findings, the musculocutaneous nerve is neurotized by the phrenic nerve at the time of primary operation or secondarily neurotized by the contralateral C7 root. If the musculocutaneous nerve could be neurotized by the phrenic nerve, C7-transfer is used to reinnervate the median nerve. If ever possible, the vascularized ulnar nerve graft or if not availabe two sural nerves are used. Neurotization of the musculocutaneous nerve was carried out in 6, and of the median nerve in 4 patients. There are 6 patients in the MC group and 4 patients in the Median group. Criterias for evaluation used are: donor site (morbidity, classification), time for recovery, time for autonomization, and functional result. Successful elbow flexion is achieved if muscle power > M3, successful median nerve motor function is achieved if a primitive power grip pattern is achieved. All patients were complaining of temporary paresthesia in the dorsal part of P3 of the thumb, index and middle finger. There was complete sensory at the 3-month postoperative examination. There was no evident clinical motor loss at the donor extremity. A successful elbow flexion, i.e. muscle power > M3 was achieved in all 6 patients after 9-15 months. 4 of 6 patients are able to use this function individually. In the other two patients a start command must be given voluntarily from the contralateral side (contraction of the contralateral latissimus dorsi muscle). A functional primitive grip pattern could be achieved in 1 out of 4 patients after 18 months. In three patients, although there is movement, this mouvement must be judged \"academic\" at the present state. The C7-transfer proved to be a safe transfer if at the time of operation no fascicles innervating wrist and finger extension are taken. Provided adequate biceps muscle organ function, active elbow flexion can be reconstructed in most of the patients. However, for median nerve reinnervation motor results are moderate up to now."}
{"id": "17984448", "title": "Long-term prognosis in children with neonatal seizures: a population-based study.", "content": "Long-term prognosis in children with neonatal seizures: a population-based study. To examine outcome and explore for prognostic markers in a cohort <10 years following neonatal seizures. We prospectively diagnosed clinical neonatal seizures with high specificity for true epileptic seizures in a population-based setting of all live newborns in the province of Newfoundland, Canada, between 1990 and 1995. Children with neonatal seizures were followed by specialized provincial health services. Follow-up data were collected on epilepsy, physical and cognitive impairments, and other heath issues. Data were available on 82 out of 90 subjects. We added information on six others whose outcome was clearly predictable from earlier information. Prognosis was better for term than for preterm infants (p = 0.003): term: 28 (45%) normal, 10 (16%) deaths, and 24 (39%) with impairments; preterm: 3 (12%) normal, 11 (42%) deaths, and 12 (46%) with impairments. Of survivors, 17 (27%) developed epilepsy, 16 (25%) had cerebral palsy, 13 (20%) had mental retardation, and 17 (27%) had learning disorders. Variables associated with poor prognosis were Sarnat stage III or equivalent severe encephalopathy, cerebral dysgenesis, complicated intraventricular hemorrhage, infections in the preterm infants, abnormal neonatal EEGs, and the need for multiple drugs to treat the neonatal seizures. Pure clonic seizures without facial involvement in term infants suggested favorable outcome, whereas generalized myoclonic seizures in preterm infants were associated with mortality. Poor prognosis for premature infants with seizures is reflected in high rates of subsequent long-term disability and mortality. The severity and timing of the pathologic process continue to be the major determinants for outcome."}
{"id": "17983467", "title": "Treatment of myofascial trigger points in common shoulder disorders by physical therapy: a randomized controlled trial [ISRCTN75722066].", "content": "Treatment of myofascial trigger points in common shoulder disorders by physical therapy: a randomized controlled trial [ISRCTN75722066]. Shoulder disorders are a common health problem in western societies. Several treatment protocols have been developed for the clinical management of persons with shoulder pain. However available evidence does not support any protocol as being superior over others. Systematic reviews provide some evidence that certain physical therapy interventions (i.e. supervised exercises and mobilisation) are effective in particular shoulder disorders (i.e. rotator cuff disorders, mixed shoulder disorders and adhesive capsulitis), but there is an ongoing need for high quality trials of physical therapy interventions. Usually, physical therapy consists of active exercises intended to strengthen the shoulder muscles as stabilizers of the glenohumeral joint or perform mobilisations to improve restricted mobility of the glenohumeral or adjacent joints (shoulder girdle). It is generally accepted that a-traumatic shoulder problems are the result of impingement of the subacromial structures, such as the bursa or rotator cuff tendons. Myofascial trigger points (MTrPs) in shoulder muscles may also lead to a complex of symptoms that are often seen in patients diagnosed with subacromial impingement or rotator cuff tendinopathy. Little is known about the treatment of MTrPs in patients with shoulder disorders.The primary aim of this study is to investigate whether physical therapy modalities to inactivate MTrPs can reduce symptoms and improve shoulder function in daily activities in a population of chronic a-traumatic shoulder patients when compared to a wait-and-see strategy. In addition we investigate the recurrence rate during a one-year-follow-up period. This paper presents the design for a randomized controlled trial to be conducted between September 2007 - September 2008, evaluating the effectiveness of a physical therapy treatment for non-traumatic shoulder complaints. One hundred subjects are included in this study. All subjects have unilateral shoulder pain for at least six months and are referred to a physical therapy practice specialized in musculoskeletal disorders of the neck-, shoulder-, and arm. After the initial assessment patients are randomly assigned to either an intervention group or a control-group (wait and see). The primary outcome measure is the overall score of the Dutch language version of the DASH (Disabilities of Arm, Shoulder and Hand) questionnaire. Since there is only little evidence for the efficacy of physical therapy interventions in certain shoulder disorders, there is a need for further research. We found only a few studies examining the efficacy of MTrP therapy for shoulder disorders. Therefore we will perform a randomised clinical trial of the effect of physical therapy interventions aimed to inactivate MTrPs, on pain and impairment in shoulder function in a population of chronic a-traumatic shoulder patients. We opted for an intervention strategy that best reflects daily practice. Manual high velocity thrust techniques and dry-needling are excluded. Because in most physical therapy interventions, blinding of the patient and the therapist is not possible, we will perform a randomised, controlled and observer-blinded study. This randomized clinical trial is registered at current controlled trials ISRCTN75722066."}
{"id": "17980629", "title": "Teres minor integrity predicts outcome of latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Teres minor integrity predicts outcome of latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tears. In patients with irreparable rotator cuff tears, latissimus dorsi tendon transfer (LDTT) can be effective in improving pain and function. However, the results are variable, and the factors that predict good outcomes are poorly understood. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether the integrity of the teres minor musculotendinous unit is predictive of outcome following LDTT. Twenty-two consecutive patients who underwent LDTT for massive, irreparable posterosuperior rotator cuff tears were retrospectively reviewed. Sixteen men and 6 women with a mean age of 58 years (range, 40-68) were analyzed at an average follow-up of 34 months (range, 24-57). Standardized MRI images of all patients were reviewed by 3 independent reviewers. Fatty infiltration of the teres minor was Goutallier stage 0 in 5 patients; stage 1 in 6; stage 2 in 4; stage 3 in 6; and stage 4 in 1. Eleven patients (50%) had partial tears and 2 (9%) had complete tears of the teres minor tendon. Following LDTT, the mean absolute constant score improved from 48 to 62 points (P = .003), age-adjusted constant score improved from 56% to 72% (P = .002), and the subjective shoulder value improved from 24% to 68% (P < .001). Fatty infiltration of the teres minor less than or equal to stage 2 was associated with a better postoperative constant score (67 vs 53, P = .015); age-adjusted constant score (78% vs 59%, P = .012); active external rotation (36 degrees vs 16 degrees , P = .016); and active elevation (143 degrees vs 115 degrees , P = .012) relative to patients with fatty infiltration greater than stage 2. The presence or absence of a tear of the tendon had no significant effect on outcome. In conclusion, when performing LDTT for massive irreparable posterosuperior rotator cuff tears, fatty infiltration of the teres minor should be considered prior to surgery, as it is predictive of outcome."}
{"id": "17974892", "title": "Pectoralis major tendon transfers above or underneath the conjoint tendon in subscapularis-deficient shoulders. An in vitro biomechanical analysis.", "content": "Pectoralis major tendon transfers above or underneath the conjoint tendon in subscapularis-deficient shoulders. An in vitro biomechanical analysis. Different operative techniques for transfer of the pectoralis major tendon have been proposed for the treatment of irreparable ruptures of the subscapularis tendon. The objective of this study was to compare the effects of two techniques of transferring the pectoralis major tendon (above or underneath the conjoint tendon) on glenohumeral kinematics during active abduction in a biomechanical model of a subscapularis-deficient shoulder. Six shoulder specimens were tested with a custom dynamic shoulder testing apparatus. After the kinematics of the intact shoulder were recorded, a complete tear of the subscapularis tendon was simulated surgically. A transfer of the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major muscle to the lesser tuberosity was then performed with the transferred tendon placed either above (tendon-transfer 1) or underneath (tendon-transfer 2) the conjoint tendon. For each condition, the maximum abduction angle as well as the external rotation angle and the superoinferior and anteroposterior humeral translations at the maximum abduction angle were recorded. With the rotator cuff intact, the mean maximum glenohumeral abduction angle (and standard error of the mean) was 86.3 degrees +/- 2.1 degrees and the mean amount of external rotation at the maximum abduction angle was 5.5 degrees +/- 7.6 degrees . A complete tear of the subscapularis tendon decreased the mean maximum abduction angle to 40.8 degrees +/- 2.4 degrees (p < 0.001) and increased the mean external rotation to 91.8 degrees +/- 4.8 degrees (p < 0.001). The mean humeral translations in the anterior and superior directions (+3.4 +/- 0.5 and +6.3 +/- 0.3 mm, respectively) at the maximum abduction angle were also increased (p < 0.01 and p < 0.001) when compared with those in the intact shoulder. Significant differences were found in the mean maximum abduction angle as well as the mean external rotation angle and humeral translations (anterior and superior) at maximum abduction between the tendon-transfer-1 condition (63.2 degrees +/- 13.5 degrees , 82.4 degrees +/- 6.6 degrees , 4.0 +/- 1.8 mm, and 3.3 +/- 1.9 mm, respectively) and tendon-transfer-2 condition (89.5 degrees +/- 12.3 degrees , 45.7 degrees +/- 22.5 degrees , -0.6 +/- 2.0 mm, and 0.5 +/- 2.3 mm, respectively). The tendon-transfer-2 condition restored glenohumeral kinematics that were closer to those in the intact shoulder than were those resulting from the tendon-transfer-1 condition. Transfer of the pectoralis major tendon in subscapularis-deficient shoulders partially restored the glenohumeral kinematics of the intact shoulder. One possible explanation for the superior effect of the tendon-transfer-2 condition is that, with a pectoralis major tendon transfer underneath the conjoint tendon, the line of action of the transferred tendon is closer to that of the subscapularis muscle."}
{"id": "17974879", "title": "Arthroscopic repair of traumatic combined rotator cuff tears involving the subscapularis tendon.", "content": "Arthroscopic repair of traumatic combined rotator cuff tears involving the subscapularis tendon. Although the use of arthroscopic repair to treat rotator cuff tears involving the subscapularis has increased, there are few studies on treatment outcomes and repair integrity. We hypothesized that arthroscopic repair of combined rotator cuff tears that include the subscapularis yields successful functional and structural outcomes. Our study population consisted of seventeen men and three women (twenty shoulders) whose mean age was 61.7 years. The mean duration of follow-up was 36.1 months, and all patients were followed for at least two years. All had traumatic full-thickness tears of the subscapularis and supraspinatus, and seven had a concomitant infraspinatus tear. The mean time from the injury to the surgery was 2.7 months. An arthroscopic suture-anchor technique was used for the repair. The shoulders were evaluated before and after the procedure with use of the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) score, the Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) score, plain radiographs, and magnetic resonance imaging scans. After arthroscopic repair, the mean UCLA and JOA scores significantly improved from 14.9 and 55.7 points to 31.1 and 91.0 points, respectively (p < 0.0001). According to the JOA rating scale, the outcome was excellent for thirteen patients (65%), good for five (25%), fair for one (5%), and poor for one (5%). Of the twenty patients, seven (35%) had recurrent tears after the surgery; four of them had originally had a three-tendon tear and the other three had had a two-tendon tear. Of these seven patients, one had an excellent outcome; five, a good outcome; and one, a fair outcome. The postoperative mean JOA score was significantly lower for the patients with a failed repair than it was for those with an intact repair (p = 0.0034). The patients with a failed repair also had a significantly higher mean age (68.4 years compared with 58.1 years for those with an intact repair; p = 0.014), and the prevalence of recurrent tears was significantly higher in the patients with severe tendon retraction compared with those with minimal or moderate tendon retraction (p = 0.0191). Arthroscopic repair with use of the suture anchor technique is a safe and effective procedure for the treatment of combined rotator cuff tears involving the subscapularis tendon; it can alleviate shoulder pain and improve function and the range of motion. The postoperative integrity of the repair correlates with the clinical results. Patient age and the degree of tendon retraction can affect the integrity of the repair."}
{"id": "17974874", "title": "Intercarpal ligament injuries associated with fractures of the distal part of the radius.", "content": "Intercarpal ligament injuries associated with fractures of the distal part of the radius. Soft-tissue injuries of the wrist are often not recognized in patients with distal radial fractures, yet scapholunate injuries have been reported to occur in association with as many as 54% of distal radial fractures. The true prevalence and natural history of intercarpal ligament injury are not known. This prospective observational study assessed the prevalence and one-year outcome of intercarpal ligament injuries in non-osteoporotic patients with displaced fractures of the distal part of the radius. The study group consisted of fifty-one patients (twenty-seven women and twenty-four men) with a median age of forty-one years (range, twenty to fifty-seven years). Patients underwent standard fracture treatment and, in addition, wrist arthroscopy was performed to identify associated carpal injuries. No ligamentous injuries were treated. Patients were reviewed at one year and underwent physical and radiographic evaluation. Patients were analyzed according to the status of the scapholunate ligament at the time of the injury and were graded with use of a modification of the Geissler classification system: Group I consisted of ten patients with a grade-3 scapholunate ligament injury, and Group II consisted of forty-one patients with a grade-0, 1, or 2 injury. Patients with an increase in ulnar variance of >2 mm at the time of the injury had a fourfold increase in the risk of sustaining a grade-3 scapholunate ligament injury (p = 0.01). Radiographically, at one year, patients in Group I (grade-3 injuries) had a greater amount of static and dynamic scapholunate dissociation and a significantly greater increase in the scapholunate angle in comparison with the uninjured wrist (p = 0.006) than did those in Group II. Intra-articular fractures were associated with a twofold increase in the prevalence of scapholunate dissociation as seen radiographically at one year. The prevalence of subjective pain on examination was significantly greater in Group I than in Group II (p = 0.009). There were no significant differences between the two groups with respect to objective outcome according to range of motion and hand grip and tip pinch strengths. Lunotriquetral injuries were uncommon and did not correlate with the scapholunate injuries, fracture grade, or configuration. Grade-3 scapholunate ligament tears can be associated with ulnar positive variance at the time of initial presentation of a distal radial fracture and can be associated with more scapholunate joint pain at one year. These injuries could lead to scapholunate dissociation at the time of follow-up, particularly in patients with intraarticular fractures."}
{"id": "17964816", "title": "Factors influencing patient satisfaction after rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Factors influencing patient satisfaction after rotator cuff repair. A number of variables are used to assess the outcome of rotator cuff repair (RCR), including patient satisfaction. The purpose of this study was to determine the factors that affect patient satisfaction after RCR. The study assessed 112 patients (118 shoulders) with chronic rotator cuff tears preoperatively and at a mean of 54 months (range, 34-85 months) after RCR by using several functional outcome questionnaires and an evaluation of patient satisfaction. Of these, 95% were satisfied with the outcome of the surgery. Satisfaction was significantly correlated with the improvement in functional outcomes and general health status and absolute postoperative functional outcomes. Married, currently working, and nondisabled patients had greater satisfaction. High preoperative and postoperative met expectations were also positively correlated with patient satisfaction. Patient satisfaction is most highly correlated with the pain, function, and general health status of the patient after RCR. We conclude that aspects of treatment that maximize the functional outcome are important in achieving patient satisfaction after RCR."}
{"id": "17957076", "title": "Non-operative treatment of large anterior glenoid rim fractures after traumatic anterior dislocation of the shoulder.", "content": "Non-operative treatment of large anterior glenoid rim fractures after traumatic anterior dislocation of the shoulder. The generally-accepted treatment for large, displaced fractures of the glenoid associated with traumatic anterior dislocation of the shoulder is operative repair. In this study, 14 consecutive patients with large (> 5 mm), displaced (> 2 mm) anteroinferior glenoid rim fractures were treated non-operatively if post-reduction radiographs showed a centred glenohumeral joint. After a mean follow-up of 5.6 years (2.8 to 8.4), the mean Constant score and subjective shoulder value were 98% (90% to 100%) and 97% (90% to 100%), respectively. There were no redislocations or subluxations, and the apprehension test was negative. All fragments healed with an average intra-articular step of 3.0 mm (0.5 to 11). No patient had symptoms of osteoarthritis, which was mild in two shoulders and moderate in one. Traumatic anterior dislocation of the shoulder, associated with a large displaced glenoid rim fracture can be successfully treated non-operatively, providing the glenohumeral joint is concentrically reduced on the anteroposterior radiograph."}
{"id": "17957065", "title": "Hip dysplasia and the torn acetabular labrum: an inexact relationship.", "content": "Hip dysplasia and the torn acetabular labrum: an inexact relationship. The epidemiological data and intra-operative findings from 260 consecutive arthroscopically-diagnosed acetabular labral tears seen over a ten-year period were analysed. Radiographs of 128 of these patients were assessed for dysplasia using established radiological parameters. Patients with acetabular dysplasia were then compared against those without in order to identify any differences in gender, age, the side of the tear, the pattern of the tear, the number of quadrants involved, the quadrant preference and the prevalence of intra-articular comorbidity. Dysplasia was found in 46% (59 of 128) of the hips. No significant differences existed between the dysplastic and non-dysplastic subgroups as regards gender distribution, the side of the lesion, the number of quadrants involved or the distribution of tears among the quadrants. However, tears associated with dysplasia were diagnosed in an older age group, had a different pattern and were associated with a much higher prevalence of osteoarthritis."}
{"id": "17957023", "title": "Calcifications in the cuff: take it or leave it?", "content": "Calcifications in the cuff: take it or leave it? The aim of this study was to evaluate whether removing the calcifications in the rotator cuff tendons during surgical subacromial decompression improves outcome in patients with calcific tendonitis. Two groups of 20 patients with a subacromial impingement syndrome and cuff calcifications were operated on. In group A, patients had an anterolateral acromioplasty according to Neer with excision of calcifications. In group B, the same procedure was performed without additional excision of calcifications. After a minimum follow-up of 3 years the patients were assessed with the disabilities of arm, shoulder and hand score (DASH), the visual analogue scale (VAS) for pain, measurements of range of motion (ROM) in all planes, and satisfaction with treatment. The results for the DASH score, ROM, VAS and satisfaction with treatment showed no significant difference between the two groups. The results of our study suggest that removal of calcific deposits with anterolateral acromioplasty does not influence patient outcome. Further prospective studies are needed to determine the optimal surgical treatment for calcific tendonitis."}
{"id": "17954659", "title": "MRI of quadratus femoris muscle tear: another cause of hip pain.", "content": "MRI of quadratus femoris muscle tear: another cause of hip pain. The objective of this study is to report the MR appearance of quadratus femoris muscle tear, another cause of hip pain. We will review the pertinent anatomy of the quadratus femoris muscle, summarize the current literature on quadratus femoris muscle tear, and report our experience in the diagnosis of quadratus femoris muscle tear on MRI. MRI is an important tool in assisting clinicians to make a correct diagnosis for the patient who presents with hip pain. Although quadratus femoris muscle tear is an uncommon injury, radiologists should be aware of this entity to assist with making a diagnosis that is usually unsuspected clinically."}
{"id": "17951670", "title": "Angiogenesis in arthritis: methodological and analytical details.", "content": "Angiogenesis in arthritis: methodological and analytical details. Angiogenesis is the formation of new blood vessels from existing vessels. The formation of new vessels appears to be an early and fundamental process for the evolution of the inflammatory response in synovial joints affected by arthritis. The propagation of new vessels in the synovial membrane allows the invasion of this tissue over the intraarticular cartilage in an adherent fashion. This process appears to support the active infiltration of synovial membrane into cartilage and results in erosion and destruction of the cartilage. This process results in joint damage and ultimately in deformity, as the normal joint architecture and balance of tendons becomes disrupted. Angiogenesis may be assessed in vivo by direct visualization through the introduction of a needle arthroscope using local anesthesia, differential patterns of vascular morphology have been described in seropositive rheumatoid arthritis and seronegative arthritides such as psoriatic and reactive arthritis. At a microscopic level, angiogenesis may be examined in the tissue sections using immunohistochemistry or immunofluorescence. Endothelial cells may also be studied in vitro in culture to examine production of angiogenic growth factors, cell activation, migration, and tubule formation. Finally, synovial biopsy explants may be cultured ex vivo to provide a model simulating the intra-articular milieu."}
{"id": "17951350", "title": "Recurrent symptoms after shoulder instability repair: direct MR arthrographic assessment--correlation with second-look surgical evaluation.", "content": "Recurrent symptoms after shoulder instability repair: direct MR arthrographic assessment--correlation with second-look surgical evaluation. To retrospectively determine the accuracy of direct magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography of the shoulder in patients with recurrent or residual signs and/or symptoms of instability after prior instability repair, with surgical findings as the reference standard. After institutional ethics review board approval was obtained and informed consent was waived, 40 patients (31 men, eight women; mean age, 28 years) with recurrent instability after previous instability repair who underwent direct shoulder MR arthrography before repeat surgery were studied. Two musculoskeletal radiologists reviewed direct MR arthrographic studies by using consensus agreement in a blinded fashion. MR assessment included evaluation of the labrum (overall, superior, anterior and anteroinferior, posterior and posteroinferior), rotator cuff, biceps tendon, articular cartilage, and presence or absence of a Hill-Sachs lesion. Mean interval between MR arthrography and repeat surgery was 6.2 months (range, 6 days to 36 months). Surgical reports were compared with MR arthrographic results, and accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of direct MR arthrography were determined. Accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity, respectively, of direct MR arthrography in diagnosis of overall labral tears (n = 26) were 91.9%, 96.2%, and 81.8%; those of superior labral tears (n = 16) were 89.2%, 93.8%, and 85.7%; and those of anteroinferior tears (n = 17) were 91.9%, 100%, and 85%. Overall accuracy for detecting rotator cuff injury (n = 17) was 87.2% (sensitivity, 94.1%; specificity, 81.8%); accuracy for biceps injury (n = 7) was 95.7% (sensitivity, 85.7%; specificity, 100%); accuracy for glenoid and/or humeral articular cartilage abnormality (n = 15) was 76.2% (sensitivity, 73.3%; specificity, 83.3%); and accuracy for Hill-Sachs lesion (n = 14) was 93.3%. Direct MR arthrography is accurate (91.9%) for assessing labral pathologic conditions and other internal derangements of the shoulder in patients with recurrent or residual signs and/or symptoms after prior shoulder instability repair."}
{"id": "17950628", "title": "Anterior acromioplasty for the shoulder impingement syndrome: long-term outcome.", "content": "Anterior acromioplasty for the shoulder impingement syndrome: long-term outcome. This study reanalyzes a group of patients who had anterior acromioplasty between 1975 and 1979, whose results were reported in 1990 at a mean 8-year follow-up, to identify any continuing problems or new complications, to assess the frequency of further surgery, and to define long-term outcome. Thirty-two patients were included. The mean follow-up was 25 years (range, 21 to 27 years). All had the impingement syndrome. At surgery, there was tendon and bursal inflammation with fibrosis in 28 shoulders and a small rotator cuff tear in 4. Five shoulders have required additional surgery: distal clavicle excision in one, revision anterior acromioplasty in one, and repair of a new rotator cuff tear in three. Of the shoulders, 23 (72%) were reported as having no or slight pain. Positive patient satisfaction was expressed in 28 (88%). Comparisons were made to the opposite shoulder in this older patient group. The mean within-patient difference between the operative shoulder and the opposite shoulder on the Simple Shoulder Test was 0.4, with scores of 8.9 for the operative side and 9.3 for the opposite side (P = .47). The mean difference in the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeon's score was 8.6 points, with scores of 75 for the operative side and 83 for the opposite side (P = .02). The results of open acromioplasty for the impingement syndrome are usually maintained over time. Acromioplasty does not always prevent the need for subsequent rotator cuff surgery, but the rate of reoperation has remained relatively low in the long follow-up period."}
{"id": "17939614", "title": "Use of a movement system impairment diagnosis for physical therapy in the management of a patient with shoulder pain.", "content": "Use of a movement system impairment diagnosis for physical therapy in the management of a patient with shoulder pain. Case report. Based on our assumption that subtle deviations in the precision of shoulder movement cause tissue injury, we have developed a set of movement-related diagnoses for shoulder problems. The purposes of this case report are to (1) illustrate the use of a movement system impairment (MSI) diagnosis in a patient with shoulder pain, (2) illustrate how the MSI diagnosis guided treatment prescription, and (3) describe the outcomes of treatment based on a MSI diagnosis for shoulder impingement. The patient was a 46-year-old female with recurrent right-shoulder pain of 2 months' duration. Initially she reported that her pain was constant but varied in intensity and had increased gradually over time. Shoulder pain limited her ability to bicycle and perform reaching movements. The systematic clinical examination for assessing the patient's preferred alignment and movements included items related to pain, alignment, movement, muscle length, muscle strength, and function. Based on the examination, the MSI diagnosis was humeral anterior glide with scapular downward rotation. The treatment focused on correction of her shoulder alignment, functional movements, and associated impairments of muscle function. The patient was seen 4 times in 6 weeks. The patient was pain free with all activities at 1 month and there was no recurrence of symptoms 3 years after the last physical therapy visit. A MSI diagnosis of humeral anterior glide with scapular downward rotation guided physical therapy treatment and resulted in positive short- and long-term outcomes."}
{"id": "17939484", "title": "Isolated synovial cyst of the acromio-clavicular joint associated with joint degeneration and an intact rotator cuff.", "content": "Isolated synovial cyst of the acromio-clavicular joint associated with joint degeneration and an intact rotator cuff. The majority of acromioclavicular joint cysts are the manifestation of underlying pathology of the rotator cuff. A chronic rotator cuff tear should be the first option in differential diagnosis, when facing such a condition, although this is not always the case. A case of a 67-year-old male patient, who abruptly developed a painless lump over his right acromioclavicular joint, is presented. Imaging studies were diagnostic for a cystic lesion, and degeneration of the acromioclavicular joint without communication with the subdeltoid bursa and the glenohumeral joint. The rotator cuff was intact. Surgical treatment, with cyst removal and resection of the distal end of the clavicle, was performed. The lesion was proved to be a synovial cyst. Eighteen months postoperatively, the patient was asymptomatic and no recurrence of the cyst was evident."}
{"id": "17937973", "title": "In vitro kinematics of the shoulder following rotator cuff injury.", "content": "In vitro kinematics of the shoulder following rotator cuff injury. Tears in the rotator cuff may result in altered mechanics of the glenohumeral joint. It is not unusual for some patients with cuff tears to exhibit near normal motion with the injured shoulder, while other patients with the same magnitude of injury are unable to achieve full elevation on the injured side. The effect of simulated tears of the rotator cuff on active glenohumeral joint kinematics was investigated by testing eight cadaveric specimens using an in vitro shoulder simulator. Active abduction of the humerus was produced by applying forces to simulate loading of the supraspinatus, subscapularis, infraspinatus/teres minor, and the anterior, middle, and posterior thirds of the deltoid. Three sequential 1cm lesions were created in the rotator cuff, the first two in the supraspinatus tendon and the third in the subscapularis tendon. The plane of abduction moved posteriorly and became more abnormal throughout abduction with increased tear size. No difference was observed in the internal/external rotation of the humerus or the position of the humeral head on the glenoid during elevation. In order to generate the motions achieved by the intact joint, patients with rotator cuff insufficiency likely employ other muscle groups. Retraining muscle groups surrounding the glenohumeral joint may decrease the need for surgical interventions."}
{"id": "17931906", "title": "Effect of selective experimental suprascapular nerve block on abduction and external rotation strength of the shoulder.", "content": "Effect of selective experimental suprascapular nerve block on abduction and external rotation strength of the shoulder. The relative contribution to strength of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus to abduction and external rotation is not precisely known. Optimal testing positions for clinical assessment of supraspinatus and infraspinatus function are not precisely defined. We sequentially performed electromyographically controlled, complete nerve blocks of the suprascapular nerve, first at the spinoglenoid notch, to induce complete, isolated infraspinatus palsy. The suprascapular nerve was then blocked at the scapular notch, resulting in complete supraspinatus and infraspinatus palsy in 11 volunteers. Strength of abduction in the scapular plane and of external rotation was measured at 0 degrees , 30 degrees , 60 degrees , and 90 degrees of abduction, by use of a validated, instrumented strength-measuring device. Complete isolated infraspinatus palsy was obtained in 11 volunteers and complete combined supraspinatus and infraspinatus palsy in 9. Infraspinatus palsy alone led to a loss of approximately 70% of external rotation strength and approximately 45% of abduction strength. The degree of loss of strength was not dependent on the angle of abduction. Paralysis of the infraspinatus and the supraspinatus led to a loss of external rotator strength of approximately 80% and a loss of abductor strength of approximately 75%. The loss was again independent of the angle of abduction at which the testing took place. Testing of supraspinatus and infraspinatus strength can be performed at any angle between 30 degrees and 90 degrees without a change in specificity. The contribution of the infraspinatus to abduction strength is great. In the acute situation, the teres minor does not contribute more than 20% of external rotation strength at any degree of abduction."}
{"id": "17931904", "title": "Correlation of atrophy and fatty infiltration on strength and integrity of rotator cuff repairs: a study in thirteen patients.", "content": "Correlation of atrophy and fatty infiltration on strength and integrity of rotator cuff repairs: a study in thirteen patients. In 13 patients, the development of supraspinatus muscle atrophy and fatty infiltration after rotator cuff tendon repair was quantified prospectively via magnetic resonance imaging. Intraoperative electrical nerve stimulation at repair showed that the maximal supraspinatus tension (up to 200 N) strongly correlated with the anatomic cross-sectional muscle area and with muscle fatty infiltration (ranging from 12 N/cm(2) in Goutallier stage 3 to 42 N/cm(2) in Goutallier stage 0). Within 1 year after successful tendon repair (n = 8), fatty infiltration did not recover, and atrophy improved partially at best; however, if the repair failed (n = 5), atrophy and fatty infiltration progressed significantly. The ability of the rotator cuff muscles to develop tension not only correlates with their atrophy but also closely correlates with their degree of fatty infiltration. With current repair techniques, atrophy and fatty infiltration appear to be irreversible, despite successful tendon repair. Unexpectedly, not only weak but also very strong muscles are at risk for repair failure."}
{"id": "17931898", "title": "Clinical results of revision shoulder arthroplasty for glenoid component loosening.", "content": "Clinical results of revision shoulder arthroplasty for glenoid component loosening. We retrospectively reviewed 32 patients who underwent glenoid revision surgery after total shoulder arthroplasty to compare the results of revision total shoulder arthroplasty with those of revision hemiarthroplasty and to identify factors associated with poor results after revision shoulder arthroplasty for glenoid component loosening. Results were reviewed at a mean follow-up of 4 years (range, 2-8 years). Glenoid reimplantation resulted in significant pain relief (P < .0001), improvement in American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) score (P < .02), and external rotation (24 degrees to 44 degrees , P < .004). Revision to a hemiarthroplasty also resulted in significant pain relief (P < .01) and improvement in ASES score (P < .05). For the treatment of glenoid loosening without glenohumeral instability, both reimplantation of a glenoid component and revision to a hemiarthroplasty improved function, satisfaction, and level of pain. Reimplantation of a new glenoid component offered greater improvements in pain (P < .008) and external rotation (increase of 20 degrees versus 3 degrees , P < .03) compared with hemiarthroplasty. For patients with preoperative glenohumeral instability, revision surgery did not improve motion, function, or pain significantly. Risk factors associated with a poor outcome after revision arthroplasty included persistent glenohumeral instability, rotator cuff tears, and malunion of the greater tuberosity."}
{"id": "17923308", "title": "Radioulnar heterotopic ossification after distal biceps tendon repair: results following surgical resection.", "content": "Radioulnar heterotopic ossification after distal biceps tendon repair: results following surgical resection. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the clinical outcome of patients who had excision of a radioulnar heterotopic ossification (HO) as a complication of a distal biceps tendon repair. The hypothesis is that there are no measurable clinical losses that persist after excision. Eight consecutive patients were identified between 1996 and 2005. All were treated with HO excision using a standard surgical technique and rehabilitation protocol. These individuals were studied and compared to a matched cohort of 8 patients who had a distal biceps tendon repair with a similar surgical technique that was uncomplicated. All study patients were evaluated at a minimum 1-year follow-up with physical examination, isokinetic dynamometry, and outcome measures. Comparisons were made both between groups as well as side-to-side within groups. At follow-up examination, the mean arc of forearm rotation in the HO group measured 151 degrees. The mean arc of forearm rotation in the control group measured 165 degrees. With the numbers available, no measurable differences in arc of motion were identified between groups (p > .05). When compared to the normal, uninvolved side, patients who developed HO lost an average of 9 degrees of forearm pronation (p < .01). No differences were identified between the HO and control groups with respect to isokinetic torque, endurance strength, or Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) questionnaire (American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, Rosemont, IL) scores (p > .05). When patients develop motion-limiting HO after distal biceps tendon repair, surgical resection can lead to a functional recovery of elbow and forearm motion. Biceps strength can be maintained with no measurable differences in clinical outcome when compared to individuals who do not suffer this complication following distal biceps repair."}
{"id": "17916488", "title": "Superior Bennett lesion: a bone fragment at the posterosuperior glenoid rim in 5 athletes.", "content": "Superior Bennett lesion: a bone fragment at the posterosuperior glenoid rim in 5 athletes. In throwing athletes, a Bennett lesion is a bony spur that usually forms at the posteroinferior glenoid rim and sometimes becomes painful. We encountered superior Bennett lesions in the shoulders of 5 athletes, which were detected at the posterosuperior glenoid rim as a separate bone fragment. In all 5 athletes this lesion appeared to be the main cause of shoulder pain during throwing or overhead activity. The lesions were easily visualized on plain radiographs (axial view, scapular Y view, and 45 degrees craniocaudal view) or computed tomography scans. Tenderness was detected over the posterior aspect of the glenohumeral joint, the pain provocation test specific for SLAP lesions was positive, and posterior shoulder pain was elicited by forced external rotation at 90 degrees of abduction in all 5 cases. The pain was diminished or decreased by injection of local anesthetic around the lesion. At arthroscopy, detachment of the posterosuperior labrum and posterior capsular tightness were detected in all 5 cases. Through the detached portion of the posterosuperior labrum, we could easily reach an unstable mobile bone fragment, which was resected arthroscopically. Although the pathologic mechanism is unclear, the mobility of the bone fragment appeared to be related to the occurrence of symptoms."}
{"id": "17916487", "title": "Arthroscopic release of the superior transverse ligament and SLAP refixation in a case of suprascapular nerve entrapment.", "content": "Arthroscopic release of the superior transverse ligament and SLAP refixation in a case of suprascapular nerve entrapment. We report a case of suprascapular nerve entrapment at the suprascapular notch combined with a type II SLAP lesion resulting in supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscle weakness and shoulder pain in a 27-year-old female professional handball player. The magnetic resonance imaging scan showed significant atrophy of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles. Electromyography revealed an isolated proximal lesion of the suprascapular nerve. The patient was treated by an arthroscopic release of the superior transverse ligament and repair of the type II SLAP lesion. Follow-up evaluations were performed 6 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months postoperatively. The Constant score improved from 51 to 84 points. Electromyography studies 3 and 6 months after surgery showed significant improvement with normal reinnervation of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles. To our knowledge, this is the first report of proximal suprascapular nerve entrapment with coincidence of a SLAP lesion that was treated arthroscopically. On the basis of this case, we found that arthroscopic release of the superior transverse ligament is an effective procedure for decompression of the suprascapular nerve. Although it is a technically demanding procedure, the arthroscopic approach has the advantage of detecting concomitant lesions such as SLAP lesions."}
{"id": "17916468", "title": "Radiofrequency-based plasma microtenotomy compared with arthroscopic subacromial decompression yields equivalent outcomes for rotator cuff tendinosis.", "content": "Radiofrequency-based plasma microtenotomy compared with arthroscopic subacromial decompression yields equivalent outcomes for rotator cuff tendinosis. This study aimed to determine whether radiofrequency (RF)-based plasma microtenotomy (microdebridement) was effective for treating chronic supraspinatus tendinosis. The institutional ethics committee approved the study design, and all patients signed informed consent forms. Patients (age range, 30 to 70 years) were considered for enrollment if 6 months of active conservative treatment had failed and they had Neer stage II impingement syndrome, positive radiographic evidence of type II acromion, and magnetic resonance imaging or ultrasound evidence of supraspinatus tendinosis. Patients (N = 60) were randomly assigned to undergo arthroscopic subacromial decompression or RF-based plasma microtenotomy. For microtenotomy, a bipolar RF-based probe (TOPAZ; ArthroCare, Austin, TX) was used to perform microdebridement in the supraspinatus tendon; patients did not undergo acromioplasty. Outcomes evaluation consisted of self-reported pain via a visual analog scale, as well as functional assessment (American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons [ASES] survey, Constant score, and University of California, Los Angeles [UCLA] questionnaire). Statistical analyses were performed by use of factorial dependent-measures analysis of variance tests. Age and baseline scores on the visual analog scale (mean +/- SD) were 52.0 +/- 6.7 and 53.2 +/- 6.6 years and 8.4 +/- 0.9 and 8.2 +/- 0.8 points in the microtenotomy and arthroscopic subacromial decompression groups, respectively. A significant reduction in pain (P < .001) and improved function (P < .001 for all measures) were observed in both groups postoperatively. Both treatment groups had almost identical longitudinal recovery profiles for pain relief (P = .416) and restoration of function (P = .964 for ASES score, P = .978 for Constant score, and P = .794 for UCLA score). At 1 year, the median pain score was 1.0, and all patients had ASES, Constant, and UCLA scores of greater than 90, greater than 80, and greater than 30, respectively. Both procedures were associated with significant improvement postoperatively, but the RF-based plasma microtenotomy procedure draws into question the need for a more extensive procedure such as subacromial decompression in this patient population. Level I, therapeutic randomized controlled study."}
{"id": "17916467", "title": "Results of modified Latarjet reconstruction in patients with anteroinferior instability and significant bone loss.", "content": "Results of modified Latarjet reconstruction in patients with anteroinferior instability and significant bone loss. The purpose of this study was to analyze the results of the modified Latarjet procedure for shoulder instability associated with an inverted-pear glenoid (bone loss of at least 25% of the width of the inferior glenoid) or an engaging Hill-Sachs lesion. From March 1996 to December 2002, 102 patients underwent an open Latarjet procedure for shoulder instability with an inverted-pear glenoid, with or without an associated engaging Hill-Sachs lesion, by the 2 senior authors (S.S.B. and J.F.D.), and 47 of them were available for follow-up physical examination. The remaining 55 patients were contacted by telephone or letter to see if they had had recurrent dislocation or subluxation. The mean age of the patients was 26.5 +/- 6.6 years (range, 16 to 41 years). There were 46 male patients and 1 female patient. Preoperatively, mean forward elevation was 177.2 degrees +/- 13.6 degrees (range, 90 degrees to 180 degrees) and mean external rotation with the arm at the side was 55.3 degrees +/- 16.1 degrees (range, 0 degrees to 80 degrees). All patients had a positive apprehension sign preoperatively. The median number of dislocations before surgery was 6, with 20 patients having had more than 15 dislocations preoperatively. The mean follow-up time for the 47 patients who were personally examined was 59.0 +/- 18.5 months (range, 32 to 108 months). Postoperatively, mean forward elevation was 179.6 degrees +/- 2.0 degrees (range, 170 degrees to 180 degrees; gain of 2.4 degrees) and external rotation with the arm at the side was 50.2 degrees +/- 12.6 degrees (range, 22 degrees to 78 degrees; loss of 5.1 degrees). As for postoperative functional scores, the mean Constant score was 94.4 and the mean Walch-Duplay score was 91.7. None of these 47 patients showed any further dislocation, and 1 of them still had a positive apprehension sign (2.2%) indicating subluxation. However, 4 patients out of the total 102 who underwent the modified Latarjet procedure had a recurrence. With 4 recurrent dislocations and 1 recurrent subluxation, there was a 4.9% recurrence rate. The 4 patients with recurrent dislocations were not among the 47 who returned for personal follow-up evaluation. The 2 senior authors (S.S.B. and J.F.D.) have previously reported an unacceptably high recurrence rate (67%) for arthroscopic Bankart repair in the presence of an inverted-pear glenoid with or without an engaging Hill-Sachs lesion. They have recommended an open modified Latarjet procedure in such patients. The present study confirms the validity of that recommendation, because the same 2 surgeons have had only a 4.9% recurrence rate in that same category of patient at a mean follow-up of 59 months. Furthermore, the results of this study show the efficacy of the modified Latarjet procedure in the extremely challenging category of patients who present with such dramatic bone loss that soft-tissue reconstruction, either open or arthroscopic, is not a reasonable option. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "17908895", "title": "Osteochondral transplantation to treat osteochondral lesions in the elbow.", "content": "Osteochondral transplantation to treat osteochondral lesions in the elbow. Effective treatment of osteochondral lesions in the elbow remains challenging. Arthroscopic d\u00e9bridement and microfracture or retrograde drilling techniques are often insufficient and provide only temporary symptomatic relief. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the treatment of these lesions with osteochondral autografts. From 1999 to 2002, seven patients with osteochondral lesions of the capitellum humeri (five patients), trochlea (one patient), or radial head (one patient) were treated with cylindrical osteochondral grafts, which were harvested from the non-weight-bearing area of the proximal aspect of the lateral femoral condyle. The patients (three female and four male patients with an average age of seventeen years) were evaluated preoperatively and postoperatively, with an average follow-up of fifty-nine months. The Broberg and Morrey score was chosen for functional evaluation of the elbow (with regard to motion, pain, strength, activities of daily living, and stability), and the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score was used for the analysis of pain. All patients had imaging studies done preoperatively to evaluate the defect and postoperatively to assess the ingrowth and viability of the graft. The ipsilateral knee was examined for donor-site morbidity. The Broberg and Morrey score improved from a mean (and standard deviation) of 76.3 +/- 13.2 preoperatively to 97.6 +/- 2.7 postoperatively, and pain scores were significantly reduced (p < 0.05). The mean elbow extension lag of 4.7 degrees +/- 5.8 degrees was reduced to 0 degrees postoperatively. Compared with the contralateral side, there was a mean preoperative flexion lag of 12.9 degrees +/- 13.8 degrees . At the time of the final follow-up, flexion was free and was equal bilaterally in all patients. None of the plain radiographs made at the time of follow-up showed any degenerative changes or signs of osteoarthritis. The postoperative magnetic resonance imaging scans showed graft viability and a congruent chondral surface in all seven patients. No donor-site morbidity was noted at one year postoperatively. The osteochondral autograft procedure described in the present study provides the opportunity to retain viable hyaline cartilage for the repair of osteochondral lesions in the elbow while restoring joint congruity and function and perhaps reducing the risk of osteoarthritis. These medium-term results suggest that the risks of a two-joint procedure are modest and justifiable. In addition, the described technique provides an option for revision surgery after the failure of other surgical procedures."}
{"id": "17908886", "title": "Immobilization in external rotation after shoulder dislocation reduces the risk of recurrence. A randomized controlled trial.", "content": "Immobilization in external rotation after shoulder dislocation reduces the risk of recurrence. A randomized controlled trial. An initial anterior dislocation of the shoulder becomes recurrent in 66% to 94% of young patients after immobilization of the shoulder in internal rotation. Magnetic resonance imaging and studies of cadavera have shown that coaptation of the Bankart lesion is better with the arm in external rotation than it is with the arm in internal rotation. Our aim was to determine the benefit of immobilization in external rotation in a randomized controlled trial. One hundred and ninety-eight patients with an initial anterior dislocation of the shoulder were randomly assigned to be treated with immobilization in either internal rotation (ninety-four shoulders) or external rotation (104 shoulders) for three weeks. The primary outcome measure was a recurrent dislocation or subluxation. The minimum follow-up period was two years. The follow-up rate was seventy-four (79%) of ninety-four in the internal rotation group and eighty-five (82%) of 104 in the external rotation group. The compliance rate was thirty-nine (53%) of seventy-four in the internal rotation group and sixty-one (72%) of eighty-five in the external rotation group (p = 0.013). The intention-to-treat analysis revealed that the recurrence rate in the external rotation group (twenty-two of eighty-five; 26%) was significantly lower than that in the internal rotation group (thirty-one of seventy-four; 42%) (p = 0.033) with a relative risk reduction of 38.2%. In the subgroup of patients who were thirty years of age or younger, the relative risk reduction was 46.1%. Immobilization in external rotation after an initial shoulder dislocation reduces the risk of recurrence compared with that associated with the conventional method of immobilization in internal rotation. This treatment method appears to be particularly beneficial for patients who are thirty years of age or younger."}
{"id": "17908566", "title": "Musculoskeletal disorders in referrals for suspected cervical radiculopathy.", "content": "Musculoskeletal disorders in referrals for suspected cervical radiculopathy. To determine (1) the prevalence of selected common musculoskeletal disorders in patients referred for electrodiagnosis when cervical radiculopathy is suspected and (2) whether these findings predict electrodiagnostic study outcome. Prospective study. Electrodiagnostic laboratories in departments of physical medicine and rehabilitation at 5 participating institutions. A total of 191 subjects undergoing electrodiagnostic evaluations for upper-limb symptoms when cervical radiculopathy was suspected. Not applicable. Prevalence of certain musculoskeletal disorders (myofascial pain, shoulder impingement, lateral epicondylitis, de Quervain's tenosynovitis) and outcomes of electrodiagnostic testing (normal study, cervical radiculopathy, or another electrodiagnostically confirmed diagnosis). The total prevalence of musculoskeletal disorders was 42%. The prevalence in those with a normal study was 69%, compared with 29% in those with cervical radiculopathy (P<.001) and 45% in those with another diagnosis (P=.02). Musculoskeletal disorders are common in patients with suspected cervical radiculopathy. Although the presence of certain musculoskeletal disorders makes having a normal electrodiagnostic evaluation significantly more likely, the high prevalence among both patients with normal studies and those with radiculopathy and other disorders limits the usefulness of this information in precisely predicting study outcome. The presence of musculoskeletal disorders should not preclude electrodiagnostic testing when otherwise indicated."}
{"id": "17907433", "title": "Greater tuberosity osteotomy and teres minor transfer for irreparable superior rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Greater tuberosity osteotomy and teres minor transfer for irreparable superior rotator cuff tears. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the mid- to long- term objective, subjective and radiographic results of patients who underwent anterior-superior transfer of remaining infraspinatus tendon and teres minor tendon for irreparable superior rotator cuff tears. Thirteen patients were identified who underwent infraspinatus tendon transfer to a more superior position on the humeral head between January 1, 1990 and December 31, 2001. Nine shoulders in eight patients were available for clinical examination, radiographs and questionnaire follow-up at an average of 83.5 +/- 31.4 months. Radiographic examination revealed 1 fibrous union and 6 united tuberosity osteotomies. Samilson-Prieto grading of radiographs revealed 4 shoulders with mild, and 4 shoulders with moderate, OA. Seven of the patients were satisfied with their shoulder. There were two poor outcomes. Local antero-superior teres minor and residual infraspinatus transfer provides a viable option for irreparable rotator cuff defects. Mid- to long-term satisfactory outcome was achieved in 7 out of 9 shoulders."}
{"id": "17906420", "title": "Muscle strain of the subscapularis muscle: a case report.", "content": "Muscle strain of the subscapularis muscle: a case report. We report on a case of muscle strain of the subscapularis muscle in a baseball player. An out-fielder (throws right-handed and bats left-handed) hurt his right shoulder while playing baseball. He complained of right-shoulder pain just after he forcefully hit his right hand against the fence in an attempt to jump and catch a flying ball with a glove on the left hand during a baseball game. Fat-suppressed T2-weighted magnetic resonance images (MRIs) of the right shoulder joint revealed muscle strain in the middle part of the subscapularis muscle, and the injury was surmised to have occurred on account of eccentric contraction of the subscapularis muscle. The case was considered to have moderate muscle strain, because he had modest muscle weakness with a negative lift-off test. Active stretching exercises were begun just after his first visit to our clinic, and throwing exercises were started 3 weeks later, by when the right-shoulder pain had completely disappeared. Repeat MRIs of the right shoulder joint obtained 4 weeks after his first visit to our clinic revealed a significant reduction of the high-intensity lesions in the subscapularis muscle. Conservative treatment was effective for managing moderate muscle strain of the subscapularis muscle. Muscle strain of the subscapularis muscle should be taken into consideration in the differential diagnosis of shoulder injuries in athletes."}
{"id": "17903710", "title": "Contributions of the different rabbit models to our understanding of rotator cuff pathology.", "content": "Contributions of the different rabbit models to our understanding of rotator cuff pathology. Animal models designed to investigate the biologic aspects of rotator cuff pathology are being used and being developed in the rat, rabbit, dog, and other mammals. The current models have provided valuable information regarding the etiology, pathogenesis, and healing potential of the tendon, as well as effective surgical repair techniques for rotator cuff tears. Rabbit models have primarily been used to describe the muscular changes, rotator cuff enthesis formation, and growth factor expression after rotator cuff injury. This article will serve to review the data obtained from previously described rabbit models and a newly developed rabbit model for studying rotator cuff pathology."}
{"id": "17894592", "title": "Relationship of physical examination test of shoulder instability to arthroscopic findings in dogs.", "content": "Relationship of physical examination test of shoulder instability to arthroscopic findings in dogs. To determine the diagnostic validity of commonly used physical examination maneuvers for shoulder instability. Retrospective study. Dogs (n=24) referred for shoulder arthroscopy. Results of physical maneuvers and arthroscopic findings were recorded and sensitivity, specificity, positive likelihood ratios (LR+), and negative likelihood ratios (LR-) were calculated for each of 4 physical examination test findings for arthroscopic changes in the medial, lateral, cranial, or caudal compartments of the shoulder joint viewed in dorsal recumbency by lateral and craniomedial portals. Distribution of compartment changes was: medial (17 dogs), caudal (15), cranial (12), and lateral (5). The biceps test had a moderate effect (LR+=9) on post-test probability of cranial compartment changes and a small effect on post-test probability of lateral and caudal compartment changes (LR+=3 and 2.4, respectively). Hyperabduction had a minimal effect and mediolateral instability test had a small effect (LR+=1.64 and 2.68, respectively) on post-test probability of medial compartment changes. Craniocaudal instability test had little to no effect on post-test probability of changes in any compartment. Physical examination tests evaluated were limited in their ability to predict the type of arthroscopic pathology in this study population. Clinicians should understand that a diagnostic test performs inconsistently based on prevalence of a condition in a given patient population. The use of likelihood ratios can assist clinicians in determining the probability of intraarticular changes from a group with a differing prevalence than the patient population presented."}
{"id": "17889340", "title": "3D shape analysis of the supraspinatus muscle: a clinical study of the relationship between shape and pathology.", "content": "3D shape analysis of the supraspinatus muscle: a clinical study of the relationship between shape and pathology. Rotator cuff disorders are prevalent and can cause pain and reduced range of motion and strength. Accurate, noninvasive diagnosis of rotator cuff disorders is therefore important. In this work, we study the relationship between several three-dimensional (3D) shape measurements of the supraspinatus and its pathologic conditions. The objective is to explore the utility of 3D shape descriptors in distinguishing supraspinatus pathologies, leading to computer-aided diagnosis of rotator cuff disorders. We acquired magnetic resonance images of the shoulder from 73 patients, separated into five pathology groups: normal (14), tear (20), tear and atrophy (13), tear and retraction (15), and tear and atrophy and retraction (11). We segmented the 3D surface of the supraspinatus from each magnetic resonance image, and computed 11 3D shape characteristics for each. We performed an analysis of variance (ANOVA) test for each measurement to test the null hypothesis that the means of the pathology groups were equal. The most promising of the measurements, as determined by the ANOVA test, were used to train a support vector machine classifier to automatically assign new supraspinata to the correct pathology groups. The ANOVA test results rejected the null hypothesis (p < .0045) for 7 of our 11 measurements. Highlights of the results from the support vector machine classifier were 79% accuracy in distinguishing normals from abnormals, and 82% accuracy in distinguishing atrophy from retraction, our main clinical motivation. These scores were tabulated based on leave-one-out cross-validation. From the results, we draw the conclusion that 3D shape analysis may be helpful in the diagnosis of rotator cuff disorders, but further investigation is required to develop a 3D shape descriptor that yields ideal pathology group separation. The results of this study suggest several promising avenues of future research to meet this goal."}
{"id": "17885069", "title": "Rim-rent tear of the rotator cuff: a common and easily overlooked partial tear.", "content": "Rim-rent tear of the rotator cuff: a common and easily overlooked partial tear. The purpose of this study was to determine the incidence of rim-rent rotator cuff tears in a population of patients referred for shoulder MRI and to determine the sensitivity of MRI for the detection of these tears. Rim-rent tears are a common type of partial-thickness rotator cuff tear, much more commonly present than has been previously reported. In particular, infraspinatus rim-rent tears are more common than previously believed. Rim-rent tears of the infraspinatus tendon and those involving the anterior-most fibers of the supraspinatus tendon are commonly overlooked on MRI, possibly because of failure to appreciate the high incidence of these types of tears and failure to inspect the anterior-most fibers of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "17883968", "title": "Diagnosis and management of vascular injuries in the shoulder girdle of the overhead athlete.", "content": "Diagnosis and management of vascular injuries in the shoulder girdle of the overhead athlete. Vascular injuries represent a rare cause of shoulder pain and functional limitation among overhead athletes. Complaints of heaviness, fatigue, paresthesias, and effort-related pain should prompt the sports medicine clinician to consider vascular pathology as a possible cause of such symptoms. Position-dependent compression of the subclavian and axillary vessels within the thoracic outlet may result in functional limitation and a decline in overhead athletic performance, particularly when symptoms occur in the dominant upper limb. Treatment options include physical therapy and (in the case of thrombus) thrombolysis, but surgical decompression of the neurovascular bundle is generally advocated. This article reviews the diagnosis and management of effort thrombosis (also known as Paget-Schroetter syndrome), arterial thoracic outlet syndrome, and entrapment of the posterior circumflex humeral artery within the quadrilateral space. Familiarity with these conditions may help to minimize the risk of delayed diagnosis and associated morbidity."}
{"id": "17883186", "title": "Elective neck dissection in oral carcinoma: a critical review of the evidence.", "content": "Elective neck dissection in oral carcinoma: a critical review of the evidence. More than 50% of patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity have lymph node metastases and histological confirmation of metastatic disease is the most important prognostic factor. Among patients with a clinically negative neck, the incidence of occult metastases varies with the site, size and thickness of the primary tumour. The high incidence rate of occult cervical metastases (> 20%) in tumours of the lower part of the oral cavity is the main argument in favour of elective treatment of the neck. The usual treatment of patients with clinically palpable metastatic lymph nodes has been radical neck dissection. This classical surgical procedure involves not only resection of level I to V lymph nodes of the neck but also the tail of the parotid, submandibular gland, sternocleidomastoid muscle, internal jugular vein and spinal accessory nerve. It is a safe oncological surgical procedure that significantly reduces the risk of regional recurrences, however it produces significant post-operative morbidity, mainly shoulder dysfunction. Aiming to reduce morbidity, Ward and Roben described a modification of the procedure sparing the spinal accessory nerve to prevent post-operative shoulder morbidity. Several clinical and pathological studies have demonstrated that the pattern of metastatic lymph node metastases occurs in a predictable fashion in patients with oral and oropharyngeal carcinoma. The use of selective supraomohyoid neck dissection as the elective treatment of the neck, in oral cancer patients, is now well established. However, its role in the treatment of clinically positive neck patients is controversial. Some Authors advocate this type of selective neck dissection in patients with limited neck disease at the upper levels of the neck, without jeopardizing neck control. The main factors supporting this approach are the usually good prognosis in patients with single levels I or II metastasis independent of the extent of neck dissection, and the low rates of level V involvement in oral cavity tumours. Furthermore, the high incidence of clinically false-positive lymph nodes in oral cavity cancer patients is well recognized. In selected cases, supraomohyoid dissection could be extended to level IV, and followed by radiotherapy when indicated. Several reports have confirmed the usefulness of minimally invasive sentinel lymph node biopsy in melanoma and breast tumours. However, only preliminary data testing the feasibility of the method exist regarding the management of oral and oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma. The complexity of lymphatic drainage and the presence of deep lymphatics of the neck make application of this method difficult. This attractive concept has recently been explored by several investigators who examined the feasibility of identifying the sentinel lymph node in primary echelons of drainage from oral cavity squamous carcinoma. The current knowledge of sentinel lymph node biopsy does not allow avoiding the indication of elective neck dissection in clinical practice. Sentinel lymph node biopsy cannot be considered the standard of care at this time. However, there are multi-institutional clinical trials testing this approach. Management of occult neck node metastasis continues to be a matter of debate. The role of imaging methods such as ultrasound-guided needle biopsy, sentinel node biopsy and positron emission tomography-computed tomography are still being evaluated as alternatives to elective neck dissections. Whether one of these techniques will change the current management of cervical node metastasis remains to be proved in prospective multi-institutional trials."}
{"id": "17882047", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the long head of the biceps tendon: benefit of coplanar image.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the long head of the biceps tendon: benefit of coplanar image. To evaluate coplanar imaging of the long head of the biceps tendon. We retrospectively compared coronal oblique magnetic resonance images aligned with the principal supraspinatus tendon and with the intra-articular biceps tendon in 21 patients. Magnetic resonance images were analyzed for lesions depicted, including superior labral anteroposterior (SLAP) tears. Arthroscopic findings were reviewed. Coronal oblique images aligned with intra-articular biceps tendon depicted 18 (86%) of 21 coplanar intra-articular biceps tendons. Coplanar images identified 6 cases of tendinosis, 1 tear, 3 intra-articular ruptures, and 20 (95.2%) of 21 exact origins of the tendon. Arthroscopy revealed 18 SLAP tears. The detection of SLAP lesions between both coronal oblique magnetic resonance images was significantly different (P = 0.007). Advantages included imaging of the intra-articular biceps tendon with least partial-volume effects, definition of SLAP lesions and the tendinous origin at the supraglenoid tubercle, depiction of intra-articular bicipital ruptures, and increased sensitivity and specificity for intra-articular lesions."}
{"id": "17878796", "title": "A clinicoradiologic study of the shoulder in Apert syndrome.", "content": "A clinicoradiologic study of the shoulder in Apert syndrome. To provide a comprehensive radiographic, clinical, and functional description of the shoulder in Apert syndrome. A cohort of 9 Apert syndrome patients (ages, 9-27 years) followed at a tertiary care facility was included in this prospective study. Patients were clinically assessed with physical examination and completion of 2 validated functional assessment tools, the Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI) and American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons Pediatric Outcomes Data Collection Instrument (AAOS PODCI). Radiographs were obtained of both shoulders, and standardized-protocol magnetic resonance imaging was performed on the dominant shoulder of all participants. All patients had some degree of functional impairment attributable to their shoulder pathologic abnormality. Physical examination consistently revealed reduced forward flexion and abduction. Radiographic findings were similar to previous reports, with pervasive osseous dysplasia of the shoulder joint. Medial humeral head hypoplasia was seen in 8 of 9 patients and greater tuberosity overgrowth in 7 of 9 patients. Magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder, not previously performed in a cohort of Apert patients, allowed better delineation of abnormalities seen radiographically such as a central glenoid cleft seen in 8 of 9 patients. It also revealed a new finding of inferior glenoid inclination (7/9 patients) that has not been described in the literature. Very few soft tissue or degenerative abnormalities were demonstrated. The findings of this study confirm that patients with Apert syndrome are functionally impaired by their shoulder pathologic abnormality, which may have a similar clinical impact as the more well-described hand and foot anomalies. The global functioning of patients with Apert syndrome is equivalent to patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. The shoulder range of motion in Apert patients is decreased, most significantly in flexion and abduction. Radiographs confirmed previous imaging findings of glenohumeral dysplasia. The novel magnetic resonance imaging component demonstrated consistent inferior glenoid inclination, which may be a significant factor in their shoulder impairment. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed no significant soft tissue or degenerative abnormalities to account for their clinical disability. These findings have potential relevance in the surgical and clinical management of these patients. Level IV."}
{"id": "17868838", "title": "A comparison of the spectrum of intra-articular lesions in acute and chronic anterior shoulder instability.", "content": "A comparison of the spectrum of intra-articular lesions in acute and chronic anterior shoulder instability. The purpose of the study was to compare the incidence of secondary intra-articular shoulder lesions in patients with acute and chronic anterior shoulder instability. The occurrence of glenoid shape alterations (inverted pear glenoid) in recurrent instability was especially examined. Data for all arthroscopically ascertained intra-articular shoulder lesions in a series of 127 patients with acute and chronic traumatic anterior instability were recorded. Hemarthrosis was evident in all patients with acute dislocation and in 7 patients with chronic laxity who underwent surgery shortly after a dislocation episode. In both groups the presence of a chondral or osteochondral Hill-Sachs lesion was noted in 112 patients (88.1%), a Bankart lesion was noted in 106 patients (83.46%), an anterior labroligamentous periosteal sleeve avulsion (ALPSA) lesion was noted in 13 patients (10.23%), a SLAP lesion was noted in 26 patients (20.47%), a humeral avulsion of the glenohumeral ligament (HAGL) lesion was noted in 2 acutely dislocated shoulders (1.57%), and capsular laxity was noted in 33 patients (25.98%). All ALPSA lesions were noted in patients with chronic instability (P = .044), and both HAGL lesions were found in patients with acute dislocations (P = .002). In patients with acute dislocations the incidence of Bankart lesions was 78.2% (18/23), whereas in chronic cases the incidence of Bankart or ALPSA lesions was 97.11% (101/104) (P = .002). In the group with acute dislocations there was a Hill-Sachs lesion in 15 cases (65.21%) and chronic recurrent instability accounted for 97 cases (93.26%) (P = .001). The capsule was considered lax in 2 patients with acute instability and 31 patients with chronic instability (8.69% v 29.8%, P = .037). The overall frequency of SLAP lesions was not statistically significant between acute and chronic cases (P = .868), unlike their distribution. In acute cases there were 3 type I and 2 type II SLAP lesions, whereas in chronic cases there were 4 type I, 13 type II, 3 type III, and 1 type IV SLAP lesions. Loose bodies were found and removed in 17 chronic and 4 acute cases (16.34% v 13.04%, P = .903). A partial-thickness articular rotator cuff tear was found in 14 patients: 12 with chronic dislocations and 2 with acute dislocations (11.53% v 8.69%, P = .694). The cuff tears were partial articular surface tears, involving less than 25% of the cuff thickness, and were treated with debridement, and cuff repair was not necessary in any case. The inverted pear configuration of the glenoid was found in 16 cases with chronic instability (15.38%), whereas no patient with an acutely dislocated shoulder had an inverted pear-shaped glenoid (P = .044). Associated, secondary intra-articular lesions are more frequent in patients with chronic compared with acute shoulder instability, probably as a result of the repeated dislocation or subluxation episodes. Level IV, prognostic case series."}
{"id": "17868836", "title": "The inter-rater reliability of shoulder arthroscopy.", "content": "The inter-rater reliability of shoulder arthroscopy. The purpose of this study was to determine the inter-rater reliability of orthopaedic shoulder surgeons in evaluating the intra-articular structures involved in real-time diagnostic shoulder arthroscopy by use of a videotape model. Twenty patients (nineteen male patients and one female patient) diagnosed with recurrent anterior shoulder instability with a mean age of 27.9 years (range, 15 to 44 years) consented to participate in the study. Standardized diagnostic shoulder arthroscopies (modified Snyder protocol) were done by a single experienced surgeon, and the procedures were videotaped. The patients' clinical information, radiographs, and videotape of the arthroscopy were sent to 6 experienced shoulder surgeons. The surgeons reviewed the clinical information, assessed the intra-articular structures shown on the videotape, and recorded their diagnoses on a standardized data collection form. The primary outcome was the median overall percent agreement for the video review surgeons by structure evaluated. The median values for overall agreement for the video review surgeons were as follows: anterior labrum, 90%; inferior labrum, 75%; superior labrum, 60%; posterior labrum, 65%; superior glenohumeral ligament, 50%; middle glenohumeral ligament, 50%; anterior inferior glenohumeral ligament, 25%; glenoid surface, 35%; detection of Hill-Sachs lesion, 85%; biceps tendon, 70%; supraspinatus tendon, 85%; infraspinatus tendon, 70%; and subscapularis tendon, 80%. The inter-rater reliability for orthopaedic shoulder surgeons' arthroscopic assessment of intra-articular anatomy in patients with anterior shoulder instability varied by structure examined. It was very good (>80%) for the anterior labrum and supraspinatus tendon and in detecting a Hill-Sachs lesion, poor (<40%) for the glenoid and anterior inferior glenohumeral ligament, and intermediate for all other structures examined. Level V, diagnostic study, expert opinion."}
{"id": "17848703", "title": "Imaging of synovial chondromatosis with radiologic-pathologic correlation.", "content": "Imaging of synovial chondromatosis with radiologic-pathologic correlation. Primary synovial chondromatosis represents an uncommon benign neoplastic process with hyaline cartilage nodules in the subsynovial tissue of a joint, tendon sheath, or bursa. The nodules may enlarge and detach from the synovium. The knee, followed by the hip, in male adults are the most commonly involved sites and patient population. The pathologic appearance may simulate chondrosarcoma because of significant histologic atypia, and radiologic correlation to localize the process as synovially based is vital for correct diagnosis. Radiologic findings are frequently pathognomonic. Radiographs reveal multiple intraarticular calcifications (70%-95% of cases) of similar size and shape, distributed throughout the joint, with typical \"ring-and-arc\" chondroid mineralization. Extrinsic erosion of bone is seen in 20%-50% of cases. Computed tomography (CT) optimally depicts the calcified intraarticular fragments and extrinsic bone erosion. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging findings are more variable, depending on the degree of mineralization, although the most common pattern (77% of cases) reveals low to intermediate signal intensity with T1-weighting and very high signal intensity with T2-weighting with hypointense calcifications. These signal intensity characteristics on MR images and low attenuation of the nonmineralized regions on CT scans reflect the high water content of the cartilaginous lesions. CT and MR imaging depict the extent of the synovial disease (particularly surrounding soft-tissue involvement) and lobular growth. Secondary synovial chondromatosis can be distinguished from primary disease both radiologically (underlying articular disease and fewer chondral bodies of variable size and shape) and pathologically (concentric rings of growth). Treatment of primary disease is surgical synovectomy with removal of chondral fragments; recurrence rates range from 3% to 23%. Malignant transformation to chondrosarcoma is unusual (5% of cases) and, although difficult to distinguish from benign disease, is suggested by multiple recurrences and marrow invasion. Recognizing the appearances of primary synovial chondromatosis, which reflect their underlying pathologic characteristics, improves radiologic assessment and is important to optimize patient management."}
{"id": "17768188", "title": "Clinical and structural outcomes of nonoperative management of massive rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Clinical and structural outcomes of nonoperative management of massive rotator cuff tears. The natural history of massive rotator cuff tears is not well known. The purpose of this study was to determine the clinical and structural mid-term outcomes in a series of nonoperatively managed massive rotator cuff tears. Nineteen consecutive patients (twelve men and seven women; average age, sixty-four years) with a massive rotator cuff tear, documented by magnetic resonance imaging, were identified retrospectively. There were six complete tears of two rotator cuff tendons and thirteen complete tears of three rotator cuff tendons. All patients were managed exclusively with nonoperative means. Nonoperative management was chosen when a patient had low functional demands and relatively few symptoms and/or if he or she refused to have surgery. For the purpose of this study, patients were examined clinically and with standard radiographs and magnetic resonance imaging. After a mean duration of follow-up of forty-eight months, the mean relative Constant score was 83% and the mean subjective shoulder value was 68%. The score for pain averaged 11.5 points on a 0 to 15-point visual analogue scale in which 15 points represented no pain. The active range of motion did not change over time. Forward flexion and abduction averaged 136 degrees; external rotation, 39 degrees; and internal rotation, 66 degrees. Glenohumeral osteoarthritis progressed (p = 0.014), the acromiohumeral distance decreased (p = 0.005), the size of the tendon tear increased (p = 0.003), and fatty infiltration increased by approximately one stage in all three muscles (p = 0.001). Patients with a three-tendon tear showed more progression of osteoarthritis (p = 0.01) than did patients with a two-tendon tear. Four of the eight rotator cuff tears that were graded as reparable at the time of the diagnosis became irreparable at the time of final follow-up. Patients with a nonoperatively managed, moderately symptomatic massive rotator cuff tear can maintain satisfactory shoulder function for at least four years despite significant progression of degenerative structural joint changes. There is a risk of a reparable tear progressing to an irreparable tear within four years."}
{"id": "17768186", "title": "Patients' preoperative expectations predict the outcome of rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Patients' preoperative expectations predict the outcome of rotator cuff repair. We are not aware of any previous studies of the relationship between patients' expectations regarding rotator cuff repair and the actual outcome. We hypothesized that preoperative expectations are predictive of the outcome of rotator cuff repair. One hundred and twenty-five patients who underwent unilateral primary repair of a chronic rotator cuff tear were included in the study. All operations were performed by a single surgeon. Each patient prospectively completed the Simple Shoulder Test (SST); the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) questionnaire; three visual analogue scales for shoulder pain, shoulder function, and quality of life; and the Short Form-36 (SF-36) preoperatively and at one year (mean and standard deviation, 54.1 +/- 7.6 weeks) postoperatively. Preoperative expectations were quantified with use of six questions from the Musculoskeletal Outcomes Data Evaluation and Management System (MODEMS) questionnaire. Greater preoperative expectations correlated with better postoperative performance on the SST, DASH, each visual analogue scale, and the SF-36 (p values ranging from <0.0001 to 0.03) as well as with greater improvement from the baseline scores on the DASH and SF-36 (p values ranging from <0.0001 to 0.018). A rigorous multivariate analysis controlling for age, gender, smoking, Workers' Compensation status, symptom duration, number of previous operations, number of comorbidities, tear size, and repair technique confirmed that greater expectations were a significant independent predictor of both better performance at one year and greater improvement on the SST, the DASH, each visual analogue scale, and the SF-36 (p values ranging from <0.001 to 0.042). Patients' preoperative expectations regarding rotator cuff repair are associated with their actual self-assessed outcome. Variations in patient expectations may help to explain divergent results in published series as well as among various patient populations."}
{"id": "17728983", "title": "Arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears. Regain of shoulder function and freedom of pain through arthroscopic fixation of the torn rotator cuff using anchors and tension bands. Isolated full-substance rupture of the supraspinatus. Full-substance tear of the supraspinatus and the superior part of the infraspinatus. Incomplete tears affecting the superior part of the subscapularis, either isolated or associated with rupture of the supraspinatus. For lesions of the long head of the biceps: tenodesis in patients < 60 years of age or in blue-collar workers; tenotomy in all other instances. Fatty infiltration of infraspinatus and subscapularis of stage 3 and 4. Frozen shoulder in the active phase. Narrowing of the subacromial space (< 7 mm). Complete tear of the subscapularis. Complete tear of the posterosuperior cuff reaching the teres minor. Patients >or=65 years. Subacromial bursoscopy and glenohumeral arthroscopy. Repair of supraspinatus using a posterior portal and an inside-out anterior portal, associated with one or two additional anterolateral portals. Attachment with a single row of anchors. Tenotomy/tenodesis of long head of biceps, if indicated. 50 patients, follow-up of an average of 24 months. 34 watertight repairs, Constant Score 85.2; complete tear or leakage in 16 patients, Constant Score 77.4 points."}
{"id": "17728506", "title": "Ultrasonographic findings of the shoulder in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and comparison with physical examination.", "content": "Ultrasonographic findings of the shoulder in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and comparison with physical examination. The objectives of this study were: 1) to identify the ultrasonographic (US) abnormalities and 2) to compare the findings of physical examination with US findings in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients with shoulder pain. We studied 30 RA patients. Physical examination was performed systemically as follows: 1) area of tenderness; 2) range of passive and active shoulder motion; 3) impingement tests; 4) maneuvers for determining the location of the tendon lesions. US investigations included the biceps, the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis tendons; the subacromial-subdeltoid bursa; and the glenohumeral and acromioclavicular joints. Thirty RA patients with 35 painful and 25 non-painful shoulders were examined. The range of motion affected the most by shoulder pain was abduction. The most frequent US finding of shoulder joint was effusion in the long head of the biceps tendon. Among the rotator cuff tendons, subscapularis was the most frequently involved. Tendon tear was also common among non-painful shoulders. Physical examination used for the diagnosis of shoulder pain had low sensitivity and specificity for detecting abnormalities in the rheumatoid shoulder joint. In conclusion, US abnormalities showed frequent tendon tears in our RA patients. Physical examination had low sensitivity and specificity for detecting rotator cuff tear in the rheumatoid shoulder joint."}
{"id": "17724559", "title": "Robot-mediated upper limb physiotherapy for patients with spastic hemiparesis: a preliminary study.", "content": "Robot-mediated upper limb physiotherapy for patients with spastic hemiparesis: a preliminary study. To investigate the clinical usefulness of the REHAROB Therapeutic System, which provides passive robot-mediated physiotherapy for patients with spastic hemiparesis. Controlled, randomized, preliminary study. Thirty patients with hemiparesis as a consequence of upper motor neurone lesion were divided randomly into 2 groups: robotic and control. Subjects from both groups received 30 minutes of Bobath therapy sessions on 20 consecutive work days. Members of the robotic group received an additional 30 minutes of robot-mediated therapy on the same days. The clinical status of each patient was assessed before the first session and at the end of the programme. The difference in the scores was statistically evaluated by t-test for dependent variables in case of parametric data and Friedman's test in case of non-parametric data. The majority of the parameters measured improved in both groups, but modified Ashworth score of shoulder adductors and elbow flexors showed a statistically significant change only in the robotic group. The results suggest that it could be useful to supplement traditional physiotherapy with this form of robot-mediated therapy. Clinical investigation of a higher number of patients is planned in the near future."}
{"id": "17721701", "title": "Light microscopic histology of supraspinatus tendon ruptures.", "content": "Light microscopic histology of supraspinatus tendon ruptures. We analysed the morphological features of the human surgical specimens of supraspinatus tendon from patients with rotator cuff tears. Tendon samples were harvested from 31 subjects (21 men and 10 women; mean age 51 years, range 38-64) who underwent arthroscopic repair of a rotator cuff tear, and from five male patients who died of cardiovascular events (mean age, 69.6 years). Histological examination was performed using Haematoxylin and Eosin, Masson's Trichrome and Van Gieson's connective tissue stain. The specimens were examined twice by the same examiner under white light and polarized light microscopy. Particular effort was made to assess any evidence of the changes associated with tendinopathy. Within each specific category of tendon abnormalities, the chi-square test showed significant differences between the control and ruptured tendons (P < 0.05). Using the kappa statistics, the agreement between the two readings ranged from 0.57 to 0.84. We found thinning and disorientation of collagen fibres and chondroid metaplasia to be more pronounced on the articular side of the specimens from patients with rotator cuff tear (P < 0.05). The present study provides a description of the histological architecture of human surgical specimens of normal supraspinatus tendon from patients with rotator cuff tears and demonstrates more frequent tendon changes on the articular side of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "17711424", "title": "New light on old shoulders: palaeopathological patterns of arthropathy and enthesopathy in the shoulder complex.", "content": "New light on old shoulders: palaeopathological patterns of arthropathy and enthesopathy in the shoulder complex. Rotator cuff disease represents the most common cause of modern shoulder pain and disability. Much of the clinical literature on rotator cuff disease focuses on subacromial impingement and supraspinatus tendinopathy, although other patterns of lesions are also recognised. Rotator cuff disease has received relatively little attention in palaeopathological literature, but signs relating to subacromial impingement have been reported. Given the variety and patterns of lesions that are recognized clinically as rotator cuff disease, this study aimed to investigate whether a similarly wide range of lesions could be identified in human skeletal remains. Degenerative changes in surfaces around the shoulder were recorded in a sample of 86 skeletons. The resultant data were assessed using both simple descriptive statistics and exploratory factor analysis. Degenerative changes characteristic of modern subacromial impingement formed a minor underlying pattern in the data. The predominant underlying variable in the data represented an association between lesser tuberosity, bicipital sulcus and glenohumeral degenerative changes. This pattern reflects recent reports in the clinical literature highlighting the prevalence of subscapularis tendinopathy, and also supports a pathoaetiological model of progression from subscapularis to long head of biceps to glenohumeral involvement. The degenerative changes seen at the non-articular, fibrocartilaginous entheses on the humeral tuberosities were similar to those seen in subchondral bone in osteoarthritis."}
{"id": "17711038", "title": "Shoulder muscle strength and fatigability in patients with frozen shoulder syndrome: the effect of 4-week individualized rehabilitation.", "content": "Shoulder muscle strength and fatigability in patients with frozen shoulder syndrome: the effect of 4-week individualized rehabilitation. The effect of 4-week individualized rehabilitation on shoulder muscle strength and fatigability was evaluated in 10 patients with frozen shoulder syndrome (FSS) in comparison of 10 age- and gender-matched healthy control subjects. Isometric maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) force of the shoulder flexors was measured by hand-held dynamometer. Isometric endurance of the shoulder muscles was characterized by endurance time and net impulse (NI) assessed during weight (30% MVC) holding in hand until exhaustion. Fatigability of deltoideus, infraspinatus and trapezius muscles during isometric endurance test was assessed by electromyogram (EMG) power spectrum median frequency (MF) slope per minute. Rehabilitation in patients with FSS consisted of exercise therapy in swimming pool and gymnasium, electrical therapy and massage. Before rehabilitation, patients with FSS had less (p < 0.05) isometric MVC force and NI during endurance test compared to the control. MF slope in patients with FSS for involved extremity was higher (p <0.05) for the deltoideus muscle and less for the infraspinatus muscle before rehabilitation compared to the controls. Shoulder pain was decreased (p < 0.05) and isometric MVC force and NI in endurance test in patients for involved extremity were increased after rehabilitation. No significant changes in endurance time and MF slope for infraspinatus and trapezius muscles in patients for involved extremity were observed after rehabilitation, whereas MF slope for deltoideus muscle was increased. It was concluded that in patients with FSS, 4-week rehabilitation decreased shoulder pain and improved MVC force of the shoulder flexors and isometric working capacity of these muscles during endurance test."}
{"id": "17708564", "title": "Coracoid process anatomy: implications in radiographic imaging and surgery.", "content": "Coracoid process anatomy: implications in radiographic imaging and surgery. The coracoid process forms an important part of scapular-glenoid construct and is involved in many surgical procedures on the glenohumeral joint. The unique three-dimensional orientation of each coracoid pillar makes radiographic imaging difficult. Congenital variations and minimal traumatic/iatrogenic changes in this orientation can predispose to subcoracoid impingement. We performed a quantitative and statistical analysis of the osseous anatomy of the coracoid process in 101 scapulae; the purpose was to determine the anatomical variations and gender-specific differences in the length, breadth, thickness, vertical and horizontal projections, and triplane angulations of each individual coracoid pillar. All parameters were measured in reference to the glenoid plane to ensure surgical and radiological applicability. The mean dimensions of the inferior coracoid pillar were 31.1 x 16.6 x 9.9 mm and that of the superior coracoid pillar were 41.7 x 14.2 x 8.4 mm (medial)/6.6 mm (lateral). The mean maximal harvestable coracoid length measured 19.0 mm. The mean angular orientation of the inferior coracoid pillar, with reference to the glenoid, measured 51.2 degrees (axial), 126.1 degrees (sagittal), and 134.6 degrees (coronal), and that of the superior coracoid pillar measured 146.1 degrees (axial) with an interpillar angulation of 84.9 degrees (axial). A statistically significant gender difference (P < 0.05) was found in the lengths, breadths, and projections of each coracoid pillar. We used data from this study to devise two new radiographic views (for imaging individual coracoid pillars), to calculate dimensions and orientation of internal fixation/prosthetic hardware during surgery, and conceptualize a geometric model to explain the role of measured parameters in coracoid impingement syndrome."}
{"id": "17690321", "title": "Abduction and external rotation in shoulder impingement: an open MR study on healthy volunteers initial experience.", "content": "Abduction and external rotation in shoulder impingement: an open MR study on healthy volunteers initial experience. To prospectively evaluate rotator cuff contact with the glenoid in healthy volunteers placed in the unloaded and loaded abduction and external rotation (ABER) positions in an open magnetic resonance (MR) imager. The study was institutional review board approved and HIPAA compliant, and informed consent was received. Eight male volunteers with no history of shoulder pain or pathology were imaged in a 0.5-T open MR imager. Volunteers were imaged in an unloaded ABER position with the arm at 90 degrees abduction and in a loaded ABER position, with a 1-kg load that produced an average external rotation of 111 degrees+/-6 (standard deviation). Two radiologists graded rotator cuff contact on a three-point scale. Three-dimensional anatomic models generated from the MR images were used to measure distances. Minimum distances were computed between the tendon insertion sites and the glenoid, acromion, and coracoid for the loaded ABER position. Minimum distances were compared by using a paired Student t test. In the unloaded ABER position, contact was seen between the infraspinatus and supraspinatus tendons and the glenoid in all eight volunteers. In the loaded ABER position, contact was also observed between the infraspinatus and supraspinatus and the posterior and posterosuperior glenoid, respectively. Deformation of the infraspinatus on the glenoid was seen in four volunteers, whereas supraspinatus deformation was only seen in one volunteer. The minimum distance between the supraspinatus insertion and acromion in the loaded ABER position decreased significantly (P<.01). Supraspinatus tendon to glenoid and infraspinatus tendon to glenoid minimum distances also decreased significantly (P<.01). The unloaded and loaded ABER positions resulted in contact of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus with the glenoid in all volunteers. Distances between the rotator cuff insertion sites and the glenoid decreased in the loaded ABER position."}
{"id": "17687121", "title": "The hook test for distal biceps tendon avulsion.", "content": "The hook test for distal biceps tendon avulsion. Complete biceps tendon avulsions are frequently missed on clinical examination, suggesting the need for a reliable diagnostic test. Complete distal biceps avulsions can be reliably detected with the Hook test. Cohort study (diagnosis); Level of evidence, 2. The hook test was performed by a single surgeon in a cohort of 45 patients undergoing surgical exploration of the distal biceps tendon. While the patient actively supinates with the elbow flexed 90 degrees , an intact hook test permits the examiner to hook his or her index finger under the intact biceps tendon from the lateral side. With an abnormal hook test, indicating distal avulsion, there is no cord-like structure under which the examiner may hook a finger. Thirty-three patients had an avulsion and 12 had a partial tear. The hook test was abnormal in 33 of 33 (100%) patients with complete biceps avulsions, and intact in 12 of 12 with partial detachments. However, it was painful in 9 of those 12. In the noninjured contralateral arms, which served as the normal control group, 45 of 45 (100%) had a normal hook test. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) diagnosed a complete tear in 11 of 12 patients with partial tears and in 11 of 13 with complete lesions. The sensitivity and specificity were both higher with the hook test (both 100%) than with MRI (92% and 85%, respectively). The hook test is a highly sensitive and specific test for assessment of distal biceps tendon avulsions."}
{"id": "17682625", "title": "The painful shoulder: when to inject and when to refer.", "content": "The painful shoulder: when to inject and when to refer. Physicians can usually diagnose the cause of shoulder pain by performing a focused history and physical examination and ordering anteroposterior and lateral radiographs. Treatment depends on the cause and can include physical therapy, injections of corticosteroids into the joint space or bursa, and surgery. This paper reviews the diagnosis and treatment of impingement syndrome, adhesive capsulitis, rotator cuff tears, and arthritis of the glenohumeral joint and acromioclavicular (AC) joint."}
{"id": "17681200", "title": "Posterior humeral avulsion of the glenohumeral ligament: a clinical review of 9 cases.", "content": "Posterior humeral avulsion of the glenohumeral ligament: a clinical review of 9 cases. The purpose of this article is to report the characteristic conditions in which a posterior humeral avulsion of the glenohumeral ligament (PHAGL) lesion occurs, defining also the different possibility of association with other intra-articular shoulder pathologies. We identified in our database 16 consecutive patients with a PHAGL lesion who underwent surgical treatment. Six of these patients had previous failed anterior shoulder stabilization, and 1 patient failed thermal shrinkage for a multidirectional instability and were not included in this study. The 9 remaining patients were enrolled in this study. All 9 patients developed a PHAGL lesion after a sports-related trauma. Clinical symptoms reported by the patients and clinical examination data were variable depending also on associated intra-articular shoulder pathology. The diagnosis of a PHAGL lesion was not made in any of the cases preoperatively. All 9 patients underwent arthroscopic repair of the PHAGL lesion. During the surgical procedure, any additional intra-articular shoulder lesion was treated. Patients were evaluated preoperatively and postoperatively for pain and range of motion using standardized shoulder scales including the Simple Shoulder Test (SST), University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) rating score, and Constant score. Arthroscopic evaluation revealed that PHAGL was seen as an isolated lesion in only 3 patients. At a mean follow-up of 34.2 months, all patients were pain free and reported a complete resumption of sports and daily living activities. Two patients had a limitation of internal rotation to the T11 level. The UCLA score improved from 16.3 to 34.7, the Constant score improved from 52.3 to 80.2, and the SST score improved from 7.9 to 4.2. The PHAGL lesion is challenging to diagnose clinically. It can be the cause of posterior instability or a component of the spectrum of shoulder instability and associated with anterior labral or capsular pathology. Because physical examination can be misleading, a gadolinium-magnetic resonance arthrogram and comprehensive arthroscopic evaluation visualizing from the anterior and posterior portals can confirm the diagnosis. We repaired the PHAGL lesions arthroscopically along with all associated shoulder abnormalities resulting in a good outcome. Level IV, therapeutic cases series."}
{"id": "17681199", "title": "Acromioclavicular joint reoperation after arthroscopic subacromial decompression with and without concomitant acromioclavicular surgery.", "content": "Acromioclavicular joint reoperation after arthroscopic subacromial decompression with and without concomitant acromioclavicular surgery. The purpose of this study was to examine the reoperation rate on the acromioclavicular (AC) joint after arthroscopic subacromial decompression (ASAD) with and without concomitant AC joint surgery and to identify factors related to continued AC joint symptoms. We conducted a retrospective review of 1,482 cases without concomitant shoulder pathology that were followed up by physical examination, phone interview, questionnaire, or chart review. Group A, patients who underwent ASAD alone, consisted of 1,091 cases. Group B, patients who underwent ASAD with concomitant AC joint surgery consisting of either co-planing or arthroscopic distal clavicle resection (ADCR), consisted of 391 cases. A total of 22 patients underwent reoperation on the AC joint. The overall reoperation rate was 1.5%, or 22 of 1,482 patients. The index procedure failed in 16 patients from the ASAD group (group A), yielding a reoperation rate of 1.5%. The index procedure failed in 6 patients from the group undergoing ASAD with concomitant AC joint surgery (group B), for a reoperation rate of 1.5%. Reoperation occurred at a mean of 22 months and 8 months for group A and group B, respectively. Overall, 17 of 22 patients (77%) who required AC joint reoperation were either Workers' Compensation (WC) or litigation cases. The reoperation rate was 2.4% for WC patients and 0.8% for non-WC patients. WC status was found to be a statistically significant factor in the rate of reoperation for AC joint symptoms (P < .05). Of the 22 patients, 10 continued to have pain at a mean of 25.9 months (range, 9 to 53 months) after reoperation. Given the similar rates of reoperation, routine AC joint violation by co-planing or ADCR is not recommended during ASAD. Reoperation for continued AC joint symptoms was associated with a nearly 50% rate of continued symptoms. The results of the study show that the incidence of reoperation on the AC joint after ASAD with or without concomitant AC joint surgery is small for both groups with a 1.5% rate of reoperation for each group. The incidence of reoperation is lower, at 0.8%, for non-WC cases. In addition, there was a high rate of continued symptoms, with 45% of patients having continued pain after reoperation. Violation of the AC joint during the initial surgery by co-planing or ADCR did not alter the reoperation rate for AC joint symptoms. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "17678764", "title": "Acetabular labral tears of the hip in women.", "content": "Acetabular labral tears of the hip in women. Acetabular labral tears are a major cause of hip dysfunction in young patients and a primary precursor to hip osteoarthritis. In addition, labral disease more commonly occurs in women and can present with nonspecific symptoms. It is possible to diagnose, quantify, and treat labral tears before the onset of secondary joint deterioration. However, the diagnosis requires a high index of suspicion, special attention to subtle patterns of presentation, and timely consideration for imaging studies. Treatment options are still evolving and include a wide array of nonsurgical and surgical techniques. Treatment should also address secondary dysfunction that can be associated with hip pathology. An initial trial of conservative management is recommended and failure to progress is an indication for surgical consultation."}
{"id": "17671017", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of arthroscopic supraspinatus tendon repair.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of arthroscopic supraspinatus tendon repair. While a number of studies have documented the very good clinical results of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, very few authors have specifically assessed cuff integrity, supraspinatus atrophy, and fatty infiltration and their influence on the clinical outcome. We evaluated fifty-three consecutive patients (average age, 60.9 years) who had undergone arthroscopic repair of an isolated supraspinatus tendon tear. After an average duration of follow-up of 26.4 months, all patients were evaluated clinically with use of the Constant score and underwent standardized magnetic resonance imaging at our institution. The preoperative and postoperative magnetic resonance images were evaluated by two independent observers who were blinded to the clinical outcome of the patient. Evaluation criteria were cuff integrity; atrophy of the supraspinatus; and fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis. These findings were correlated to the clinical outcome. Regardless of the tendon integrity, every parameter of the Constant score was significantly improved after the repair. The overall average Constant score was improved from 53.5 to 83.4 points (p < 0.001). The retear rate in our series was 25% (thirteen of fifty-three). Patients who had a retear had significantly less abduction strength (p = 0.043) and a significantly lower total Constant score (p = 0.012) than those who had an intact repair. A higher degree of preoperative supraspinatus atrophy and Stage-2 fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus were positive predictors of a retear. Also, an older age was an important predictor of a retear (p = 0.011). Progression of structural changes in the rotator cuff was halted when the repair remained intact, but there was no significant reversal of fatty infiltration or muscle atrophy. When the repairs failed, there was significant progression of fatty infiltration and atrophy of the supraspinatus. The clinical and structural results of arthroscopic repairs of isolated supraspinatus tears are equal to those reported following open repair. Fatty infiltration and muscle atrophy cannot be reversed by successful arthroscopic repair. Higher degrees of muscular atrophy and fatty infiltration preoperatively are associated with recurrence of the tear as well as progression of fatty infiltration and muscular atrophy and an inferior clinical result."}
{"id": "17671016", "title": "Stabilization of the long head of the biceps tendon in the context of early repair of traumatic subscapularis tendon tears.", "content": "Stabilization of the long head of the biceps tendon in the context of early repair of traumatic subscapularis tendon tears. Tears of the subscapularis tendon commonly are associated with instability of the long head of the biceps tendon. Standard surgical treatment includes tenodesis or tenotomy of the biceps tendon. However, chronic discomfort from spasms and cosmetic disadvantages have been reported following both procedures, while the potential for functional impairments remains controversial. We investigated the outcome of stabilization of the long head of the biceps tendon in the context of early repair of traumatic tears of the subscapularis tendon. We performed stabilization of an unstable, structurally intact long head of the biceps tendon in twenty-one patients in the acute phase after a traumatic tear of the subscapularis tendon. The average period from the injury to the surgery was 6.2 weeks. Open tendon stabilization and subscapularis reconstruction were performed with transosseous sutures. The follow-up consisted of clinical examination (with determination of the absolute, age and gender-related, and individual relative Constant scores; clinical evaluation of the long head of the biceps; and subjective determination of shoulder function) and dynamic ultrasound examination. The average follow-up period was 28.4 months. The mean absolute Constant score increased from 26.3 points preoperatively to 79.3 points postoperatively (p < 0.01). The mean age and gender-related Constant score improved from 28.0% to 87.0% (p < 0.01). Seven patients showed clinical symptoms consistent with mild biceps tendinopathy. Using dynamic ultrasound examination, we found two cases of recurrent instability (medial subluxation) of the long head of the biceps tendon. Secondary rupture of the long head of the biceps tendon occurred in one patient, twenty-six months after the surgery. The functional outcomes of stabilization of the long head of the biceps tendon in the context of early repair of a traumatic tear of the subscapularis tendon were comparable with the results of tenodesis or tenotomy reported in previous studies. The cosmetic results were superior, and chronic discomfort from spasms was not observed. Stabilization of the tendon of the long head of the biceps can be recommended as a treatment option for selected patients and should be discussed as an alternative to tenodesis or tenotomy, particularly in a young patient."}
{"id": "17671007", "title": "Transosseous suture fixation of proximal humeral fractures.", "content": "Transosseous suture fixation of proximal humeral fractures. The optimal treatment of displaced fractures of the proximal part of the humerus remains controversial. We evaluated the long-term functional and radiographic results of transosseous suture fixation in a series of selected displaced fractures of the proximal part of the humerus. Over an eleven-year period, a consecutive series of 188 patients with a specifically defined displaced fracture of the proximal part of the humerus underwent open reduction and internal fixation with transosseous sutures. Twenty patients were lost to follow-up and three died before the time of follow-up, leaving a cohort of 165 patients (ninety-four women and seventy-one men; mean age, fifty-four years) available for the study. Forty-five (27%) of the injuries were four-part fractures with valgus impaction; sixty-four (39%) were three-part fractures; and fifty-six (34%) were two-part fractures of the greater tuberosity, thirty-six (64%) of which were associated with anterior dislocation of the shoulder. All fractures were fixed with transosseous, nonabsorbable, number-5 Ethibond sutures. Associated rotator cuff tears detected in fifty-seven patients (35%) were also repaired. Over a mean follow-up period of 5.4 years, functional outcome was assessed with the Constant score. Follow-up radiographs were assessed for fracture consolidation, malunion, nonunion, heterotopic ossification, and signs of impingement, humeral head osteonecrosis, and degenerative osteoarthritis. All fractures, except for two three-part fractures of the greater tuberosity, united within four months. The quality of fracture reduction as seen on the first postoperative radiograph was regarded as excellent/very good in 155 patients (94%), good in seven (4%), and poor in three (2%). Malunion was present in nine patients (5%) at the time of the last follow-up; six of the nine had had good or poor initial reduction and three, excellent/very good reduction. Humeral head osteonecrosis was seen in eleven (7%) of the 165 patients; four demonstrated total and seven, partial collapse. Fifteen patients had heterotopic ossification, but none had functional impairment. Four patients had signs of impingement syndrome, and two had arthritis. At the time of the final evaluation, the mean Constant score was 91 points, and the mean Constant score as a percentage of the score for the unaffected shoulder, unadjusted for age and gender, was 94%. The clinical and radiographic results of this transosseous suture technique were found to be satisfactory at an average of 5.4 years postoperatively. Advantages of this technique include less surgical soft-tissue dissection, a low rate of humeral head osteonecrosis, fixation sufficient to allow early passive joint motion, and the avoidance of bulky and expensive implants."}
{"id": "17665470", "title": "Efficacy and cost-effectiveness of physiotherapy following glenohumeral joint distension for adhesive capsulitis: a randomized trial.", "content": "Efficacy and cost-effectiveness of physiotherapy following glenohumeral joint distension for adhesive capsulitis: a randomized trial. To determine whether an active physiotherapy program following arthrographic joint distension for adhesive capsulitis provides additional benefits. We performed a randomized, placebo-controlled, participant and single assessor blinded trial. A total of 156 participants with pain and stiffness in predominantly 1 shoulder for >or=3 months and restriction of passive motion >30 degrees in >or=2 planes of movement entered the study, and 144 completed the study. Following joint distension, participants were randomly assigned to either manual therapy and directed exercise or placebo (sham ultrasound), both administered twice weekly for 2 weeks then once weekly for 4 weeks. Pain, function, active shoulder movements, participant-perceived success, and quality of life were assessed at baseline, 6, 12, and 26 weeks. Costs were also collected. Both groups improved over time with no significant differences in improvement between groups for pain, function, or quality of life at any time point. Significant differences favored the physiotherapy group for all active shoulder movements (e.g., pooled difference in mean change between groups across all time points for total shoulder abduction was 10.6 degrees , 95% confidence interval [95% CI] 3.1, 18.1) and participant-perceived success (pooled relative risk 1.4, 95% CI 1.1, 1.65; number needed to treat = 5). Net cost of physiotherapy was $136.8 Australian (95% CI -177.5, 223.1) over the 6 months. Physiotherapy following joint distension provided no additional benefits in terms of pain, function, or quality of life but resulted in sustained greater active range of shoulder movement and participant-perceived improvement up to 6 months."}
{"id": "17665351", "title": "Shoulder: what the orthopaedic doctor needs to know.", "content": "Shoulder: what the orthopaedic doctor needs to know. Diagnosing shoulder pathology accurately requires both clinical expertise and the ability to interpret and correlate radiographic studies. Variational anatomy of the shoulder combined with the complexity of physical examination makes this difficult. Physical examination of the shoulder often leaves the surgeon with more than one working diagnosis. Imaging studies of the shoulder are more valuable if used to confirm a working diagnosis as opposed to reading the study in a vacuum. Clinical correlation should also be considered for any and all findings on an imaging study. Collaboration of the surgeon and the radiologist is essential in reducing the number of over-reported findings that are clinically insignificant. The surgeon should directly communicate with the radiologist as to his or her working diagnosis and the goal of the study. In this way the surgeon and radiologist become superior diagnosticians."}
{"id": "17664342", "title": "Muscle strength after anterior shoulder stabilization: arthroscopic versus open Bankart repair.", "content": "Muscle strength after anterior shoulder stabilization: arthroscopic versus open Bankart repair. A number of reports have been made on the muscle strength at the last follow-up after arthroscopic or open Bankart repairs. Few have analyzed the change over time in muscle strength and compared the changes between different operative methods. Muscle strength recovers faster after arthroscopic Bankart repair than after open Bankart repair, and the final muscle strength is not different between the 2 procedures. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 2. Sixty patients with anterior shoulder instability and an isolated Bankart lesion were enrolled for this study. Thirty patients underwent open Bankart repair (open group), and 30 patients went through arthroscopic Bankart repair (arthroscopic group). The open group demonstrated markedly weaker muscle strength during forward elevation than did the arthroscopic group up to 3 months after surgery, but the difference narrowed to about 5% at 6 months (P = .074). At 6 months after surgery, the muscle strength of the open group measured 85.8% +/- 11.5% in forward elevation, 89.5% +/- 10.3% in external rotation, and 89.3% +/- 13.3% in internal rotation. The corresponding figures of the arthroscopic group were 90.6% +/- 8.6%, 92.1% +/- 9.1%, and 92.1% +/- 11.7%. As for external and internal rotations, the open group demonstrated markedly weaker muscle strength 6 weeks after surgery, but the differences were reduced to about 6% and 4%, respectively, at 3 months (P = .092 and .163, respectively). There was no statistically significant difference in final muscle strength 12 months after the operation between the 2 groups (P = .503, .468, and .659, respectively). Muscle strength recovered faster with an arthroscopic procedure than with an open procedure during the early postoperative periods, and strength was restored to the level of the unaffected side at 6 months postoperatively. In the group with open Bankart repairs, the muscle strength during forward elevation recovered slower than did external and internal rotation muscle strengths."}
{"id": "17653559", "title": "Peripheral paresthesia in patients with subacromial impingement syndrome.", "content": "Peripheral paresthesia in patients with subacromial impingement syndrome. Some patients presenting with subacromial impingement syndrome complain of tingling and numbness radiating to hand. In the current literature, there is no description of such paresthesia being a part of the clinical picture of impingement syndrome. This observational study aimed at looking whether these symptoms resolve with successful arthroscopic decompression of the impingement. One hundred consecutive patients undergoing arthroscopic surgery were enlisted for the study. Fifty-four percent reported paresthesia during the course of the shoulder problem (63% of them had radial sided symptoms, 29.6% ulnar-sided symptoms and 7.4% involving all fingers). Significant association was observed between the occurrence of paresthesia and worst pain levels (P = 0.0053), age of the patient (P = 0.0104) and the acromial impingement grade (P = 0.0377). Nerve conduction studies done in seven patients (with paresthesia) selected by systematic random sampling did not show any significant attributable entrapment neuropathy. Up to 12 months follow-up, 48 of 54 (88%) had complete relief of pain and paresthesia and 50 (92.5%) were satisfied. Some patients with subacromial impingement syndrome report associated peripheral paresthesia radiating to hand, which is strongly associated with the age, pain level and the grade of impingement. In most (88%) of such cases, these symptoms are relieved after treatment of the impingment lesion. The incidence and aetiology of such paresthesia is the subject of further studies."}
{"id": "17653045", "title": "Candidate gene and locus analysis of myopia.", "content": "Candidate gene and locus analysis of myopia. A previous study has reported evidence of a strong linkage, but no association, between paired box gene 6 (PAX6) and myopia. We attempted to replicate these findings and to conduct a candidate gene and locus evaluation of genetic involvement in common forms of myopia. Samples were collected from 517 individuals in 123 families with a myopic child participating in the Orinda Longitudinal Study of Myopia or the Contact Lens and Myopia Progression Study. Myopia in the proband children was defined as -0.75 D or more and as being present in both meridians on cycloplegic autorefraction (1% tropicamide). Affected status in parents and siblings was determined by survey. After DNA was extracted from buccal mucosal cells and genotyped using assays for microsatellite markers and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), DNA was analyzed for linkage disequilibrium. Markers on chromosomes 12 and 18 were selected as regions previously associated with pathological myopia. SNPs were also analyzed in genes where their expression pattern or their association with syndromes conveys myopia as part of the phenotype (FGF2, BDNF, COL2A1, COL18A1, and PAX6). The SNP rs1635529 for COL2A1 on 12q13.11 showed highly significant over-transmission to affected individuals (p=0.00007). No SNP for FGF2, BDNF, COL18A1, or PAX6 showed significant over-transmission to affected individuals after correction for multiple comparisons. Markers on chromosome 12 and 18 previously associated with pathological myopia also showed no significant associations with the more common form of myopia in this study. As reported previously by others, PAX6 showed no association with myopia. Associations in the current analysis are suggestive of involvement of COL2A1. Future studies should focus on replication in other samples and in genome-wide approaches."}
{"id": "17644006", "title": "Contact between the glenoid and the humeral head in abduction, external rotation, and horizontal extension: a new concept of glenoid track.", "content": "Contact between the glenoid and the humeral head in abduction, external rotation, and horizontal extension: a new concept of glenoid track. To date, no anatomic or biomechanical studies have been conducted to clarify what size of a Hill-Sachs lesion needs to be treated. Nine fresh-frozen cadaveric shoulders were tested in a custom device. With the arm in maximum external rotation, horizontal extension, and 0 degrees, 30 degrees, and 60 degrees of abduction, the location of the entire rim of the glenoid was marked on the humeral head using a Kirschner wire. The distance from the contact area to the footprint of the rotator cuff with the arm in 60 degrees of abduction was measured by a digital caliper. With an increase in arm elevation, the glenoid contact shifted from the inferomedial to the superolateral portion of the posterior aspect of the humeral head, creating a zone of contact (glenoid track). The medial margin of the glenoid track was located 18.4 +/- 2.5 mm medial from the footprint, which was equivalent to 84% +/- 14% of the glenoid width. A Hill-Sachs lesion has a risk of engagement and dislocation if it extends medially over the medial margin of the glenoid track."}
{"id": "17637405", "title": "Initial fixation strength of massive rotator cuff tears: in vitro comparison of single-row suture anchor and transosseous tunnel constructs.", "content": "Initial fixation strength of massive rotator cuff tears: in vitro comparison of single-row suture anchor and transosseous tunnel constructs. The purpose of this study was to compare the in vitro repair integrity of massive rotator cuff tears fixed with transosseous tunnel and single-lateral row suture anchor techniques. A 5 x 2-cm crescent-shaped rotator cuff tear was created in 6 matched pairs of cadaveric shoulders. Paired shoulders were repaired with 3 transosseous tunnels and 6 Mason-Allen sutures or with 3 screw-in suture anchors and 6 simple sutures. The repairs were cyclically loaded at physiologic forces along the respective directions of pull when the arm was in 90 degrees of scapular plane elevation. Gap formation and repair displacements were monitored with digital video imaging at 3 sites for each repair. There was no significant difference between the maximal gapping of the repair constructs. After 4,000 cycles, the mean maximal gapping at any position along the repair was 6.2 +/- 2.99 mm in the transosseous tunnel construct and 4.9 +/- 1.27 mm in the suture anchor repair construct (P = .40). Gapping was significantly less in the anterior region when compared with the posterior region of the repair (P = .015). There is no difference in cyclic loading of transosseous and single-row suture anchor repair techniques. Significantly greater gap formation occurs at the posterior aspect of repairs of massive rotator cuff tears in this in vitro model. Initial fixation strength of single-row suture anchor repairs is equivalent to that of transosseous repairs. Further research is required to determine the unknown clinical significance of increased posterior repair gap formation."}
{"id": "17636656", "title": "WITHDRAWN: Interventions for shoulder pain.", "content": "WITHDRAWN: Interventions for shoulder pain. Shoulder pain is a common problem and although there are many accepted standard forms of conservative therapy for shoulder disorders including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, glucocorticosteroid injections, oral glucocorticosteroid medication, manipulation under anaesthesia, physical therapy, hydrodilatation (distension arthrography) and surgery, evidence of their efficacy is not well established. To review the efficacy of common interventions for shoulder pain. We searched the Cochrane Musculoskeletal Group trials register, Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, and Science Citation Index) up to May 1998, and hand searched major textbooks, bibliographies of relevant literature, the fugitive literature, and the subject indices of relevant journals including: American College of Rheumatology;British College of Rheumatologists; the Biennial Conference of the Manipulative Physiotherapy Association of Australia;International Federation of Manual Therapists conference proceedings; British Orthopaedic Association;and American Orthopaedic Association. Each identified study was assessed for possible inclusion by two independent reviewers based on the blinded methods sections. The determinants for inclusion were that the trial include an intervention of interest (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, intra-articular or subacromial glucocorticosteroid injection, oral glucocorticosteroid treatment, physiotherapy, manipulation under anaesthesia, hydrodilatation, or surgery); that treatment allocation was randomized; and that the outcome assessment was blinded. Methodological quality was assessed by two independent, blinded reviewers. Data relating to selection criteria, outcome measurement and treatment effect was extracted from the blinded trials. Range of motion scores were entered as degrees of restriction to movement, and all pain and overall effect scores were transformed to 100 point scales. For continuous outcome measures, where standard deviation was not reported it was either calculated from the raw data or converted from standard error of the mean. If neither of these were reported, authors were contacted in an effort to obtain the missing values. Effect sizes were calculated and combined in a pooled analysis if study population, endpoint and intervention were comparable. Thirty one trials met inclusion criteria. Mean methodological quality score was 16.8 (9.5 - 22) out of possible score of 40. Selection criteria varied widely even for the same diagnostic label. There was no uniformity in outcome measures used and their measurement properties were rarely reported. Effect sizes for individual trials were small (-1.4 to 3.0). The results of only three studies investigating \"rotator cuff tendonitis\" could be pooled. Benefit of subacromial steroid injection over placebo for improving range of abduction (weighted difference between means (WMD) 35 degrees , 95% CI 14 to 55) was the only positive finding. There is little evidence to support or refute the efficacy of common interventions for shoulder pain. As well as, the need for further well designed clinical trials, more research is needed to establish a uniform method of defining shoulder disorders and developing outcome measures which are valid, reliable and responsive in these study populations."}
{"id": "17629508", "title": "Use of small intestine submucosa in a rat model of acute and chronic rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Use of small intestine submucosa in a rat model of acute and chronic rotator cuff tear. Augmentation materials for rotator cuff tears, such as small intestine submucosa (SIS), have been used with the goal of improving outcome. Knowledge is limited on the use of SIS in animal models of acute and chronic rotator cuff tears. We hypothesized that the use of SIS in the surgical management of full thickness supraspinatus tears would improve histologic and biomechanical properties. Results show temporal improvements in several histologic parameters. Both acute and chronic injuries repaired with SIS have similar and increased mechanical properties respectively, compared to those repaired without SIS. In general, acute repairs with SIS were comparable to acute repairs without SIS. In chronic repairs, the use of SIS significantly reduced the cross sectional area of the healing tendon and increased the modulus. These results provide information on the use of SIS for rotator cuff repairs."}
{"id": "17629505", "title": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: prospective functional outcome and repair integrity at minimum 2-year follow-up.", "content": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: prospective functional outcome and repair integrity at minimum 2-year follow-up. The purpose of this study was to assess arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears at a minimum of 2 years postoperatively with both patient-derived and objective outcome measures, including the use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), to evaluate repair status. Evaluated were 49 shoulders in 47 consecutive patients. The American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score, Constant and Murley score, Simple Shoulder Test, Rowe score, Visual Analog Pain Scale, and the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form-12 Mental Component Scale all improved significantly (P < .001) between the preoperative and final follow-up evaluations. MRI found 22% of repairs had recurrent tears. The presence of a recurrent tear correlated significantly with patient age (P < .009) and extension of the tear to the infraspinatus (P < .009). Active forward flexion, abduction, external rotation, and strength in forward flexion correlated inversely with the presence of a recurrent tear (P < .05). At minimum 2-year follow-up, arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears produced significant improvements in both patient-derived and objectively measured variables."}
{"id": "17624527", "title": "Imaging in shoulder disorders.", "content": "Imaging in shoulder disorders. Clinical assessment of the patient with shoulder symptoms can usually localize the cause to one of a few syndromes, each associated with specific imaging questions. MRI is used as the primary form of investigation for recurrent dislocation, SLAP lesions and PSI, as well as articular cartilage, synovial disease, tumours and infection. Ultrasound plays the leading role in impingement, acromioclavicular disease, dynamic assessment and guided therapy. Both techniques are reported to play a role in adhesive capsulitis. In our hospital, approximately four times as many shoulder ultrasound examinations as shoulder MRI are carried out, but elsewhere these proportions will vary according to the prevalence of clinical syndromes in the population being treated."}
{"id": "17620810", "title": "Temporal variations in a modified Neer impingement test can confound clinical interpretation.", "content": "Temporal variations in a modified Neer impingement test can confound clinical interpretation. High variability in the time required for patients to have substantial pain relief after Neer-type subacromial impingement tests might help explain conflicting data regarding their effectiveness in guiding treatment and predicting surgical outcomes. To focus on quantifying temporal variability associated with a modified (local anesthetic and corticosteroid) impingement test, we hypothesized that substantial pain relief (greater than 75% reduction) can occur beyond the 10-minute interval many clinicians use for determining results of this test. Fourteen females and 12 males (mean age, 55.6 years) who received subacromial injections for Stage II impingement completed 10-cm visual analog scales for pain at 5, 10, 20, 30, and 40 minutes postinjection. There were 11 patients (42%) who attained at least 75% relief by 10 minutes compared with nine (35%) additional patients who subsequently attained 75% relief after 10 minutes. On average, 75% reduction in pain did not occur until after 30 minutes postinjection. Data analysis also revealed two groups: (1) rapid responders with greater than 50% pain relief by 10 minutes; and (2) delayed responders with greater than 50% pain relief after 10 minutes. Assessing pain at 10 minutes for a Neer-type impingement test can fail to accurately determine a positive test in a substantial percentage of patients."}
{"id": "17617900", "title": "Variations in corticosteroid/anesthetic injections for painful shoulder conditions: comparisons among orthopaedic surgeons, rheumatologists, and physical medicine and primary-care physicians.", "content": "Variations in corticosteroid/anesthetic injections for painful shoulder conditions: comparisons among orthopaedic surgeons, rheumatologists, and physical medicine and primary-care physicians. Variations in corticosteroid/anesthetic doses for injecting shoulder conditions were examined among orthopaedic surgeons, rheumatologists, and primary-care sports medicine (PCSMs) and physical medicine and rehabilitation (PMRs) physicians to provide data needed for documenting inter-group differences for establishing uniform injection guidelines. 264 surveys, sent to these physicians in our tri-state area of the western United States, addressed corticosteroid/anesthetic doses and types used for subacromial impingement, degenerative glenohumeral and acromioclavicular arthritis, biceps tendinitis, and peri-scapular trigger points. They were asked about preferences regarding: 1) fluorinated vs. non-fluorinated corticosteroids, 2) acetate vs. phosphate types, 3) patient age, and 4) adjustments for special considerations including young athletes and diabetics. 169 (64% response rate, RR) surveys were returned: 105/163 orthopaedic surgeons (64%RR), 44/77 PCSMs/PMRs (57%RR), 20/24 rheumatologists (83%RR). Although corticosteroid doses do not differ significantly between specialties (p > 0.3), anesthetic volumes show broad variations, with surgeons using larger volumes. Although 29% of PCSMs/PMRs, 44% rheumatologists, and 41% surgeons exceed \"recommended\" doses for the acromioclavicular joint, >98% were within recommendations for the subacromial bursa and glenohumeral joint. Depo-Medrol(R) (methylprednisolone acetate) and Kenalog(R) (triamcinolone acetonide) are most commonly used. More rheumatologists (80%) were aware that there are acetate and phosphate types of corticosteroids as compared to PCSMs/PMRs (76%) and orthopaedists (60%). However, relatively fewer rheumatologists (25%) than PCSMs/PMRs (32%) or orthopaedists (32%) knew that phosphate types are more soluble. Fluorinated corticosteroids, which can be deleterious to soft tissues, were used with these frequencies for the biceps sheath: 17% rheumatologists, 8% PCSMs/PMRs, 37% orthopaedists. Nearly 85% use the same non-fluorinated corticosteroid for all injections; <10% make adjustments for diabetic patients. Variations between specialists in anesthetic doses suggest that surgeons (who use significantly larger volumes) emphasize determining the percentage of pain attributable to the injected region. Alternatively, this might reflect a more profound knowledge that non-surgeons specialists have of the potentially adverse cardiovascular effects of these agents. Variations between these specialists in corticosteroid/anesthetic doses and/or types, and their use in some special situations (e.g., diabetics), bespeak the need for additional investigations aimed at establishing uniform injection guidelines, and for identifying knowledge deficiencies that warrant advanced education."}
{"id": "17613690", "title": "A biomechanical study of bankart lesion fixation - biodegradable ArthroRivet tack vs. suture repair.", "content": "A biomechanical study of bankart lesion fixation - biodegradable ArthroRivet tack vs. suture repair. Bioabsorbable fixation is commonly used in soft tissue procedures performed in the shoulder. ArthroRivettrade mark tacks (referred to as rivets here), made from a copolymer of 82% poly-L-lactic acid and 18% polyglycolic acid, were developed for the Bankart procedure. Although a previous in vivo study demonstrated favorable comparison of the fixation strength and absorption characteristics of this device with that of polyglyconate bioabsorbable tacks, there have been no published biomechanical studies of this rivet in the shoulder. Fourteen shoulders were harvested from fresh-frozen cadavers of average age 74 years (46-89). Biomechanical testing was performed by measuring the energy, or work, required to anteriorly displace the humeral head 6 mm from the glenoid. Each shoulder was tested intact, vented, and before and after repair of a simulated Bankart lesion at 0, 45, and 90 degrees of abduction with and without maximal external rotation. Overall, the average work required ranged from 54.7 N-mm to 178.27 N-mm. Although the biomechanical performance of the rivet, based on resistance to anterior displacement of the humeral head, was indistinguishable from that of the suture repair, the statistical power of the test was low due to the large variance in the cadaver specimens. The results, in general, correlated well with those of previously published studies, suggesting the suitability of the bioabsorbable rivet for use in Bankart repair."}
{"id": "17613208", "title": "Peroneal and tibial intraneural ganglia: correlation between intraepineurial compartments observed on magnetic resonance images and the potential importance of these compartments.", "content": "Peroneal and tibial intraneural ganglia: correlation between intraepineurial compartments observed on magnetic resonance images and the potential importance of these compartments. Previously the authors demonstrated that peroneal and tibial intraneural ganglia arising from the superior tibiofibular joint may occasionally extend proximally within the epineurium to reach the sciatic nerve. The dynamic nature of these cysts, dependent on intraarticular pressures, may give rise to differing clinical and imaging presentations that have remained unexplained until now. To identify the pathogenesis of these unusual cysts and to correlate their atypical magnetic resonance (MR) imaging appearance, the authors retrospectively reviewed their own experience as well as the published literature on these types of intraneural ganglia. A careful review of MR images obtained in 22 patients with intraneural ganglia located about the knee region (18 peroneal and four tibial intraneural ganglia) allowed the authors to substantiate three different patterns: outer (epifascicular) epineurial (20 cases); inner (interfascicular) epineurial (one case); and combined outer and inner epineurial (one case). In these cases serial MR images allowed the investigators to track the movement of the cyst within the same layer of the epineurium. All lesions had connections to the superior tibiofibular joint. Nine patients were identified as having lesions with sciatic nerve extension. Seven patients harboring an outer epineurial cyst (six in whom the cyst involved the peroneal nerve and one in whom it involved the tibial nerve) had signs of sciatic nerve cross-over, with the cyst seen in the sciatic nerve and/or other terminal branches. In only two of these cases had the cyst previously been recognized to have sciatic nerve involvement. In contrast, in one case an inner epineurial cyst involving the tibial nerve ascended within the tibial division of the sciatic nerve and did not cross over. A single patient had a combination of both outer and inner epineurial cysts; these were easily distinguished by their distinctive imaging patterns. This anatomical compartmentalization of intraneural cysts can be used to explain varied clinical and imaging patterns of cleavage planes for cyst formation and propagation. Compartmentalization elucidates the mechanism for cases of outer epineurial cysts in which there are primary ascent, sciatic cross-over, and descent of the lesion down terminal branches; correlates these cysts' atypical MR imaging features; and contrasts a different pattern of inner epineurial cysts in which ascent and descent occur without cross-over. The authors present data demonstrating that the dynamic phases of these intraneural ganglia frequently involve the sciatic nerve. Their imaging features are subtle and serve to explain the underrecognition and underreporting of the longitudinal extension of these cysts. Importantly, cysts extending to the sciatic nerve are still derived from the superior tibiofibular joint. Combined with the authors' previous experimental data, the current observations help the reader understand intraneural ganglia with a different, deeper degree of anatomical detail."}
{"id": "17612357", "title": "Patient outcome following rehabilitation for rotator cuff repair surgery: the impact of selected medical comorbidities.", "content": "Patient outcome following rehabilitation for rotator cuff repair surgery: the impact of selected medical comorbidities. Prospective, multicenter research design. To assess functional and health status outcomes in patients following a physical therapy program after rotator cuff repair surgery, and to determine the impact of selected patient medical comorbidities on rehabilitation outcomes. While authors have studied the influence of multiple factors on patient outcomes after rotator cuff repair surgery, little research has been done on the impact of comorbidities, particularly as it relates to establishing an accurate patient prognosis. eighteen patients who had recently undergone a rotator cuff repair surgical procedure were recruited at 1 of 30 Physiotherapy Associates, Inc outpatient clinics located in 13 states. A rehabilitation protocol was implemented and included the following interventions, as indicated: therapeutic exercise, manual therapy, electrotherapeutic modalities, and physical agents. Patient health history factors were documented during the initial examination, including age, race, body mass index, smoking, rotator cuff tear size, type of surgical procedure, and selected medications and comorbidities. The Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (DASH) and the Short-Form-36 (SF-36) were completed prior to rehabilitation, at discharge, and at 6 months postdischarg DASH andmost SF-36 domain mean scores obtained postrehabilitation were significantly improved from pretherapy scores. Most health status outcomes were maintained at 6-month follow-up, with slight further improvement noted in SF-36 physical dimensions and DASH scores. Having a greater number of comorbidities was associated with worse postrehabilitation SF-36 scores, but not with the DASH shoulder function scores. The mean change scores (difference between prerehabilitation and postrehabilitation status) for the DASH and SF-36 were not significantly different for patients with 0 to 1, 2, or at least 3 or more comorbidities (except for emotional role). In regression analyses a model with baseline physical function score (P = .0001), age (P = .03), and number of comorbidities (P = .003) fitted the data well and explained 38% of the variance in the physical function score at discharge. A higher number of comorbidities had a negative effect on general health status outcomes but not on shoulder function outcomes at the time of patient discharge following rehabilitation. Despite a negative effect of more comorbidities on health status outcomes, the specific number of medical comorbidities did not affect the overall level of improvement prerehabilitation to postrehabilitation in function and health status. The findings describing the influence of comorbidities on rehabilitation outcomes may assist therapists in establishing accurate patient prognosis."}
{"id": "17609529", "title": "Reliability, precision, accuracy, and validity of posterior shoulder tightness assessment in overhead athletes.", "content": "Reliability, precision, accuracy, and validity of posterior shoulder tightness assessment in overhead athletes. Posterior shoulder tightness with subsequent loss of humeral internal rotation range of motion has been linked to upper extremity lesions in overhead athletes. A valid clinical assessment is necessary to accurately identify posterior shoulder tightness as a contributor to injury. To describe a modified supine assessment of posterior shoulder tightness by establishing the reliability, precision, clinical accuracy, and validity of the assessment. Cohort study (diagnosis); Level of evidence, 2. Intrasession, intersession, and intertester reliability and precision were established by comparing the commonly used side-lying assessment of posterior shoulder tightness and the described modified supine assessment. Clinical accuracy of both methods was obtained using an electromagnetic tracking device to track humeral and scapular motion. Construct validity was established by identifying posterior shoulder tightness in a group of overhead athletes (baseball pitchers and tennis players) reported in the literature to have limited humeral internal rotation and posterior shoulder tightness. The side-lying intrasession intraclass correlation coeffecient (standard error of measurement), intersession intraclass correlation coeffecient (standard error of measurement), and intertester intraclass correlation coeffecient (standard error of measurement) were 0.83 cm (0.9), 0.42 cm (1.7), and 0.69 cm (1.4), respectively. The supine intrasession intraclass correlation coeffecient (standard error of measurement), intersession intraclass correlation coeffecient (standard error of measurement), and intertester intraclass correlation coeffecient (standard error of measurement) were 0.91 degrees (1.1 degrees ), 0.75 degrees (1.8 degrees ), and 0.94 degrees (1.8 degrees ), respectively. In side-lying, the clinical accuracy expected was 0.9 +/- 0.6 cm of error while, when measured supine, it was 3.5 degrees +/- 2.8 degrees of error. Both assessments resulted in minimal scapular protraction (approximately 3.5 degrees ). Between groups, baseball pitchers and tennis players had significantly less internal rotation range of motion (P < .0001) and greater posterior shoulder tightness (P = .004) when measured in supine, but not in side-lying (P = .312). Both methods resulted in good clinician accuracy and precision, suggesting that both can be performed accurately. The supine method can be assessed more reliably than side-lying between both sessions and testers. Clinicians may want to consider use of the supine method given the higher reliability, validity, and similar precision and clinical accuracy."}
{"id": "17606793", "title": "The outcome and structural integrity of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with use of the double-row suture anchor technique.", "content": "The outcome and structural integrity of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with use of the double-row suture anchor technique. The reported rate of failure after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair has varied widely. The influence of the repair technique on the failure rates and functional outcomes after open or arthroscopic rotator cuff repair remains controversial. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the functional and anatomic results of arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs performed with the double-row suture anchor technique on the basis of computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging arthrography in order to determine the postoperative integrity of the repairs. A prospective series of 105 consecutive shoulders undergoing arthroscopic double-row rotator cuff repair of the supraspinatus or a combination of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus were evaluated at a minimum of two years after surgery. The evaluation included a routine history and physical examination as well as determination of the preoperative and postoperative strength, pain, range of motion, and Constant scores. All shoulders had a preoperative and postoperative computed tomography arthrogram (103 shoulders) or magnetic resonance imaging arthrogram (two shoulders). There were thirty-six small rotator cuff tears, forty-seven large isolated supraspinatus or combined supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendon tears, and twenty-two massive rotator cuff tears. The mean Constant score (and standard deviation) was 43.2+/-15.1 points (range, 8 to 83 points) preoperatively and 80.1+/-11.1 points (range, 46 to 100 points) postoperatively. Twelve of the 105 repairs failed. Intact rotator cuff repairs were associated with significantly increased strength and active range of motion. Arthroscopic repair of a rotator cuff tear with use of the double-row suture anchor technique results in a much lower rate of failure than has previously been reported in association with either open or arthroscopic repair methods. Patients with an intact rotator cuff repair have better pain relief than those with a failed repair. After repair, large and massive rotator cuff tears result in more postoperative weakness than small tears do."}
{"id": "17606784", "title": "Complex posterior fracture-dislocation of the shoulder. Epidemiology, injury patterns, and results of operative treatment.", "content": "Complex posterior fracture-dislocation of the shoulder. Epidemiology, injury patterns, and results of operative treatment. Complex posterior fracture-dislocations of the shoulder are rare and often associated with poor long-term function regardless of the choice of treatment. The purposes of this study were to evaluate the epidemiology and pathological anatomy of posterior fracture-dislocations of the shoulder and to assess the clinical and radiographic outcomes of a specific treatment protocol of open reduction and internal fixation. We studied the demographic details of a consecutive series of twenty-six patients (twenty-eight shoulders in nineteen men and seven women with a mean age of fifty-three years) who sustained acute posterior dislocation of the humeral head with an associated Neer two, three, or four-part fracture. We used age and gender-specific local census data to assess the incidence of injury in our local population. All patients were treated by open relocation of the humeral head, bone-grafting of humeral head defects if they were causing residual shoulder instability, and internal fixation of the fracture. We recorded the prevalence of fracture complications that were clinically and radiographically apparent and assessed the functional outcome using three validated scoring systems (the Short Form-36 general health measure, the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand score, and the Constant score). The overall incidence of posterior fracture-dislocations was 0.6 per 100,000 population per year. The peak incidence was in middle-aged men, and most injuries were sustained during a seizure or a fall from a height. In all patients, there was a displaced primary fracture of the anatomic neck of the humerus, propagating from the area of an osteochondral fracture of the anterior aspect of the humeral head (a reverse Hill-Sachs lesion). We recognized three subtypes determined by the extent of the secondary fracture lines. At two years after surgery, the median Constant score was 83.5 points and the median Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand score was 17.5 points. The eight components of the Short Form-36 score were not significantly different from those of age and sex-matched controls at two years. Acute complex posterior fracture-dislocations of the shoulder are rare, but they occur in patients who are younger than the majority of other patients who sustain a proximal humeral fracture. The use of open reduction and internal fixation to treat these fractures is associated with a relatively low risk of postoperative complications, and the functional outcome is generally favorable."}
{"id": "17604857", "title": "A descriptive survey of lesions from cull sows harvested at two Midwestern U.S. facilities.", "content": "A descriptive survey of lesions from cull sows harvested at two Midwestern U.S. facilities. Physical and reproductive conditions of cull sows (3158) from two U.S. Midwestern harvest plants were assessed. Body condition, feet, shoulders, teeth, lungs, and reproductive tracts were visually evaluated for gross lesions on harvested sows. PROC FREQ (SAS, Cary, NC) was used to calculate the frequency of each binary trait event. Pearson chi-square tests were used to test the alternative hypothesis that a linear association existed between binary traits and body condition score (BCS). The most common foot lesions observed were rear (n=2064, 67.5%) and front (n=1024, 32.9%) heel lesions. Cracked hooves were found on the front feet of 703 (22.6%) and rear feet of 552 (18.1%) sows. Rear digital overgrowth was observed in 644 (21.1%) sows. The most common reproductive gross lesion observed among harvested cull sows was acyclic ovaries (n=277, 9.0%). Presence of acyclic ovaries increased (p<0.01) as BCS decreased. Cystic ovaries were found in 192 (6.3%) sows, which increased (p<0.01) as BCS increased. Pneumonia was observed in 298 (9.7%) sows, and increased in frequency as BCS decreased (p<0.01). The most frequently observed shoulder lesion among harvested cull sows was shoulder abrasions (n=394, 12.5%). The presence of shoulder abrasions increased (p<0.01) as BCS decreased. The prevalence of reproductive lesions detected in the present study was less than the reported percentage of sows culled for reproductive failure from previous studies based on record keeping summaries."}
{"id": "17602032", "title": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using triple-loaded anchors, suture shuttles, and suture savers.", "content": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using triple-loaded anchors, suture shuttles, and suture savers."}
{"id": "17601479", "title": "Subacromial impingement syndrome as a consequence of botulinum therapy to the upper trapezii: a case report.", "content": "Subacromial impingement syndrome as a consequence of botulinum therapy to the upper trapezii: a case report. Scapular upward rotation is predominantly achieved via a force coupling involving the upper and lower trapezius and the serratus anterior. Although studies have shown a relationship between abnormal scapular motion and subacromial impingement, it has been unclear whether the altered scapular biomechanics represent a cause, or consequence, of impingement. We present a 49-year-old woman with refractory myofascial pain of many years duration who developed subacromial impingement syndrome (SIS) following a series of botulinum toxin injections to the bilateral upper trapezii. Although botulinum therapy effectively reduced the patient's refractory myofascial pain, signs and symptoms of SIS developed in association with the upper trapezii weakness after the third set of injections. Botulinum therapy was discontinued and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medication markedly reduced the new symptoms, which completely resolved within 3 months. This case, which afforded a unique opportunity to follow the consequences of weakening scapular stabilizers over time, provides evidence for the etiologic role of scapular dyskinesis in SIS and shows that SIS is a potential complication of botulinum therapy for myofascial pain involving the scapular stabilizers."}
{"id": "17598944", "title": "Pain & resistance in patients with adhesive capsulitis during contrast material injection phase of MR arthrography.", "content": "Pain & resistance in patients with adhesive capsulitis during contrast material injection phase of MR arthrography. Adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder is a condition of unknown aetiology that results in the development of restricted active and passive glenohumeral motion. It has been reported that magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is useful in diagnosing adhesive capsulitis. We carried out this study to assess how pain and/or resistance during contrast material injection affects the diagnosis of adhesive capsulitis on magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography. The study included MR arthrography examinations of 21 patients with a diagnosis of adhesive capsulitis. The control group consisted of 20 patients who presented clinically with rotator cuff tear. The pain (visual analog scale, VAS), resistance to injection and the amount of contrast material that could be injected during injection phase of MR arthrography was assessed and compared between groups. The patients in adhesive capsulitis group (mean VAS score 66.5+/-25.5) experienced more pain when compared with the control group (mean VAS score 34.9+/-27.7, P<0.001). A statistically significant difference (P<0.001) in terms of the amount of the injected fluid (4.3+/-2.6 ml for adhesive capsulitis group, and 10.9+/-4.1 ml for control group) was seen into the joint cavity. Resistance to injection was significantly more (P<0.001) in patients with adhesive capsulitis when compared to control group. Experience of pain during injection, a decreased amount of contrast material injected and resistance to injection in patients during injection phase of MR arthrography may suggest adhesive capsulitis."}
{"id": "17598493", "title": "Functional outcome of surgically treated massive rotator cuff tears: a comparison of complete repair, partial repair, and debridement.", "content": "Functional outcome of surgically treated massive rotator cuff tears: a comparison of complete repair, partial repair, and debridement. Functional outcomes of three surgical treatments for massive rotator cuff repairs were compared. Surgery was performed by a single surgeon (T.W.W.) on 38 patients (mean age: 62.5 years). The surgeon decided which procedure to use for each patient based on tissue quality, ability to mobilize the torn rotator cuff, and degree of tension after the repair was attempted. Twenty-one patients underwent complete repair, 11 underwent partial repair, and 6 had debridement alone. Results were evaluated using the Shoulder Pain and Disability Index and by measuring range of motion and strength. The mean Shoulder Pain and Disability Index score for all patients postoperatively was 25, with subindices averaging 10 for pain and 15 for function. For the subgroups, Shoulder Pain and Disability Index scores for pain and function, were 8 and 10 for complete repair, 11 and 19 for partial repair, and 14 and 24 for debridement alone, respectively. Active external rotation was significantly better (P = .008) postoperatively in patients who had a complete repair compared to debridement alone."}
{"id": "17597949", "title": "Functional fatigue and upper extremity sensorimotor system acuity in baseball athletes.", "content": "Functional fatigue and upper extremity sensorimotor system acuity in baseball athletes. The sensorimotor system controls the balance between upper extremity stability and mobility during athletic performance. Research indicates that fatigue hampers sensorimotor system function; however, few investigators have studied functional fatigue or multijoint, multiplanar measures. To examine the effect of functional fatigue on upper extremity position reproduction in overhead throwing athletes. Single-session, repeated-measures design. University musculoskeletal laboratory. Sixteen healthy collegiate baseball players (age = 21.0 +/- 1.6 years, height = 175.8 +/- 10.2 cm, mass = 82.8 +/- 4.3 kg). Subjects threw a baseball from a single knee with maximum velocity (every 5 seconds) and rated their level of upper extremity exertion after every 20 throws. Subjects stopped after reporting above level 14 on the Borg scale and began posttests immediately. We measured active multijoint reproduction of 2 positions: arm cock and ball release. Dependent variables were absolute and variable error for 10 joint motions: scapulothoracic internal-external rotation, upward rotation, and posterior tilt; glenohumeral internal-external rotation, horizontal abduction-adduction, and flexion-extension; elbow pronation-supination and flexion-extension; and wrist ulnar-radial deviation and flexion-extension. We calculated acuity for each joint and the entire upper extremity using 3-dimensional variable error. Fatigue occurred after an average of 62 +/- 28 throws and increased 3-dimensional variable error scores (ie, decreased acuity) of the entire upper extremity and all joints in both positions (P < .05) except for the wrist in arm cock. Fatigue increased errors (ranging from 0.6 degrees to 2.3 degrees ) at arm cock for scapulothoracic internal-external rotation, upward rotation, and posterior tilt; glenohumeral internal-external rotation and flexion-extension; elbow flexion-extension; and wrist ulnar-radial deviation and at ball release for scapulothoracic internal-external rotation and upward rotation, glenohumeral horizontal abduction-adduction, elbow pronation-supination, and wrist ulnar-radial deviation and flexion-extension (P < .05). Functional fatigue affects the acuity of the entire upper extremity, each individual joint, and multiple joint motions in overhead throwers. Clinicians should consider the deleterious effects of upper extremity fatigue when designing injury prevention and rehabilitation programs and should incorporate multijoint and multiplanar endurance exercises. Compromised neuromuscular control of the scapulohumeral relationship may hold pathologic implications for this population as well."}
{"id": "17596002", "title": "Detection of subacromial bursa thickening by sonography in shoulder impingement syndrome.", "content": "Detection of subacromial bursa thickening by sonography in shoulder impingement syndrome. Normally, the subacromial-subdeltoid bursa is thinner than 2 mm using ultrasound examination. The subtle thickening of the bursa could be an early sign of subacromial impingement and possibly a rotator cuff tear. The aim of this study was to compare the thickness of subacromial bursa measured using ultrasonography in the painful shoulder with normal side, and also to differentiate Neer stages I and II impingements in patients with unilateral shoulder pain. We performed bilateral shoulder sonography in 268 consecutive patients with unilateral shoulder pain and clinical suggestion of rotator cuff pathology. The study group consisted of 102 cases of Neer stage I and 166 cases of Neer stage II impingement syndrome. The bursa thickness was calculated from the superficial peribursal fat to the upper margin of the supraspinatus. A statistically significant association was detected (p < .0001) between the symptomatic shoulder and asymptomatic side (mean thickness, 1.27 mm/0.75 mm). The thickness of bursa in patients with Neer stage I impingement had no statistically important link the results of the patients with Neer stage II impingement. Increased bursa thickness in the symptomatic side may be an alternative sonographic indicator of subacromial bursitis and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears, even when measured to be less than 2 mm. Sonographic examination of subacromial bursa thickness is not an appropriate technique to differentiate the Neer stages I and II impingement. Further study is needed to quantify the echogenicity of the supraspinatus tendon and to show a level of accuracy in patients with rotator cuff tendinosis or partial tears."}
{"id": "17588838", "title": "Surgical results in rotator cuff tears with shoulder stiffness.", "content": "Surgical results in rotator cuff tears with shoulder stiffness. Little has been mentioned about the treatment of rotator cuff tears and associated shoulder stiffness. We prospectively treated a series of patients with rotator cuff tears associated with shoulder stiffness concomitantly and reported the outcomes. A combined procedure of manipulation, lysis of adhesions, anterior acromioplasty and repair of rotator cuff was performed on 43 patients (47 shoulders) who were available for follow-up for a minimum of 2 years. Ten patients (11 shoulders) had diabetes mellitus and 33 patients (36 shoulders) were non-diabetic. Partial tear of the rotator cuff was noted in 27 shoulders, complete tears in 15 shoulders and massive tears in five shoulders. A functional score of Constant and Murley was used to evaluate the overall outcomes, the results between patients with and without diabetes mellitus and the results among different types of rotator cuff tears. At a mean (+/- SD) of 48.61 +/- 18.0 months (range, 24-85 months) after the operation, each patient showed a significant improvement in subjective score, objective score and strength score as well as in the total score of Constant and Murley. There was no statistical difference in postoperative total Constant scores between patients with and without diabetes mellitus (p = 0.123). Comparison of the scores among the three types of rotator cuff tears revealed that all had a significant improvement in the total scores of Constant and Murley (44.6 +/- 7.7 vs. 91.7 +/- 4.9, p < 0.001 for a partial cuff tear; 42.9 +/- 11.3 vs. 86.0 +/- 9.6, p = 0.001 for a complete tear; and 44.2 +/- 4.8 vs. 82.0 +/- 12.1, p = 0.043 for a large tear), but patients with partial tears of the rotator cuff had significantly better total scores than did those with complete tears (92.6 +/- 4.8 vs. 82.0 +/- 12.1, p = 0.018) or large tears (92.6 +/- 4.8 vs. 86.1 +/- 9.7, p = 0.041). A combined procedure of manipulation, lysis of adhesions, acromioplasty and repair of rotator cuff is a satisfactory procedure for patients with rotator cuff tears and associated shoulder stiffness."}
{"id": "17584933", "title": "The reliability of three-dimensional scapular attitudes in healthy people and people with shoulder impingement syndrome.", "content": "The reliability of three-dimensional scapular attitudes in healthy people and people with shoulder impingement syndrome. Abnormal scapular displacements during arm elevation have been observed in people with shoulder impingement syndrome. These abnormal scapular displacements were evaluated using different methods and instruments allowing a 3-dimensional representation of the scapular kinematics. The validity and the intrasession reliability have been shown for the majority of these methods for healthy people. However, the intersession reliability on healthy people and people with impaired shoulders is not well documented. This measurement property needs to be assessed before using such methods in longitudinal comparative studies. The objective of this study is to evaluate the intra and intersession reliability of 3-dimensional scapular attitudes measured at different arm positions in healthy people and to explore the same measurement properties in people with shoulder impingement syndrome using the Optotrak Probing System. Three-dimensional scapular attitudes were measured twice (test and retest interspaced by one week) on fifteen healthy subjects (mean age 37.3 years) and eight subjects with subacromial shoulder impingement syndrome (mean age 46.1 years) in three arm positions (arm at rest, 70 degrees of humerothoracic flexion and 90 degrees of humerothoracic abduction) using the Optotrak Probing System. Two different methods of calculation of 3-dimensional scapular attitudes were used: relative to the position of the scapula at rest and relative to the trunk. Intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and standard error of measure (SEM) were used to estimate intra and intersession reliability. For both groups, the reliability of the three-dimensional scapular attitudes for elevation positions was very good during the same session (ICCs from 0.84 to 0.99; SEM from 0.6 degrees to 1.9 degrees ) and good to very good between sessions (ICCs from 0.62 to 0.97; SEM from 1.2 degrees to 4.2 degrees ) when using the method of calculation relative to the trunk. Higher levels of intersession reliability were found for the method of calculation relative to the trunk in anterior-posterior tilting at 70 degrees of flexion compared to the method of calculation relative to the scapula at rest. The estimation of three-dimensional scapular attitudes using the method of calculation relative to the trunk is reproducible in the three arm positions evaluated and can be used to document the scapular behavior."}
{"id": "17583540", "title": "Use of bipolar radiofrequency energy in delayed repair of acute supraspinatus tears in rats.", "content": "Use of bipolar radiofrequency energy in delayed repair of acute supraspinatus tears in rats. The purpose of this study is to determine if bipolar radiofrequency energy (bRFE) can enhance delayed surgical repair of acute supraspinatus tendon tears. Bilateral supraspinatus tendon tears were created in 42 Sprague-Dawley rats and repaired at 6 weeks either with or without bRFE augmentation. There were 8 control (sham) rats. Treatment rats were euthanized at 4, 8, and 12 weeks after repair. All specimens underwent biomechanical and histologic evaluation. Compared with standard repair, bRFE-treated repairs showed a greater average maximum stress (8.475 N/m2 versus 3.95 N/m2) at 12 weeks, which was not significant (P < .11). The mode of failure was by humeral fracture in 57.14% > with bRFE versus 14.29% without bRFE. Histologically, both standard and bRFE-treated repairs were indistinguishable from controls at 12 weeks. The use of bRFE showed no definitive effect on delayed repair of acute rat rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "17581904", "title": "Cystic changes at supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendon insertion sites: association with age and rotator cuff disorders in 238 patients.", "content": "Cystic changes at supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendon insertion sites: association with age and rotator cuff disorders in 238 patients. To retrospectively determine the frequency of posterior and anterior cystic abnormalities at rotator cuff insertion site on the greater tuberosity and to determine their relationship to patient age and rotator cuff disorders. Institutional review board approval was given; informed consent was waived. The study was HIPAA compliant. In 238 patients with rotator cuff diagnoses at surgery, preoperative magnetic resonance (MR) imaging studies were reviewed to localize osseous cystic changes as anterior (supraspinatus insertion site) or posterior (infraspinatus insertion site) on the greater tuberosity. If rotator cuff tear was present, tendon retraction and location of partial tear (articular or bursal surface) were recorded. Two radiologists reached conclusions by consensus. Locations of cysts were correlated to surgical cuff diagnoses: no tear, tendinopathy, partial-thickness tear, and complete tear. Prospective interpretations from original MR reports were compared with surgical results. Statistical analyses included one-way analysis of variance, chi(2), Fisher exact, and Student t tests, as well as logistic regression and receiver operating characteristic curve comparison. There were 238 consecutive patients (150 men, 88 women; mean age, 43 years). Cysts were located at or near footprint of cuff tendon and demonstrated fluid or soft-tissue signal intensities. Posterior cysts occurred in 56.7% of shoulders and showed no statistical correlation to age or cuff diagnosis. Anterior cysts occurred in 22.7% of shoulders and were strongly associated with cuff disorders (P<.001). Controlling for cuff disorders, there was no relationship between anterior cysts and age (P>.50). Anterior cysts were more common in partial-thickness articular (48%) than in bursal (13%) tears (P<.001). Posterior cysts were more common than anterior cysts and showed nearly random distribution among patients, regardless of age and cuff diagnosis. Anterior cysts were closely associated with cuff disorders."}
{"id": "17581723", "title": "Calciphylaxis and bone scintigraphy: case report with histological confirmation and review of the literature.", "content": "Calciphylaxis and bone scintigraphy: case report with histological confirmation and review of the literature. We present a patient with a history of end-stage renal disease, who developed skin lesions in the bilateral calves a month after the initiation of hemodialysis. The lesions were biopsied, and the histological findings were consistent with a diagnosis of calciphylaxis. The patient had a baseline pretreatment bone scan that showed extensive systemic disease. The patient died 20 days after the imaging study. A review of the literature on bone scans and calciphylaxis is presented."}
{"id": "17574876", "title": "Evaluation of a cross-linked acellular porcine dermal patch for rotator cuff repair augmentation in an ovine model.", "content": "Evaluation of a cross-linked acellular porcine dermal patch for rotator cuff repair augmentation in an ovine model. In this study we evaluated 2 commercially available rotator cuff repair augmentation patches in an in vivo sheep model using mechanical testing and histologic techniques. Bilateral infraspinatus tears were created and repaired in 2 groups of 8 adult ewes. Each group (killed at 9 or 24 weeks) included 5 repaired with suture alone, 6 repaired and augmented with a cross-linked acellular porcine dermal (PD) patch (Zimmer Collagen Repair Patch), and 5 repaired and augmented with a porcine small intestine submucosa (SIS) patch (Restore Orthobiologic Soft Tissue Implant; DePuy Orthopaedics). At 3 weeks, sheep with suture repair and an SIS patch had significant elevation of plasma fibrinogen levels (P < .05) whereas sheep with suture repair and a PD patch elicited no elevation in plasma fibrinogen levels. At 9 weeks, the mean failure load was 201 +/- 60 lb for suture repairs, 182 +/- 63 lb for PD repairs, and 137 +/- 16 lb for SIS repairs. Within any individual sheep, the shoulder undergoing PD repair always had a higher failure load than the contralateral suture or shoulder undergoing SIS repair. At 9 weeks, macrophages were seen on all PD surfaces whereas most of the SIS materials were resorbed. At 24 weeks, failure loads were identical between groups. Macrophages had disappeared from the PD groups, and integration of the PD patch into the surrounding tissue with vascular and fibroblastic invasion was seen. For the SIS group, diverse tissue types (including ectopic bone) were seen."}
{"id": "17568992", "title": "64-slice MDCT arthrography in shoulder instability: our experience.", "content": "64-slice MDCT arthrography in shoulder instability: our experience. This study was performed to assess the diagnostic accuracy of air-contrast 64-slice multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) arthrography in the evaluation of glenohumeral joint instability by comparison with conventional arthroscopy. Fifty patients with a history of shoulder instability underwent MDCT arthrography with thin collimation scans. The raw data were transferred to a workstation and processed using multiplanar reformation (MPR) and volume rendering (VR) algorithms. All patients subsequently underwent conventional arthroscopy. The results of the two techniques were compared and their sensitivity and specificity calculated. We diagnosed eight anterosuperior labrum lesions (group 1), 32 anteroinferior labrum lesions (group 2) and two posterior labrum lesions (group 3). Overall sensitivity and specificity (groups 1, 2, 3) were 88% and 100%, respectively. In group 1, sensitivity was only 66% (four false negatives), whereas in groups 2 and 3, it was 94% (two false negatives) and 100%, respectively. The labrum lesions were also found to be associated, with 100% sensitivity and specificity, with 20 lax capsules, 17 Hill-Sachs lesions, five Bankart lesions, two Perthes lesions and three complete rotator-cuff tears. Air-contrast MDCT arthrography is fast, reproducible, well tolerated and very accurate in the evaluation of lesions causing shoulder instability."}
{"id": "17564776", "title": "Ultrasonographic findings of painful shoulders and correlation between physical examination and ultrasonographic rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Ultrasonographic findings of painful shoulders and correlation between physical examination and ultrasonographic rotator cuff tear. The objectives of this study were to identify ultrasonographic (US) abnormalities and to compare physical examination with US findings, especially of rotator cuff abnormalities in patients with shoulder pain. A total of 120 patients with shoulder pain were prospectively studied. The physical examination of shoulders was performed as follows: (1) the area of tenderness; (2) the range of passive and active motion for abduction, forward flexion, external rotation, and internal rotation; (3) Neer and Hawkins's tests for shoulder impingement; and (4) maneuvers for determining the location of the tendon lesions. Transverse and longitudinal planes from the long head of the biceps, supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis tendons, the subacromial-subdeltoid bursa, and the glenohumeral and acromioclavicular joints were included for US examination. The range of motion most affected by shoulder pain was abduction, followed by external rotation and forward flexion. The most frequent US finding was effusion in the long head of the biceps tendon. Among the rotator cuff tendons, supraspinatus was the most frequently involved. Physical examination had low sensitivity and specificity for the detection of tendon tear. US examination leads to an anatomical diagnosis of shoulder pain in many patients. Whether the US examination of the painful shoulder improves its treatment should be investigated."}
{"id": "17563662", "title": "Does the presence of a full-thickness rotator cuff tear influence outcome after proximal humeral fractures?", "content": "Does the presence of a full-thickness rotator cuff tear influence outcome after proximal humeral fractures? Prevalence of rotator cuff tears increases with advancing age. Despite proximal humeral fractures being common in the elderly, the influence of a coexistent rotator cuff tear on outcome has, to our knowledge, not been previously investigated. This study prospectively assessed whether the presence of a rotator cuff tear in association with a proximal humeral fracture influences functional prognosis. Eighty-five patients treated conservatively for proximal humeral fractures were evaluated prospectively with ultrasonography to determine the status of the rotator cuff. Every patient was managed by immobilization in an arm sling for 2 weeks followed by physiotherapy. Functional outcome was measured using the Constant and the Oxford shoulder score, at 3 and 12 months postinjury. There were 43 patients with full-thickness cuff tears and 42 patients with no cuff tear or a partial-thickness tear. Full thickness cuff tears were more frequent in patients more than 60 years old. The outcome scores at 3 and 12 months showed no statistically significant difference for either the Constant or the Oxford shoulder score with regard to cuff integrity. Analysis of these scores showed no correlation between presence or absence of a full-thickness cuff tear and shoulder function. The results indicate that rotator cuff integrity is not a predictor of shoulder function at 12 months after proximal humeral fracture, as measured by outcome scores and therefore there is no clinical indication for routine imaging of the rotator cuff in patients for whom conservative management is the preferred treatment option."}
{"id": "17560802", "title": "Assessment of the canine model of rotator cuff injury and repair.", "content": "Assessment of the canine model of rotator cuff injury and repair. Animal shoulder models are used to systematically investigate the factors influencing rotator cuff injury and repair. Each model has advantages and disadvantages that must be considered in the context of the specific research questions being asked. This study evaluated the utility of the canine model for studies of acute, full-thickness rotator cuff tendon injury and repair. We found that time-zero failure load is dependent on the suture type and configuration used for repair. Acute, full-width tendon repairs fail anatomically within the first days after surgery in the canine model, regardless of suture type, suture configuration, or postoperative protocol. Robust scar tissue forms in the gap between the failed tendon end and the humerus, which can be visually, mechanically, and histologically misconstrued as tendon if an objective test of repair connectivity is not performed. We conclude that a full-width injury and repair model in the canine will provide a rigorous test of whether a new repair strategy or postoperative protocol, such as casting or temporary muscle paralysis, can maintain repair integrity in a high-load environment. Alternatively, a partial-width tendon injury model allows loads to be shared between the tendon repair and the remaining intact portion of the infraspinatus tendon and prohibits complete tendon retraction. Thus a partial-width injury in the canine may model the mechanical environment of many single tendon tears in the human injury condition and warrants further investigation."}
{"id": "17560699", "title": "In vivo measurement of subacromial space width during shoulder elevation: technique and preliminary results in patients following unilateral rotator cuff repair.", "content": "In vivo measurement of subacromial space width during shoulder elevation: technique and preliminary results in patients following unilateral rotator cuff repair. The shoulder's subacromial space is of significant clinical interest due to its association with rotator cuff disease. Previous studies have estimated the subacromial space width to be 2-17 mm, but no study has measured in vivo subacromial space width during shoulder motion. The purpose of this study was to measure the in vivo subacromial space width during shoulder elevation in patients following rotator cuff repair. Biplane X-ray images were collected during shoulder elevation of 11 patients who had undergone rotator cuff repair. Glenohumeral joint motion was measured from the biplane X-ray images for each subject's repaired and asymptomatic, contralateral shoulders. The joint motion data were combined with subject-specific CT models to measure the subacromial space width during shoulder motion. Subacromial space width decreased with shoulder elevation, ranging from 2.3 to 7.4 mm in the repaired shoulder and 1.2-7.1 mm in the contralateral shoulder. Subacromial space width in the repaired shoulder was only 0.5 mm less than the contralateral shoulder when averaged over 10-60 degrees of glenohumeral elevation. The results indicate that the humerus in the repaired shoulder is positioned more cranially on the glenoid than in the contralateral shoulder. It is unclear if these subtle differences in subacromial space width are due to the surgical procedure or post-operative stiffness, or if subacromial impingement contributed to the development of the rotator cuff tear. Future research will ascertain if these results represent a transient response to the surgery or a more fundamental difference in rotator cuff function between repaired and contralateral shoulders."}
{"id": "17560471", "title": "Early outcome of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: a matched comparison with mini-open rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Early outcome of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: a matched comparison with mini-open rotator cuff repair. The purpose of this study was to compare the early functional outcome of mini-open and arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. This was a retrospective study of 128 patients with chronic small- and medium-sized rotator cuff tears who underwent mini-open rotator cuff repair (MRCR) (n=63) or arthroscopic rotator cuff repair (ARCR) (n = 65). Data were collected prospectively at baseline 1 to 2 weeks before surgery and at 3 and 6 months after surgery. Patients were identified from a prospectively created database based on the dimensions of the size of the tear as determined intraoperatively. Outcome was assessed via physical examination, visual analog scales (VASs), the Simple Shoulder Test, the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand questionnaire, and the Short Form 36 (SF-36) Health Survey. Changes between baseline and follow-up were compared. All demographic variables and preoperative baseline parameters of the 2 groups were equivalent. At 3 and 6 months, both MRCR and ARCR showed statistically significant improvement in all patient-derived outcome parameters (P < or = .0001) except for three SF-36 variables. The improvements in the SF-36 bodily pain score at 3 months postoperatively (P = .041) and the VAS pain score at 6 months postoperatively (P = .03) were better for ARCR. All other improvements in patient-derived parameters were equivalent. In our retrospective study we found that the early functional outcomes of MRCR and ARCR of small- and medium-sized rotator cuff tears are nearly equivalent. In light of the purported advantages of ARCR that motivate its popularity, this is an unexpected finding. However, an equally important result of this study was the finding that ARCR was associated with statistically significant improvement in the 3-month SF-36 bodily pain score and 6-month VAS pain score (P = .041 and .03, respectively). Level III, retrospective therapeutic comparative study."}
{"id": "17554104", "title": "Equivalent clinical results of arthroscopic single-row and double-row suture anchor repair for rotator cuff tears: a randomized controlled trial.", "content": "Equivalent clinical results of arthroscopic single-row and double-row suture anchor repair for rotator cuff tears: a randomized controlled trial. Restoring the anatomical footprint may improve the healing and mechanical strength of repaired tendons. A double row of suture anchors increases the tendon-bone contact area, reconstituting a more anatomical configuration of the rotator cuff footprint. There is no difference in clinical and imaging outcome between single-row and double-row suture anchor technique repairs of rotator cuff tears. Randomized controlled trial; Level of evidence, 1. The authors recruited 60 patients. In 30 patients, rotator cuff repair was performed with a single-row suture anchor technique (group 1). In the other 30 patients, rotator cuff repair was performed with a double-row suture anchor technique (group 2). Eight patients (4 in the single-row anchor repair group and 4 in the double-row anchor repair group) did not return at the final follow-up. At the 2-year follow-up, no statistically significant differences were seen with respect to the University of California, Los Angeles score and range of motion values. At 2-year follow-up, postoperative magnetic resonance arthrography in group 1 showed intact tendons in 14 patients, partial-thickness defects in 10 patients, and full-thickness defects in 2 patients. In group 2, magnetic resonance arthrography showed an intact rotator cuff in 18 patients, partial-thickness defects in 7 patients, and full-thickness defects in 1 patient. Single- and double-row techniques provide comparable clinical outcome at 2 years. A double-row technique produces a mechanically superior construct compared with the single-row method in restoring the anatomical footprint of the rotator cuff, but these mechanical advantages do not translate into superior clinical performance."}
{"id": "17545443", "title": "Training resources in arthroscopic rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Training resources in arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. All-arthroscopic rotator cuff repair is becoming more commonly performed with recent improvements in implants, instrumentation, and techniques. This study evaluated the influence of different training resources for surgeons performing this procedure. A twenty-eight-item survey was created to evaluate the methods by which orthopaedic surgeons are trained in the skill of all-arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. We selected 2455 surgeons from the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons web site who indicated that they performed shoulder surgery, arthroscopic surgery, and/or sports medicine as part of their practice. Using a 5-point Likert scale, the respondents rated the relative importance of different training resources, including the completion of a sports medicine or shoulder surgery fellowship, attendance at instructional courses, and practice on shoulder models, in contributing to their ability to perform arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. Of the 2455 surveys sent, 1076 were returned (a response rate of 43.8%). Significantly more surgeons indicated that they performed arthroscopic repairs for a 2-cm tear compared with a 5-cm tear (p < 0.001). A younger age, higher volume of shoulder arthroscopies, and higher volume of rotator cuff repairs were all associated with significantly higher rates of preference for all-arthroscopic repairs compared with other types of repairs (p < 0.001). Compared with surgeons who received training in shoulder surgery during residency only, surgeons who had completed either shoulder or sports medicine fellowships were more likely to perform all-arthroscopic repairs. When ranking the relative importance of resources in the training for all-arthroscopic repair, the overall Likert scale scores were highest for a sports medicine fellowship (3.49), hands-on instructional courses (3.33), and practice in an arthroscopy laboratory on cadaver specimens (3.22). Likert scores were lowest for residency training (2.02), practice on artificial shoulder models (2.13), and Internet resources (2.25). The information from this survey may be used to direct the continually evolving training of surgeons in arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs."}
{"id": "17545428", "title": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with double-row fixation.", "content": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with double-row fixation. The treatment of rotator cuff tears has evolved from open surgical repairs to complete arthroscopic repairs over the past two decades. In this study, we reviewed the results of arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs with the so-called double-row, or footprint, reconstruction technique. Between 1998 and 2002, 264 patients underwent an arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with double-row fixation. The average age at the time of the operation was fifty-nine years. Two hundred and thirty-eight patients (242 shoulders) were available for follow-up; 210 were evaluated with a full clinical examination and thirty-two, with a questionnaire only. Preoperative and postoperative examinations consisted of determination of a Constant score and a visual analogue score for pain as well as a full physical examination of the shoulder. Ultrasonography was done at a minimum of twelve months postoperatively to assess the integrity of the cuff. The average score for pain improved from 7.4 points (range, 3 to 10 points) preoperatively to 0.7 point (range, 0 to 3 points) postoperatively. The subjective outcome was excellent or good in 220 (90.9%) of the 242 shoulders. The average increase in the Constant score after the operation was 25.4 points (range, 0 to 57 points). Ultrasonography demonstrated an intact rotator cuff in 83% (174) of the shoulders overall, 47% (fifteen) of the thirty-two with a repair of a massive tear, 78% (thirty-two) of the forty-one with a repair of a large tear, 93% (113) of the 121 with a repair of a medium tear, and 88% (fourteen) of the sixteen with a repair of a small tear. Strength and active elevation increased significantly more in the group with an intact repair at the time of follow-up than in the group with a failed repair; however, there was no difference in the pain scores. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with double-row fixation can achieve a high percentage of excellent subjective and objective results. Integrity of the repair can be expected in the majority of shoulders treated for a large, medium, or small tear, and the strength and range of motion provided by an intact repair are significantly better than those following a failed repair. Therapeutic Level IV."}
{"id": "17545420", "title": "Structural integrity and clinical outcomes after arthroscopic repair of isolated subscapularis tears.", "content": "Structural integrity and clinical outcomes after arthroscopic repair of isolated subscapularis tears. Isolated tears of the subscapularis occur less commonly than those involving the superior and posterior components of the rotator cuff. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the structural integrity and clinical outcomes after arthroscopic repair of isolated subscapularis tears. A prospective study of seventeen consecutive patients who were managed with an all-arthroscopic repair of the subscapularis tendon was performed. The study group included thirteen men and four women who had an average age of forty-seven years at the time of surgery. The average interval from the onset of symptoms to the time of surgery was twenty-four months. Thirteen tears were traumatic, and four were degenerative. Seven patients had a tear involving the superior third of the tendon, six had a tear involving the superior two-thirds of the tendon, and four had complete separation of the subscapularis from its insertion on the lesser tuberosity. Clinical findings were assessed for all patients preoperatively and postoperatively with use of the Constant and University of California at Los Angeles scoring systems, and all patients had postoperative computed tomographic arthrography studies to evaluate the structural integrity of the repair. The average duration of follow-up was twenty-nine months. When the preoperative findings were compared with the most recent findings, the average relative Constant score had improved from 58% to 96% (p < 0.05), the average University of California at Los Angeles score had improved from 16 to 32 points (p < 0.05), the average pain score had improved from 5.9 to 13.5 points (p < 0.05), the average forward flexion had improved from 146 degrees to 175 degrees (p < 0.05), the average external rotation had improved from 50 degrees to 60.3 degrees (p < 0.05), the average internal rotation had improved from the level of the sacrum to L1-L2 (p < 0.05), and the average abduction strength had improved from 7.4 to 15.6 points (p < 0.05). The structural integrity of the repair was completely intact in fifteen patients and was partially reruptured in two patients on the basis of computed tomographic arthrography. Progression of fatty infiltration of the subscapularis was not observed in any patient. Subjectively, twelve patients were very satisfied with the result, four were satisfied, and one was not satisfied. Arthroscopic repair of an isolated subscapularis tear can yield marked improvements in shoulder function, can significantly reduce pain, and can result in a durable structural repair. Therapeutic Level IV."}
{"id": "17536907", "title": "Long durations of immobilization in the rat result in enhanced mechanical properties of the healing supraspinatus tendon insertion site.", "content": "Long durations of immobilization in the rat result in enhanced mechanical properties of the healing supraspinatus tendon insertion site. Rotator cuff tears frequently occur and can lead to pain and decreased shoulder function. Repair of the torn tendon back to bone is often successful in relieving pain, but failure of the repair commonly occurs. Post-operative activity level is an important treatment component that has received minimal attention for the shoulder, but may have the potential to enhance tendon to bone healing. The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of short and long durations of various activity levels on the healing supraspinatus tendon to bone insertion site. Rotator cuff tears were surgically created in Sprague-Dawley rats by detaching the supraspinatus tendon from its insertion on the humerus and these tears were immediately repaired back to the insertion site. The post-operative activity level was controlled through shoulder immobilization (IM), cage activity (CA), or moderate exercise (EX) for durations of 4 or 16 weeks. The healing tissue was evaluated utilizing biomechanical testing and a quantitative polarized light microscopy method. We found that activity level had no effect on the elastic properties (stiffness, modulus) of the insertion site at four weeks post injury and repair, and a decreased activity level had a positive effect on these properties at 16 weeks (IM>CA=EX). Furthermore, a decreased activity level had the greatest positive effect on these properties over time (IM>CA=EX). The angular deviation of the collagen, a measure of disorganization, was decreased with a decrease in activity level at 4 weeks (IM<CA=EX), but was similar between groups at 16 weeks (IM=CA=EX). It appears from this study that decreasing the activity level by immobilizing the shoulder improves tendon to bone healing, which progresses by first increasing the organization of the collagen and then increasing the mechanical properties. Future studies in this area will investigate the effect of passive motion and remobilization on both tendon to bone healing and shoulder function."}
{"id": "17534600", "title": "The arthroscopic management of femoroacetabular impingement.", "content": "The arthroscopic management of femoroacetabular impingement. Femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) has recently been implicated in causing a spectrum of injury ranging from anterior hip pain, labral tears, chondral damage, and eventually perhaps to idiopathic arthritis of the hip. Three distinct types have been described: cam, pincer and mixed, with the mixed one being the commonest. Surgical treatment of femoroacetabular impingement is focused towards providing an adequate clearance to alleviate femoral abutment against the acetabular rim. This is achieved by restoring a normal femoral head-neck offset and recessing the acetabular rim if necessary. The treatment of FAI has been achieved with reasonable success by open surgical dislocation as described by the Swiss group. However, the protracted post-operative recovery coupled with the trauma sustained during the open procedure, have led to the development of an arthroscopic approach to manage this problem. The purpose of this article is to provide the reader with an up-to-date knowledge of the clinical and diagnostic aspects of FAI, to describe our arthroscopic technique in detail with its pitfalls and possible complications and to discuss the results and future of FAI."}
{"id": "17531513", "title": "Nonoperative management of idiopathic adhesive capsulitis.", "content": "Nonoperative management of idiopathic adhesive capsulitis. Adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder is a common disorder, yet literature on its natural history is limited. This study examined patient characteristics, treatment patterns, and response to treatment of the disease in a large series of patients with this condition. Charts of 234 patients treated at our institution for adhesive capsulitis were reviewed retrospectively. The end points for the study were defined as resolution of symptoms with nonoperative treatment or operative treatment. A total of 105 shoulders in 98 patients were identified with follow-up to end point. Of these, 89.5% resolved with nonoperative treatment, including 17 (89.5%) of 19 diabetic shoulders. The average age of patients who went on to surgery was 51 years, whereas the average age of patients treated nonoperatively was significantly higher at 56. No significant difference was found for success of nonoperative treatment versus operative treatment or patient gender. All patients received nonsteroidal antiinflammatory medications, 52.4% received physical therapy without cortisone injection, and 37.1% received therapy with at least 1 corticosteroid injection. Duration of treatment in successfully nonoperatively treated patients averaged 3.8 +/- 3.6 months. Patients who required surgery were treated with an average of 12.4 +/- 12.1 months of nonoperative treatment. Initial forward elevation averaged 118 degrees +/- 22 degrees with average forward elevation at resolution of 164 degrees +/- 17 degrees. External rotation improved from an average of 26 degrees +/- 16 degrees pretreatment to 59 degrees +/- 18 degrees posttreatment. With supervised treatment, most patients with adhesive capsulitis will experience resolution with nonoperative measures in a relatively short period. Only a small percentage of patients eventually require operative treatment."}
{"id": "17530226", "title": "Treatment of anterolateral impingements of the ankle joint by arthroscopy.", "content": "Treatment of anterolateral impingements of the ankle joint by arthroscopy. Impingement syndromes of the ankle joint are among the most common intraarticular ankle lesions. Soft tissue impingement lesions of the ankle usually occur as a result of synovial, or capsular irritation secondary to traumatic injuries, usually ankle sprains, leading to chronic ankle pain. The aim of this prospective study was to evaluate arthroscopic debridement of an anterolateral soft tissue impingement of the ankle. During the period between October 2000 and February 2004, 23 patients with residual complaints after an ankle sprain were diagnosed as anterolateral impingement of the ankle, and were treated by arthroscopic debridement. At a minimum of 6 months follow up, patients were asked to complete an American orthopaedic foot and ankle society (AOFAS) ankle and hind foot score. The average follow-up was 25 months (range 12-38). The average pre-operative patient assessed AOFAS score was 34 (range 4-57). At the end of follow-up the mean AOFAS score was 89 (range 60-100). In terms of patient satisfaction 22 patients said they would accept the same arthroscopic procedure again for the same complaints. At the end of follow-up, 7 patients had excellent results, and 14 patients had good results while two patients had fair results. We believe that arthroscopic debridement of the anterolateral impingement soft tissues are a good, and effective method of treatment."}
{"id": "17527100", "title": "Assessment and treatment of glenohumeral joint deformities in children suffering from upper obstetric brachial plexus palsy.", "content": "Assessment and treatment of glenohumeral joint deformities in children suffering from upper obstetric brachial plexus palsy. We present our approach to gleno-humeral joint deformities as sequelae from severe upper obstetric brachial plexus palsy. In 50 consecutive children with severe medial rotation contracture of the shoulder after obstetric brachial plexus palsy, we used magnetic resonance imaging to evaluate joint incongruence and dysplasia; showing frequently various deformities of the glenoid, the humeral head and pathologic changes in their relationship. The most severe deformity is true glenohumeral dysplasia. These diagnostic findings might influence our choice and technical details within surgical procedures. We actually evaluate image processing tools (segmentation software) for a better understanding of changes in anatomical structures responsible for this multifactorial joint deformity, limiting lateral and/or medial rotation of the glenohumeral joint in children with obstetric brachial plexus palsy."}
{"id": "17524676", "title": "Tissue engineering and rotator cuff tendon healing.", "content": "Tissue engineering and rotator cuff tendon healing. Rotator cuff tears are common soft-tissue injuries that often require surgical treatment. Initial efforts to better tendon healing centered on improving the strength of the repair. More recent studies have focused on biologic enhancement of the healing process. Tissue engineering is a multidisciplinary field that involves the application of scientific principles toward creating living tissue to replace, repair, or augment diseased tissue. Gene therapy involves the transfer of a certain gene into a cell so that the cell translates the gene into a specific protein. The advantage of using a gene-therapy, tissue-engineered approach to effect healing rests in the ability of the physician to select growth factors with documented roles in the tendon-healing cascade. Ideally, an improvement to the current repair technique would yield improved tendon healing leading to improved clinical results."}
{"id": "17520356", "title": "Randomized controlled trial of workplace-based rehabilitation for work-related rotator cuff disorder.", "content": "Randomized controlled trial of workplace-based rehabilitation for work-related rotator cuff disorder. Return to work following an occupational injury is a multifactoral process although many traditional clinic-based rehabilitation programs do not appreciate the importance of workplace factors. A randomized controlled trial was conducted to investigate the effect of workplace-based rehabilitation program on the return to work outcome of work-related rotator cuff disorder, which is based on the therapeutic use of actual work facilities and work environment. A total of 103 workers were recruited and randomly assigned into Clinic-based Work Hardening (CWH) or Workplace-based Work Hardening (WWH) groups. The CWH group were given traditional generic work hardening training while WWH group received workplace-based work hardening training with rehabilitative principles of athletic rotator cuff pathology, biomechanics and specific job activities. After four weeks, a higher return to work rate was obtained in WWH group compared to CWH group (71.4% vs. 37%, p < 0.01). A statistically significant difference (p < 0.05) was also noted in lowering of self-reported shoulder problems and functional work capabilities in the WWH group versus the CWH group. Workplace-based rehabilitation program appeared to be more effective in facilitating the return to work process of the injured worker as assessed immediately following intervention. In particular this approached was associated with many of the psychosocial workplace factors related to separation from the work routine. The influence of peer group and/or employer could be minimized. This initial attempt with rotator cuff injuries appears promising however long-term outcome needs to be determined."}
{"id": "17519440", "title": "Arthroscopic capsulolabral reconstruction of the type VIII superior labrum anterior posterior lesion: mean 2-year follow-up on 13 shoulders.", "content": "Arthroscopic capsulolabral reconstruction of the type VIII superior labrum anterior posterior lesion: mean 2-year follow-up on 13 shoulders. A type VIII superior labrum anterior posterior lesion represents pathologic posteroinferior extension of a type II superior labrum anterior posterior lesion with injury to the insertion of the posterior band of the inferior glenohumeral ligament. No reports in the literature describe arthroscopic treatment of a type VIII superior labrum anterior posterior lesion and its associated glenohumeral instability. Arthroscopic capsulolabral reconstruction is effective in alleviating pain and restoring stability and function in athletes with glenohumeral instability due to the type VIII superior labrum anterior posterior lesion. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. From 2003 to 2006, 23 shoulders in 23 athletes were diagnosed with a type VIII superior labrum anterior posterior lesion by physical examination, magnetic resonance arthrography, and arthroscopy. All were treated with an arthroscopic capsulolabral reconstruction. Ten patients were involved in rehabilitation less than 9 months after surgery and were not included in this study. Thirteen remaining shoulders in 13 athletes with a mean age of 27.8 +/- 10.9 years were analyzed at a mean follow-up of 24 months. Shoulders were evaluated preoperatively and postoperatively using the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scoring system and standard subjective scales for stability, strength, function, and range of motion. Athletes most commonly participated in sport at the recreational level (n = 8), followed by collegiate (n = 3) and high school (n = 2). The most common activity was weight lifting (n = 4). Eight athletes (62%) participated in contact sports, most commonly football and wrestling. Two patients (15%) had a partial-thickness articular-sided supraspinatus tendon tear that was debrided at the time of surgery. Mean American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score improved from 51.4 to 90.0 (P < .001). There were significant improvements in stability, pain, function, and range of motion based on standardized subjective scales (P < .001). No shoulder required revision surgery for recurrent instability. All patients were able to return to sports, with 9 (69%) able to return to their highest level before surgery. Arthroscopic capsulolabral reconstruction is an effective and reliable treatment for glenohumeral instability due to a type VIII superior labrum anterior posterior lesion in the contact, noncontact, and throwing athlete. Successful postoperative return to sport is a reasonable expectation."}
{"id": "17514177", "title": "Entrapment of the suprascapular nerve: anatomy, etiology, diagnosis, treatment.", "content": "Entrapment of the suprascapular nerve: anatomy, etiology, diagnosis, treatment. Entrapment of the suprascapular nerve is a rare peripheral neuropathy, which can be easily overlooked in the differential diagnosis of shoulder pain and dysfunction. Entrapment of the suprascapular nerve can occur at different locations along the pathway of the nerve. The primary symptoms are pain, weakness, and atrophy of the supraspinate and infraspinate muscles. Differential diagnosis should include brachial plexopathy, disorders of the cervical spine, cervical discopathy, glenohumeral pathology, tendonitis, and rotator cuff tear. Accurate diagnosis facilitates appropriate and timely treatment."}
{"id": "17513136", "title": "Repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears is recommended regardless of tear size and age: a retrospective study of 218 patients.", "content": "Repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears is recommended regardless of tear size and age: a retrospective study of 218 patients. Conservative therapy has been recommended for the treatment of a chronic cuff lesion with relatively good results. However, recent reports about operative treatment of cuff lesions have yielded more favorable results. Although the current literature seems to favor early treatment, there is an ongoing debate about the timing of the operation. During a 16-year period, 415 chronic full-thickness rotator cuff tears were operated on at our institution. The indication for operative treatment was persistent, severe or moderate pain at rest and impairment of shoulder function after initial conservative treatment. At follow-up, the symptoms were assessed by an interview, and all patients were clinically examined. Pain, function, range of active forward flexion, active abduction, strength (manual muscle testing), and patient satisfaction were recorded, and the results were evaluated by the University of California, Los Angeles shoulder rating scale. On the basis of our results, we recommend operative treatment of the rotator cuff for all cases in which the tear is full thickness, regardless of tear size, if patients have any symptoms, especially pain."}
{"id": "17512483", "title": "Management of rotator cuff disease: specific treatment for specific disorders.", "content": "Management of rotator cuff disease: specific treatment for specific disorders. Disease of the rotator cuff is common. It is responsible for a high proportion of patients with shoulder pain presenting to general practice, causing work absenteeism and claims for sickness benefits. Rotator cuff disease (RCD) can often be managed in primary health care services, although some cases may require secondary referral. Both extrinsic and intrinsic factors to the cuff tendon are thought to be involved in the pathogenesis leading on to a spectrum of conditions ranging from sub-acromial bursitis to mechanical failure of the cuff tendon itself. Careful history and examination followed by pertinent investigation are essential to establish the correct diagnosis. The main aim of treatment is to improve symptoms and restore function of the affected shoulder. The majority of patients suffering from RCD can be managed by conservative means, but a shift in attitude has led to a significant number benefiting from invasive procedures ranging from decompression of the sub-acromial space to large, open procedures reconstructing the tendon itself."}
{"id": "17509903", "title": "Oxygen free radicals and tendon healing.", "content": "Oxygen free radicals and tendon healing. Nitric oxide is a small free radical generated by a family of enzymes, the nitric oxide synthases (NOSs). In a series of experiments performed over the last 15 years, we showed that nitric oxide is induced by all 3 isoforms of NOS during tendon healing and that it plays a crucial beneficial role in restoring tendon function. In normal tendons, very little NOS activity was found, whereas in injured rat and human tendons, NOS activity was expressed in healing fibroblasts in a temporal fashion. In healing rat Achilles tendon fibroblasts, the first isoform to be expressed was endothelial NOS, followed by inducible NOS and then brain or neuronal NOS. Systemic inhibition of NOS activity decreased the cross-sectional area and mechanical properties of the healing rodent Achilles tendons. The addition of nitric oxide via nitric oxide-flurbiprofen enhanced rat Achilles tendon healing. The addition of nitric oxide to cultured human tendon cells via chemical means and via adenoviral transfection enhanced collagen synthesis, suggesting that one mechanism for the beneficial effect of nitric oxide on tendon healing might be via matrix synthesis. Most recently, 3 randomized, double-blind clinical trials evaluated the efficacy of nitric oxide donation via a patch in the management of the tendinopathy. In all 3 clinical trials, there was a significant positive beneficial effect of nitric oxide donation to the clinical symptoms and function of patients with Achilles tendinopathy, tennis elbow, and supraspinatus tendinitis."}
{"id": "17509150", "title": "Validation of a new test that assesses functional performance of the upper extremity and neck (FIT-HaNSA) in patients with shoulder pathology.", "content": "Validation of a new test that assesses functional performance of the upper extremity and neck (FIT-HaNSA) in patients with shoulder pathology. There is a lack of standardized tests that assess functional performance for sustained upper extremity activity. This study describes development of a new test for measuring functional performance of the upper extremity and neck and assesses reliability and concurrent validity in patients with shoulder pathology. A series of developmental tests were conducted to develop a protocol for assessing upper extremity tasks that required multi-level movement and sustained elevation. Kinematics of movement were investigated to inform subtask structure. Tasks and test composition were refined to fit clinical applicability criteria and pilot tested on 5 patients awaiting surgery for shoulder impingement and age-sex matched controls. Test-retest reliability was assessed on 10 subjects. Then a cohort of patients with mild to moderate (n = 17) shoulder pathology and 19 controls (17 were age-sex matched to patients) were tested to further validate the Functional Impairment Test-Hand, and Neck/Shoulder/Arm (FIT-HaNSA) by comparing it to self-reported function and measured strength. The FIT-HaNSA, DASH and SPADI were tested on a single occasion. Impairments in isometric strength were measured using hand-held dynamometry. Discriminative validity was determined by comparing scores to those of age-sex matched controls (n = 34), using ANOVA. Pearson correlations between outcome measures (n = 41) were examined to establish criterion and convergent validity. A test protocol based on three five-minute subtasks, each either comprised of moving objects to waist-height shelves, eye-level shelves, or sustained manipulation of overhead nuts/bolts, was developed. Test scores for the latter 2 subtasks (or total scores) were different between controls as compared to either surgical-list patients with shoulder impingement or a variety of milder shoulder pathologies (p < 0.01). Test 1 correlated the highest with the DASH (r = -0.83), whereas Test 2 correlated highest with the SPADI (r = -0.76). Initial data suggest the FIT-HaNSA provides valid assessment of impaired functional performance in patients with shoulder pathology. It discriminates between patients and controls, is related to self-reported function, and yet provides distinct information. Longitudinal testing is warranted."}
{"id": "17508210", "title": "Muscle atrophy as a consequence of rotator cuff tears: should we compare the muscles of the rotator cuff with those of the deltoid?", "content": "Muscle atrophy as a consequence of rotator cuff tears: should we compare the muscles of the rotator cuff with those of the deltoid? The quantitative assessment of muscle atrophy has a degree of importance in prognosticating rotator cuff treatment. However, it has been conjectured that muscle fat increases with aging. Therefore, we thought that the quantitative assessment of the supraspinatous would be better if made in comparison with a standard of reference such as the deltoid. Consequently, we performed a two-part study, first evaluating supraspinatous changes compared with the deltoid in \"normals\" with aging, and second, determining if in patients with cuff tears the supraspinatous fat exceeds that of the deltoid. In part 1, we studied 50 patients stratified by decade. In the first sitting, two blinded independent observers quantitatively graded the deltoid (with the supraspinatous obscured) and in the second sitting the same two observers quantitatively graded the supraspinatous (with the deltoid obscured). In part 2 of the study, we evaluated patients with moderate rotator cuff tears (>2 cm) and performed the same blinded, two-sitting, quantitative assessment (with the comparison muscle obscured). We found that muscle atrophy increases with age in patients without tears (0.011/0.028 U/year), although to a greater degree in the deltoid (p = 0.032). Also, in similarly aged patients, quantitative scores of the deltoid closely matched those of the supraspinatous (p = 0.071). Notably, however, in patients with large tears, the supraspinatous showed significant changes disproportionate to those of the deltoid, regardless of patient age (p = 0.044). In the presence of a normal rotator cuff, fatty infiltration increases with age. Age-related changes occur more frequently in the deltoid, verifying this muscle's potential as a standard of reference. With cuff tears, supraspinatous atrophy was disproportionate to that of the deltoid. Therefore, systematic assessment of supraspinatous muscle atrophy may be more reliable using the deltoid as a control for comparison than assessing it in isolation."}
{"id": "17504318", "title": "MR shoulder arthrography in patients younger than 40 years of age: frequency of rotator cuff tear versus labroligamentous pathology.", "content": "MR shoulder arthrography in patients younger than 40 years of age: frequency of rotator cuff tear versus labroligamentous pathology. The purpose of this study was to compare the frequency of rotator cuff pathology versus labroligamentous pathology in patients younger than 40 years and to determine whether routine MR arthrography is justified in all patients in this age group, regardless of the clinical symptoms. The MR arthrography was carried out on 332 patients 40 years of age and younger. Two hundred and forty-three patients had clinical history of instability and possible labroligamentous pathology. Eighty-nine patients had no history or physical signs of instability and were referred for reasons other than instability, such as assessment for rotator cuff tear. In the 243 patients younger than 40 years with clinical history of potential labral pathology, 39% (95/243) showed a labral tear and 2.1% (5/243) had a full-thickness rotator cuff tendon tear. In the 89 patients with no history suggesting labral pathology, 19% (17/89) showed an unsuspected labral tear and 4.5% (4/89) had a full-thickness rotator cuff tear. These findings suggest that, regardless of the clinical indication for referral, patients aged 40 and less referred for shoulder MRI should be imaged using MR arthrography because of the significant risk that symptoms are related to unsuspected labral pathology."}
{"id": "17504312", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of shoulder ultrasound performed by a single operator.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of shoulder ultrasound performed by a single operator. Both diagnostic ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are used for investigation of the presence and severity of rotator cuff lesions. There is no consensus as to which is the more accurate and cost-effective study. We sought to examine the sensitivity of ultrasound, when used by one experienced radiologist with modern equipment. We compared the ultrasound and surgical results obtained from 68 patients. Ultrasound showed a sensitivity of 89% and specificity of 100% (Positive Predictive Value 100%) for full-thickness tears, and a sensitivity of 79% and specificity of 94% (Positive Predictive Value 87%) for partial-thickness tears. We found that shoulder ultrasound, in the hands of an experienced radiologist with the use of modern high-resolution equipment, is highly sensitive in differentiating complete tears and partial-thickness tears. Our results are similar to the best published results for MRI and given that ultrasound is significantly cheaper and more available, ultrasound by an experienced radiologist should be considered as a primary diagnostic tool for imaging the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "17498588", "title": "Patients undergoing stabilization surgery for recurrent, traumatic anterior shoulder instability commonly have restricted passive external rotation.", "content": "Patients undergoing stabilization surgery for recurrent, traumatic anterior shoulder instability commonly have restricted passive external rotation. An important component in the surgical treatment of recurrent anterior shoulder dislocations is the Bankart repair. This is often supplemented with ligament plication for perceived laxity. The glenohumeral ligaments define translational laxity and restrict glenohumeral range of motion. The purpose of this study was to measure the external rotation (ER) range of motion of patients under anesthesia for glenohumeral stabilization surgery. A blinded observer measured bilateral shoulder ER in 15 patients by use of a standardized torque and goniometry. ER in the unstable shoulder with the arm abducted 90 degrees averaged 14 degrees less than that in the uninjured shoulder, and this was statistically significant. There was a significant loss of 11 degrees ER in the unstable shoulder with the arm at the side. The findings indicate that the glenohumeral joint in patients with a Bankart lesion is commonly rotationally stiff."}
{"id": "17497133", "title": "Isolated and combined Type II SLAP repairs in a military population.", "content": "Isolated and combined Type II SLAP repairs in a military population. The study compares the clinical results of isolated arthroscopic repair of Type II SLAP tears with those of combined treatment for Type II SLAP and other associated shoulder conditions. The population was composed of 36 aged-matched active duty males with a mean age of 31.6 years (range 22-41 years); mean follow-up was 29.1 months (range 24-42 months). Eighteen subjects in Group I had isolated Type II SLAP tears. Eighteen subjects in Group II had Type II SLAP tear and concomitant ipsilateral shoulder conditions, including subacromial impingement in six patients, acromioclavicular arthrosis in three patients, subacromial impingement and acromioclavicular arthrosis in four patients, spinoglenoid cyst in four patients, and intra-articular loose bodies in one patient. Arthroscopic SLAP repair was performed with biodegradable suture anchors. Subacromial decompression and spinoglenoid cyst decompression were performed arthroscopically. Distal claviculectomy was performed in open fashion. Loose bodies were removed arthroscopically. At minimum 2-year follow-up, the mean UCLA score for Group I (30.2 +/- 3.0 points) was not significantly different from Group II (30.8 +/- 2.0 points) (P = 0.48). The mean post-operative ASES score for Group I (84.1 +/- 13.4 points) was significantly lower than for Group II (91.8 +/- 5.4 points) (P < 0.04). The mean VAS pain score for Group I (1.6 +/- 1.3 points) was significantly higher than for Group II (0.7 +/- 0.7 points) (P < 0.02). Seventeen of 18 patients (94%) in each group returned to full duty. In a population of active duty males, arthroscopic repair of isolated Type II SLAP had comparable results with a cohort of Type II SLAP repairs treated in combination with other shoulder conditions, with the combined treatment group having significantly better results in two of three parameters measured. Return to duty rates were identical. Therefore, concurrent treatment of other associated extra-articular shoulder conditions improves the overall success of SLAP repair and the presence of these other conditions should be recognized and treated along with the SLAP tears in order to maximize clinical results."}
{"id": "17497132", "title": "Arthroscopic treatment of calcifying tendonitis of subscapularis and supraspinatus tendon: a case report.", "content": "Arthroscopic treatment of calcifying tendonitis of subscapularis and supraspinatus tendon: a case report. Reports concerning the surgical treatment of calcifying tendinits of the subscapularis tendon are rare. We present the case of a symptomatic calcifying tendonitis involving the subscapularis and supraspinatus tendons. The patient was treated with an arthroscopic removal of the calcific deposits. One year after the surgical procedure the patient was completely pain free, had full range-of-motion and negative supraspinatus and subscapularis signs on manual muscle testing. The overall constant score was 93 points. Radiographic evaluation revealed a complete removal of the calcific deposits immediately after the procedure without recurrence after 1 year. We conclude that a combined arthroscopic removal of the calcific deposits of the subscapularis and supraspinatus tendons can lead to an excellent clinical outcome without compromising the functional integrity of the rotator cuff tendons."}
{"id": "17489525", "title": "Functional outcome of frozen shoulder after manipulation under anaesthesia.", "content": "Functional outcome of frozen shoulder after manipulation under anaesthesia. To analyze and compare the functional outcome in adhesive capsulitis after manipulation under anaesthesia and keeping the extremity in abduction and external rotation combined with local steroid injection v/s manipulation under anaesthesia combined with local steroid alone, in terms of range of motion. A comparative prospective study was done at the department of Orthopedics Surgery, Liaquat National Hospital, Karachi. A total of 33 patients with adhesive capsulitis of shoulder joint were included and divided into 2 groups. Group 1 (n-16) underwent manipulation under anaesthesia and manipulated extremity was kept in abduction and external rotation combined with local steroid injection. In Group 2 (n-17) patients also underwent manipulations under general anaesthesia with local steroid injection alone. After manipulation both groups had daily physiotherapy session for half an hour. After manipulation, in both groups there was a significant increase in global'range of motions of the shoulder joint. However, the group 1 patients demonstrated more increase in all range of motion as compared to group 2. The result showed significant improvement in all range of movements except external rotation and forward flexion. After manipulation, simply tying the manipulated extremity to the back of bed greatly influences regaining the range of motions with no additional cost. These patients need counseling and motivation for their active participation in physical therapy program even after manipulation for optimal long term result."}
{"id": "17478654", "title": "The passive compression test: a new clinical test for superior labral tears of the shoulder.", "content": "The passive compression test: a new clinical test for superior labral tears of the shoulder. Even though there are several physical tests available for superior labrum anterior posterior lesions, there have been very few reports on their accuracy, and none can be regarded as completely predictive for the presence of a superior labrum anterior posterior lesion in the shoulder joint. This new clinical test is a useful and accurate technique for detecting superior labral tears in the shoulder joint. Cohort study (diagnosis); Level of evidence, 2. This test was conducted independently by 2 physicians before any other diagnostic evaluation. In all cases, the glenohumeral joint was investigated first, and the appropriate treatments were performed on the lesion. A protocol was established to evaluate the sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of this new clinical test. The reproducibility of this test was evaluated with a kappa coefficient. Sixty-one patients (61 shoulders) were examined with the passive compression test, and all underwent arthroscopic surgery. In 31 patients with a positive passive compression test result, 27 had a superior labrum anterior posterior lesion, and in 30 patients with a negative passive compression test result, 6 had a superior labrum anterior posterior lesion. The sensitivity of the test was 81.8%, and the specificity was 85.7%. The positive predictive value was 87.1%, and the negative predictive value was 80.0%. The kappa coefficient was 0.771 between the 2 independent examiners (P< .01). The passive compression test is a useful and accurate technique for predicting superior labral tears of the shoulder joint."}
{"id": "17478283", "title": "Clinical outcome and tendon integrity of arthroscopic versus mini-open supraspinatus tendon repair: a magnetic resonance imaging-controlled matched-pair analysis.", "content": "Clinical outcome and tendon integrity of arthroscopic versus mini-open supraspinatus tendon repair: a magnetic resonance imaging-controlled matched-pair analysis. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair produces equally good clinical results compared with open or mini-open repair. However, there are concerns about whether the same repair integrity can be achieved. The purpose of our study was to compare clinical and structural results of arthroscopic and mini-open rotator cuff repair. Nineteen patients who had arthroscopic rotator cuff repair (mean follow-up, 25.0 months) were matched for age, gender, and duration of symptoms with nineteen patients who had mini-open repair (mean follow-up, 17.6 months). We compared preoperative and follow-up Constant scores, as well as early range of motion after 6 weeks and 3 months. All patients were examined with the same magnetic resonance imaging system at follow-up to evaluate cuff integrity. There was no difference in clinical and structural outcome. The overall Constant score improved from 53.8 to 83.9 in the arthroscopic group and from 53.5 to 83.7 in the mini-open group. Early range of motion did not differ significantly at 6 weeks or 3 months postoperatively. The number of retears was 6 (31.6%) in the arthroscopic group and 7 (36.8%) in the mini-open group. This difference was not statistically significant (P = .7358). Although smaller retears had no influence on the clinical result, more retracted retears correlated with lower abduction strength regardless of the repair method. In isolated supraspinatus tears arthroscopic rotator cuff repair produces excellent clinical results and equivalent tendon integrity compared with mini-open repair. Level III, retrospective therapeutic comparative study."}
{"id": "17473131", "title": "Repair integrity and functional outcome after arthroscopic double-row rotator cuff repair. A prospective outcome study.", "content": "Repair integrity and functional outcome after arthroscopic double-row rotator cuff repair. A prospective outcome study. The retear rate following rotator cuff repair is variable. Recent biomechanical studies have demonstrated that double-row tendon-to-bone fixation excels in initial fixation strength and footprint coverage compared with the single-row or transosseous fixation methods. This study was designed to report the repair integrity and clinical outcome following arthroscopic double-row rotator cuff repair. A consecutive series of 106 patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears underwent arthroscopic double-row rotator cuff repair with use of suture anchors and were followed prospectively. Twenty patients lacked complete follow-up data or were lost to follow-up. The eighty-six study subjects included fifty-two men and thirty-four women, with an average age of 60.5 years. There were twenty-six small, thirty medium, twenty-two large, and eight massive tears. Clinical outcomes were evaluated at an average of thirty-one months. Repair integrity was estimated with use of magnetic resonance imaging, which was performed, on the average, fourteen months postoperatively, and was classified into five categories, with type I indicating sufficient thickness with homogeneously low intensity; type II, sufficient thickness with partial high intensity; type III, insufficient thickness without discontinuity; type IV, the presence of a minor discontinuity; and type V, the presence of a major discontinuity. The average clinical outcome scores all improved significantly at the time of the final follow-up (p < 0.01). At a mean of fourteen months postoperatively, magnetic resonance imaging revealed that thirty-seven shoulders had a type-I repair; twenty-one, a type-II repair; thirteen, a type-III repair; eight, a type-IV repair; and seven, a type-V repair. The overall rate of retears (types IV and V) was 17%. The retear rate was 5% for small-to-medium tears, while it was 40% for large and massive tears. The shoulders with a type-V repair demonstrated significantly inferior functional outcome in terms of overall scores and strength compared with the other types of repairs (p < 0.01). Arthroscopic double-row repair can result in improved repair integrity compared with open or miniopen repair methods. However, the retear rate for shoulders with large and massive tears remains higher than that for smaller tears, and shoulders with large repair defects (type V) demonstrate significantly inferior functional outcomes."}
{"id": "17473129", "title": "Reverse Delta-III total shoulder replacement combined with latissimus dorsi transfer. A preliminary report.", "content": "Reverse Delta-III total shoulder replacement combined with latissimus dorsi transfer. A preliminary report. Reverse total shoulder arthroplasty allows the restoration of active overhead elevation in patients with a massive rotator cuff tear and pseudoparesis of elevation. However, it does not restore active external rotation, the lack of which can also constitute a substantial functional handicap and compromise the outcome of this arthroplasty. Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer reliably restores control of active external rotation in rotator-cuff-deficient shoulders. In this preliminary study, we assessed the results of the combination of a latissimus dorsi transfer to the greater tuberosity and a reverse total shoulder arthroplasty in the presence of lost active external rotation. Twelve shoulders in eleven patients (ten women and one man; average age, seventy-three years) with combined pseudoparesis of anterior elevation and external rotation were enrolled in the study. All demonstrated severe dysfunction of the teres minor with an external rotation lag sign, a hornblower's sign, and fatty degeneration of the teres minor classified as stage 2 or greater according to the system of Goutallier et al. or Fuchs et al. All were treated with a reverse total shoulder arthroplasty and a latissimus dorsi transfer during one operative procedure. One patient had a postoperative infection necessitating removal of the prosthesis. Another patient could not be examined because of an unrelated medical disability, leaving ten shoulders in nine patients available for evaluation on the basis of the history, results of a physical examination, and patient-based outcomes. On the average, forward flexion improved from 94 degrees preoperatively to 139 degrees at the time of follow-up (p = 0.028), abduction improved from 87 degrees to 145 degrees (p = 0.007), and strength improved from 0.25 to 4.12 kg (p = 0.005). The subjective shoulder value increased from 23% to 64% (p = 0.005), the relative Constant score increased from 47% to 93% (p = 0.005), and the pain score improved from 6.1 to 10.9 points (p = 0.012). While improvement in active external rotation with the arm at the side (from 12 degrees to 19 degrees ) was not significant, the score for functional active external rotation improved from 4.6 to 8.2 of 10 points according to the system of Constant and Murley (p = 0.024). The score for activities of daily living improved from 2.3 to 7.9 of 10 points (p = 0.005). In the presence of severe loss of active elevation and external rotation, combined latissimus dorsi transfer and reverse total shoulder arthroplasty can restore elevation and external rotation, at least in the short term."}
{"id": "17473128", "title": "Impact of fatty infiltration of the teres minor muscle on the outcome of reverse total shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Impact of fatty infiltration of the teres minor muscle on the outcome of reverse total shoulder arthroplasty. Reports have demonstrated that reverse shoulder arthroplasty restores overhead elevation but fails to restore active external rotation. The teres minor muscle-tendon unit contributes to active external rotation, and its deficiency may impair the clinical outcome. It was therefore the purpose of this study to evaluate the influence of fatty infiltration of the teres minor muscle on the clinical outcome after reverse total shoulder replacement. Forty-two shoulders in forty-two patients (average age, seventy-one years) with painful cuff tear arthropathy or an irreparable rotator cuff deficiency with pseudoparesis were treated with a reverse Delta-III shoulder arthroplasty and followed clinically for a minimum of twenty-four months. Preoperatively, fatty infiltration of the teres minor was assessed, according to the grading system of Goutallier et al., with use of magnetic resonance imaging. The effect of teres minor fatty infiltration on the subjective and objective outcomes of the reverse shoulder arthroplasty was evaluated. The thirty shoulders with stage-0, 1, or 2 fatty infiltration of the teres minor muscle (group 1) had a significantly better ultimate Constant score, a significantly better subjective shoulder value, and significantly greater preoperative-to-postoperative improvement than the twelve shoulders with stage-3 or 4 fatty infiltration (group 2). In group 1 the relative Constant score increased by an average of 41% and the subjective shoulder value increased by an average of 44%, whereas in group 2 the respective increases were 32% (p = 0.033) and 25% (p = 0.018). Group 1 had an average increase of 6.2 points in the score for extremity positioning, whereas group 2 gained only 5.3 points (p = 0.033). Group 1 had a net gain of 9 degrees of external rotation with the arm at the side compared with an average net loss of 7 degrees in group 2 (p < 0.001). Stage-3 or 4 fatty infiltration of the teres minor compromises the clinical outcome of reverse shoulder arthroplasty for the treatment of irreparable rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "17467393", "title": "Contribution of full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears to acquired subcoracoid impingement.", "content": "Contribution of full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears to acquired subcoracoid impingement. To assess the relationship between the severity of full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears and the development of subcoracoid impingement. Fifty-one magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) shoulder examination reports with full-thickness supraspinatus tears were retrospectively identified and reviewed by two dedicated musculoskeletal radiologists. The appearances of the rotator cuff muscles, biceps tendon and the lesser tubercle were recorded. The acromio-humeral distance and the axial coraco-humeral distance were measured. The data were recorded and analysed electronically. The kappa values for inter-observer agreement were: 0.91 for acromio-humeral distance and 0.85 for coraco-humeral distance measurements. Twenty-six patients had significant retraction of the supraspinatus tendon, 85% (22 cases) of this group had imaging evidence of tear or tendonopathy of the subscapularis tendon. Twenty-five patients had no significant retraction of the supraspinatus, 56% (14 cases) of this group had imaging evidence of a subscapularis tear or tendonopathy. The acromio-humeral distance was significantly less in patients with supraspinatus tears and retraction (p<0.05). The subscapularis tendon was significantly more likely to be abnormal if the supraspinatus was retracted than if no retraction was present (p<0.05). There were no significant differences in coraco-humeral distances between the groups. Subscapularis tendon signal and structural changes are frequently associated with full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears, particularly if the supraspinatus is significantly retracted. In this static MRI series, the data do not support the occurrence of classical subcoracoid impingement as an aetiology; however, they may support the possibility of a dynamic mechanism, to which future studies could be directed."}
{"id": "17464615", "title": "Injection of the subacromial-subdeltoid bursa: blind or ultrasound-guided?", "content": "Injection of the subacromial-subdeltoid bursa: blind or ultrasound-guided? Blind injection of the subacromial-sub-deltoid bursa (SSB) for diagnostic purposes (Neer test) or therapeutic purposes (corticosteroid therapy) is frequently used. Poor response to previous blind injection or side effects may be due to a misplaced injection. It is assumed that ultrasound (US)-guided injections are more accurate than blind injections. In a randomized study, we compared the accuracy of blind injection to that of US-guided injection into the SSB. 20 consecutive patients with impingement syndrome of the shoulder were randomized for blind or US-guided injection in the SSB. Injection was performed either by an experienced orthopedic surgeon or by an experienced musculoskeletal radiologist. A mixture of 1 m'L methylprednisolone acetate, 4 mL prilocaine hydrochloride and 0.02 mL (0.01 mmol) Gadolinium DTPA was injected. Immediately after injection, a 3D-gradient T1-weighted magnetic resonance scan of the shoulder was performed. The location of the injected fluid was independently assessed by 2 radiologists who were blinded as to the injection technique used. The accuracy of blind and US-guided injection was the same. The fluid was injected into the bursa in all cases. Blind injection into the SSB is as reliable as US-guided injection and could therefore be used in daily routine. US-guided injections may offer a useful alternative in difficult cases, such as with changed anatomy postoperatively or when there is no effective clinical outcome."}
{"id": "17461398", "title": "Incidence of os acromiale in patients with shoulder pain.", "content": "Incidence of os acromiale in patients with shoulder pain. A prospective case series was undertaken to determine the incidence of os acromiale in patients presenting to an orthopedic clinic with shoulder pain during a 6-month period. Ninety-three shoulders in 88 consecutive patients were evaluated by history, physical examination, and radiographs. Radiographs included anteroposterior, scapular Y, and axillary views in all patients. Based on history and physical examination, no patient was given a primary diagnosis of os acromiale. However, when the plain films were specifically reviewed for this entity, it was present in 6 (6.82%) of the 88 patients. It was seen on the axillary view in each case. Five (83.3%) of the 6 patients had been given a diagnosis of either impingement or rotator cuff tear based on physical examination. Os acromiale is an infrequent but not rare entity that must be kept in mind when evaluating patients with shoulder pain, as failure to recognize an os acromiale may negatively influence treatment results. An axillary view should be obtained when evaluating patients with shoulder pain."}
{"id": "17461283", "title": "Giant cell tumor of the bone in a scarlet macaw (Ara macao).", "content": "Giant cell tumor of the bone in a scarlet macaw (Ara macao). A 6-mo-old female scarlet macaw (Ara macao) was presented after a 2-mo period of anorexia and weakness. The bird was reluctant to fly 1 wk before referral due to a painful left wing. Physical examination revealed a firm swelling around the left shoulder. On radiographs, the diaphysis and proximal metaphysis of the left scapula were radiolucent. Computer tomography revealed an osteolytic process, suggestive of a bone tumor, affecting the left scapula. Cytology of a fine needle aspiration biopsy of the mass showed erythrocytes, a proliferation of spindle-shaped mesenchymal cells, and multinucleated giant cells (osteoclasts) suggestive of a giant cell tumor. The left wing, including the scapula, was amputated. The bird showed a fast recovery but died 1 hr later. Findings during the pathological examination were compatible with shock due to blood loss. The shoulder process was characterized as a giant cell tumor. To our knowledge, this is the first complete report of a giant cell tumor of the bone in a bird."}
{"id": "17460813", "title": "3D kinematics of the glenohumeral joint during abduction motion: an ex vivo study.", "content": "3D kinematics of the glenohumeral joint during abduction motion: an ex vivo study. The clinical tolerance of rotator cuff tears is extremely variable, so the question is, what is the role of the deltoid in the shoulder stability? First of all, ex vivo experiments are necessary to analyse its effect. The aims of this study were: (1) to propose a testing protocol to measure the glenohumeral joint kinematics during the abduction motion by pulling on the deltoid without constraining the humerus and (2) to evaluate the repeatability of the 3D measurements. Six fresh-frozen anatomic specimens were tested. The kinematics follow-up of the osseous parts was carried out using an optoelectronic system (Polaris((R)), NDI, Canada). The abduction motion is realized by the pulling on anterior and medium fibers of the deltoid. For a 25 mm displacement, the range of motion: for the abduction was 24 degrees to 30.5 degrees , for the flexion was 1.5 degrees to -30.5 degrees (extension), for the medio-lateral rotation was 12 degrees (lateral rotation) to -5 degrees (medial rotation). For a displacement of the whole acromion-clavicle between 0 and 25 mm, the three humeral head translations were less than 5 mm. The three rotations and three translations were (with SD 95%): abduction: 0.5 degrees , flexion: 1 degrees , medio-lateral rotation: 1.5 degrees , three translations: 0.5 mm. The results showed a very high repeatability of the values. Results suggest that the deltoid alone can realize a motion of lateral elevation with a good stability in the glenohumeral joint as shown by the slight translation motion of the head and the value reproducibility. The protocol can be used to validate a finite element model of the glenohumeral joint."}
{"id": "17454799", "title": "Effect of analgesic nerve block electrical stimulation in a patient with adhesive capsulitis.", "content": "Effect of analgesic nerve block electrical stimulation in a patient with adhesive capsulitis. Although the pathophysiology of adhesive capsulitis is poorly understood, the primary goal of therapeutic intervention is to restore pain-free, functional range of motion (ROM) of the shoulder. Pain and muscle guarding, particularly of the subscapularis muscle, are common impairments that occur with adhesive capsulitis. The purpose of this case report is to describe a novel approach to help the pain-muscle guarding-pain cycle associated with pain and limited shoulder motion in a patient with a medical diagnosis of adhesive capsulitis. The patient was a 64-year-old female with adhesive capsulitis. Outcome variables were the Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI), internal rotation (IR) and external rotation (ER) ROM, and rotational lack. Twelve treatments of moist heat, analgesic nerve block electrical stimulation, contract/relax exercises for shoulder IR/ER, and Pendulum/Codman exercises were administered. After both 2 and 4 weeks of treatment, the patient demonstrated marked improvements in all areas. Overall, there was a 78-106% increase in ROM (IR and ER) and a 50-83% improvement in functional mobility (rotational lack & SPADI). It appears that analgesic electrical stimulation may have helped decrease the pain-muscle guarding cycle associated with adhesive capsulitis to enhance functional outcomes in a timely manner."}
{"id": "17452913", "title": "A novel double-row rotator cuff repair exceeds strengths of conventional repairs.", "content": "A novel double-row rotator cuff repair exceeds strengths of conventional repairs. Double-row rotator cuff repairs are becoming popular because of their ability to improve initial ultimate failure load for full-thickness rotator cuff tears, especially in middle-aged to elderly patients. We hypothesized a quasi-double-row repair using a combination of transosseous sutures, anchors, and double knots (TOAK technique) would exceed the clinically relevant 250-N load threshold and the initial mean ultimate failure loads of anchor-only and transosseous suture-only fixation. In simulated full-thickness supraspinatus tears in cadavers (mean age, 62 years; range, 50-77 years), failure loads of two repair techniques were compared with a TOAK repair using sutures and bioabsorbable anchors. Radiographic densitometry was conducted on all humeral heads. Testing was performed at 6 mm per minute in 18 bones in the following three groups (n = 6 per group): (1) transosseous suture-only with weave-type stitch and single-knot fixation; (2) anchor-only with horizontal mattress stitch and single-knot fixation; and (3) TOAK. The mean ultimate failure load was 238 N for the transosseous suture-only group and 215 N for the anchor-only group. Although the bones had lower density, TOAK specimens failed at 55% to 67% higher loads (mean, 404 N) than the other groups. These data support further evaluation of the TOAK technique for full-thickness supraspinatus tears in middle-aged to elderly patients."}
{"id": "17452513", "title": "Can a double-row anchorage technique improve tendon healing in arthroscopic rotator cuff repair?: A prospective, nonrandomized, comparative study of double-row and single-row anchorage techniques with computed tomographic arthrography tendon healing assessment.", "content": "Can a double-row anchorage technique improve tendon healing in arthroscopic rotator cuff repair?: A prospective, nonrandomized, comparative study of double-row and single-row anchorage techniques with computed tomographic arthrography tendon healing assessment. Increasing the rate of watertight tendon healing has been suggested as an important criterion for optimizing clinical results in rotator cuff arthroscopic repair. A double-row anchorage technique for rotator cuff repair will produce better clinical results and a better rate of tendon healing than a single-row technique. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 2. We compared 31 patients undergoing surgery with a double-row anchorage technique using Panalok anchors and Cuff Tack anchors and 35 patients with rotator cuff tear undergoing surgery with a single-row anchorage arthroscopic technique using Panalok anchors. We compared pre- and postoperative Constant score and tendon healing, as evaluated by computed tomographic arthrography 6 months after surgery, in these 2 groups. The Constant score increased significantly in both groups, with no difference between the 2 groups (P = .4). Rotator cuff healing was judged anatomic in 19 patients with double-row anchorage and in 14 patients with single-row anchorage; this difference between the groups was significant (P = .03). In this first study comparing double- and single-row anchorage techniques, we found no significant difference in clinical results, but tendon healing rates were better with the double-row anchorage. Improvements in the double-row technique might lead to better clinical and tendon healing results."}
{"id": "17447711", "title": "Pattern of injury after rock-climbing falls is not determined by harness type.", "content": "Pattern of injury after rock-climbing falls is not determined by harness type. Experimental data indicate that when using a sit harness alone, any major fall during rock climbing may cause life-threatening thoraco-lumbar hyperextension trauma or \"head down position\" during suspension. To clarify the actual influence of the type of harness on the pattern and severity of injury, accidents involving a major fall in a climbing harness were analyzed retrospectively. Individuals with a height of fall equal to or exceeding 5 m were identified through a search of accident and emergency records for the period from 2000 to 2004. Data concerning the circumstances of the fall and the patterns of injury were obtained from personal interviews, flight and accident reports, as well as hospital medical records. Of a total of 113 climbers identified, 73 (64.6%) used a sit harness alone, whereas 40 (35.4%) used a body harness. Fractures and dislocations of the extremities, the shoulder, and the pelvic region were the most common injuries, while the most severe injuries occurred in the head and neck region. Although most falls were associated with mild or moderate injuries, 13 (11.5%) climbers sustained severe or critical multisystem trauma. Falls on more difficult routes were associated with less severe injury. The type of harness used did not influence the pattern or severity of injury. In particular, no evidence was found for the existence of a thoraco-lumbar hyperextension trauma. The type of harness does not influence the pattern or severity of injury, and the forces transferred via the harness do not cause a specific harness-induced pathology. We did not find any evidence that hyperextension trauma of the thoraco-lumbar region is an important mechanism of injury in climbers using a sit harness alone. Rock contact during the fall, and not the force transferred through the harness, is the major cause of significant injury in climbing accidents."}
{"id": "17438656", "title": "P38 MAPK inhibitors suppress biomarkers of hypertension end-organ damage, osteopontin and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1.", "content": "P38 MAPK inhibitors suppress biomarkers of hypertension end-organ damage, osteopontin and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1. The assessment of target organ damage is important in defining the optimal treatment of hypertension and blood pressure-related cardiovascular disease. The aims of the present study were (1) to investigate candidate biomarkers of target organ damage, osteopontin (OPN) and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), in models of malignant hypertension with well characterized end-organ pathology; and (2) to evaluate the effects of chronic treatment with a p38 MAPK inhibitor. Gene expression, plasma concentrations, and renal immunohistochemical localization of OPN and PAI-1 were measured in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats on a salt-fat diet (SFD SHR-SP) and in spontaneously hypertensive rats receiving N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME SHR). Plasma concentrations of OPN and PAI-1 increased significantly in SFD SHR-SP and L-NAME SHR as compared with controls, (2.5-4.5-fold for OPN and 2.0-9.0-fold for PAI-1). The plasma levels of OPN and PAI-1 were significantly correlated with the urinary excretion of albumin (p < 0.0001). Elevations in urinary albumin, plasma OPN and PAI-1 were abolished by chronic treatment (4-8 weeks) with a specific p38 MAPK inhibitor, SB-239063AN. OPN immunoreactivity was localized predominantly in the apical portion of tubule epithelium, while PAI-1 immunoreactivity was robust in glomeruli, tubules and renal artery endothelium. Treatment with the p38 MAPK inhibitor significantly reduced OPN and PAI-1 protein expression in target organs. Kidney gene expression was increased for OPN (4.9- and 7.9-fold) and PAI-1 (2.8- and 11.5-fold) in SFD SHR-SP and L-NAME SHR, respectively. In-silico pathway analysis revealed that activation of p38 MAPK was linked to OPN and PAI-1 via SPI, c-fos and c-jun; suggesting that these pathways may play an important role in p38 MAPK-dependent hypertensive renal dysfunction. The results suggest that enhanced OPN and PAI-1 expression reflects end-organ damage in hypertension and that suppression correlates with end-organ protection regardless of overt antihypertensive action."}
{"id": "17430826", "title": "Pain relieving effect of short-course, pulse prednisolone in managing frozen shoulder.", "content": "Pain relieving effect of short-course, pulse prednisolone in managing frozen shoulder. Adhesive capsulitis or frozen shoulder is a common condition characterized by shoulder pain and stiffness in which conservative methods of treatment such as glucocorticosteroids, anti-inflammatory drugs, and physiotherapy play a significant part. To evaluate the pain relieving effect of short-course pulse prednisolone, this comparison study was planed. Two age and sex-matched groups of patients were studied during three years. Each group consisted of thirty patients suffered from idiopathic Frozen Shoulder. The mean duration from the onset of the disorder to referral to our clinic was five months. Patients' pain on external rotation was qualified using a visual analog scale before and after finishing the treatment. The first group received oral diclofenac (100 mg/day) and physiotherapy. The second group received 500 mg of prednisolone intravenously (i.v.) for three consecutive days at the beginning of treatment in addition to the full treatment regimen of the first group. The pain relieving effects of the two methods of treatment were compared. The mean pain scale for the first group decreased from 7.16 to 4.9 (p < 0.001) and for the second group from 7.10 to 2.96 (p < 0.001) as indicated by Paired sample test. Based on the results of this study, inclusion of 500 mg prednisolone for three days appears to improve the pain-relieving effect of routine conservative treatment of frozen shoulder using NSAIDs and physiotherapy."}
{"id": "17430286", "title": "Validation of MSAT: an instrument to measure medical students' self-assessed confidence in musculoskeletal examination skills.", "content": "Validation of MSAT: an instrument to measure medical students' self-assessed confidence in musculoskeletal examination skills. Self-assessment promotes reflective practice, helps students identify gaps in their learning and is used in curricular evaluations. Currently, there is a dearth of validated self-assessment tools in rheumatology. We present a new musculoskeletal self-assessment tool (MSAT) that allows students to assess their confidence in their skills in and knowledge of knee and shoulder examination. We aimed to validate the 15-item MSAT, addressing its construct validity, internal consistency, responsiveness, repeatability and relationship with competence. Participants were 241 Year 3 students in Newcastle upon Tyne and 113 Year 3 students at University College London, who were starting their musculoskeletal skills placement. Factor analysis explored the construct validity of the MSAT; Cronbach's alpha assessed its internal consistency; standardised response mean (SRM) evaluated its responsiveness, and test-retest, before and after a pathology lecture, assessed its repeatability. Its relationship with competence was explored by evaluating its correlation with shoulder and knee objective structured clinical examinations (OSCEs). Results The MSAT was valid in distinguishing the 5 domains it intended to measure: clinical examination of the knee; clinical examination of the shoulder; clinical anatomy of the knee and shoulder; history taking, and generic musculoskeletal anatomical and clinical terms. It was internally consistent (alpha = 0.93), responsive (SRM 0.6 in Newcastle and 2.2 in London) and repeatable (intraclass correlation coefficient 0.97). Correlations between MSAT scores and OSCE scores were weak (r < 0.2). The MSAT has strong psychometric properties, thereby offering a valid approach to evaluating the self-assessment of confidence in examination skills by students. Confidence does not necessarily reflect competence; future research should clarify what underpins confidence."}
{"id": "17418345", "title": "Arthroscopic treatment of a massive acromioclavicular joint cyst.", "content": "Arthroscopic treatment of a massive acromioclavicular joint cyst. A healthy 75-year-old man presented with a 9-month history of an enlarging painless shoulder mass. On examination, there was a 10 x 10 cm firm mass overlying the acromioclavicular (AC) joint. The active range of motion of the shoulder joint was 130 degrees of forward elevation, 90 degrees of abduction, 60 degrees of abduction and internal rotation to the level of the waist. There was weakness of the rotator cuff. Plain radiographs showed degenerative changes of the AC joint with superior migration of the humeral head. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a large cyst arising from a degenerative AC joint with an associated major tear of both the supraspinatus and infraspinatus. Arthroscopy of the AC joint and debridement of the cyst was performed in the lateral decubitus position. The major rotator cuff tear of supraspinatus and infraspinatus was confirmed. A conservative subacromial decompression and AC joint excision arthroplasty was performed. As the superior AC ligament was opened, dark brown gelatinous material was seen emanating from the cyst. A thorough debridement of the cyst was performed until the lavage fluid was clear. At last follow-up 6 months after surgery, the shoulder remained asymptomatic with no evidence of recurrence of the cyst. Arthroscopic treatment of a massive AC joint cyst allows assessment of associated pathology, is minimally invasive, and allows early rehabilitation."}
{"id": "17418339", "title": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using a triple-loaded suture anchor and a modified Mason-Allen technique (Alex stitch).", "content": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using a triple-loaded suture anchor and a modified Mason-Allen technique (Alex stitch). Surgical repair of the rotator cuff must have good resistance and should restore the tendon footprint. To attain this goal, a stitch with a strong biomechanical profile that avoids tissue strangulation should be used. We describe an arthroscopic suture technique undertaken to repair rotator cuff tears with a single triple-loaded suture anchor. The technique consists of a combination of a horizontal mattress and 2 vertical simple sutures that are positioned medial to the mattress suture. The suture anchor used is the 5-mm self-tapping ThRevo (Linvatec). This anchor is loaded with 3 sutures: 2 No. 2 nonabsorbable braided polyester sutures of different colors and a central high-strength No. 2 polyethylene suture. The shape of the anchor eyelet permits all 3 sutures to glide freely. A modified Mason-Allen technique (Alex stitch) that combines a horizontal side-to-side suture and 2 simples sutures as vertical loops is used. With use of the Spectrum suture passing device and shuttle relay system (Linvatec), both limbs of the centrally located polyethylene suture are passed through the cuff from bottom to top, approximately 1 cm from the tendon edge. This suture is not immediately tied. Next, with use of the same system, the other 2 sutures are placed medially and over the previous horizontal suture. Simple sutures are placed at an approximately 30 degrees angle from the center of the anchor; 1 is placed anterior and the other posterior. The sutures are tied through the lateral portal. The mattress horizontal central stitch is always tied first, followed by the 2 vertical sutures. The horizontal mattress suture serves as a \"rip stop stitch\" and theoretically reduces the possibility of cutting out of the simple sutures."}
{"id": "17418325", "title": "Arthroscopic repair of massive rotator cuff tears with stage 3 and 4 fatty degeneration.", "content": "Arthroscopic repair of massive rotator cuff tears with stage 3 and 4 fatty degeneration. The purpose of this study was to assess the functional results of arthroscopic repair of massive rotator cuff tears in patients who had stage 3 and 4 fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff musculature, according to the Goutallier scale. From January 1997 to December 2001, 22 patients with massive rotator cuff tears and Goutallier stage 3 or 4 fatty degeneration of the infraspinatus, with a mean age of 66.5 +/- 9.26 years, underwent arthroscopic rotator cuff repair and were available for follow-up. The average tear size was 4.8 +/- 0.85 cm in medial-to-lateral width and 6.2 +/- 1.53 cm in anterior-to-posterior length, with an approximate tear size area of 30.0 +/- 10.0 sq cm, and involved 2 tendons (supraspinatus and infraspinatus) or 3 tendons (supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis) in each case. The mean time from surgery to follow-up was 39.3 months (range, 24-60 months). In addition to comparison of preoperative and postoperative range of motion, strength and University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) score, outcomes were also assessed with the Constant score. The increase of mean active forward elevation was 53.7 degrees (preoperative: 103.2 degrees and postoperatively: 156.9 degrees ). The gain of mean active external rotation was 19.1 degrees (preoperative: 35.7 degrees and postoperative: 54.8 degrees). The gain of mean external rotation power was 1.9 (preoperative: 2.3 and postoperative: 4.2). The improvement in the UCLA score was 17.2 points (preoperative: 12.3 and postoperative: 29.5). The mean postoperative Constant score was 74.8/100, and the weighted postoperative Constant score was 88.5/100. In 5 patients with fatty degeneration greater than 75% (advanced stage 4), results were less dramatically improved than in 17 patients with fatty degeneration of 50% to 75%, all of whom exhibited clinical improvement. However, clinical improvement was achieved even in 2 of 5 patients with advanced stage 4 involvement. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair in patients with grade 3 or 4 fatty degeneration (> or =50%) can provide significant functional improvement. Those with 50% to 75% fatty degeneration showed a much greater degree of improvement (with all 17 cases exhibiting beneficial postoperative increases in their UCLA scores ranging from 12 to 26 points) than those with >75% fatty degeneration (with only 2 of 5 cases showing an increase of 10 or more points in their UCLA scores). However, clinical improvement was observed in 86.4% of cases that would have been classified as likely to fail by the Goutallier criteria. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "17416129", "title": "Insidious onset of shoulder girdle weakness.", "content": "Insidious onset of shoulder girdle weakness. Resident's case problem. An 18-year-old man presented to physical therapy 3 days after insidious onset of painless left shoulder girdle weakness. Decreased light touch sensation was noted on the lateral left shoulder. In addition, weakness was present with shoulder abduction, flexion, external rotation, and internal rotation. Results of magnetic resonance imaging and radiography of the cervical spine, brachial plexus, and left shoulder were normal, Electromyography and nerve conduction velocity study findings were consistent with axillary nerve palsy. The results of the physical examination and diagnostic studies were most consistent with axillary nerve mononeuropathy, probably caused by traction or pressure due to wearing a pack while hiking or firing a weapon. With sling protection, limitation of physical activity, and gradual return to progressive resistance exercises, the patient had full return of strength and function 2 1/2 months after onset of symptoms. The differential diagnosis for shoulder girdle weakness should be well understood by physical therapists. This knowledge will help the therapist promptly identify the cause of shoulder girdle weakness and initiate appropriate treatment. If the condition requires further evaluation or treatment by another healthcare provider, prompt identification of pathology will allow appropriate timely referral."}
{"id": "17416125", "title": "A randomized controlled comparison of stretching procedures for posterior shoulder tightness.", "content": "A randomized controlled comparison of stretching procedures for posterior shoulder tightness. Randomized controlled trial, To compare changes in shoulder internal rotation range of motion (ROM), for 2 stretching exercises, the \"cross-body stretch\" and the \"sleeper stretch,\" in individuals with posterior shoulder tightness. Recently, some authors have expressed the belief that the sleeper stretch is better than the cross-body stretch to address glenohumeral posterior tightness because the scapula is stabilized. Fifty-four asymptomatic subjects (20 males, 34 females) participated in the study. The control group (n=24) consisted of subjects with a between-shoulder difference in internal rotation ROM of less than 10 degrees, whereas those subjects with more than a 10 degrees difference were randomly assigned to 1 of 2 intervention groups, the sleeper stretch group (n=15) or the cross-body stretch group (n=15). Shoulder internal rotation ROM, with the arm abducted to 90 degrees and scapula motion prevented, was measured before and after a 4-week intervention period. Subjects in the control group were asked not to engage in any new stretching activities, while subjects in the 2 stretching groups were asked to perform stretching exercises on the more limited side only, once daily for 5 repetitions, holding each stretch for 30 seconds. The improvements in internal rotation ROM for the subjects in the cross-body stretch group (mean +/- SD, 20.0 degrees +/- 12.9 degrees) were significantly greater than for the subjects in the control group (5.9 degrees +/- 9.4 degrees, P = .009). The gains in the sleeper stretch group (12.4 degrees +/- 10.4 degrees) were not significant compared to those of the control group (P = .586) and those of the cross-body stretch group (P = .148). The cross-body stretch in individuals with limited shoulder internal rotation ROM appears to be more effective than no stretching in controls without internal rotation asymmetry to improve shoulder internal rotation ROM. While the improvement in internal rotation from the cross-body stretch was greater than for the sleeper stretch and of a magnitude that could be clinically significant, the small sample size likely precluded statistical significance between groups."}
{"id": "17416123", "title": "The effect of anterior versus posterior glide joint mobilization on external rotation range of motion in patients with shoulder adhesive capsulitis.", "content": "The effect of anterior versus posterior glide joint mobilization on external rotation range of motion in patients with shoulder adhesive capsulitis. Randomized clinical trial. To compare the effectiveness of anterior versus posterior glide mobilization techniques for improving shoulder external rotation range of motion (ROM) in patients with adhesive capsulitis. Physical therapists use joint mobilization techniques to treat motion impairments in patients with adhesive capsulitis. However, opinions of the value of anterior versus posterior mobilization procedures to improve external rotation ROM differ. Twenty consecutive subjects with a primary diagnosis of shoulder adhesive capsulitis and exhibiting a specific external rotation ROM deficit were randomly assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups. All subjects received 6 therapy sessions consisting of application of therapeutic ultrasound, joint mobilization, and upper-body ergometer exercise. Treatment differed between groups in the direction of the mobilization technique performed. Shoulder external rotation ROM measured initially and after each treatment session was compared within and between groups and analyzed using a 2-way ANOVA, followed by paired and independent t tests. There was no significant difference in shoulder external rotation ROM between groups prior to initiating the treatment program. A significant difference between groups (P = .001) was present by the third treatment. The individuals in the anterior mobilization group had a mean improvement in external rotation ROM of 3.0 degrees (SD, 10.8 degrees; P = .40), whereas the individuals in the posterior mobilization group had a mean improvement of 31.3 degrees (SD, 7.4 degrees; P < .001). A posteriorly directed joint mobilization technique was more effective than an anteriorly directed mobilization technique for improving external rotation ROM in subjects with adhesive capsulitis. Both groups had a significant decrease in pain."}
{"id": "17415560", "title": "Re-examining the association of os acromiale with supraspinatus and infraspinatus tears.", "content": "Re-examining the association of os acromiale with supraspinatus and infraspinatus tears. To re-evaluate the relationship between os acromiale and rotator cuff tears. We retrospectively analyzed 84 magnetic resonance imaging studies of the shoulder. Forty-two subjects with os acromiale (n = 42; 32 men and ten women, age 25-81 years, mean 47.6 years) were compared with age- and gender-matched subjects with no evidence of os acromiale (controls). Arthroscopy data were available in 19 os acromiale and 12 control subjects. Statistical analyses were performed to determine differences between groups regarding rotator cuff tears affecting the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons detected by magnetic resonance imaging and arthroscopy. Analysis of os acromiale type, ossicle synchondrosis edema, acromioclavicular joint degenerative changes and step-off deformity at the synchondrosis were tabulated. No statistically significant difference between the os acromiale and control groups was noted, either on magnetic resonance imaging or arthroscopy, with regard to tears of the supraspinatus (P = 1.000 and 0.981, respectively) and infraspinatus (P = 1.000 and 0.667, respectively) tendons. There was a statistically significant increased number of supraspinatus (P = 0.007) and infraspinatus (P = 0.03) tears in a comparison of subjects with os acromiale and step-off deformity (10/42) vs os acromiale without step-off deformity (32/42). The presence of os acromiale may not significantly predispose to supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendon tears. However, subjects with step-off deformity of an os acromiale are at greater risk of rotator cuff tears than are similar subjects without such deformity."}
{"id": "17414018", "title": "Screw head impingement after in situ fixation in moderate and severe slipped capital femoral epiphysis.", "content": "Screw head impingement after in situ fixation in moderate and severe slipped capital femoral epiphysis. In situ stabilization remains the standard of care in the treatment of stable slipped capital femoral epiphysis (SCFE). Screw placement perpendicular to the physis has shown satisfactory results with minimal complications. A prominent screw head may produce femoral acetabular impingement and pain after in situ fixation in severe SCFE. We performed a biomechanical study to establish whether screw head impingement occurs after in situ fixation of SCFE and to define the anatomy of slip severity and screw head position that may lead to impingement. A femoral neck dome osteotomy was created in a human cadaveric model simulating 2 conditions: a moderate and severe SCFEs. We tested the specimens after in situ fixation perpendicular to the simulated physis. The simulated SCFEs and normal control were tested through a full arc of motion. Coverage of the femoral head by the labrum was evaluated at 90 degrees of flexion using fluoroscopy. Impingement occurred at 70 degrees of hip flexion in the simulated moderate SCFE, and at 50 degrees of flexion in the severe simulated SCFE. Anteroposterior fluoroscopy revealed that screw heads lateral to the intertrochanteric line were unlikely to impinge on the acetabulum. Screw head impingement occurred with in situ fixation perpendicular to the physis in simulated moderate and severe SCFEs. Anteroposterior radiographs appear helpful in identifying a hip at risk for screw head impingement after in situ fixation. Alternative in situ fixation techniques (screw head resting lateral to the intertrochanteric line on the anteroposterior radiograph) may decrease the rate of screw head impingement in moderate and severe SCFEs."}
{"id": "17409389", "title": "Transcranial magnetic stimulation and muscle contraction to enhance stroke recovery: a randomized proof-of-principle and feasibility investigation.", "content": "Transcranial magnetic stimulation and muscle contraction to enhance stroke recovery: a randomized proof-of-principle and feasibility investigation. To explore the efficacy of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) and voluntary muscle contraction (VMC) to improve corticospinal transmission, muscle function, and purposeful movement early after stroke. Factorial 2 x 2 randomized single-blind trial. n = 27, mean age 75 years, mean 27 days after middle cerebral artery infarct (24 subjects completed outcome measures). after baseline measurement (day 1), subjects were randomized to 1 of 4 groups. Treatment was given for the next 8 working days, and outcome was measured on day 10. (a) Real-rTMS + RealVMC, (b) Real-rTMS + PlaceboVMC, (c) Placebo-rTMS + RealVMC, and (d) Placebo-rTMS + PlaceboVMC. Real-rTMS consisted of 200 1-Hz stimuli at 120% motor threshold in 5 blocks of 40 separated by 3 minutes delivered to the lesioned hemisphere. Placebo-rTMS used a dummy coil. In RealVMC, the paretic elbow was repeatedly flexed/extended for 5 minutes. In PlaceboVMC, subjects viewed pairs of drawings of upper limbs and reported their likeness. frequency of motor-evoked potentials in biceps and triceps, muscle function (torque about elbow), and purposeful movement (Action Research Arm Test). group mean changes (outcome - baseline) were compared. In the Real-rTMS + RealVMC group, motor-evoked potential frequency increased 14% for biceps and 20% for triceps, whereas in the Placebo-rTMS + PlaceboVMC group, it decreased 12% for biceps and 6% for triceps. For other groups, there were changes of intermediate values. No meaningful differences were found for secondary outcomes. A positive trend for motor-evoked potential frequency was found for Real-rTMS + RealVMC, whereas a negative trend for motor-evoked potential frequency was found for Placebo-rTMS + PlaceboVMC."}
{"id": "17408977", "title": "The influence of medial reattachment of the torn cuff tendon for retracted rotator cuff tears.", "content": "The influence of medial reattachment of the torn cuff tendon for retracted rotator cuff tears. We reattached the torn rotator cuff medial to the anatomic cuff insertion site if it was retracted. The purpose was to correlate the amount of medial reattachment of the cuff with shoulder function. We evaluated 63 shoulders in which repaired cuffs were followed with magnetic resonance imaging at a mean follow-up of 8 years. The amount of medial reattachment of the cuff tendon was determined by use of a T2-weighted oblique coronal view, which passed through the center of the humeral head, and was defined as the NCA angle (where N indicates the new cuff insertion point, C indicates the center of the humeral head, and A indicates the anatomic cuff insertion point). Theoretically, the more medially the cuff tendon was reattached, the greater the NCA angle. Neither the Japanese Orthopaedic Association shoulder score nor isometric strength of forward elevation was correlated with the NCA angle. The NCA angle was significantly correlated (P = .001) with the active forward elevation angle, which dramatically decreased at 30 degrees of the NCA angle, approximately 13 mm from the original cuff insertion point, assuming a humeral head radius of 25 mm."}
{"id": "17403801", "title": "Restore orthobiologic implant: not recommended for augmentation of rotator cuff repairs.", "content": "Restore orthobiologic implant: not recommended for augmentation of rotator cuff repairs. Following repairs of large-to-massive tears of the rotator cuff, the rates of tendon retears are high and often involve tissue deficiency. Animal studies of the Restore Orthobiologic Implant, a collagen-based material derived from the small intestine mucosa of pigs, have indicated that it might be used to help overcome such problems. We carried out a study to determine whether patients who received this xenograft to augment a rotator cuff repair exhibited greater shoulder strength, shoulder function, and/or resistance to retearing. We compared data from a group of patients who had undergone conventional rotator cuff repair with xenograft augmentation (the xenograft group) with data from a group in whom a repair had been done by the same surgeon without augmentation (the controls). The groups were matched for gender, mean age, and mean size of the rotator cuff tear. All subjects completed a pain and function questionnaire and were given a systematic clinical shoulder examination preoperatively and at three, six, and twenty-four months postoperatively. The twenty-four-month visit included magnetic resonance imaging to determine whether a retear had occurred. Four patients who had received a xenograft had a severe postoperative reaction requiring surgical treatment. At two years after the surgery, six of the ten tendons repaired with a xenograft and seven of the twelve control tendons had retorn, as documented by magnetic resonance imaging. The patients with a xenograft had significantly less lift-off strength, as measured with a dynamometer, and significantly less strength in internal rotation and adduction than the controls at two years after the surgery (all p < 0.05). Also, the xenograft group had significantly more impingement in external rotation, a slower rate of resolution of pain during activities, more difficulty with hand-behind-the-back activities, and less sports participation (all p < 0.05). Two years after surgical repair of a large rotator cuff defect supplemented with a xenograft, patients had several persisting deficits and no recognizable benefit as compared with the results in a control group. In view of these findings, together with the unsatisfactorily high proportion of patients with a severe inflammatory reaction to the xenograft, we do not recommend use of the Restore Orthobiologic Implant in its present form. Therapeutic Level III. See Instructions to Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "17403799", "title": "Quality of life following femoral head-neck osteochondroplasty for femoroacetabular impingement.", "content": "Quality of life following femoral head-neck osteochondroplasty for femoroacetabular impingement. Femoroacetabular impingement has been recently described as a common cause of hip pain and labral tears in young adults. We evaluated the early clinical results and quality of life after osteochondroplasty of the femoral head-neck junction for the treatment of femoroacetabular impingement. Thirty-seven hips in thirty-four patients with persistent hip pain and a mean age of 40.5 years underwent surgical dislocation of the hip and osteochondroplasty of the femoral head-neck junction for the treatment of camtype femoroacetabular impingement. All of the patients had had preoperative evidence of pathological changes in the labrum on imaging. The clinical course and the quality of life were assessed postoperatively. The mean score on the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) increased from 61.2 points preoperatively to 81.4 points at a mean of 3.1 years postoperatively (p < 0.001), the mean University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) activity score increased from 4.8 to 7.5 points (p < 0.001), the mean Short Form-12 (SF-12) physical component score increased from 37.3 to 45.6 points (p < 0.001), and the mean SF-12 mental component score increased from 46.4 to 51.2 points (p = 0.031). None of the hips underwent additional reconstructive surgery. There were no cases of osteonecrosis. Nine patients underwent screw removal from the greater trochanter because of persistent bursitis. Six of the thirty-four patients were dissatisfied with the outcome. Cam-type femoroacetabular impingement is associated with insufficient concavity at the anterolateral head-neck junction and with pathological changes in the labrum. Osteochondroplasty of the femoral head-neck junction following surgical dislocation of the hip joint is safe and effective and can provide a significant improvement in the overall quality of life of most patients. Therapeutic Level IV. See Instructions to Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "17403796", "title": "Isolated arthroscopic biceps tenotomy or tenodesis improves symptoms in patients with massive irreparable rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Isolated arthroscopic biceps tenotomy or tenodesis improves symptoms in patients with massive irreparable rotator cuff tears. Lesions of the long head of the biceps tendon are often associated with massive rotator cuff tears and may be responsible for shoulder pain and dysfunction. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical and radiographic outcomes of isolated arthroscopic biceps tenotomy or tenodesis as treatment for persistent shoulder pain and dysfunction due to an irreparable rotator cuff tear associated with a biceps lesion. We conducted a retrospective study of sixty-eight consecutive patients (mean age [and standard deviation], 68 +/- 6 years) in whom a total of seventy-two irreparable rotator cuff tears had been treated arthroscopically with biceps tenotomy or tenodesis. A simple tenotomy was performed in thirty-nine cases, and a tenodesis was performed in thirty-three. No associated acromioplasty was performed. All patients were evaluated clinically and radiographically by an independent observer at a mean of thirty-five months postoperatively. Fifty-three patients (78%) were satisfied with the result. The mean Constant score improved from 46.3 +/- 11.9 points preoperatively to 66.5 +/- 16.3 points postoperatively (p < 0.001). A healthy-appearing teres minor on preoperative imaging was associated with significantly increased postoperative external rotation (40.4 degrees +/- 19.8 degrees compared with 18.1 degrees +/- 18.4 degrees ) and a significantly higher Constant score (p < 0.05 for both) compared with the values for the patients with an absent or atrophic teres minor preoperatively. Three patients with pseudoparalysis of the shoulder did not benefit from the procedure and did not regain active elevation above the horizontal level. In contrast, the fifteen patients with painful loss of active elevation recovered active elevation. The acromiohumeral distance decreased 1.1 +/- 1.9 mm on the average, and glenohumeral osteoarthritis developed in only one patient. The results did not differ between the tenotomy and tenodesis groups (mean Constant score, 61.2 +/- 18 points and 72.8 +/- 12 points, respectively). The \"Popeye\" sign was clinically apparent in twenty-four (62%) of the shoulders that had been treated with a tenotomy; of the sixteen patients who noticed it, none were bothered by it. Both arthroscopic biceps tenotomy and arthroscopic biceps tenodesis can effectively treat severe pain or dysfunction caused by an irreparable rotator cuff tear associated with a biceps lesion. Shoulder function is significantly inferior if the teres minor is atrophic or absent. Pseudoparalysis of the shoulder and severe rotator cuff arthropathy are contraindications to this procedure. Therapeutic Level III. See Instructions to Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "17399624", "title": "Anterior shoulder instability with humeral avulsion of the glenohumeral ligament lesion.", "content": "Anterior shoulder instability with humeral avulsion of the glenohumeral ligament lesion. Humeral avulsion of the glenohumeral ligament (HAGL) is a rare lesion. The purpose of this study was to analyze the clinical manifestations of HAGL lesions in patients who underwent operative treatment for anterior shoulder instability. Six patients with HAGL lesions were studied. Four patients had an HAGL lesion associated with a Bankart lesion, and two had an isolated HAGL lesion. The range of motion at final follow-up showed a loss of 1 degree in forward flexion and of 15 degrees in external rotation. During an operation to treat anterior shoulder instability, a thorough examination for not only Bankart lesions but also other associated lesions, including an HAGL lesion, should be considered to lower the risk of redislocation. In repairing an HAGL lesion, the surgeon should keep in mind the possibility of a postoperative loss of external rotation and follow an active rehabilitation protocol to obtain successful results."}
{"id": "17399619", "title": "Suprascapular nerve palsy after the Latarjet procedure.", "content": "Suprascapular nerve palsy after the Latarjet procedure."}
{"id": "17398273", "title": "Femoroacetabular impingement: bone marrow oedema associated with fibrocystic change of the femoral head and neck junction.", "content": "Femoroacetabular impingement: bone marrow oedema associated with fibrocystic change of the femoral head and neck junction. To describe the association of bone marrow oedema adjacent to areas of fibrocystic change at the femoral head and neck junction in patients with femoroacetabular impingement. The clinical and imaging findings in six patients with bone marrow oedema adjacent to an area of fibrocystic change at the femoral head and neck junction are presented. There were five males and one female (age range 19-42 years, mean age 34.5 years). Three patients were referred with a clinical suspicion of femoroacetabular impingement, two with suspected osteoid osteoma and one with a clinical diagnosis of sciatica. The volume of bone marrow oedema (grade 1: 0-25%, grade 2: 26-50%, grade 3: 51-75% and grade 4: 76-100% of the femoral neck width), presence of labral and articular cartilage abnormality, joint effusion, and femoral head and neck morphology were recorded. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) identified fibrocystic change in the anterolateral aspect of the femoral head and neck junction in all cases (mean size 9 mm, range 5-14 mm, three multilocular and three unilocular cysts). The volume of oedema was variable (one grade 1, two grade 2, one grade 3 and two grade 4). All patients had abnormality of the anterosuperior labrum with five patients demonstrating chondral loss. An abnormal femoral head and neck junction was identified in five patients. The radiological finding of fibrocystic change at the anterosuperior femoral neck with or without bone marrow oedema should prompt the search for femoroacetabular impingement. Bone marrow oedema may rarely be identified adjacent to these areas of cystic change and should be considered in the differential diagnosis of bone marrow oedema in the femoral neck."}
{"id": "17393674", "title": "The accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging in the assessment of glenohumeral articular degenerative disease.", "content": "The accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging in the assessment of glenohumeral articular degenerative disease. Degenerative joint disease is a major source of disability in the world with over 43 million individuals suffering from the affliction in the United States alone. It is the most common cause of activity limitation in individuals over 65 years of age. While much of the focus in recent years has been on osteoarthritis of the hips and knees, shoulder degenerative disease is becoming a more commonly recognized source of morbidity with a wide range of associated lifestyle-limiting disabilities. At the same time therapeutic options for treatment of degenerative joint disease are rapidly increasing, both medically and surgically. This combination of factors makes it necessary to determine a reliable, noninvasive means by which to accurately diagnose the early changes of shoulder degenerative disease. The clinical diagnosis of shoulder osteoarthritis is extremely challenging. There are numerous existing mimickers such as rotator cuff injuries, bursitis, and impingement syndrome. While the conventional radiographic findings are well recognized, they are generally late developments in the course of the disease when therapeutic options are more limited and less effective. Additionally, plain film evaluation has poor sensitivity for the detection of many of the alternative diagnoses that may underlie chronic shoulder pain. Though correlative findings are seen in MR imaging, its role in evaluating glenohumeral degenerative changes has been limited, with much of the focus being on the identification of tendinous and ligamentous disease or osseous tumors. A retrospective analysis is presented which demonstrates the efficacy of MR imaging in assessing GHJ OA, as well as shows that dedicated evaluation for specific degenerative findings results in improved detection rates of GHJ degenerative disease. It is believed that with improved detection and reporting, improved clinical care for this prevalent disorder may be achieved."}
{"id": "17390133", "title": "Deltoid muscle and tendon tears in patients with chronic rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Deltoid muscle and tendon tears in patients with chronic rotator cuff tears. To describe the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) appearances of tears of the deltoid muscle and tendon in patients with rotator cuff tears and without a prior history of shoulder surgery. Deltoid tears diagnosed on MR examinations were prospectively recorded between February 2003 through June 2004. The images of these patients were then retrospectively reviewed to determine the location of the deltoid tear, the presence of rotator cuff tears, tendon retraction, muscle atrophy, degree of humeral head subluxation, bony erosive changes involving the undersurface of the acromion, and the presence of edema or fluid-like signal intensity in the deltoid muscle and overlying subcutaneous tissues. There were 24 (0.3%) patients with deltoid tears; nine men and 15 women. The age range was 54 to 87 (average 73) years. The right side was involved in 20 cases, and the left in four cases. Fifteen patients had full thickness and nine had partial thickness tears of the deltoid. Shoulder pain was the most common presenting symptom. The physical examination revealed a defect in the region of the deltoid in two patients. Nineteen patients had tears in the muscle belly near the musculotendinous junction, and five had avulsion of the tendon from the acromial origin. Full thickness rotator cuff tears were present in all of the patients, and 22 patients had associated muscle atrophy. Subcutaneous edema and fluid-like signal was present in 15 patients. Tears of the deltoid muscle or tendon is an unusual finding, but they can be seen in patients with chronic massive rotator cuff tears. Partial thickness tears tend to involve the undersurface of the deltoid muscle and tendon. Associated findings such as intramuscular cyst or ganglion in the deltoid muscle belly and subcutaneous edema or fluid-like signal overlying the deltoid in a patient with a rotator cuff tear should raise the suspicion of a deltoid tear."}
{"id": "17387217", "title": "Outcomes of combined arthroscopic rotator cuff and labral repair.", "content": "Outcomes of combined arthroscopic rotator cuff and labral repair. Rotator cuff tears, Bankart lesions, and superior labral anterior posterior lesions commonly occur in isolation, but there is a subgroup of patients who experience combined injuries. Prior studies have excluded such patients as confounding groups. In patients with combined lesions of the labrum and rotator cuff, arthroscopic repair of both lesions will restore range of motion and stability and provide good clinical results. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 3. We retrospectively evaluated the clinical outcomes of a series of patients with combined rotator cuff and labral (Bankart or superior labral anterior posterior) lesions treated arthroscopically. Thirty patients (average age, 47.8 years) with combined rotator cuff and labral lesions were evaluated at a mean follow-up of 2.7 years (range, 24-54 months). Sixteen patients had Bankart lesions and 14 patients had SLAP lesions. Significant improvements in forward flexion (20.5 degrees, P = .005), external rotation (9.0 degrees, P = .008), and internal rotation (2 vertebral levels, P = .016) were observed. The mean L'Insalata and American Society of Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores for all patients were 92.9 and 94.3, respectively. Twenty-seven (90%) patients reported satisfaction as good to excellent, and 23 of 30 (77%) returned to their preinjury level of athletics. Two patients suffered recurrent rotator cuff tears. In patients with rotator cuff and labral lesions, arthroscopic treatment of both lesions yields good clinical outcomes, restoration of motion, and a high degree of patient satisfaction."}
{"id": "17380328", "title": "Anomalies of the long head of the biceps brachii tendon: clinical significance, MR arthrographic findings, and arthroscopic correlation in two patients.", "content": "Anomalies of the long head of the biceps brachii tendon: clinical significance, MR arthrographic findings, and arthroscopic correlation in two patients. Two patients with clinically relevant anomalies of the long head of the biceps brachii tendon (LHBT) are presented with MR arthrography and surgical correlation. Such variations in the LHBT can mimic tears of the tendon itself or the adjacent superior labrum both on MR arthrography and at surgery. MR arthrographic features are recognizable and allow for correct prospective diagnosis, possibly averting unnecessary surgery. Although further study is needed, patients with these anomalies may be at increased risk for developing shoulder instability."}
{"id": "17375448", "title": "The reverse total shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "The reverse total shoulder arthroplasty."}
{"id": "17375296", "title": "The relationship of glenoid and humeral version with supraspinatus tendon tears.", "content": "The relationship of glenoid and humeral version with supraspinatus tendon tears. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship of glenohumeral anatomic measurements on MR imaging with supraspinatus tendon tears. The study was approved by the institutional review board and informed consent was obtained from each subject. Forty-two patients (mean age 55.5 years; age range 40-73 years) with supraspinatus tendon tears and 50 asymptomatic shoulders of 32 controls (mean age 43 years; age range 17-69 years) without rotator cuff tears were included. The acromio-glenoid and supraspinatus-glenoid angles were measured on coronal images, the glenoid and humeral head version as well as the bicipital-humeral distance on axial images. Significant differences were found between the patients and controls for both glenoid version and bicipital-humeral distance, which are considered to influence the distribution of forces placed on the cuff (p < 0.05). The patients had a decreased glenoid version by an average of 2.3 degrees (-7.1 +/- 7.8 degrees vs. -4.8 +/- 5.6 degrees), and a decreased bicipital-humeral distance by an average of 2.7 mm (12.1 +/- 3.7 mm vs. 14.8 +/- 4.1 mm). No significant differences were found between these groups for humeral head version and the acromio-glenoid and supraspinatus-glenoid angles, which might contribute to extrinsic impingement by narrowing the supraspinatus tendon outlet. Differences in glenoid and humeral version may be responsible for RC tears by changing the orientation of the rotator cuff and thus increasing shearing stress."}
{"id": "17369556", "title": "Physical examination for partial tears of the biceps tendon.", "content": "Physical examination for partial tears of the biceps tendon. The accuracy of the physical examination for tears of the long head of the biceps remains controversial. The goals were 1) to characterize the occurrence of partial tears of the long head of the biceps tendon in a group of consecutive patients, and 2) to analyze the diagnostic value of various clinical tests for pathologic lesions of the proximal biceps tendon. Cohort study (diagnosis); Level of evidence, 2. Of 847 consecutive patients who underwent arthroscopic procedures for a variety of shoulder conditions, 40 were found at the time of arthroscopy to have partial biceps tendon tears. The average age of these 24 men and 16 women was 59 years (range, 18-83). Preoperative physical examinations had included 9 commonly used tests for shoulder examination. Statistical analysis included sensitivity, specificity, negative predictive value, positive predictive value, and likelihood ratios for these tests. The prevalence rate of partial tears was 5% (40/847) of all arthroscopic procedures. The most commonly associated conditions included rotator cuff tears (85% [34/40]) and anterior instability (7.5% [3/40]). Tenderness on palpation of the long head of the biceps tendon had a sensitivity of 53%, a specificity of 54%, and a likelihood ratio of 1.13. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and likelihood ratios for Speed's test were 50%, 67%, 8%, 96%, and 1.51, respectively. In patients with rotator cuff abnormality, the diagnosis of partial biceps tears cannot be made reliably with existing physical examination tests. Diagnostic arthroscopy is recommended, if clinically indicated, for potential partial tears of the long head of the biceps tendon. The treating physician should be prepared to treat unsuspected tears of the long head of the biceps tendon at the time of surgery."}
{"id": "17363294", "title": "Normalization of the subscapularis belly-press test.", "content": "Normalization of the subscapularis belly-press test. The purpose of this report is to document the normal range of the subscapularis belly-press test and to define factors that influence it to aid in the assessment of subscapularis function in relevant shoulder pathology and procedures. Both shoulders in 204 patients with no history of shoulder problems were tested with an Isobex machine. Patients were educated on proper technique before testing. Height, weight, age, hand dominance, and gender were all recorded. All measured values were recorded in kilograms. Women had a mean belly-press strength (mean of both arms) of 5.1 +/- 1.9 kg, which was significantly less than the men's strength of 8.4 +/- 2.5 kg (P < .001). The mean difference in belly-press strength between the dominant arm (6.7 kg) and nondominant arm (6.5 kg) was small (95% confidence interval, 0.05-0.4 kg). Multiple regression analysis revealed that mean belly-press strength was significantly related to gender (P = .001), height (P = .006), and weight (P < .001) but not age (P = .320). The belly-press test evaluation for subscapularis strength can be normalized across an average population by gender, height, and weight. Hand dominance and age do not factor in significantly. This test can be useful in evaluating the preoperative and postoperative status of the subscapularis in relevant shoulder injuries and procedures."}
{"id": "17363292", "title": "Arthroscopic superior labrum anterior-posterior repair in military patients.", "content": "Arthroscopic superior labrum anterior-posterior repair in military patients. The purpose of this retrospective study was to determine the efficacy of arthroscopic superior labrum anterior-posterior (SLAP) repair in a military population. In this study, 27 patients (of 30 consecutive patients) who had suture anchor repair of a type II SLAP lesion were evaluated at a mean of 30.5 months postoperatively. Fifteen patients had isolated tears, whereas twelve also had a concomitant diagnosis. At follow-up, the overall mean American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score was 86.9 points and the mean University of California, Los Angeles score was 30.4 points. The results were excellent in 4 patients, good in 20, and fair in 3. Of the patients, 96% returned to full duty (mean, 4.4 months). Patients treated for concomitant diagnoses and a SLAP tear had significantly higher American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores and tended to have higher University of California, Los Angeles scores than those treated for an isolated SLAP tear. The findings indicate that arthroscopic SLAP repair in military patients results in a high rate of return to duty. The results suggest that concomitant shoulder pathology should be treated at the time of SLAP repair."}
{"id": "17356145", "title": "High-energy extracorporeal shock-wave therapy for calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff: a randomised trial.", "content": "High-energy extracorporeal shock-wave therapy for calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff: a randomised trial. In a prospective randomised trial of calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff, we compared the efficacy of dual treatment sessions delivering 2500 extracorporeal shock waves at either high- or low-energy, via an electromagnetic generator under fluoroscopic guidance. Patients were eligible for the study if they had more than a three-month history of calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff, with calcification measuring 10 mm or more in maximum dimension. The primary outcome measure was the change in the Constant and Murley Score. A total of 80 patients were enrolled (40 in each group), and were re-evaluated at a mean of 110 (41 to 255) days after treatment when the increase in Constant and Murley score was significantly greater (t-test, p = 0.026) in the high-energy treatment group than in the low-energy group. The improvement from the baseline level was significant in the high-energy group, with a mean gain of 12.5 (-20.7 to 47.5) points (p < 0.0001). The improvement was not significant in the low-energy group. Total or subtotal resorption of the calcification occurred in six patients (15%) in the high-energy group and in two patients (5%) in the low-energy group. High-energy shock-wave therapy significantly improves symptoms in refractory calcifying tendinitis of the shoulder after three months of follow-up, but the calcific deposit remains unchanged in size in the majority of patients."}
{"id": "17352416", "title": "Three-dimensional study of the musculotendinous architecture of supraspinatus and its functional correlations.", "content": "Three-dimensional study of the musculotendinous architecture of supraspinatus and its functional correlations. The supraspinatus is most frequently involved in shoulder pathology. However, the musculotendinous architecture of the supraspinatus has not been well documented. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to investigate the detailed three-dimensional architecture of the supraspinatus throughout its volume. Ten male formalin embalmed cadaveric specimens (mean age 61.9 +/- 16 years) without any evidence of rotator cuff pathology were used. Three-dimensional coordinates (x, y, and z) of the tendon and muscle fiber bundles were collected in situ, using serial dissection and digitization. The data was reconstructed into a three-dimensional model using Maya. Fiber bundle lengths, pennation angles (PA), muscle volumes, and tendon dimensions for each architecturally distinct area were computed and then analyzed using paired t-tests and ANOVA (P < 0.05). The supraspinatus was found to consist of anterior and posterior regions, which were each further subdivided into superficial, middle, and deep parts. Mean PA were found to be significantly different between the distinct parts of the anterior region of the muscle. Medial PA was also found be significantly different between the superficial and middle, and superficial and deep parts of the posterior region. These results provide insight into the normal function of the muscle and its possible contribution to the initiation and progression of supraspinatus tendon tears."}
{"id": "17350676", "title": "Varied presentations of enthesopathy.", "content": "Varied presentations of enthesopathy. The concept of \"enthesis organ\" allows a new look at the nature of enthesis involvement in some rheumatic and nonrheumatic systemic disorders. To describe the various presentations of enthesopathy in the course of systemic medical disorders using the available literature data. Review of relevant articles from 1996 to 2006 retrieved by a Medline search utilizing the index terms \"enthesis,\" \"enthesitis,\" and \"tendonitis.\" The list of articles reviewed herein is not exhaustive, with preference given, where possible, to studies and surveys over case reports as well as the most recent literature reflecting new developments on the subject. Enthesis is defined as the site of insertion of a tendon, ligament, fascia, or articular capsule into bone. Pain originating in the free nerve endings enriched entheses (enthesalgia) may represent a potential cause of chronic musculoskeletal pain in some individuals. Enthesis involvement in the disease process is well appreciated in spondyloarthropathies and in rheumatoid arthritis, though overshadowed by synovitis in the latter. Calcium deposition diseases may constitute the most significant articular cause of enthesopathies in the general population. New data may shed light on the possible pathophysiologic role of enthesopathy in the development of osteoarthritis. Various metabolic and endocrine conditions may manifest with enthesopathy features. The pathogenic mechanisms of enthesis involvement are not uniform and differ in the diverse disorders. The concept of enthesopathy as a variety of syndromes in the course of many rheumatic, metabolic, and endocrine disorders should be appreciated. Exercise of a high level of suspicion toward enthesopathic involvement, and greater knowledge of enthesopathy's characteristic patterns and diagnostic possibilities, may allow better management of many patients in rheumatology practice."}
{"id": "17349485", "title": "Combined intra- and extra-articular arthroscopic treatment of entrapment neuropathy of the infraspinatus branches of the suprascapular nerve caused by a periglenoidal ganglion cyst.", "content": "Combined intra- and extra-articular arthroscopic treatment of entrapment neuropathy of the infraspinatus branches of the suprascapular nerve caused by a periglenoidal ganglion cyst. Entrapment neuropathy of the suprascapular nerve with pain and weakness of the affected shoulder is a rare clinical entity for which several treatment modalities have been reported. Instead of trying to evacuate the cyst from within the joint, the cyst was approached through the subacromial space after subacromial bursectomy, exposure of the spinoglenoid notch, and insertion of a small retractor through an additional posterior portal. This allowed retraction of the infraspinatus muscle together with the inferior branch of the suprascapular nerve for better visualization. After localization of the cyst and nerve, the membrane was incised and the entire viscous contents could be aspirated with a shaver. The intra-articular area of labral detachment was then repaired like a posterior aspect of a SLAP II lesion. The technique described combines the advantages of open and arthroscopic surgery, allowing one to address the underlying intra-articular pathology, completely evacuate the ganglion cyst, and protect the suprascapular nerve."}
{"id": "17349464", "title": "The cam effect of the proximal humerus: its role in the production of relative capsular redundancy of the shoulder.", "content": "The cam effect of the proximal humerus: its role in the production of relative capsular redundancy of the shoulder. The purpose of this study was to investigate quantitatively the cam effect of the proximal humerus (whereby the anteroinferior capsule of the shoulder is tensioned in abduction-external rotation by virtue of asymmetric rotation of the eccentrically positioned humeral head), as well the extent to which a reduction in the cam effect would cause a relative capsular redundancy, in the cadaveric shoulder. Five fresh-frozen cadaveric shoulders were tested. K-wires were used to sequentially position the shoulder in 3 different positions: neutral anatomic position, with contact at the glenoid bare spot; 90 degrees-90 degrees neutral shift position, with contact at the glenoid bare spot; and 90 degrees-90 degrees posterosuperior shift position, with contact 4.3 mm posterosuperior to the glenoid bare spot. The topographic anterior band distance (TABD) was measured with the shoulder in each of the 3 positions. The relative redundancy that occurred by shifting the glenohumeral contact point was determined by subtracting the TABD in the 90 degrees-90 degrees posterosuperior shift position from the TABD in the 90 degrees-90 degrees neutral shift position. The results of repeated-measures analysis of variance showed significant differences among the mean TABD values for the 3 positions (P < .010). There was a significant increase in TABD when the shoulder was brought from the neutral anatomic position to the 90 degrees-90 degrees neutral shift position (P < .020), confirming the cam effect of the proximal humerus in the 90 degrees-90 degrees position. Furthermore, the TABD decreased significantly when the 90 degrees-90 degrees neutral shift position changed to the 90 degrees-90 degrees posterosuperior shift position (P < .005), indicating a significant reduction in the cam effect with a concomitant relative redundancy in the anteroinferior capsuloligamentous complex. The proximal humerus produces a significant cam effect on the anteroinferior capsule when the shoulder is brought into a position of 90 degrees abduction and 90 degrees external rotation. A reduction in the cam effect as a result of a posterosuperior shift of the glenohumeral contact point with the shoulder in the 90 degrees-90 degrees position results in a relative redundancy of the anteroinferior capsuloligamentous complex. This relative capsular redundancy, coupled with the pseudolaxity that occurs with SLAP lesions, can produce a degree of apparent anterior laxity that is independent of any true translational anterior instability. The relative redundancy in the anteroinferior shoulder capsule caused by a decrease in the cam effect of the proximal humerus may have clinical implications in the pathophysiology of the disabled throwing shoulder. This relative redundancy is a secondary pseudolaxity, with the primary pathology being a tight posteroinferior capsule. Appropriate treatment (stretching of the posteroinferior capsule) of the primary pathology is a more appropriate initial treatment than instability surgery."}
{"id": "17346865", "title": "The role of the subscapularis in preventing anterior glenohumeral subluxation in the abducted, externally rotated position of the arm.", "content": "The role of the subscapularis in preventing anterior glenohumeral subluxation in the abducted, externally rotated position of the arm. Current literature suggests that the subscapularis muscle is the main active stabilizer when the humerus is abducted and externally rotated. Conservative treatment of anterior shoulder instability therefore aims at strengthening this muscle. Empirical models, however, have questioned the role of the subscapularis muscle as it has been observed to potentially support dislocation of the subluxated humeral head. Ten human shoulders were loaded with an anterior dislocating force and the effect of different subscapularis tensions on humeral translation was measured with the Motion Analysis system, for the abducted and externally rotated arm and neutral positions. Also, lines of action of the subscapularis segments were measured on a 3D epoxy model. Shoulders in which the humeral head migrated antero-superiorly under an external antero-inferior load were observed to dislocate under simulated active subscapularis tension in both positions. In contrast, shoulders in which the head migrated antero-inferiorly remained stable. Twice as many specimens dislocated in the abducted - externally rotated position than in the neutral position. The change in line of action of the subscapularis may account for this change. Exercises alone are unlikely to be adequate for all patients with anterior instability symptoms. Passive motion pattern of the humeral head might serve as an indicator as to whether the effect of strengthening the subscapularis might stabilize a shoulder without further operation. Development of a clinical test based on these findings might differentiate the non-operative from operative candidates among patients presenting with anterior instability of the shoulder."}
{"id": "17340161", "title": "Shoulder MR arthrography of the posterior labrocapsular complex in overhead throwers with pathologic internal impingement and internal rotation deficit.", "content": "Shoulder MR arthrography of the posterior labrocapsular complex in overhead throwers with pathologic internal impingement and internal rotation deficit. To determine if overhead-throwing athletes with internal impingement pain and internal rotation deficit have thickening of the posterior inferior labrocapsular complex on MR arthrogram images. This study was approved and a waiver of consent granted by our institutional review board. Twenty-six overhead-throwing athletes with internal impingement pain and internal rotation deficit, and 26 controls who had undergone MR arthrograms, were retrospectively examined. The MR studies were combined and read in a blind fashion. On an axial image through the posteroinferior glenoid rim, the readers measured the labral length, capsule-labrum length, and the posterior recess angle. A t-test was used to determine statistical significance. The mean labral length was 4.9 mm [standard deviation (SD) 1.4 mm] for the controls, and 6.4 mm (SD 1.6 mm) for the athletes (P = 0.001). The mean capsule-labrum length was 5.4 mm (SD 2.1 mm) for the controls, and 8.8 mm (SD 2.9 mm) for the athletes (P < 0.001). The mean posterior recess angle measured 65 degrees (SD 27 degrees) for the controls and 94 degrees (SD 38 degrees) for the athletes (P = 0.002). Overhead-throwing athletes with internal impingement pain and internal rotation deficit tend to have a thicker labrum and a shallower capsular recess in the posterior inferior shoulder joint than do non-overhead-throwing athletes. In many, the posteroinferior capsule is also thickened. These MR findings should alert the radiologist to closely inspect the posterior cuff and posterosuperior labrum for the tears associated with internal impingement."}
{"id": "17337727", "title": "Fatty infiltration and atrophy of the rotator cuff do not improve after rotator cuff repair and correlate with poor functional outcome.", "content": "Fatty infiltration and atrophy of the rotator cuff do not improve after rotator cuff repair and correlate with poor functional outcome. The role of degenerative changes in rotator cuff musculature with respect to the functional outcomes of rotator cuff repair have only recently been recognized and are still not well understood. In addition, the reversibility of these changes with repair of the tendons is questionable. Poorer preoperative muscle quality negatively affects outcome, and a successful outcome (in terms of a healed repair) might demonstrate improvements in fatty infiltration and muscle atrophy. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 2. Thirty-eight patients (mean age, 62 years) were prospectively evaluated with preoperative and 1-year postoperative clinical examination and appropriate magnetic resonance image sequencing to determine grades of muscle atrophy and fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles. American Shoulder and Elbow Society (ASES), Constant, and pain scores were determined as well as strength measurements. The retear rate and progression of muscle degeneration were also evaluated. Independent predictors of outcome measurements and cuff integrity were determined. The overall clinical outcome, including ASES, Constant, and pain scores, improved significantly (P < .0001). Strength in forward elevation improved significantly (P < .006), while external rotation strength did not. There was a strongly negative correlation between muscle quality and outcome results in most cases. When the results were adjusted for multivariate effect, muscle atrophy and fatty infiltration of the infraspinatus muscle were the only independent predictors of ASES and Constant scores (P < .03). Tear size and rotator cuff healing did not play an independent role. Tear size, however, was the only independent predictor of ultimate cuff integrity (P = .002). Both atrophy and fatty infiltration progressed significantly over the course of the study. In cases in which the tendon had re-torn, the progression was found to be more significant than when the repair proved successful (P < .003). Muscle atrophy and fatty infiltration of the rotator cuff muscles, particularly of the infraspinatus, play a significant role in determining functional outcome after cuff repair. Tear size appears to have the most influential effect on repair integrity. A successful repair did not lead to improvement or reversal of muscle degeneration and a failed repair resulted in significantly more progression. In general, healed repairs demonstrated minimal progression. These findings suggest that repairs should be performed, if possible, before more significant deterioration in the cuff musculature in order to optimize outcomes, and that understanding the degree of muscle atrophy and fatty infiltration before surgery can help guide patient expectations."}
{"id": "17337723", "title": "Indications for repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Indications for repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Rotator cuff repair surgery for full-thickness tears is common and accepted in orthopaedics today. Given that a significant number of people have asymptomatic rotator cuff tears, the indications for surgery are, however, somewhat unclear. Multiple factors such as duration of symptoms, acuity and size of the tear, patient age, and others require consideration and can influence the decision to perform surgery. This article reviews these variables and the indications for surgery to repair full-thickness rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "17334761", "title": "MR imaging of delamination tears of the rotator cuff tendons.", "content": "MR imaging of delamination tears of the rotator cuff tendons. The objective was to describe the imaging appearances and location of delamination tears of the rotator cuff tendons on non-contrast conventional MR imaging. This study was reviewed and approved by our Institutional Review Board. The reports of 548 consecutive MR examinations of the shoulder were reviewed, looking for mention or description of delamination tears of the rotator cuff. The images of the identified cases were then reviewed by two radiologists to confirm the findings. Correlation with surgical and arthroscopic information was then performed. Delamination tears were defined as horizontal retraction of either the bursal or articular surface of the tendon, manifest as thickening of the torn retracted edge, and/or interstitial splitting of the tendon, manifest as fluid-like high signal intensity on fat-suppressed T2-weighted oblique coronal images. Fourteen cases of delamination tears were identified in 13 patients. Ten of the cases involved the supraspinatus tendon, all with articular surface involvement. Nine of these supraspinatus cases were isolated tears and one occurred as part of a full thickness tear. All 10 of these supraspinatus cases showed medial retraction of the articular surface of the tendon, with thickening of the retracted edge, and 5 of the 10 had a demonstrable horizontal cleft in the interstitium. Four cases involved the subscapularis tendon, with articular surface disruption in three and pure interstitial delamination in one. Medial subluxation of the tendon of the long head of the biceps was present in all four cases. No delamination tears occurred on the bursal surface. Only three of the 14 shoulders underwent surgical repair with one confirmation of supraspinatus delamination, one confirmation of a subscapularis tear that had become a full thickness tear 10 months after initial imaging and another interstitial subscapularis delamination that was not identified arthroscopically. Delamination tears occur most often in the supraspinatus tendon, and in our series always involved the articular surface of the tendon. Only half of these tears have a visible cleavage plane in the interstitium, but this cleavage plane is not necessary for diagnosis if the torn edge is retracted."}
{"id": "17333123", "title": "Comparison of conservative treatment with and without manual physical therapy for patients with shoulder impingement syndrome: a prospective, randomized clinical trial.", "content": "Comparison of conservative treatment with and without manual physical therapy for patients with shoulder impingement syndrome: a prospective, randomized clinical trial. The aim of this prospective, randomized clinical study was to compare the effectiveness of two physical therapy treatment approaches for impingement syndrome, either by joint and soft tissue mobilization techniques or by a self-training program. Thirty patients (Group 1, n = 15; Group 2, n = 15) with the diagnosis of an outlet impingement syndrome of the shoulder were treated either by strengthening the depressors of the humeral head with a guided self-training program (Group 1, age 49.5 +/- 7.9 years), or by joint and soft tissue mobilization techniques (Group 2, age 48.1 +/- 7.5 years). Group 1 was instructed with the active range of motion (ROM), stretching and strengthening exercise program including rotator cuff muscles, rhomboids, levator scapulae and serratus anterior with an elastic band at home at least seven times a week for 10-15 min and Group 2 received a prescription for 12 sessions of joint and soft tissue mobilization techniques, ice application, stretching and strengthening exercise programs and patient education in clinic for three times per week. All patients were tested with visual analog scale (VAS) for pain level, goniometric measurement for ROM and algometry for the pain threshold. Function was measured with a functional assessment questionnaire. The VAS (10 cm) used to measure pain with functional activities and the functional assessment questionnaire (Neer) were also measured 3 months after the initiation of treatment. Subjects in both groups experienced significant decreases in pain and increases in shoulder function, but there was significantly more improvement in the manual therapy group compared to the exercise group. For example, pain in the manual therapy group was reduced from a pre-treatment mean (+/-SD) of 6.7 (+/-0.3) to a post-treatment mean of 2.0 (+/-2.0). In contrast, pain in the exercise group was reduced from a pre-treatment mean of 6.6 (+/-1.4) to a post-treatment mean of 3.0 (+/-1.8). ROM at flexion, abduction and external rotation in the manual therapy group improved significantly while ROM in the exercise group did not. There were statistically differences among the groups in function (P > 0.05). Group 2 showed significantly greater improvements in the Neer Questionnaire score and shoulder satisfaction score than Group 1. The patients treated with manual physical therapy applied by experienced physical therapists combined with supervised exercise in a brief clinical trial showed improvement of symptoms including increasing strength, decreasing pain and improving function earlier than with exercise program."}
{"id": "17333122", "title": "Idiopathic adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder: a review.", "content": "Idiopathic adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder: a review. Many terms have been used to describe what has been called idiopathic adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder. This pathology is defined as a self-limiting condition of unknown etiology. The natural history is 18-30 months even though a high-percentage of patient present impaired range of movement even at long-term follow-up. The diagnosis is mainly clinical and no significant changes are normally present at MRI or CT scan. Several treatment options have been tried over the years with different approaches and results."}
{"id": "17332124", "title": "Treatment of femoro-acetabular impingement: preliminary results of labral refixation. Surgical technique.", "content": "Treatment of femoro-acetabular impingement: preliminary results of labral refixation. Surgical technique. Recent advances in the understanding of the anatomy and function of the acetabular labrum suggest that it is important for normal joint function. We found no available data regarding whether labral refixation after treatment of femoro-acetabular impingement affects the clinical and radiographic results. We retrospectively reviewed the clinical and radiographic results of fifty-two patients (sixty hips) with femoro-acetabular impingement who underwent arthrotomy and surgical dislocation of the hip to allow trimming of the acetabular rim and femoral osteochondroplasty. In the first twenty-five hips, the torn labrum was resected (Group 1); in the next thirty-five hips, the intact portion of the labrum was reattached to the acetabular rim (Group 2). At one and two years postoperatively, the Merle d'Aubign\u00e9 clinical score and the T\u00f6nnis arthrosis classification system were used to compare the two groups. At one year postoperatively, both groups showed a significant improvement in their clinical scores (mainly pain reduction) compared with their preoperative values (p = 0.0003 for Group 1 and p < 0.0001 for Group 2). At two years postoperatively, 28% of the hips in Group 1 (labral resection) had an excellent result, 48% had a good result, 20% had a moderate result, and 4% had a poor result. In contrast, in Group 2 (labral reattachment), 80% of the hips had an excellent result, 14% had a good result, and 6% had a moderate result. Comparison of the clinical scores between the two groups revealed significantly better outcomes for Group 2 at one year (p = 0.0001) and at two years (p = 0.01). Radiographic signs of osteoarthritis were significantly more prevalent in Group 1 than in Group 2 at one year (p = 0.02) and at two years (p = 0.009). Patients treated with labral refixation recovered earlier and had superior clinical and radiographic results when compared with patients who had undergone resection of a torn labrum. Although the results must be considered preliminary, we now recommend refixation of the intact portion of the labrum after trimming of the acetabular rim during surgical treatment of femoro-acetabular impingement."}
{"id": "17332121", "title": "Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable posterosuperior rotator cuff tears. Surgical technique.", "content": "Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable posterosuperior rotator cuff tears. Surgical technique. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical results of latissimus dorsi tendon transfer in patients with an irreparable posterosuperior rotator cuff tear to help determine which patient and anatomic factors affect clinical outcome. Fourteen patients with a latissimus dorsi tendon transfer were clinically evaluated with use of the PENN (University of Pennsylvania) shoulder score as well as with quantitative measurement of isometric muscle strength and the range of motion of both shoulders at a minimum of twenty-four months postoperatively. The anatomic results were evaluated with postoperative magnetic resonance imaging and electromyography. Nine patients were satisfied with the outcome, had significant clinical improvement, and reported that they would have the operation again under similar circumstances. The other five patients were dissatisfied with the result and had significantly worse PENN scores, active elevation, and objective measures of strength. Eight of the nine patients with a good clinical result were male, and four of the five with a poor result were female. Patients with a good clinical result had had significantly better preoperative function in active forward flexion and active external rotation compared with the patients with a poor result. The magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated healing of the tendon to the greater tuberosity in twelve patients and equivocal healing in two. There was no significant atrophy of any of the transferred muscles. Electromyography demonstrated clear activity in the transferred latissimus muscle during humeral adduction in all fourteen patients, some electrical activity with active forward elevation in only one patient, and some electrical activity with active external rotation in six of the nine patients with a good clinical result. None of the patients with a poor clinical result demonstrated electrical activity of the transferred muscle with active forward flexion or external rotation. Synchronous in-phase contraction of the transferred latissimus dorsi is a variable finding following the surgical treatment of irreparable posterosuperior rotator cuff tears, but when it is present it is associated with a better clinical result. Preoperative shoulder function and general strength influence the clinical result. Female patients with poor shoulder function and generalized muscle weakness prior to surgery have a greater likelihood of having a poor clinical result."}
{"id": "17332108", "title": "Predictors of scapular notching in patients managed with the Delta III reverse total shoulder replacement.", "content": "Predictors of scapular notching in patients managed with the Delta III reverse total shoulder replacement. The reverse Delta III shoulder prosthesis can relieve pain and restore function in patients with cuff tear arthropathy. The most frequently reported radiographic complication is inferior scapular notching. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the clinical relevance of notching and to determine the anatomic and radiographic parameters that predispose to its occurrence. Seventy-seven consecutive shoulders in seventy-six patients with an irreparable rotator cuff deficiency were managed with a reverse Delta III shoulder arthroplasty and were followed clinically and radiographically for a minimum of twenty-four months. The effects of cranial-caudal glenoid component positioning and the prosthesis-scapular neck angle on the development of inferior scapular notching and clinical outcome were assessed. All shoulders that had development of notching did so in the first fourteen months. Of the seventy-seven shoulders that were studied, thirty-four (44%) had inferior scapular notching, twenty-three (30%) had posterior notching, and six (8%) had anterior notching. Osteophytes along the inferior part of the scapula occurred in twenty-one (27%) of the seventy-seven shoulders. The angle between the glenosphere and the scapular neck (r = 0.667) as well as the craniocaudal position of the glenosphere (r = 0.654) were highly correlated with inferior notching (p < 0.001). A notching index was calculated with use of the height of implantation of the glenosphere and the postoperative prosthesis-scapular neck angle. This allowed prediction of the occurrence of notching with a sensitivity of 91% and specificity of 88%. The height of implantation of the glenosphere had approximately an eight times greater influence on inferior notching than the prosthesis-scapular neck angle did. Inferior scapular notching was associated with a significantly poorer clinical outcome. Inferior scapular notching after reverse total shoulder arthroplasty adversely affects the intermediate-term clinical outcome. It can be prevented by optimal positioning of the glenoid component."}
{"id": "17325518", "title": "Pathogenesis, diagnosis, and treatment of lumbar zygapophysial (facet) joint pain.", "content": "Pathogenesis, diagnosis, and treatment of lumbar zygapophysial (facet) joint pain. Lumbar zygapophysial joint arthropathy is a challenging condition affecting up to 15% of patients with chronic low back pain. The onset of lumbar facet joint pain is usually insidious, with predisposing factors including spondylolisthesis, degenerative disc pathology, and old age. Despite previous reports of a \"facet syndrome,\" the existing literature does not support the use of historic or physical examination findings to diagnose lumbar zygapophysial joint pain. The most accepted method for diagnosing pain arising from the lumbar facet joints is with low-volume intraarticular or medial branch blocks, both of which are associated with high false-positive rates. Standard treatment modalities for lumbar zygapophysial joint pain include intraarticular steroid injections and radiofrequency denervation of the medial branches innervating the joints, but the evidence supporting both of these is conflicting. In this article, the authors provide a comprehensive review of the anatomy, biomechanics, and function of the lumbar zygapophysial joints, along with a systematic analysis of the diagnosis and treatment of facet joint pain."}
{"id": "17321166", "title": "Glenohumeral joint motion after medial shift of the attachment site of the supraspinatus tendon: a cadaveric study.", "content": "Glenohumeral joint motion after medial shift of the attachment site of the supraspinatus tendon: a cadaveric study. During a rotator cuff repair, it is ideal to reattach the torn edge of the cuff tendon back to the greater tuberosity. However, with massive tears where the torn edges are too retracted to be reattached to the greater tuberosity, they may have to be reattached somewhere more medial. It is clinically important to know how far medially one can shift the reattachment site without sacrificing function of the shoulder. Ten fresh, previously-frozen cadaveric shoulders were used. Medial shift of the supraspinatus tendon was simulated by placing the suture anchors along lines 3, 10, or 17 mm medial to the cuff attachment site. The ranges of glenohumeral motion were measured using a goniometer with a constant torque applied to the humerus. All motions, except for internal rotation at 60 degrees of abduction, were significantly restricted by medial shift of 10 mm or more compared with that of the intact shoulder. We conclude that significant restriction of joint motion occurs when a bony trough is created more than 10 mm medial to the cuff attachment site."}
{"id": "17321153", "title": "Direct biceps tendon and supraspinatus contact as an indicator of rotator cuff tear during shoulder arthroscopy in the lateral decubitus position.", "content": "Direct biceps tendon and supraspinatus contact as an indicator of rotator cuff tear during shoulder arthroscopy in the lateral decubitus position. The purpose of this study was to evaluate consecutive shoulder arthroscopies for the presence or absence of a space between the biceps tendon and the supraspinatus as an indicator of a full-thickness rotator cuff tear. We performed 588 consecutive shoulder arthroscopies in the lateral decubitus position, and the presence or absence of a space between the rotator cuff (supraspinatus) and the biceps tendon was recorded immediately upon entering and insufflating the joint. Of the 588 patients, 174 (30%) were found to have full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Of these 174 patients, 171 had absence of the space between the biceps and the supraspinatus, for a sensitivity of 98%. Of the 414 patients in whom no full-thickness tear was present, 4 had absence of the space, for a specificity of 99%. The 4 patients with a false-negative result had adhesive capsulitis. During shoulder arthroscopy, a normal interval exists between the supraspinatus and biceps tendons as a result of joint insufflation. Loss of this interval is both highly sensitive (98%) and specific (99%) for a full-thickness rotator cuff tear. The space between the rotator cuff and the biceps tendon can be a reliable adjunct for verification of a full-thickness rotator cuff tear immediately upon entering the shoulder joint but should not be used in place of a full arthroscopic evaluation of the cuff."}
{"id": "17319414", "title": "Child birth in squatting position.", "content": "Child birth in squatting position. To assess the risks and benefits of squatting position during second stage of labour and its comparison with the supine position. The study was conducted at the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre, Karachi from 1st January 1999 to 31st January 2000. A total of two hundred patients of similar ante partum, intrapartum and socio-economic conditions were selected. Only patients of gestation more than 37 weeks, presenting in active labour with cephalic presentation were included. Patients with multiple gestation, malpresentation, previous scar, maternal fever and prenatal diagnosed fetal malformation were excluded from the study. Random selection was done after informed consent and alternately divided into two groups A and B. Both groups were ambulatory during first stage of labour. In second stage, group-A adopted the squatting position, while group-B remained supine in lithotomy position. The third stage of labour in both the groups was conducted in the supine position. There was no difference in the application of episiotomies in both groups, however extension of the episiotomy occurred in 7% patients of the non-squatting group (P < 0.05). Para urethral tears occurred in 5% patients in squatting group, but all occurred in patients who were not given an episiotomy. Second degree, and third degree perineal tears occurred in 9% patients in the non-squatting group but none in the squatting group (P < 0.05). Forceps application was also significantly less in group-A 11% and 24% in group-B (P < 0.05).There were two cases of shoulder dystocia in group B but none in the group-A. During the Third stage of labour there were no cases of retained placenta in group A but there were 4% cases of retained placenta and 1% case of postpartum haemorrhage of more than 500 ml due to atony of the uterus in group-B. One patient in the non-squatting position had to have a caesarean section due to persistent occipito posterior position. There was no significant difference in the apgar scores, foetal heart rate patterns or requirement of neonatal resuscitation. It appears that squatting position may result in less instrumental deliveries, extension of episiotomies and perineal tears."}
{"id": "17308474", "title": "Center of rotation affects abduction range of motion of reverse shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Center of rotation affects abduction range of motion of reverse shoulder arthroplasty. Although clinical outcomes of the reverse shoulder replacement have noted improvements in pain and function, evaluation of these outcomes reveals concerns regarding progressive scapular notching and variability of functional improvements in range of motion. Therefore, an apparatus was designed to examine differences in abduction range of motion for seven configurations of reverse shoulder arthroplasty. An electronic goniometer was used to measure abduction range of motion, and digital video analysis was used to determine impingement points. Finally, a correlation analysis between range of motion and the effect of changing the center of rotation of the glenosphere was performed. As the center of rotation was moved more lateral from the glenoid, abduction range of motion increased. The greatest range of motion was 97 degrees +/- 0.9 degrees using a glenoid component with a center of rotation offset 10 mm +/- 0.4 mm from the glenoid. The smallest range of motion was 67 degrees +/- 1.8 degrees using a glenosphere with a center of rotation offset 0.5 mm +/- 0.1 mm from the glenoid surface. Range of motion always was limited by impingement points on the scapula. Inferiorly, adduction was limited by impingement on either the inferior scapular border or the glenoid. Superiorly, abduction was limited by impingement on the acromion. A positive linear correlation was found between abduction range of motion and center of rotation offset relative to the glenoid."}
{"id": "17304073", "title": "Rotator cuff tear associated with a posterior dislocation of the shoulder in a young adult: a case report and literature review.", "content": "Rotator cuff tear associated with a posterior dislocation of the shoulder in a young adult: a case report and literature review. Posterior glenohumeral dislocations are rare, and an accurate diagnosis is often difficult to make. Although rotator cuff tears are a known risk in the common traumatic anterior glenohumeral dislocation, they are an extremely rare event in association with posterior glenohumeral dislocation, regardless of patient age. There have only been 2 documented cases of rotator cuff tear following posterior shoulder dislocation previously reported in the literature. We report the case of a rotator cuff tear associated with a closed traumatic posterior dislocation of the shoulder in a 22-year-old male involved in a motorcycle accident. This is only the second report of an isolated rotator cuff tear occurring as a result of a posterior shoulder dislocation. Furthermore, this case concerns the youngest patient ever to sustain such an injury in the orthopaedic literature."}
{"id": "17304065", "title": "Anterior traumatic shoulder dislocation associated with displaced greater tuberosity fracture: the necessity of operative treatment.", "content": "Anterior traumatic shoulder dislocation associated with displaced greater tuberosity fracture: the necessity of operative treatment. To evaluate the radiographic and clinical outcome, including the incidence of recurrence, in patients with displaced greater tuberosity (GT) fractures associated with a traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation. Retrospective study. University Hospital (Level 1 trauma center). There were 34 completely evaluated patients (19 male, 15 female) seen between 1993 and 2002 with a displaced GT fracture associated with a traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation. Average age was 52.8 years and the mean follow-up period was 4.8 years (range, 2.0 to 10 years). All GT fractures were internally fixed solely with heavy non-absorbable sutures and any associate rotator cuff tear was repaired at the same time. A special rehabilitation protocol was administered in all patients. Functional assessment was obtained using the parameters of the Constant score which grades outcomes as excellent, very good, good and poor. Overall, there were 25 (73.5%) excellent, 6 (17.6%) very good, 2 (5.8%) good and 1 (3.1%) poor results, and the average Constant score was 88.4 (range 45.0 to 100.0). All fractures healed radiographically, without evidence of secondary displacement, except in one patient. No case of recurrence of dislocation was noted in any patient. Partial absorption or \"lysis\" of the GT without significant clinical relevance was detected in 4 cases. Displaced fractures of the GT after traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation may result in limitation of motion and functional disability if they are not treated promptly by surgery. Open reduction and stable fixation of the GT along with rotator cuff repair when present, allows for early passive motion of the joint, and yields excellent final results in approximately three quarters of the patients and restores their ability to return to full activities of daily living. A compliant patient is also necessary for a successful result."}
{"id": "17303998", "title": "SLAP tears of the glenoid labrum in contact athletes.", "content": "SLAP tears of the glenoid labrum in contact athletes. To describe the distribution and clinical presentation of labral injuries in rugby players and the time taken for them to return to sports. Retrospective cohort study. Busy shoulder practice in the North West of England, treating a large number of professional athletes. A review of 51 shoulder arthroscopies performed on professional rugby players over a 35 month period. All patients diagnosed with a SLAP lesion at arthroscopy were identified. Eighteen patients had a documented SLAP tear; this group represented our study population. Arthroscopic debridement and/or stabilization was carried out for all labral injuries using Panaloc anchors and No. 2 PDS via a 2 portal technique. Classification of injury, Satisfaction, Time to return to play. The incidence of SLAP tears in our study population was 35%. There were 11 isolated SLAP tears (61%), 3 SLAP tears associated with a Bankart lesion (17%), 2 SLAP tears associated with a posterior labral lesion (11%), and 2 SLAP tears associated with an anterior and posterior labral injuries (11%). Of the 18 SLAP tears, 14 (78%) were type 2, 3 (17%) were type 3, and 1 (5%) was type 4. None of the patients with a SLAP tear presented with symptoms of instability. MR Arthrogram had a 76% sensitivity for detecting SLAP tears. By 6 months postsurgery, 89% of patients were satisfied. Patients with isolated SLAP tears were the quickest to return to sports, at an average of 2.6 months postsurgery. SLAP tears are a common injury in rugby players. These can often be diagnosed with MR arthrography. Arthroscopic repair is associated with excellent results and early return to sports."}
{"id": "17300787", "title": "Open reduction and internal fixation of intraarticular tibial plateau nonunions.", "content": "Open reduction and internal fixation of intraarticular tibial plateau nonunions. The vast majority of tibial plateau fractures heal uneventfully, and no case series on intraarticular tibial plateau nonunions exists. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the radiographic and clinical outcome of these nonunions following surgical treatment in a single surgeon series. Five patients with tibial plateau nonunions were treated at our institution using a specific treatment protocol consisting of open reduction and debridement, deformity correction, internal fixation including lag screws, bone graft augmentation, and selective knee joint arthrolysis. Patient outcomes were assessed using radiographs and the Knee Society questionnaire scores. Following surgical treatment of the nonunion, all healed at an average of 12.8 weeks, and average follow-up was 44 months. Preoperative coronal plane deformity was corrected in all patients. The final knee motion arc averaged 120 degrees postoperatively. Both the pain and function subscales of the Knee Society Rating scale improved significantly. Four of the five returned to their normal pre-injury activities, but two patients required total knee arthroplasty which was performed successfully after healing of the nonunion. With meticulous surgical technique and a standard protocol, healing may be reliably achieved. Arthrosis occurs frequently, and may occur primarily at the time of injury or from chronic alteration of intraarticular contact forces secondary to development of a nonunion."}
{"id": "17293473", "title": "Glenohumeral internal rotation deficits in professional pitchers enrolled in an internal rotation stretching program.", "content": "Glenohumeral internal rotation deficits in professional pitchers enrolled in an internal rotation stretching program. Repetitive throwing motion creates increased external rotation and decreased internal rotation in the glenohumeral joint. There is controversy regarding the contribution of osseous and soft tissue adaptations to these changes in rotation. To evaluate internal rotation deficits in the professional baseball thrower's shoulder and determine the impact of an internal rotation stretch program on that deficit. Cross-sectional study; Level of evidence, 3. Eighty-five male professional pitchers were evaluated in this study. Players were divided into 2 groups based on length of participation in an appropriate internal rotation stretch program. Data were collected on internal and external rotations and total range of motion in both dominant and nondominant arms using a goniometer. Internal rotation deficit (the lack of internal rotation relative to the opposite side) was calculated. Generalized comparative statistical tests were used. Pitchers with 3 or more years in a stretch program (group 1) had greater internal rotation (74.3 degrees vs 54.3 degrees ) and greater total range of motion (217.0 degrees vs 194.2 degrees ) in dominant shoulders than did pitchers with less than 3 years (group 2). Total range of motion was greater in the dominant than in the nondominant arm for group 1. Internal rotation deficit in dominant arms was significantly greater for group 2 than for group 1. The analysis of dominant arm rotation relative to years in an internal rotation stretching program for pitchers in both groups showed a progressive increase in both internal rotation and total arc of motion with the number years in such a program plateauing after year 3. The throwing motion shifts the total arc of motion toward external rotation and diminishes internal rotation. The increased external rotation may be attributable to increased humeral retroversion. The internal rotation deficit, however, is caused by soft tissue adaptations that can be addressed by consistent participation in a stretching program focused on internal rotation."}
{"id": "17279424", "title": "Deltoid flap combined with fascia lata autograft for rotator cuff defects: a histologic study.", "content": "Deltoid flap combined with fascia lata autograft for rotator cuff defects: a histologic study. The purpose of this study was to compare the histological characteristics of an autogenous fascia lata graft alone and a fascia lata graft combined with a deltoid flap in the reconstruction of rotator cuff tears. Ten New Zealand white rabbits were divided into two groups. Infraspinatus tendon defects (1 x 1 cm) were created in each animal. Reconstruction consisted of either a fascia lata graft alone or a fascia lata graft combined with a distally based deltoid flap. At 3 months, tissue harvest and histological analysis was performed. Compared to the fascia lata graft alone, there was significantly increased remodeling activity and neovascularization in the group that included a deltoid flap. Also, there was pronounced interdigitation at the graft/flap interface in the latter group. A mutually beneficial relationship may exist when an autogenous fascial graft is combined with a functional deltoid flap for reconstructing large rotator cuff defects."}
{"id": "17279037", "title": "Clinical assessment of superior glenoid labral lesions: a systematic review.", "content": "Clinical assessment of superior glenoid labral lesions: a systematic review. Superior labral anterior posterior (SLAP) lesions of the glenoid have proven difficult to diagnose clinically. SLAP-lesion-specific physical examination tests have been developed to improve clinical acumen. Initial reported performance of these tests has not been reproduced by independent investigation. We hypothesized SLAP-specific physical examination tests could not provide a definitive diagnosis of a SLAP lesion. We further intended to elucidate factors responsible for the variable performance of SLAP-specific tests. A review of the literature through Medline and Embase database searches was conducted. All studies with level of evidence of III or better involved in the reporting of diagnostic accuracy of SLAP-specific physical examination tests were included and reviewed. Each instance of independent evaluation of a SLAP-specific examination showed poorer examination performance than in the originating study. Considerable variability existed between independent evaluations of a given SLAP-specific examination as well. We concluded SLAP-specific physical examination results cannot be used as the sole basis of a diagnosis of a SLAP lesion. Differences in patient populations between studies and the accompanying differences in SLAP lesion prevalence and comorbid conditions played the greatest role in test result variance."}
{"id": "17278923", "title": "Advances in arthroscopic surgery: indications and outcomes.", "content": "Advances in arthroscopic surgery: indications and outcomes. To examine recent trends in the use of arthroscopic surgical techniques to address musculoskeletal problems. The review is particularly timely given the rapidly expanding range of indications for diagnostic and therapeutic arthroscopic procedures involving virtually every peripheral joint. We focus on arthroscopic approaches to problems of the hip, wrist, elbow and ankle. Hip arthroscopy is permitting novel, minimally invasive approaches to the management of femoral acetabular impingement, labral tears, loose bodies and chondral lesions. Wrist arthroscopy has provided novel approaches to ligament tears, synovitis and fractures. Ankle arthroscopy has been especially helpful with soft tissue impingement syndromes, synovitis and fracture. Elbow arthroscopy has been especially helpful in the management of synovitis and osteoarthritis due to osteophytosis. Complications of arthroscopic procedures occur very rarely. Virtually all the literature on arthroscopy outcomes comes from small uncontrolled studies. Arthroscopy provides a safe alternative to arthrotomy in the management of a wide range of clinical problems. The generally weak designs of studies performed to date compromises the strength of recommendations that can be made about the role of these procedures in clinical practice."}
{"id": "17276230", "title": "Minor shoulder instability.", "content": "Minor shoulder instability. The wide spectrum of shoulder instability is difficult to include in 1 classification. The distinction between traumatic, unidirectional, and atraumatic multidirectional instability is still widely used, even though this classification is not sufficiently precise to include all the different pathological findings of shoulder instability. We present \"minor instability,\" which is a pathological condition causing a dysfunction of the glenohumeral articulation, especially in combination with microtrauma, repetitive or not, or after a period of immobilization or inactivity. When \"minor shoulder instability\" is suspected, the patient's history and detailed clinical examination represent the most important factors when establishing the diagnosis. In particular, the apprehension test stressing the middle glenohumeral ligament (MGHL)/labral complex in the position of midabduction and external rotation may be painful and may even reveal anterior instability or subluxation. Conventional radiographs are negative in most cases, as is magnetic resonance imaging arthrography. It is only after an accurate arthroscopic assessment that the pathological lesion can be found. The major pathological process can be identified at the level of the anterior superior labrum, in particular the MGHL complex, and appears as hyperemia, fraying, stretching, loosening, thinning, hypoplasia, or even absence. It may, however, be difficult to distinguish between a normal variant and a pathological lesion. Clinical symptoms and examination should always be correlated with arthroscopic findings. Recommended treatment is to restore shoulder stability and thereby prevent shoulder pain secondary to the increase in laxity. A reduction in range of motion should be expected during the postoperative phase, at least up to six to nine months. External rotation is usually permanently reduced by a few degrees."}
{"id": "17276220", "title": "Biomechanical comparison of 3 suture anchor configurations for repair of type II SLAP lesions.", "content": "Biomechanical comparison of 3 suture anchor configurations for repair of type II SLAP lesions. Our purpose was to compare 3 commonly used suture anchor configurations for repair of type II SLAP lesions. Biomechanical testing was performed on 3 groups of 7 cadaveric shoulders by use of an optical linear strain measurement system. Standardized type II SLAP lesions were created and repaired via 3 suture anchor configurations: (1) a single simple suture anterior to the biceps; (2) two simple sutures, one anterior and one posterior to the biceps; and (3) a single mattress suture through the biceps anchor. Cyclic traction was applied to the biceps tendon, and strain failure (defined as 2 mm of permanent displacement), yield, and pullout loads were measured. The mean load to strain failure was 63 N in group 1, 70 N in group 2, and 106 N in group 3. The mean load to ultimate failure was 140 N in group 1, 194 N in group 2, and 194 N in group 3. Strain failure load was significantly higher in the mattress suture group than in either of the other two groups (P < .05). Groups 2 and 3 both had a significantly higher load to ultimate failure than group 1. When type II SLAP lesions were subjected to cyclic traction, the load to strain failure was greater with a single anchor and mattress suture than with one or two anchors with simple sutures around the labrum. Fixation with two simple sutures appears to provide intermediate load to strain failure. The results of this study suggest that a single anchor with a mattress suture may be a biomechanically advantageous construct for the repair of type II SLAP lesions."}
{"id": "17267769", "title": "Interobserver agreement in the classification of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Interobserver agreement in the classification of rotator cuff tears. Six classification systems have been proposed for describing rotator cuff tears designed to help understand their natural history and make treatment decisions. To assess the interobserver variation for these classification systems and identify the method with the best interobserver agreement. Cohort study (diagnosis); Level of evidence, 2. Six rotator cuff tear classification systems were identified in a literature search. The components of these systems included partial-thickness rotator cuff tears and classification by size, shape, configuration, number of tendons involved, and by extent, topography, and nature of the biceps. Twelve fellowship-trained orthopaedic surgeons who each perform at least 30 rotator cuff repairs per year reviewed arthroscopy videos from 30 patients with a random assortment of rotator cuff tears and classified them by the 6 classification systems. Interobserver variation was determined by a kappa analysis. Interobserver agreement was high when distinguishing between full-thickness and partial-thickness tears (0.95, kappa = 0.85). The investigators agreed on the side (articular vs bursal) of involvement for partial-thickness tears (observed agreement 0.92, kappa = 0.85) but could not agree when classifying the depth of the partial-thickness tear (observed agreement 0.49, kappa = 0.19). The best agreement for full-thickness tears was seen when the tear was classified by topography (degree of retraction) in the frontal plane (observed agreement 0.70, kappa = 0.54). With the exception of distinguishing partial-thickness from full-thickness rotator cuff tears and identifying the side (articular vs bursal) of involvement with partial-thickness tears, currently described rotator cuff classification systems have little interobserver agreement among experienced shoulder surgeons. Researchers should consider describing full-thickness rotator cuff tears by topography (degree of retraction) in the frontal plane."}
{"id": "17267765", "title": "Arthroscopic repair of type II superior labral anterior posterior lesions with and without acromioplasty: a clinical analysis of 50 patients.", "content": "Arthroscopic repair of type II superior labral anterior posterior lesions with and without acromioplasty: a clinical analysis of 50 patients. The treatment of type II superior labral anterior posterior (SLAP) lesions remains controversial. Many surgeons are reluctant to combine a SLAP repair with an acromioplasty for fear of postoperative shoulder stiffness and a poor clinical outcome. A SLAP repair and an acromioplasty done concomitantly may yield acceptable outcomes. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. We compared the clinical results of 50 patients who had either an isolated type II SLAP repair (SLAP group, 34 patients) or a combined type II SLAP repair and acromioplasty (combined group, 16 patients). Patients were excluded for full-thickness rotator cuff tears or instability. All patients were evaluated with the L'Insalata Functional Shoulder Rating Questionnaire, with the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) questionnaire, and by subjective evaluation. At an average of 3.4 years postoperatively, the L'Insalata and ASES scores were similar for the 2 groups: 87.1 and 85.8 for the SLAP group and 85.1 and 86.5 for the combined group, respectively (P > .05). Subjectively, only 65% of the patients in the SLAP group reported a \"good\" or \"excellent\" satisfaction with the surgery, compared with an 81% \"good\" or \"excellent\" satisfaction rating among the patients in the combined group. Seven patients (21%) in the SLAP group had postoperative clinical impingement, compared with no patients (0%) in the combined group (P < .03). According to our data, these 2 procedures done concomitantly may yield acceptable outcomes. Our findings indicated that a combined type II SLAP repair and acromioplasty had no negative effect clinically and, furthermore, appeared to prevent residual clinical impingement."}
{"id": "17241642", "title": "The effect of repetitive arm cycling on post stroke spasticity and motor control: repetitive arm cycling and spasticity.", "content": "The effect of repetitive arm cycling on post stroke spasticity and motor control: repetitive arm cycling and spasticity. This study's aims were (1) to test whether training on an arm ergometer improves motor performance, and (2) to develop a technique to quantify individual muscle spasticity. Nine patients with a stabilized hemisyndrome (in average 22 months after ischemic stroke in the territory of middle cerebral artery) underwent a 3-week training on an arm ergometer, 5 days/week. The patients were tested one week before training, at training onset, at the end of training and 2 weeks after training. Spasticity was quantified by (1) the Ashworth Scale of the elbow flexors and extensors, (2) the maximum active extension of the biceps, and (3) the minimum torque on the lesioned side during arm cycling. The data were standardized, pooled and a 2-way ANOVA revealed a decrease of the spasticity by the training (p=0.076). Similarly muscle force was evaluated by the Rivermead Motorik Assessment, the Motricity Index and the cycling force, and the range of active movement as the sum of the angles at a maximum shoulder flexion, shoulder abduction, elbow flexion and elbow extension. The training increased the force (p<0.01) and also the range of motion (p<0.05) significantly. The patients confirmed the clinical relevance of the results. The spasticity index - the relation between the muscle activity modulation on the normal and lesioned side - was shown to be a useful tool in quantifying individual muscle spasticity. It was concluded that cycling on an arm ergometer is a useful tool for rehabilitation."}
{"id": "17235009", "title": "Radiologic assessment of reverse shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Radiologic assessment of reverse shoulder arthroplasty. The reverse shoulder prosthesis was approved for clinical use in the United States in March 2004. This new prosthesis reverses the normal ball-and-socket relationship of the shoulder joint. As a result of replacement of the glenoid component with a ball and of the humeral head with a socket, the center of rotation is moved distally and medially, allowing more control of shoulder motion by the deltoid muscle. This improved geometric configuration allows shoulder reconstruction in patients who have irreparable rotator cuff damage with secondary arthropathy, pain, and \"pseudoparalysis\" (ie, inability to lift the arm above the horizontal). Patients experience a significant improvement in range of motion and markedly decreased pain after undergoing reverse shoulder arthroplasty; however, the procedure is associated with a relatively high rate of complications, including dislocation, infection, loosening, malpositioning of the glenoid component or fixation screws, disassembly of the humeral component, periprosthetic fracture, and inferior glenoid impingement leading to scapular erosion. Therefore, it is important that the radiologist be familiar with the normal and abnormal imaging appearances of this new prosthesis."}
{"id": "17225150", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging findings associated with surgically proven rotator interval lesions.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging findings associated with surgically proven rotator interval lesions. To identify shoulder magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings associated with surgically proven rotator interval abnormalities. The preoperative MRI examinations of five patients with surgically proven rotator interval (RI) lesions requiring closure were retrospectively evaluated by three musculoskeletal-trained radiologists in consensus. We assessed the structures in the RI, including the coracohumeral ligament, superior glenohumeral ligament, fat tissue, biceps tendon, and capsule for variations in size and signal alteration. In addition, we noted associated findings of rotator cuff and labral pathology. Three of three of the MR arthrogram studies demonstrated extension of gadolinium to the cortex of the undersurface of the coracoid process compared with the control images, seen best on the sagittal oblique images. Four of five of the studies demonstrated subjective thickening of the coracohumeral ligament, and three of five of the studies demonstrated subjective thickening of the superior glenohumeral ligament. Five of five of the studies demonstrated a labral tear. The MRI arthrogram finding of gadolinium extending to the cortex of the undersurface of the coracoid process was noted on the studies of those patients with rotator interval lesions at surgery in this series. Noting this finding-especially in the presence of a labral tear and/or thickening of the coracohumeral ligament or superior glenohumeral ligament-may be helpful in the preoperative diagnosis of rotator interval lesions."}
{"id": "17210431", "title": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with and without subacromial decompression: a prospective randomized study.", "content": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair with and without subacromial decompression: a prospective randomized study. Our purpose was to evaluate the role of subacromial decompression in the arthroscopic repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears in a prospective randomized clinical study. Arthroscopic cuff repair was performed in 80 patients with a full-thickness rotator cuff tear. They were divided into 2 groups comprising 40 patients each. In group 1 arthroscopic rotator cuff repair was performed with subacromial decompression. In group 2 the repair was performed without decompression. Rotator cuff tears were repaired via metal suture anchors for tendon-to-bone repair, side-to-side repair, or a combination of the 2 techniques. Results were evaluated by use of the Constant score normalized for age and gender, as well as the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) and Work-DASH self-administered questionnaires. On analyzing the results at 2 years' follow-up, we considered the following independent variables: age; gender; dominance; location, shape, area, retraction, and reducibility of cuff tear; fatty degeneration; involvement of subscapularis tendon; treatment of biceps tendon; rotator cuff repair technique; and type of acromion. A univariate and multivariate statistical analysis was performed to determine which variables were independently associated with the outcome. Comparison between the groups did not show significant differences for each variable considered. The overall results for the Constant score were 103.6 points in group 1 and 96.1 points in group 2; those for the DASH score were 18.2 points and 23.1 points, respectively; and those for the Work-DASH score were 23.7 points and 26.2 points, respectively. Univariate and multivariate analysis showed that the following variables significantly and independently influenced the outcome: age; shape, retraction, and reducibility of cuff tear; fatty degeneration; involvement of subscapularis; and repair technique. Subacromial decompression did not influence the outcome significantly for each scoring system considered. At short-term follow-up, subacromial decompression did not seem to significantly affect the outcome of arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. Longer follow-up studies will be necessary to confirm the clinical relevance of these observations. Level I, randomized controlled trial with no significant difference but narrow confidence intervals."}
{"id": "17210430", "title": "Anterior and posterior instability of the long head of the biceps tendon in rotator cuff tears: a new classification based on arthroscopic observations.", "content": "Anterior and posterior instability of the long head of the biceps tendon in rotator cuff tears: a new classification based on arthroscopic observations. The purpose of this study was to evaluate arthroscopically the frequency and type of instability of the long head of the biceps (LHB) tendon in patients undergoing rotator cuff repair. In 200 consecutive patients undergoing arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, LHB instability was assessed statically and dynamically in the anteroposterior direction. In addition, macroscopic lesions of the LHB, as well as lesions of the adjacent rotator cuff tendons, were documented. LHB instability (subluxation or dislocation) was found in 45% of patients, with isolated anterior instability in 16%, isolated posterior instability in 19%, and combined anteroposterior instability in 10%. Whereas LHB subluxations were observed in both directions, dislocations were only seen in anterior LHB instability. Anterior instability was more associated with a subscapularis lesion, whereas posterior instability was more associated with a supraspinatus tear. Lesions of the LHB tendon were strongly associated with LHB instability and the size of the rotator cuff tear. In 200 patients with rotator cuff tears LHB instability could be observed arthroscopically in 45%, with 16% being anterior, 19% being posterior, and 10% being anteroposterior. LHB instability was associated with LHB lesions, with 15% of the LHB tendons showing a normal appearance when unstable versus 70% when stable. Preoperative O'Brien and Speed tests did not correlate with intraoperative observed LHB pathology. The size of the rotator cuff tear could be correlated with the grade of LHB lesion, becoming more significant with augmenting tear size. On the basis of these observations, we created a new arthroscopic classification of LHB instability with respect to the direction and extent of LHB instability, lesions of the LHB, and status of the adjacent rotator cuff tendons. Level IV, diagnostic study with poor reference standard."}
{"id": "17210426", "title": "Value of preoperative ultrasound marking of calcium deposits in patients who require surgical treatment of calcific tendinitis of the shoulder.", "content": "Value of preoperative ultrasound marking of calcium deposits in patients who require surgical treatment of calcific tendinitis of the shoulder. The objective of our study was to evaluate whether preoperative ultrasound-guided marking of calcium deposits has a positive effect on the efficiency and speed of localization of calcium deposits during surgery, and whether this technique is a factor that increases the probability of good clinical results. Twenty-four patients who required surgery for calcific tendinitis in the years 2001 and 2002 were divided into 2 groups of 12 patients by week. Before undergoing surgery, those in group 1 (weeks 1, 3, 5, etc.) were given a standard ultrasound examination, along with preoperative ultrasound-guided marking (pre-USM) of calcium deposits, whereas group 2 (weeks 2, 4, 6, etc.) received the standard ultrasound examination without pre-USM. In both groups, arthroscopic removal of calcium deposits was carried out and the postoperative treatment plan was identical. The clinical result was evaluated by the Constant-Murley score. At the 6-week and 2-year follow-up visits, the clinical result was significantly better (P < .05) in the pre-USM group than in the unmarked group (Constant score of 76 v 70 points and 80 v 74 points, respectively). After 12 weeks, the clinical outcomes of both groups showed an approaching significance, with better results seen in the pre-USM group (79 v 74 points; P = .052). The time required for intraoperative localization of calcium deposits was 16 versus 22 minutes. The difference showed an approaching significance (P = .057). Removal of calcium was possible in 12 versus 10 cases; complete removal was possible in 8 versus 6 cases, respectively. However, none of these variables had a statistically significant influence on our results. Preoperative ultrasound-guided marking of calcific deposits is a procedure that statistically significantly improves the clinical results of arthroscopic surgery as seen at 6 weeks and 2 years; statistical significance of .052 was approached only at 12 weeks, as we have shown here for calcifying tendinitis of the shoulder joint. Level III, development of diagnostic criteria with nonconsecutive patients."}
{"id": "17210425", "title": "Arthroscopic release of suprascapular nerve entrapment at the suprascapular notch: technique and preliminary results.", "content": "Arthroscopic release of suprascapular nerve entrapment at the suprascapular notch: technique and preliminary results. We describe a novel all-arthroscopic technique for suprascapular nerve (SSN) decompression and present our preliminary results for this procedure. A prospective series of 10 patients with preoperative electromyographic findings consistent with chronic SSN compression, posterior shoulder pain, and subjective weakness were treated with arthroscopic SSN decompression. There were 8 men and 2 women, with a mean age of 50 years. The mean follow-up was 15 months (range, 6 to 27 months). In 8 of 10 patients, we performed an electromyographic examination postoperatively to evaluate nerve recovery after decompression. The clinical outcomes measures used to assess preoperative and postoperative function were the visual analog scale for pain, the Constant score, strength testing of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus, and a subjective satisfaction questionnaire. In all patients preoperative and postoperative computed tomography arthrograms were obtained to document the absence of a rotator cuff tear. There were no complications resulting from SSN decompression. Of 10 patients, 8 had postoperative electromyography at a mean of 6 months after SSN release and 2 refused to undergo this study after surgery. Of the 8 postoperative electromyograms, 7 had complete normalization of the latency in the motor fibers of the SSN and normalization of the voluntary motor action potential for the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles. Two of the electromyograms showed evidence of partial recovery. The preoperative and postoperative Constant scores for these patients were 60.3 and 83.4, respectively (P < .001). All patients returned to their normal work and sports activity at a mean of 3 weeks (range, 2 days to 3 months). The abduction and external rotation strength also significantly improved. At the time of last follow-up, 9 patients graded their clinical outcome as excellent and responded that they had complete relief of pain. One of the study subjects reported a satisfactory result with moderate relief of pain. Arthroscopic release of the SSN can be performed safely and effectively. All of the patients in this preliminary study had improvement in their postoperative electromyographic findings and had marked improvement in pain relief and function. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "17196721", "title": "The three-dimensional motions of glenohumeral joint under semi-loaded condition during arm abduction using vertically open MRI.", "content": "The three-dimensional motions of glenohumeral joint under semi-loaded condition during arm abduction using vertically open MRI. Magnetic resonance imaging is an accurate non-invasive tool for visualizing muscles, tendons, and bones. It also provides 3D coordinate values. The purpose of the present study was to visualize and quantify the 3D positions of the glenohumeral joint during isometric abduction of the arm using vertically open magnetic resonance imaging. We examined 14 shoulders of seven healthy volunteers. Magnetic resonance images were obtained in a seated position and in seven static positions of the arm from 0 degrees to maximum abduction using vertically open magnetic resonance imaging. 3D surface models were created and 3D movements of each bone in the glenohumeral joint were calculated using a computer algorithm. We analyzed the translation and contact pattern of the glenohumeral joint. In supero-inferior direction, the humeral head translated slight inferiorly from +1.9 (SD 1.0) mm at 0 degrees to +0.8 (SD 1.8) mm at the maximum abduction. In antero-posterior direction, the humeral head translated anteriorly from 0 degrees to 90 degrees (mean +2.4, SD 2.6 mm) and posteriorly from 90 degrees to 150 degrees of abduction (mean -1.4, SD 2.7 mm). Furthermore, the humeral head had a unique contact patterns with the glenoid; the contact part of the humeral head with the glenoid changed from the central part to the posterior in the midrange of abduction. The humeral head showed a small translation in the antero-posterior direction between 90 degrees and 150 degrees of abduction. In addition, the posterior part of the humeral head contacted the glenoid in this range of abduction. These findings of motion patterns in asymptomatic subjects will be necessary when comparing the kinematics with pathologic condition such as the glenohumeral instability and rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "17196354", "title": "Ultrasound of the rotator cuff with MRI and anatomic correlation.", "content": "Ultrasound of the rotator cuff with MRI and anatomic correlation. Magnetic resonance imaging and high-resolution ultrasound (US) are frequently used for the detection of rotator cuff tears. The diagnostic yield of US is influenced by several factors as technique, knowledge of the imaging characteristics of anatomic and pathologic findings and of pitfalls. The purpose of this article is to illustrates that the standardized high-resolution US examination of the shoulder covers the entire rotator cuff and correlates with MR imaging and anatomic sections."}
{"id": "17188911", "title": "Massive rotator cuff tears repaired on top of humeral head by McLaughlin's procedure.", "content": "Massive rotator cuff tears repaired on top of humeral head by McLaughlin's procedure. The clinical and radiographic outcomes of McLaughlin's procedure for massive rotator cuff tears were investigated in 25 shoulders, in which the cuff tears were so severe that the tendons were sutured on the top of the humeral head. The mean age at surgery was 62.2 years (range, 39-74 years). The mean follow-up period was 50 months (range, 24-80 months). The University of California, Los Angeles score significantly improved from 10.9 to 31.8 points postoperatively; the postoperative result was classified as excellent in 11 shoulders, good in 11, and poor in 3. Osteoarthritis progressed postoperatively in 7 shoulders (28%), and upper migration of the humeral head progressed in 6 (24%), although both progression rates were no higher than those for other common procedures. When torn tendons reach over the top of the humeral head with the arm at the side in patients with massive tears that are not reparable to the greater tuberosity, satisfactory clinical outcomes can be expected."}
{"id": "17187282", "title": "Stabilizing effect of the transferred conjoined tendon on shoulder stability.", "content": "Stabilizing effect of the transferred conjoined tendon on shoulder stability. The modified Boytchev procedure, i.e., rerouting of the coracoid process with its attached conjoined tendon (short head of biceps and coracobrachialis) deep to the subscapularis and reattachment to its anatomical location, has been advocated for recurrent anterior glenohumeral instability with controversial clinical outcomes. We aimed to investigate the dynamic contribution of the conjoined tendon in situ or transferred to the glenohumeral articulation in stable and unstable shoulders. Eight cadaveric shoulders were tested with the arm in 90 degrees abduction and 90 degrees external rotation. A constant 1.5 kg anterior translation force was applied to the proximal humerus, combined with 0, 1.5, 3.0 kg of load applied to the conjoined tendon sequentially. Anterior displacement of the humeral head relative to the scapula was recorded before and after an imitation Bankart lesion was created, and after treated with the modified Boytchev procedure for the Bankart lesion. Application of load to the conjoined tendon significantly reduced anterior displacement of the humeral head either with the capsule intact or with Bankart lesion simulated. The most significant decrease of the anterior displacement occurred when the conjoined tendon was transferred beneath the subscapularis. Our findings show that the conjoined tendon per se has a stabilizing effect on stable and unstable shoulders and therefore provide scientific support for the treatment of recurrent shoulder instability using the modified Boytchev procedure."}
{"id": "17186246", "title": "Cartilage lesions of the glenohumeral joint: diagnostic effectiveness of multidetector spiral CT arthrography and comparison with arthroscopy.", "content": "Cartilage lesions of the glenohumeral joint: diagnostic effectiveness of multidetector spiral CT arthrography and comparison with arthroscopy. This study assessed the diagnostic effectiveness of multidetector spiral CT arthrography (MDCTa) in detecting hyaline cartilage abnormalities of the shoulder joint, with correlation to arthroscopy. Shoulder MDCTa images prospectively obtained in 22 consecutive patients (mean age, 50 years; age range, 23-74 years; 12 female, 10 male) were evaluated for glenohumeral cartilage lesions. Two musculoskeletal radiologists independently analysed the cartilage surfaces of the humeral head and of the glenoid fossa in nine anatomical surface areas. Observations of MDCTa were compared to arthroscopic findings. The sensitivity and specificity of MDCTa for grade 2 (substance loss <50%) or higher and grade 3 (substance loss >or=50%) or higher cartilage lesions, the Spearman correlation coefficient between arthrographic and arthroscopic grading, and K statistics for assessing Intra and Interobserver reproducibility were determined. At MDCTa, sensitivities and specificities ranged between 80% and 94% for the detection of grade 2 or higher cartilage lesions, and between 88% and 98% for the detection of grade 3 or higher cartilage lesions. Spearman correlation coefficients between MDCTa and arthroscopic grading of articular surfaces ranged between 0.532 and 0.651. Interobserver agreement was moderate for grading all articular surfaces (kappa = 0.457), but substantial to almost perfect for detecting lesions with substance loss (kappa, 0.618-0.876). In conclusion, MDCTa is accurate for the study of cartilage surface in the entire shoulder joint. This technique may beneficially impact patient's management by means of selecting the proper treatment approach."}
{"id": "17182647", "title": "Pain tolerance in patients presenting to primary care and physiotherapy services with upper limb disorders.", "content": "Pain tolerance in patients presenting to primary care and physiotherapy services with upper limb disorders. Arm pain is a common cause of incapacity for work and is often attributed to occupational activities, but in many cases the pathogenesis is unclear. To investigate whether arm pain in the absence of identifiable underlying pathology is associated with reduced tolerance of painful sensory stimuli. 133 incident cases of arm pain, recruited from primary care and physiotherapy services, were classified according to a validated diagnostic algorithm. Pain tolerance was measured at three sites in each arm in response to electrocutaneous stimulation. Associations with pain tolerance (the geometric mean of the six measurements at 5 Hz) were assessed by linear regression, and findings were summarised as proportional changes in pain tolerance. Pain tolerance was generally lower than in an earlier community survey. Women had a lower tolerance than men. After allowance for sex, age, use of analgesics and anatomical extent of pain, there was no indication of reduced tolerance in patients with non-specific pain relative to those with specific local pathology. Pain tolerance may be generally reduced in patients presenting to medical services with arm pain, but those with non-specific pain do not seem to have lower tolerance than those with identifiable local pathology."}
{"id": "17179786", "title": "Indications for rotator cuff repair: a systematic review.", "content": "Indications for rotator cuff repair: a systematic review. Despite the popularity of surgical repair of rotator cuff tears, literature regarding the indications for and timing of surgery are sparse. We performed a systematic review of the literature to investigate factors influencing the decision to surgically repair symptomatic, full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Specifically, how do demographic variables, duration of symptoms, timing of surgery, physical examination findings, and size of tear affect treatment outcome and indications for surgery? We reviewed the best available evidence, which offers some guidelines for surgical decision making. Variables suggest earlier surgical intervention may be needed in the setting of weakness and substantial functional disability. With regard to demographic variables, the evidence is unclear regarding their association with treatment outcome. However, older chronological age does not seem to portend a worse outcome. Pending worker's compensation claims does seem to negatively affect treatment results. Further research is required to define the indications for surgery for full thickness rotator cuff tears. However, the design and conduct of an ethical study to obtain Level I evidence on this issue will be a major challenge."}
{"id": "17178772", "title": "Hydrodilatation (distension arthrography): a long-term clinical outcome series.", "content": "Hydrodilatation (distension arthrography): a long-term clinical outcome series. To describe and compare the medium to long-term effectiveness of hydrodilatation and post-hydrodilatation physiotherapy in patients with primary and secondary glenohumeral joint contracture associated with rotator cuff pathology. Patients with primary and secondary glenohumeral contractures associated with rotator cuff pathology were recruited into a 2-year study. They all underwent hydrodilatation, followed by a structured physiotherapy programme. Patients were assessed at baseline, 3 days, 1 week, 3 months, 1 year and 2 years after hydrodilatation with primary outcome measures (Shoulder Pain and Disability Index, Shoulder Disability Index and percentage rating of \"normal\" function; SD%) and secondary outcome measures (range of shoulder abduction, external rotation and hand behind back). Comparisons in recovery were made between the primary and secondary glenohumeral contracture groups at all timeframes and for all outcome measures. A total of 53 patients (23 with primary and 30 with secondary glenohumeral contractures) were recruited into the study. At the 2-year follow-up, 12 patients dropped out from the study. At baseline, the two contracture groups were similar with respect to their demographic and physical characteristics. The two groups of patients recovered in a similar fashion over the 2-year follow-up period. A significant improvement was observed in all outcomes measures over this period (p<0.01), so that both function and range of movement increased. The rate of improvement was dependent on the outcome measure that was used. Hydrodilatation and physiotherapy increase shoulder motion in individuals with primary and secondary glenohumeral joint contracture associated with rotator cuff pathology. This benefit continues to improve or is maintained in the long term, up to 2 years after hydrodilatation."}
{"id": "17169585", "title": "Acromial morphology: effects of suboptimal radiographs.", "content": "Acromial morphology: effects of suboptimal radiographs. Acromial morphology is one of the important factors related to rotator cuff pathology, especially if there is acromial encroachment onto the supraspinatus tendon. This is the rationale for many surgeons performing an acromioplasty, based on preoperative radiographs, in their treatment of rotator cuff disease. However, geometric measurements of the acromion are dependent on the radiographic view, and suboptimal radiographs of the scapula might bias the acromial morphology on the radiographs. Our objective was to study the effect of suboptimal lateral-view radiographs of the scapula on 6 acromial angles, which have been correlated with rotator cuff pathology, by use of a computational method. Anatomic landmarks were digitized on 12 cadaveric scapulae via a spatial linkage system. A coordinate system based on the scapula was then created that allowed projection of the anatomic landmarks on the sagittal plane and simulated the optimal lateral-view radiograph of the scapula. By rotating the coordinate system in the coronal plane (cranial and caudal projections) and axial plane (anterior and posterior projections) with 5 degrees, 10 degrees, 15 degrees, and 20 degrees increments, 16 suboptimal lateral-view radiographs of the scapula were simulated. Significant differences in the 6 acromial angles (P < .01) between the optimal and suboptimal lateral-view radiographs of the scapula were found in almost every cranial and caudal projection. Rotating the projection in the axial plane did not significantly affect the acromial angles (P > .05) up to 20 degrees of rotation in the anterior and posterior direction. Of the 6 different acromial angles, the acromial slope was least affected when the projection was varied. In contrast, the anterior slope of the acromion was highly affected by errors in the projection."}
{"id": "17169582", "title": "Acute rotator cuff tear: do we miss the early diagnosis? A prospective study showing a high incidence of rotator cuff tears after shoulder trauma.", "content": "Acute rotator cuff tear: do we miss the early diagnosis? A prospective study showing a high incidence of rotator cuff tears after shoulder trauma. The aim of this study was to evaluate the epidemiologic data of patients with an acute soft-tissue injury to the shoulder, with an emphasis on improving the early diagnosis of acute rotator cuff tears. This study included 104 patients, with a median age of 49 years (range, 19-75 years). The patients were evaluated clinically and with ultrasonography at a median of 13 days (range, 3-49 days) after the injury. A total of 60 patients (58%) had some degree of cuff lesion on the ultrasonographic examination. Of these patients, 33 (32%) had a full-thickness rotator cuff tear, 14 (13%) had a partial-thickness cuff tear in the tendon substance, and 13 (13%) had a partial cuff tear at the insertion site on the major tubercle. The injury mechanism or activity at the moment of injury did not correlate with the presence of a rotator cuff lesion, but we found a strong age correlation, with a prevalence of any rotator cuff tear, above 50%, for patients aged above 50 years and with a prevalence of full-thickness tears of 50% in the groups aged 50 to 59 years and aged 60 to 69 years. In conclusion, this study found a high incidence of rotator cuff lesions by further evaluation of patients undergoing consultation at the emergency department, with an inability to perform active abduction above 90 degrees and normal radiographs, after an acute shoulder trauma."}
{"id": "17151798", "title": "Loss of MAL expression in precancerous lesions of the esophagus.", "content": "Loss of MAL expression in precancerous lesions of the esophagus. We have identified a novel function of MAL (T-cell differentiation-related gene) as a candidate suppressor gene in esophageal cancer. As the role of MAL expression in esophageal carcinogenesis is as yet undetermined, MAL expression in a rat multi-step carcinogenic model and in precancerous lesions of the human esophagus was investigated. Microarray analysis between MAL-transfectant and control cells was also carried out to clarify how MAL confers its anti-tumor effects. (1) In the rat model, MAL expression levels in laser microdissected normal esophageal epithelium, dysplastic tissues and carcinoma tissues were examined by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR. (2) Immunostaining with MAL antibody was performed in 10 dysplastic lesions adjacent to cancer in six cases of esophageal cancer. (3) We established a MAL transfectant using a Tet-off vector in esophageal cancer cells and performed microarray analysis under MAL-positive and MAL-negative conditions. (1) In the rat model, MAL mRNA expression was observed only in the normal samples. (2) MAL expression was observed distinctively in differentiated or keratinized normal tissues and was not observed in either dysplastic lesions or carcinoma tissue. (3) Up-regulated genes in MAL-positive cells included keratin 18 (transfectant/control = 2.94) and keratin 10 (t/c = 2.82). MAL expression was lost in dysplastic lesions of the rat carcinoma model as well as the human esophagus. The up-regulated keratins revealed by microarray analysis and the strong staining of the differentiated normal tissues in immunohistochemical study support the role of MAL as a regulator of differentiation in esophageal epithelium."}
{"id": "17149764", "title": "Sonography of the rotator cuff in painful shoulders performed without knowledge of clinical information: results from 58 sonographic examinations with surgical correlation.", "content": "Sonography of the rotator cuff in painful shoulders performed without knowledge of clinical information: results from 58 sonographic examinations with surgical correlation. To assess the value of sonography as an isolated diagnostic test for the detection and quantification of rotator cuff tears. Preoperative sonographic examination was performed on 58 shoulders. Key biases on sonographic interpretation such as history-taking, physical examination, or concurrent imaging examinations were excluded by way of blinding. Tears of the rotator cuff were the positive findings of interest. Assessment of tear size and localization was done sonographically, and the results were compared with operative findings. All 24 full-thickness tears observed at surgery had been diagnosed correctly via sonography. In 19 of 20 cases with an intact rotator cuff, preoperative sonography was negative. Thirteen of 14 partial-thickness tears were not detected via sonography; 1 was misinterpreted as a full-thickness tear. Location of the tears relative to the rotator cuff tendons was described correctly in 21 of 25 cases. For tear size measurement, the 95% range of agreement was less than +/-1 cm. Blinded sonographic examination is effective in the detection and quantification of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff but lacks sensitivity in the detection of partial-thickness tears."}
{"id": "17142003", "title": "Identification of EGFR mutations in esophageal cancer.", "content": "Identification of EGFR mutations in esophageal cancer. It is well known that the prognosis for esophageal cancer is worse than for other digestive cancers in spite of multimodality treatment, and there is an urgent need to improve this situation. The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitor, gefitinib, was approved in Japan to treat advanced non-small cell lung cancer patients and several papers have since reported that the successfully treated patients had genetic mutations in EGFR. The aim of this study was to investigate the existence of EGFR mutations in esophageal cancer cell lines and primary lesions, and also to explore the possibility of treating esophageal cancer using gefitinib. Nineteen esophageal cancer cell lines were cultured and DNA was extracted using an ultracentrifugation method. Fifty cases of primary cancer and corresponding normal tissue samples were obtained and DNA was extracted using the same protocol. Nested PCR and DNA sequencing targeting exons 18, 19, 20 and 21 of EGFR were performed to investigate the presence of mutations in esophageal cancer cell lines and primary tumors. Three of the 19 cell lines had the same silent mutation at nucleotide 2607, a G-to-A substitution in exon 20. One of the 50 patients had an EGFR mutation in codon 719, resulting in an amino acid substitution from glycine to aspartic acid. EGFR mutations in esophageal carcinoma are rare but do exist, and thus gefitinib could be included in esophageal cancer treatment regimens by selecting those patients who possess such mutations."}
{"id": "17138640", "title": "The \"bench-presser's shoulder\": an overuse insertional tendinopathy of the pectoralis minor muscle.", "content": "The \"bench-presser's shoulder\": an overuse insertional tendinopathy of the pectoralis minor muscle. Tendinopathies of the rotator cuff muscles, biceps tendon and pectoralis major muscle are common causes of shoulder pain in athletes. Overuse insertional tendinopathy of pectoralis minor is a previously undescribed cause of shoulder pain in weightlifters/sportsmen. To describe the clinical features, diagnostic tests and results of an overuse insertional tendinopathy of the pectoralis minor muscle. To also present a new technique of ultrasonographic evaluation and injection of the pectoralis minor muscle/tendon based on use of standard anatomical landmarks (subscapularis, coracoid process and axillary artery) as stepwise reference points for ultrasonographic orientation. Between 2005 and 2006, seven sportsmen presenting with this condition were diagnosed and treated at the Cape Shoulder Institute, Cape Town, South Africa. In five patients, the initiating and aggravating factor was performance of the bench-press exercise (hence the term \"bench-presser's shoulder\"). Medial juxta-coracoid tenderness, a painful active-contraction test and bench-press manoeuvre, and decrease in pain after ultrasound-guided injection of a local anaesthetic agent into the enthesis, in the absence of any other clinically/radiologically apparent pathology, were diagnostic of pectoralis minor insertional tendinopathy. All seven patients were successfully treated with a single ultrasound-guided injection of a corticosteroid into the enthesis of pectoralis minor followed by a period of rest and stretching exercises. This study describes the clinical features and management of pectoralis minor insertional tendinopathy, secondary to the bench-press type of weightlifting. A new pain site-based classification of shoulder pathology in weightlifters is suggested."}
{"id": "17113323", "title": "The influence of the acromial coverage index in rotator cuff tears.", "content": "The influence of the acromial coverage index in rotator cuff tears. Several intrinsic and extrinsic factors have been advocated in the pathogenesis of rotator cuff tears, but it is still unclear whether the origin of the tear is related to tendon degeneration itself or induced by several morphologic changes. The purpose of this study is to determine the relationship between the acromial coverage of the humeral head and the presence of a cuff tear. We evaluated 148 shoulders, including 45 that underwent surgical rotator cuff repair (group I), 26 with documented rotator cuff tears treated conservatively (group II), and 77 with no cuff pathology as a control group (group III). The mean acromial coverage index was 0.68 in group I, 0.72 in group II, and 0.59 in group III, giving a highly significant difference (P < .0001) between the control group and both cuff tear groups. Patients with a cuff tear have a significantly higher acromial coverage index than the control group."}
{"id": "17113320", "title": "The effect of cartilage-derived morphogenetic protein 2 on initial healing of a rotator cuff defect in a rat model.", "content": "The effect of cartilage-derived morphogenetic protein 2 on initial healing of a rotator cuff defect in a rat model. This animal study evaluated the healing of supraspinatus tendon tears by use of a cartilage-derived morphogenetic protein 2 growth factor (CDMP-2) delivered to the repair. Forty-eight rats had bilateral, surgically created complete tears repaired by sutures with the growth factor introduced on one side. They were killed at 2, 3, 4, and 6 weeks, and the strength of the repairs was determined and histologic analysis performed. At 4 and 6 weeks, the CDMP-2-treated repairs were significantly stronger than the untreated repairs and histologic analysis showed more organized healing. The use of growth factors introduced at the time of rotator cuff repair might promote more rapid healing and subsequent, rapid patient rehabilitation."}
{"id": "17113319", "title": "Arthroscopic repair of partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Arthroscopic repair of partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff. This study prospectively evaluated the clinical outcome of 41 patients who underwent arthroscopic repair of a significant (>50% thickness) partial-thickness supraspinatus tear. Tears were converted to full-thickness lesions and repaired with suture anchors and simple sutures. Of the tears, 80% (33/41) involved the articular surface. The mean age of the patients was 49 years (range, 23-70 years), and the mean follow-up was 38 months (range, 24-50 months). All patients had improvements in range of motion and strength. Postoperative isometric strength measurements revealed no significant difference between the operative and asymptomatic shoulder. Significant improvements were demonstrated for American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores (from 42 to 93 points, P < .001), pain relief (from 6.5 to 0.8 points, P < .001), and satisfaction (from 3.0 to 9.2 points, P < .001). Of the 41 patients, 40 (98%) were satisfied with their outcome. This study documented the successful clinical outcome of arthroscopic repair of significant partial-thickness rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "17113317", "title": "Shoulder arthroplasty in cases with avascular necrosis of the humeral head.", "content": "Shoulder arthroplasty in cases with avascular necrosis of the humeral head. Avascular necrosis (AVN) is a relatively uncommon cause of glenohumeral arthritis. Previous retrospective reviews of shoulder arthroplasty for AVN have shown very good results in small numbers of patients. This study prospectively evaluated a consecutive series of 21 shoulders in 19 patients treated with the same modular prosthesis at a single institution. Of the shoulders, 8 developed AVN after a proximal humeral fracture, 1 was associated with a massive rotator cuff tear, 10 developed after corticosteroid therapy, and 2 were idiopathic. The patients, 14 women and 5 men, with a mean age of 54 years, were followed up for a mean of 4.7 years (range, 2 to 8 years). Hemiarthroplasty was performed in 15 shoulders, whereas 6 required total shoulder arthroplasty. Assessment included visual analog scales, the Simple Shoulder Test, and the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons Shoulder Score Index (SSI). Physical examination was performed, and radiographs were obtained. The visual analog scale scores for pain and function improved significantly after surgery (P < .01). The mean SSI score rose from 36 to 81 (where 0 indicates the worst outcome and 100 indicates the best outcome). The mean number of positive responses on the Simple Shoulder Test increased from 3 to 10. Mean active elevation increased from 88 degrees to 123 degrees . External rotation improved from 7 degrees to 34 degrees , and internal rotation improved from L4 to T12. No difference in outcome was noted based on age or sex. Patients with steroid-related or idiopathic AVN had greater pain and functional impairment preoperatively (mean SSI score, 26) than those with prior fracture or rotator cuff tear (mean SSI score, 49) (P < .01). Postoperatively, however, these groups fared equally well (mean SSI score, 78 vs 82). Shoulder arthroplasty for AVN produces good pain relief and function, although a concurrent series with osteoarthritis yielded better results. Forward elevation did not approach normal as had been previously reported."}
{"id": "17106273", "title": "Influence of femoroacetabular impingement on results of hip arthroscopy in patients with early osteoarthritis.", "content": "Influence of femoroacetabular impingement on results of hip arthroscopy in patients with early osteoarthritis. To ascertain whether better results could be obtained using hip arthroscopy, we retrospectively reviewed the radiographic and clinical aspects of anterior femoroacetabular impingement in 43 patients diagnosed with early osteoarthritis with acetabular labral tears who previously had arthroscopic treatment. The average followup was 50 months. The patients were divided into two groups: patients who had no osteoarthritis seen on simple radiographs, but had degenerative changes of the labrum and cartilage seen on magnetic resonance arthrograms and arthroscopy, and patients who had osteoarthritic findings seen on simple radiographs. Both groups were examined retrospectively for signs of anterior femoroacetabular impingement at the acetabulum and proximal femur. Postoperative improvement was evaluated using the Japanese Orthopaedic Association pain score. Six of 21 patients in Group I and 12 of 22 of patients in Group II showed radiographic evidence of femoroacetabular impingement. The score improved from 0.76 preoperatively to 2.38 postoperatively in Group I and from 0.75 preoperatively to 1.90 postoperatively in Group II. Arthroscopic d\u00e9bridement produced improved results seen during short-term and midterm followups. However, in patients with femoroacetabular impingement the results were considered inadequate. We found that arthroscopic treatment of osteoarthritis of the hip fails if there is detectable femoroacetabular impingement."}
{"id": "17097315", "title": "Determinants of patient satisfaction with outcome after shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Determinants of patient satisfaction with outcome after shoulder arthroplasty. The purpose of this investigation was to identify the determinants of patient satisfaction with outcome after hemiarthroplasty and total shoulder arthroplasty. Seventy patients who underwent shoulder arthroplasty were studied to determine predictors of patient satisfaction. Patient satisfaction was graded on an ordinal scale from 1 to 10. There was a significant association between patient satisfaction and age (P = .010) and between patient satisfaction and worker's compensation status (P = .018). There was no significant decrease in patient satisfaction for patients with rotator cuff tears. Patient satisfaction was significantly associated with all pain and function variables at follow-up (P < .05). The American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score was significantly correlated with patient satisfaction (P = 0.680, P < .05). Independent predictors of satisfaction included pain with activities of daily living, painless use of the arm above the shoulder, and difficulty with toileting (R(2) = 0.555). Subjective variables associated with pain were independent predictors of patient satisfaction. Thus, in assessing patient satisfaction after shoulder arthroplasty, we emphasize the importance of patient-derived subjective assessment of symptoms and function."}
{"id": "17096173", "title": "Chondral print on humeral head: an indirect sign of long head biceps tendon instability.", "content": "Chondral print on humeral head: an indirect sign of long head biceps tendon instability. Long head biceps (LHB) tendon pathologies are becoming increasingly recognized causes of shoulder pain in the published literature. Instability of LHB presenting as dislocation or subluxation has been recently recognized as a possible cause of disabling pain or discomfort of the shoulder. A clinical diagnosis of LHB instability is very difficult and often confounding because of association with other shoulder pathologies. However, an early diagnosis of LHB instability is important in order to prevent the evolution of lesions of the biceps pulley until an internal anterosuperior impingement of the shoulder (ASI) and subscapular tear occur. The advent of arthroscopy contributed to enhance understandings. The goal of this article is to describe an arthroscopic sign, the chondral print on the humeral head, associated with a LHB instability, that when present can be very useful to help the surgeon to make the diagnosis of unstable LHB tendon."}
{"id": "17091010", "title": "Do shoulder vibration signals vary among asymptomatic volunteers?", "content": "Do shoulder vibration signals vary among asymptomatic volunteers? Numerous studies document vibrations emanating from joints during active or passive motion. It has been proposed these vibrations, termed vibroarthrographic signals, are associated with changes in the shape or quality of tissues in and around the joint. Vibroarthrographic signals in articular joints have been tested to correlate a particular signal with a particular feature of a joint such as a specific lesion. Because of the limited morphologic changes noted in dominant and nondominant articular joints, we hypothesized shoulder vibroarthrographic signals would be similar between subjects. We determined vibroarthrographic signals in young, adult, asymptomatic volunteers evaluated by 21 different active physician-assisted physical examination tests. Comparisons of data from both shoulders with a two-sample statistical test and a neural network demonstrated difficulty distinguishing the dominant and nondominant shoulder. Four percent of the comparisons were different, and the sensitivity of the neural network averaged 50% for most physical examination tests when classifying shoulder signals as dominant or non-dominant. Our findings suggest future studies investigating vibroarthrographic signals from symptomatic shoulders can be compared with asymptomatic shoulders from young patients with little regard to limb dominance for most physical examination tests."}
{"id": "17086382", "title": "Therapeutic effect of pulsed electromagnetic field in conservative treatment of subacromial impingement syndrome.", "content": "Therapeutic effect of pulsed electromagnetic field in conservative treatment of subacromial impingement syndrome. Subacromial impingement syndrome (SIS) is a frequent cause of shoulder pain. Our purpose in this double-blinded, randomized, and controlled study was to demonstrate whether the pulsed electromagnetic field (PEMF) provides additional benefit when used with other conservative treatment modalities in acute phase rehabilitation program of SIS. Forty-six patients with unilateral shoulder pain who had been diagnosed as having SIS were included in this trial. The cases were randomly separated into two groups. All cases received a treatment program for 3 weeks consisting of Codman's pendulum exercises and subsequent cold pack gel application on shoulders with pain 5 times a day, restriction of daily activities that require the hands to be used over the head, and meloxicam tablet 15 mg daily. One group was given PEMF; the other group was given sham PEMF daily, 25 min per session, 5 days per week for 3 weeks. Shoulder pain during rest and activity and which causes disturbance of sleep was evaluated using a visual analogue scale, and total Constant score investigated shoulder function. Daily living activities were evaluated by shoulder disability questionnaire. Results were assessed before and after treatment. When compared with the baseline values, significant improvements in all these variables were observed at the end of the treatment in both groups (p<0.05). No significant difference between treatments was observed for any of these variables (p>0.05). There is no convincing evidence that electromagnetic therapy is of additional benefit in acute phase rehabilitation program of SIS."}
{"id": "17064824", "title": "Vaccination-related shoulder dysfunction.", "content": "Vaccination-related shoulder dysfunction. We present two cases of shoulder pain and weakness following influenza and pneumococcal vaccine injections provided high into the deltoid muscle. Based on ultrasound measurements, we hypothesize that vaccine injected into the subdeltoid bursa caused a periarticular inflammatory response, subacromial bursitis, bicipital tendonitis and adhesive capsulitis. Resolution of symptoms followed corticosteroid injections to the subacromial space, bicipital tendon sheath and glenohumeral joint, followed by physical therapy. We conclude that the upper third of the deltoid muscle should not be used for vaccine injections, and the diagnosis of vaccination-related shoulder dysfunction should be considered in patients presenting with shoulder pain following a vaccination."}
{"id": "17054111", "title": "In vitro study comparing two collageneous membranes in view of their clinical application for rotator cuff tendon regeneration.", "content": "In vitro study comparing two collageneous membranes in view of their clinical application for rotator cuff tendon regeneration. Tenocytes were isolated from the rotator cuff tendons of healthy (HT) and glucocorticoid (GC)-treated rats (GCT) and were cultured on polystyrene wells (TCP) as control, and on 2 de-cellularized collagen matrices: porcine small intestinal submucosa (SIS), and human dermal matrix (Graftjacket, GJ). At 3 and 7 days cell proliferation and synthesis were evaluated. Proliferation of HT tenocytes increased between experimental times for both tested membranes, but already at 3 days, HT tenocytes cultured on GJ showed the highest WST-1 value. The collagen-I (CICP) synthesis on GJ membrane did not change between experimental times and was significantly higher than TCP and SIS at 7 days. Proteoglycans (PG), and fibronectin (FBN) synthesis increased when HT were cultured on GJ, between experimental times, and both PG and FBN synthesis on GJ membrane were higher than TCP and SIS at 7 days. GC determined decreases in cell proliferation, CICP and PG syntheses at 3 days of culture on TCP when compared to HT tenocytes while a decrease in WST-1 was maintained at 7 days. CICP, PG and FBN (only at 3 days) syntheses were significantly higher in GCT tenocytes cultured on GJ. The negative effects on GC on GCT tenocytes cultured on membrane were particularly evident on SIS for CICP (-18%) and FBN (-67%) synthesis. The obtained results support the conclusion that GJ is more suitable than SIS as a scaffold for in situ tissue engineering and for the in vitro bioengineering of tendons to heal massive tears of the rotator cuff tendon."}
{"id": "17036154", "title": "MR arthrography in calcific tendinitis of the shoulder: diagnostic performance and pitfalls.", "content": "MR arthrography in calcific tendinitis of the shoulder: diagnostic performance and pitfalls. The purpose was to assess the diagnostic performance of MR arthrography to diagnose calcific tendinitis of the shoulder and to assess the reasons for diagnostic errors. Standard MR arthrograms of 22 patients with calcific tendinitis and 61 controls were retrospectively analyzed by two independent and blinded radiologists. All cases were consecutively collected from a database. Conventional radiographs were available in all cases serving as gold standard. The supraspinatus was involved in 16, the infraspinatus in four and the subscapularis in two patients. All diagnostic errors were analyzed by two additional readers. Reader 1 correctly detected 12 of the 22 shoulders with and 42 of the 61 shoulders without calcific tendinitis (sensitivity 0.55, specificity 0.66). The corresponding values for reader 2 were 13 of 22 and 40 of 61 cases (sensitivity 0.59, specificity 0.69). Inter-rater agreement (kappa-value) was 0.42. Small size of the calcific deposits and isointensity compared to the surrounding tissue were the most important reasons for false negative results. Normal hypointense areas within the supraspinatus tendon substance and attachment were the main reason for false positive results. In conclusion, MR arthrography is insufficient in the diagnosis of calcific tendinitis. Normal hypointense parts of the rotator cuff may mimic calcific deposits and calcifications may not be detected when they are isointense compared to the rotator cuff. Therefore, MR imaging should not be interpreted without corresponding radiographs."}
{"id": "17034796", "title": "Suprascapular nerve block results in a compensatory increase in deltoid muscle activity.", "content": "Suprascapular nerve block results in a compensatory increase in deltoid muscle activity. A balance exists between the deltoid and rotator cuff contribution to arm elevation. Both cadaver and computer models have predicted an increase in deltoid muscle force with dysfunction of the rotator cuff. The goal of the present study was to verify this phenomenon in vivo by examining the effects of paralysis of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles with a suprascapular nerve block on the electrical activity of seven shoulder muscles. Electromyographic data were collected before and after the administration of the block. The block resulted in a significant increase in muscle activity for all heads of the deltoid, with a higher percentage increase noted at lower elevation angles. Although the deltoid activity was reduced as the subjects recovered from the block, even low levels of cuff dysfunction were found to result in increased deltoid activity. These results suggest that even small disruptions in the normal function of some rotator cuff muscles (e.g., due to fatigue or impingement syndrome), may result in an increase in deltoid activity. It is possible that such compensation may result in higher superior loads at the glenohumeral joint, possibly increasing the risk of tendon damage."}
{"id": "17031613", "title": "Functional outcome and general health status in patients after arthroscopic release in adhesive capsulitis.", "content": "Functional outcome and general health status in patients after arthroscopic release in adhesive capsulitis. Frozen shoulder is said to be a self-limiting entity but full recovery often takes more than 2 years. For that, most patients are unwilling to tolerate painful restriction while awaiting resolution. We prospectively investigated 30 patients (16 women, 14 men) for the outcome of arthroscopic capsular release in idiopathic frozen shoulder. Results were determined by the assessment of subjective and objective parameters to estimate both shoulder function and general health status. Symptoms persisted without improvement for a minimum of 6 months of conservative treatment. Preoperative average American shoulder and elbow surgeons score (ASES) was 35, visual analog scale (VAS) to measure pain was 7, and simple shoulder test (SST) was 4. Mean scores of the physical component of SF-36 were considerably reduced. Mean forward elevation was 85 degrees , average abduction was 70 degrees , mean internal rotation was 15 degrees , and mean external rotation was 10 degrees . Patients were followed-up at 6 weeks, 3, 6, 12 months and by a mean of 36 months. Range of motion for all planes improved (P < 0.05). Median VAS reduced to 2, average ASES increased to 91, and SST enhanced to a mean of 10 (P < 0.05). We stated improvement of the physical components in the SF-36 questionnaire in particular bodily pain and the role-physical score. There were no significant differences between the measurements in the early postoperative phase compared to the mid-term follow-up (P > 0.05). Our results demonstrate that arthroscopic release of refractory idiopathic frozen shoulder combined with a gentle manipulation provides reliable expectations for improvement in both clinical and general health status for most patients. We recommend the use of a limb-specific and a general-health-status questionnaire to conclude the benefit of the surgical intervention and contribute the optimization of a therapy concept more effectively."}
{"id": "17021902", "title": "Distal clavicular osteolysis: MR evidence for subchondral fracture.", "content": "Distal clavicular osteolysis: MR evidence for subchondral fracture. To investigate the association between distal clavicular osteolysis and subchondral fractures of the distal clavicle at MRI. This study was approved by the hospital human research committee, which waived the need for informed consent. Three radiologists retrospectively analyzed 36 shoulder MR examinations in 36 patients with imaging findings of distal clavicular osteolysis. The presence of a subchondral fracture of the distal clavicle, abnormalities of the acromioclavicular joint, rotator cuff tears and labral tears were assessed by MRI. These cases were then compared with 36 age-matched controls. At MRI, 31 of 36 patients (86%) had a subchondral line within the distal clavicular edema, consistent with a subchondral fracture. Of the 36 patients, 32 (89%) had fluid in the acromioclavicular joint, while 27 of 36 patients (75%) had cysts or erosions in the distal clavicle. There were 13 patients (36%) with associated labral tears, while eight patients (22%) had partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. In the control group one of 36 (3%) had a subchondral line (P<0.05), while ten of 36 (28%) had rotator cuff tears and 13 of 36 (36%) had labral tears. These latter two were not statistically significant between the groups. A distal clavicular subchondral fracture is a common finding in patients with imaging evidence of distal clavicular osteolysis. These subchondral fractures may be responsible for the propensity of findings occurring on the clavicular side of the acromioclavicular joint."}
{"id": "17011216", "title": "Outcomes after arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs.", "content": "Outcomes after arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs. Recently, advances in arthroscopic techniques have allowed shoulder surgeons to perform fully arthroscopic repair of full-thickness tears. Outcome data have shown that improvement is inconsistent between studies. We performed a retrospective review of 105 consecutive patients who underwent arthroscopic rotator cuff repair from 1999 to 2002. Preoperative and postoperative evaluation consisted of a history, questionnaire, and examination to determine American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons, Constant, and visual analog pain scores. Complete data were available for a minimum of 12 months (range, 12-45 months) for 71 patients. Increases in range of motion and outcome scores and associated reductions in visual analog scores were all significant. With massive tears, scores and pain were significantly improved. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair reliably improves functional deficits and pain regardless of tear size. Smaller tears yield significant improvement in American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons, Constant, and pain scores. Functional improvement was seen with massive tears, but gains in strength and motion were less dramatic."}
{"id": "17004263", "title": "Expression of interleukin-1beta, cyclooxygenase-2, and prostaglandin E2 in a rotator cuff tear in rabbits.", "content": "Expression of interleukin-1beta, cyclooxygenase-2, and prostaglandin E2 in a rotator cuff tear in rabbits. We investigated the specific factors related to shoulder pain due to a rotator cuff tear using a model in rabbits. A rotator cuff tear was surgically created, and the expression of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) was analyzed. In the supernatant of the tissue culture of the torn tendon, IL-1beta production was detected. The amount of IL-1beta was highest 1 day after injury, and then decreased gradually to 21 days. PGE2, the mediator of pain and the product of COX-2, was also detected in the supernatant of the tissue culture. The production of PGE2 significantly increased to 7 days after injury, and then decreased to 21 days. RT-PCR analysis confirmed the mRNA expression of IL-1beta and COX-2 in the torn tendon. Immunohistochemical study demonstrated that cells in the tendon stump were immunopositive for IL-1beta and COX-2. Furthermore, in the affected joint, articular chondrocytes in the remote area from the tear expressed COX-2 strongly. When the rotator cuff is torn, IL-1beta is produced in the torn tendon, and stimulates the expression of COX-2 in not only the torn tendon but also in articular chondrocytes. The COX-2 then produces PGE2, which would mediate shoulder pain."}
{"id": "16971161", "title": "Clinical measurement of posterior shoulder flexibility.", "content": "Clinical measurement of posterior shoulder flexibility. The objectives of this study were to determine both the intra-rater reliability and the smallest real difference necessary to detect meaningful clinical changes over an 8-12 week period for three clinical measures of posterior shoulder flexibility. Posterior shoulder tightness has been associated with abnormal humeral head translations that narrow the subacromial space and contribute to impingement. Posterior shoulder stretching to normalize joint kinematics is often used when treating individuals with subacromial impingement. Currently there is no measurement of posterior shoulder flexibility that has been demonstrated to be reliable or responsive in patients over a treatment interval. Construction workers with overhead work exposure were recruited to an impingement group (n=37), and an asymptomatic group (n=22). Three flexibility measurements were taken on each subject at baseline and 8-12 weeks later by the same physical therapist. Intra-rater reliability was determined using intra-class correlation coefficients (ICCs) and standard errors of measurement (SEM). The smallest real difference value (SRD) determined the smallest detectable intervention-related measurement change over time. ICCs for the three measurements ranged from poor (0.40) to good (0.79). The SEM and SRD values reflected high test-retest variability in all three measurements. None of the three measures were proven to be highly stable indicators of posterior shoulder flexibility over this time period, nor were they able to detect small changes over this interval due to the high trial to trial variance in a non-intervention sample. Caution should be used when interpreting these clinical measurements over prolonged time periods."}
{"id": "16969638", "title": "Rotator cuff tears: assessment with MR arthrography in 275 patients with arthroscopic correlation.", "content": "Rotator cuff tears: assessment with MR arthrography in 275 patients with arthroscopic correlation. We assessed the diagnostic performance of magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography in the diagnosis of articular-sided partial-thickness and full-thickness rotator cuff tears in a large symptomatic population. MR arthrograms obtained in 275 patients including a study group of 139 patients with rotator cuff tears proved by arthroscopy and a control group of 136 patients with arthroscopically intact rotator cuff tendons were reviewed in random order. MR imaging was performed on a 1.0 T system (Magnetom Expert, Siemens). MR arthrograms were analyzed by two radiologists in consensus for articular-sided partial-thickness and full-thickness tears of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis tendons. At arthroscopy, 197 rotator cuff tears were diagnosed, including 105 partial-thickness (93 supraspinatus, nine infraspinatus, three subscapularis) and 92 full-thickness (43 supraspinatus, 20 infraspinatus, 29 subscapularis) tendon tears. For full-thickness tears, sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy were 96%, 99%, and 98%, respectively, and for partial tears 80%, 97%, and 95%, respectively. False negative and positive assessments in the diagnosis of articular-sided partial-thickness tears were predominantly [78% (35/45)] observed with small articular-sided (Ellman grade1) tendon tears. MR arthrography is highly accurate in the diagnosis of full-thickness rotator cuff tears and is accurate in the diagnosis of articular-sided partial-thickness tears. Limitations in the diagnosis of partial-thickness tears are mainly restricted to small articular-sided tears (Ellman grade 1) due to difficulties in differentiation between fiber tearing, tendinitis, synovitic changes, and superficial fraying at tendon margins."}
{"id": "16964514", "title": "Biocompatibility of a polymer patch for rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Biocompatibility of a polymer patch for rotator cuff repair. Both mechanical and biological factors influence the high re-tear rate after rotator cuff repair. Mechanical factors have largely been addressed by the introduction of better implants and modification of suture configuration, but further improvements are needed to address the often poor tissue quality of the degenerated rotator cuff tendons. Current biological solutions provide only short-term reinforcement and have been associated with pseudo-infectious reactions. This pre-clinical animal study investigates the biological response to a novel polycarbonate polyurethane patch used for tissue augmentation in a rat rotator cuff repair model. Bilateral defects were created in the supraspinatus tendons of 12 Sprague Dawley rats. One side was repaired with a patch as a tissue augmentation device. The contralateral side acted as internal control without patch augmentation. After 6 weeks the tissues were harvested and underwent histologic and histomorphometric analyses. Histological evaluation demonstrated no inflammatory reaction; histomorphometry revealed tissue ingrowth of 79.9%. In conclusion, the polycarbonate polyurethane patch for tissue extension or augmentation in rotator cuff repair has demonstrated no inflammatory response and excellent tissue integration in a rat rotator cuff repair model."}
{"id": "16963286", "title": "Single-incision repair of acute distal biceps ruptures by use of suture anchors.", "content": "Single-incision repair of acute distal biceps ruptures by use of suture anchors. The purpose of this study is to report the results of a single limited-incision technique for repair of acute distal biceps ruptures by use of suture anchors. Sixty consecutive patients underwent distal biceps repair after an acute rupture between January 1997 and January 2001 by use of a limited antecubital incision and suture anchors. Fifty-three patients could be evaluated at a mean follow-up of 38.1 months. A limited transverse incision was made in the antecubital fossa. The retracted biceps tendon end was identified, retrieved, and lightly debrided. Two suture anchors were placed in the radial tuberosity, and the tendon was reapproximated. Final follow-up consisted of physical examination, radiographs, and Andrews-Carson elbow score tabulations. According to the Andrews-Carson scores, there were 46 excellent and 7 good results. In 2 patients, heterotopic ossification developed that resulted in a mild loss of forearm rotation and mild pain. In 1 patient, a temporary radial nerve palsy developed, which resolved completely within 8 weeks. Repair of acute distal biceps tears via a limited antecubital incision and suture anchors is a safe, effective technique."}
{"id": "16963284", "title": "Biomechanics of coracoacromial arch modification.", "content": "Biomechanics of coracoacromial arch modification. Although the biomechanics of the coracoacromial arch and coracoacromial ligament (CAL) morphology are well studied, to our knowledge, the biomechanics of the coracoacromial arch after CAL resection and medial reattachment have not yet been studied. The purpose of this report is to examine the biomechanical consequences of coracoacromial arch alteration and subsequent reconstruction in cadaveric specimens. Anterosuperior humeral head translation was measured after the application of an anterosuperior 150-N load under 5 sequential scenarios: (1) intact CAL, (2) subperiosteal CAL release, (3) standard acromioplasty, (4) CAL reconstruction, and (5) modified Neer acromioplasty. A significant decrease in anterosuperior migration was found after CAL reconstruction compared with both anterior acromioplasty (P = .038) and modified Neer acromioplasty (P = .01). Thus, in patients with massive rotator cuff tears, reconstruction of the CAL may provide the necessary stabilizing force to prevent excessive anterosuperior translation and possible humeral head escape from the coracoacromial arch."}
{"id": "16947053", "title": "To detach the long head of the biceps tendon after tenodesis or not: outcome analysis at the 4-year follow-up of two different techniques.", "content": "To detach the long head of the biceps tendon after tenodesis or not: outcome analysis at the 4-year follow-up of two different techniques. The aim of this study was to determine whether or not detaching the biceps tendon from the glenoid after tenodesis performed with the inclusion of the biceps in the rotator cuff suture results in an improved outcome. From 1999 to 2001, 22 patients had an arthroscopic rotator cuff repair and associated biceps tendon lesions that were repaired with two new arthroscopic techniques of tenodesis incorporating the biceps tendon in the rotator cuff suture. Patients were randomised into one of two groups: tenodesis without tenotomy (group 1) and tenodesis with tenotomy (group 2). Preoperative and postoperative functions were assessed by means of a modified UCLA rating scale and shoulder ROM. The mean follow-up period was 47.2 months (range 36- 59). In group 1 (tenodesis without tenotomy), eight patients had an excellent postoperative score and three a good postoperative score. The UCLA rating system used for evaluation showed a statistically significant improvement from the preoperative average rating of 10.5 (5-15) to the postoperative average score of 33 (29-35) (P<0.05). In group 2 (tenodesis with tenotomy), the UCLA rating system used for evaluation showed a statistically significant improvement from the preoperative rating of 11.1 to the postoperative score of 32.9 (P<0.05). No statistically significant difference in the total UCLA scores was found when comparing the repairs performed with or without tenotomy. Follow-up results with regard to ROM were not different between the two groups, and the range of motion was improved in all measured directions. In this series, every patient qualified as having good to excellent results according to the UCLA score. This study suggests that there is no difference between detaching and not detaching the biceps after including it in the repair."}
{"id": "16944235", "title": "MR arthrography of traumatic anterior shoulder lesions showed modest reproducibility and accuracy when evaluated under clinical circumstances.", "content": "MR arthrography of traumatic anterior shoulder lesions showed modest reproducibility and accuracy when evaluated under clinical circumstances. We examined the reproducibility and accuracy of high-field MRA in traumatic anterior shoulder instability under conditions resembling clinical practice and assessed the influence of observer experience. Two radiologists with different experience levels evaluated 61 MRAs. Assessment was independent, blinded and non-sequential. For 40 MRAs, surgical reports were available to assess diagnosis accuracy and influence of observer experience. The assessed lesions were cuff lesions, Hill-Sachs lesions, bony and classic Bankart lesions, greater humeral tuberosity fractures, SLAP lesions and joint capsule lesions. Reproducibility was quantified using kappa coefficients. Accuracy was evaluated with sensitivity and specificity rates, positive and negative predictive values. Differences in the percentage of correctly diagnosed MRAs between the radiologists were tested using McNemar's test for paired proportions. Inter-observer k-values ranged from 0.03 for joint capsule lesions to 0.45 for humeral head lesions. The overall kappa was 0.21 (95% CI; 0.12-0.30). We also observed markedly lower sensitivity and specificity rates than those reported in the literature for most lesions. The more experienced radiologist correctly diagnosed 78.9% of all lesions compared to 65.4% for the less experienced radiologist (P < 0.001; McNemar's test). MRA-interpretations of traumatic anterior shoulder instability should be regarded with caution in clinical practice. The experience level of radiologists can affect reproducibility and accuracy."}
{"id": "16934979", "title": "Outcome evaluation in shoulder surgery using 3D kinematics sensors.", "content": "Outcome evaluation in shoulder surgery using 3D kinematics sensors. A new method of scoring systems for the functional assessment of the shoulder is presented. 3D accelerometers and gyroscopes attached on the humerus were used to differentiate a healthy from a painful shoulder. The method was first tested on 10 healthy volunteer subjects with no shoulder pathology. The system was then tested on 10 patients with unilateral shoulder pathology (rotator cuff disease, osteoarthritis) before and after surgery (3, 6 months). In order to evaluate the system, nine tests based on the Simple Shoulder Test (SST) were performed on each shoulder for each patient. Three scores were defined: the P score was based on the angular velocities and accelerations of the humerus; the RAV score was based only on the angular velocities of the humerus; the M score was based on the sum of all moments of the humerus. Our kinematic scores indicated significant differences between baseline and follow-up (p<0.05) and differentiated between patients with varying severity of the same condition. We demonstrated a reliable technique of evaluating shoulder pathology and the results of surgery."}
{"id": "16927096", "title": "Humeral osteochondroma causing a subscapularis tear: a rare source of shoulder dysfunction.", "content": "Humeral osteochondroma causing a subscapularis tear: a rare source of shoulder dysfunction. The proximal humerus is a well-known site of predilection for the solitary osteochondroma-the most common benign bone tumor. Subscapularis tears were underreported in the pre-arthroscopic era. Literature about rotator cuff impairment caused by osteochondromas is almost non-existent. We will present the case of a young man, who had a complete non-traumatic subscapularis tear, where the tendon had been peeled off the lesser tuberosity by an osteochondroma. Diagnostic features such as MRI and arthroscopy are emphasized. The patient was successfully treated by open resection of the tumor and reattachment of the tendon with suture anchors."}
{"id": "16927088", "title": "Comparison of idiopathic, post-trauma and post-surgery frozen shoulder after manipulation under anesthesia.", "content": "Comparison of idiopathic, post-trauma and post-surgery frozen shoulder after manipulation under anesthesia. Manipulation under anesthesia (MUA) has been used to speed up the recovery of frozen shoulder, which is said to be a self-limiting process. We would like to elucidate the short- and long-term results of the treatment of frozen shoulders by manipulation under anesthesia and compare the results of idiopathic, post-trauma and post-surgery frozen shoulders. We applied an adjusted Constant score (Constant score after excluding the 25 points allocated for the assessment of muscle strength) to assess all patients. In our series, 47 cases with 51 frozen shoulders were collected and evaluated retrospectively. The adjusted Constant score at pre-manipulation was on average 22.8+/-4.9 (10-31) points. The score from the 3-week follow-up was 52.6+/-9.2 (31-67) points on average. The score from the averaged 82-month follow-up was on average 70.1+/-6.2 (54-75) points, with 23 shoulders scored for a maximum point number of 75. The score at the early and late follow-ups was significantly lower for the post-surgery group (63.2+/-6.7) when compared to the other two groups (P<0.001). Our results revealed that manipulation under anaesthesia is a very simple and noninvasive procedure for shortening the course of an apparently self-limiting disease and can improve shoulder function and symptoms within a short period of time. However, we found less improvement in post-surgery frozen shoulders, especially in residual pain and limited range of motion (ROM), which may be influenced by the initial injury or initial surgery. Although less improvement in pain and ROM was noted, manipulation is still a good and simple way to treat post-surgery frozen shoulders."}
{"id": "16927071", "title": "Preliminary results after rotator cuff reconstruction augmented with an autologous periosteal flap.", "content": "Preliminary results after rotator cuff reconstruction augmented with an autologous periosteal flap. Periosteal augmentation of tendons in the course of refixation to bone has been shown to be a suitable method for early primarily stable osteofibroblastic integration. The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical and radiological results of open rotator cuff reconstruction using an autologous periosteal flap augmentation technique. The research was performed as a prospective cohort study. Twenty-three prospective patients (average age 59.7 years) with degenerative rotator cuff tears were operated on with an open technique and a subtendinous periosteal flap augmentation using bioabsorbable suture anchors and a modified Mason-Allen technique. Clinical evaluation consisted of the Constant-Score and the Simple Shoulder test. Radiological evaluation included standard radiographs and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Twenty patients were evaluated at a mean follow-up of 14.4 months. The average Constant Score increased significantly from 51.7 to 80.9 points (p<0.05) with 12 excellent, seven good and one satisfactory result. The Simple Shoulder test showed a significant increase of an average of 4.8-10.7 questions answered with yes (p<0.05). Four patients (20%) demonstrated a retear of the tendon on postoperative MRI. Ectopic ossifications in the supraspinatus tendon were found in four patients (20%) but these had no impact on the final clinical results. Open rotator cuff repair augmented with an autologous periosteal flap shows high patient satisfaction level with low rerupture rates. Mid- and long-term results remain to be seen. The potential benefits compared with conventional open or arthroscopic rotator cuff surgery must be examined in prospective randomized studies."}
{"id": "16905621", "title": "Conservative treatment of work-related upper limb disorders: a review.", "content": "Conservative treatment of work-related upper limb disorders: a review. The literature review was carried out to identify and summarize the evidence-base for conservative clinical management of upper limb disorders (ULDs) including specific disorders and non-specific ULDs. Keywords were identified through a scoping study and guidance from the project sponsor. A number of databases were searched including Web of Knowledge, Pub Med, Medline, Ergonomics Online, the Cochrane Library and BMJ Clinical Evidence for the years 1993-2004. Abstracts were obtained for papers identified in the search and full papers were obtained for literature, which included diagnostic methods, conservative treatments, new data or results or systematic reviews. The review identified that there is evidence for the efficacy of conservative treatments for the management of carpal tunnel syndrome, epicondylitis, rotator cuff tendonitis and bicipital tendonitis and tension neck syndrome. There was no evidence found to support or refute conservative treatment of tenosynovitis, tendonitis, de Quervain's disease or diffuse non-specific ULDs. The evidence reviewed was not always of good quality and data gaps including methodological design issues need to be addressed by future research."}
{"id": "16900354", "title": "Comparison of the use of the humerus intramedullary nail and dynamic compression plate for the management of diaphyseal fractures of the humerus. A randomised controlled study.", "content": "Comparison of the use of the humerus intramedullary nail and dynamic compression plate for the management of diaphyseal fractures of the humerus. A randomised controlled study. The aim of this study was to compare the results of the humerus intramedullary nail (IMN) and dynamic compression plate (DCP) for the management of diaphyseal fractures of the humerus. Forty-seven patients with diaphyseal fracture of the shaft of the humerus were randomised prospectively and treated by open reduction and internal fixation with IMN or DCP. The criteria for inclusion were grade 1 or 2a compound fractures, polytrauma, early failure of conservative treatment and unstable fractures. The patients with pathological fractures, grade 3 open fractures, refractures and old neglected fractures of the humerus were excluded from the study. Twenty-three patients underwent internal fixation by IMN and 24 by DCP. Reamed antegrade nailing was done in all cases. DCP was done through an anterolateral or posterior approach. The outcome was assessed in terms of the union time, union rate, functional outcome and the incidence of complications. Functional outcome was assessed using the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons' Score (ASES). On comparing the results by independent samples t test, there was no significant difference in ASES scores between the two groups (P>0.05). The average union time was found to be significantly lower for IMN as compared to DCP (P<0.05). The union rate was found to be similar in both groups. Complications such as infection were found to be higher with DCP as compared to IMN, while shortening of the arm (1.5-4 cm) and restriction of shoulder movements due to impingement by the nail were found to be higher with IMN as compared to DCP. However, this improved in all patients following the removal of the nail once the fracture had healed. This study proves that IMN can be considered a better surgical option for the management of diaphyseal fractures of the humerus as it offers a short union time and lower incidence of serious complications like infection. However, there appears to be no difference between the two groups in terms of the rate of union and functional outcome."}
{"id": "16787446", "title": "Decreased shoulder function and pain common in recreational badminton players.", "content": "Decreased shoulder function and pain common in recreational badminton players. The aim of this study was to describe the prevalence and consequences of painful conditions in the shoulder region in recreational badminton players. A questionnaire study was performed on 99 players, of whom 57 were also assessed with Constant score. Previous or present pain in the dominant shoulder was reported by 52% of the players. Sixteen percent of the players had on-going shoulder pain associated with badminton play. A majority of these players reported that their training habits were affected by the pain. Total Constant score was lower in the painful shoulders. Furthermore, range of active pain-free shoulder abduction was decreased. However, isometric shoulder strength test showed no differences when compared with pain-free shoulders. Even though the pain caused functional problems, the players were still playing with on-going symptoms. The diagnoses were mostly unknown, although history and clinical tests indicate problems resembling subacromial impingement."}
{"id": "16774650", "title": "Trapezius activity and intramuscular balance during isokinetic exercise in overhead athletes with impingement symptoms.", "content": "Trapezius activity and intramuscular balance during isokinetic exercise in overhead athletes with impingement symptoms. We compared normalized trapezius muscle activity and intramuscular balance ratios between overhead athletes with impingement symptoms and non-injured athletes during isokinetic abduction and external rotation movements. Thirty-nine overhead athletes with chronic impingement symptoms and 30 non-injured athletes participated in the study. Electromyographic activity of upper, middle, and lower trapezius was measured during isokinetic abduction and external rotation, using surface electrodes. The results show a significant increase of upper trapezius activity during both movements in the patient group, with decreased activity in the lower trapezius during abduction, and in the middle trapezius during external rotation. Analysis of the intramuscular activity ratios revealed muscle imbalance on the injured side of the patient group for upper/middle trapezius and upper/lower trapezius during abduction, and for all three muscle activity ratios during external rotation. These results confirm the presence of scapular muscle imbalances in patients with impingement symptoms and emphasize the relevance of restoration of scapular muscle balance in shoulder rehabilitation."}
{"id": "16738925", "title": "The SLAP lesion as a reason for glenolabral cysts: a report of five cases and review of the literature.", "content": "The SLAP lesion as a reason for glenolabral cysts: a report of five cases and review of the literature. Cysts in the spinoglenoidal or supraglenoidal incisura can be a cause of compression of the suprascapular nerve. There is agglomerated appearance of these cysts in combination with SLAP lesions. Hypothesis is SLAP lesions can lead to cysts in this region and should be repaired. MRI of five patients (all male, four 30-40 years, one 75 years) showed cysts in the supralabral region. All were in combination with lesions of the superior glenoidal labrum (Type II or more). In two cases, in addition to cyst resection, the SLAP lesion was also repaired and symptoms disappeared completely and no recurrent cyst was detected in postoperative MRI. Two patients without SLAP repair showed recurrent cystic formation in MRI with similar complaints compared to their preoperative status. One patient (75 years) was treated primarily by puncture and afterwards with open resection of the cyst. His outcome was good in terms of activities of daily living without major pain. Our results are based on the assumption that cysts in the region of the spinoglenoidal/supraglenoidal incisura can originate from SLAP lesions. If a patient is suspected of having cysts in this region, the question of a SLAP lesion should be clarified. SLAP lesions should be repaired to avoid relapse. Arthroscopic repair of SLAP lesion can lead to the disappearance of symptoms in younger patients. In older patients puncture or resection of the ganglion alone may be an adequate therapeutic strategy."}
{"id": "16715240", "title": "Acetabular retroversion as a rare cause of chronic hip pain: recognition of the \"figure-eight\" sign.", "content": "Acetabular retroversion as a rare cause of chronic hip pain: recognition of the \"figure-eight\" sign. While well-recognized in the orthopedic literature as a cause of chronic hip pain, acetabular retroversion has not been specifically described in the radiologic literature. Acetabular retroversion represents a particular form of hip dysplasia characterized by abnormal posterolateral orientation of the acetabulum. This pathophysiology predisposes the individual to subsequent anterior impingement of the femoral neck upon the anterior acetabular margin and fibrous labrum. Without treatment, cases may progress to damage of the anterior labrum and cartilage, with eventual early onset of osteoarthritic disease. This impinging condition has been described as occurring in isolation or as part of a complex dysplasia. We describe two cases of acetabular retroversion diagnosed by conventional radiographic evaluation of the pelvis, one in isolation and one occurring in the setting of a larger congenital syndrome. These cases illustrate the utility of the \"figure-eight\" sign in identifying abnormalities of acetabular version and thus assisting clinicians in properly identifying these individuals so that appropriate therapy may be instituted."}
{"id": "16691385", "title": "Repair of large supraspinatus rotator-cuff defects by infraspinatus and subscapularis tendon transfers in a cadaver model.", "content": "Repair of large supraspinatus rotator-cuff defects by infraspinatus and subscapularis tendon transfers in a cadaver model. Transosseous repair of a supraspinatus tendon (SSP) defect (Patte size II) can be difficult if the tendon is retracted and the muscle atrophied. In this situation alternatives are margin convergence techniques, local tendon transfers or distant tendon transfers in massive tears. The object of this study was to compare two local tendon transfers in terms of the feasibility of the shift, the area covered by the shift and the force needed to accomplish the shift. Thirteen fresh-frozen cadaver shoulders were used. First a supraspinatus defect extending to the apex of the humeral head (Patte size II) was created. Transosseous repair was attempted with the infraspintus (ISP) and with the subscapularis (SCP) in all cases; repair was successful in all ISP cases, while use of the SCP resulted in a successful repair in only 8 of the 13 (61.5%). A significantly (P=0.012) larger defect area was covered by the ISP transfer than by the SCP shift: 89.7+/-8.5% versus 31.2+/-31.1% of the original defect, respectively. The tensile force needed to accomplish the shift was significantly (P=0.004) lower when the ISP was used (15+/-11 N) than with the SCP (37.1+/-15 N). In this cadaver model the ISP shift proved more favourable than the SCP shift for covering a Patte size II SSP defect."}
{"id": "16683236", "title": "Correlation between the four types of acromion and the existence of enthesophytes: a study on 423 dried scapulas and review of the literature.", "content": "Correlation between the four types of acromion and the existence of enthesophytes: a study on 423 dried scapulas and review of the literature. The purpose of this study was to correlate the four types of acromial shape with the existence of enthesophytes, which together comprise two important parameters for subacromial impingement syndrome and rotator cuff tears. In addition, a review of the literature was carried out. Four hundred twenty-three dried scapulas were studied at the Department of Anatomy in the University of Cologne, Germany. Four types of acromion were found: the three classical ones as described by Bigliani et al. ([1986] Orthop Trans 10:216) and a fourth one, where the middle third of the undersurface of acromion was convex (Gagey et al. [1993] Surg Radiol Anat 15:63-70). The correlation between the four types of acromion and the presence of enthesophytes at its anterior undersurface was also recorded. The distribution of acromial types was as follows: type I, flat, 51 (12.1%); type II, curved, 239 (56.5%); type III, hooked, 122 (28.8%); and type IV, convex, 11 (2.6%). Enthesophytes were found in 1 of type I (2%), in 19 of type II (7.9%), in 46 of type III (37.7%), and in 0 (0%) of type IV acromions. Overall, 66 (15.6%) out of 423 scapulas had enthesophytes. In all cases, they were localized at the site of the coracoacromial ligament insertion on the acromion. Enthesophytes were significantly (P < 0.05) more common in type III acromions and this combination is particularly associated with subacromial impingement syndrome and rotator cuff tears. In type I and in type IV acromions, the incidence of enthesophytes is very small and, according to other studies, with these two acromial types rotator cuff tears are also rare."}
{"id": "16600252", "title": "The role of repair tension on tendon to bone healing in an animal model of chronic rotator cuff tears.", "content": "The role of repair tension on tendon to bone healing in an animal model of chronic rotator cuff tears. Rotator cuff tendon tears are one of the most common shoulder injuries. Although surgical repair is typically beneficial, re-tearing of the tendons frequently occurs. It is generally accepted that healing is worse for chronic tears than acute tears, but the reasons for this are unknown. One potential cause may be the large tensions that are sometimes required to repair chronically torn tendons back to bone (i.e., repair tension). Therefore, the objective of this study was to utilize an animal model of chronic rotator cuff repairs to investigate the role of increased repair tension on tendon to bone healing. We hypothesized that an increase in repair tension would be related to detrimental changes to the healing insertion site. To test this hypothesis, the supraspinatus tendon of rats was surgically detached and then repaired immediately or after a delay of 2, 4, or 16 weeks. The repair tension was measured using a tensiometer and the mechanical properties, collagen organization, and protein expression of the healing insertion site were evaluated 4 and/or 16 weeks following repair. We found that the repair tension increased with time following detachment, and was related to a decrease in the failure properties and viscoelastic peak stress and an increase in cross-sectional area and stiffness of the insertion site. Therefore, repair tension should be minimized in the clinical setting. Future studies will include additional animal model studies involving the relationship between tension and muscle properties and a clinical study investigating the role of repair tension on repair failure."}
{"id": "16426788", "title": "An unusual case of thermal injuries with a hot glue gun. Deliberate self-harm or maltreatment?", "content": "An unusual case of thermal injuries with a hot glue gun. Deliberate self-harm or maltreatment? Assessing injuries in forensic medicine casework, examiners are often confronted with the question of self-infliction versus third parties' influence, respectively, deliberate self-harm versus maltreatment. We report the case of a 40-year-old male who presented with numerous partially healed thermal injuries of different age. These burns were shaped like capital letters and little circles, which were arranged in lines in a regular form. The lesions were found on the whole body with exclusion of face, genitals, hands and feet. Furthermore, four bitemarks at the right shoulder were noted. Investigations revealed that the man had been abused by his 25-year-old wife (presumably a borderline personality disorder patient) for at least 1 year. In addition to another series of abuses, the woman may have inflicted the shaped burns with a hot glue gun as punishment for breaking certain \"rules\" she had established. When assessing injuries of patients in forensic medicine, several considerations regarding etiology have to be taken into account. In principle, the victim's testimony, the anamnesis, the police investigation results and the findings from the forensic physical examination have to be balanced against each other. The injury pattern in the present case showed contradictory single characteristics both of deliberate self-harm and of maltreatment. After forensic analysis, it was assessed as injuries inflicted by an assistant with the patient's consent."}
{"id": "19610545", "title": "Comparison of the pattern of injuries in children and adult athletes. The first 10 years experience at the Olympic Training Center.", "content": "Comparison of the pattern of injuries in children and adult athletes. The first 10 years experience at the Olympic Training Center. The purpose of this study was to compare the pediatric and adult populations that receive treatment in our Inter-disciplinary Clinic to distinguish possible differences in their sports practice and the nature of their sports injuries. With increasing frequency, younger children are getting involved in competitive or recreational sports. Due to the level of participation in competitive athletics and the inherent risk such participation seems to imply, it has become apparent that consideration must be given to the injury problems associated with sports. The patient population studied includes recreational and competitive athletes. All new cases seen between April 1988 and April 1997 were included. Before 1990, all data was collected retrospectively from medical charts and after 1990 it was collected prospectively. Of the total of 2579 patients seen, 1368 (53%) were under 21 years of age and 1211 (47%) were 21 or older. The most frequent practiced sports in both populations were baseball (17.6% in children, 15.1% in adults), track and field (12.9%, 13.4%) and basketball (12.1%, 10.8%) and the most commonly affected anatomical areas were the knee (29.8%, 32.9%) and the shoulder (16.6% and 14.7% respectively). Injuries were mostly chronic (63.6% and 72.1%), traumatic in nature (48.1%) in children and mostly overuse lesions (46.6%) in adults. The most common diagnoses in both populations was tendinitis (21.5% and 23.7%) and first degree strains. Conservative treatment was given regardless of age. The role of the rehabilitation interdisciplinary team is gaining growing importance in the therapy of children and adults with sport injuries. Further research to better understand the pattern of athletic injuries in the pediatric population is essential for effective injury prevention, treatment and rehabilitation."}
{"id": "17343249", "title": "Indications, complications, and results of shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Indications, complications, and results of shoulder arthroplasty. To provide estimates of patient outcomes following shoulder arthroplasty using Neer-II type humeral prosthesis and to examine variation in outcomes due to patient and prosthesis characteristics. North American and Western European published articles were identified through a computerized literature search and bibliography review. Studies were included if they enrolled 15 or more patients, discriminated between hemi-arthroplasty (HEMI) and total shoulder arthroplasty (TSA) and measured pain relief, gain in range of motion (ROM), radiographic follow-up (> 2 years), short- and long-term complications, and revision surgery. A total of 40 studies satisfied the inclusion criteria. The total number of patients enrolled was 3584. The mean follow-up was 59 months. The mean patient age was 62 years, 65% of patients were women and 73% underwent TSA. All reports showed relevant pain relief, increase in ROM, and high satisfaction rates for HEMI and TSA in both osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The overall rate of revision was 8%. Significant differences between HEMI and TSA for both diagnoses were found for all outcome parameters. Shoulder arthroplasty is a safe and effective procedure for OA and RA patients. The diagnosis, shoulder pathology, and prosthesis specifics were significant predictors of outcomes. We therefore emphasize that conclusions on the outcome of shoulder arthroplasty can only be made if differentiated between these patient and prosthesis specifics. Limitations in the reporting style of these articles severely constrain the ability to explore variation in outcomes due to study, patient, or prosthesis characteristics and restrict their generalisability."}
{"id": "17214391", "title": "Subacromial injections of corticosteroids and xylocaine for painful subacromial impingement syndrome.", "content": "Subacromial injections of corticosteroids and xylocaine for painful subacromial impingement syndrome. Subacromial impingement syndrome, with pain and limited motion, is a common disease encountered daily in clinics. This study determined the efficacy of subacromial injections of corticosteroids and local anesthesia for treatment of painful subacromial impingement syndrome. A total of 238 shoulders in 209 patients, with regular follow-up, were enrolled in this study. Mean patient age was 51 years (range 31-72 years). Each patient complained of shoulder pain with progressive motion limitation present for more than one month, which was not relieved by various nonsurgical treatments. The mean duration of symptoms before injection was five months (range 1-12 months). Each patient had a positive Neer impingement sign, Hawkins impingement sign, painful tendon sign, limited range of motion and did not show clinical evidence of a rotator cuff tear. Each patient was administered an injection of 1 ml of 2% Xylocaine and 1 ml of Rinderon suspension. A second injection was administered one week later for patients without obvious improvement. Following injections, patients were instructed to perform a home rehabilitation program for four weeks. Follow-up examinations were scheduled for one, two and four weeks, and three, six, nine and 12 months after injection. Outcome measures included the Constant-Murley score and shoulder range of motion. At follow-up four weeks after the first injection, 216 shoulders (91%) had satisfactory improvement in amount of pain and range of motion: mean improvements in the active range of motion of forward elevation, abduction, internal rotation and external rotation were 56 degrees, 48 degrees, 18 degrees and 22 degrees, respectively. However, at the first year follow-up, the satisfaction rate was slightly down at 88%, and 19 shoulders (8%; 16 patients) had recurrent pain and motion limitation after an average of 5.4 months (range 3-12 months). Each of these patients received another injection. Surgery was recommended for 22 shoulders (9%; 18 patients) that did not have satisfactory improvement. Of these patients, eight shoulders (seven patients) had a partial tear of the rotator cuff and 10 shoulders (eight patients) had complete rotator cuff tears. Subacromial injection of corticosteroids and local anesthesia is an effective therapy for the treatment of symptomatic subacromial pathology, such as impingement pain, tendonitis and bursitis. The injection can substantially reduce pain and increase range of motion of the shoulder. If there is no improvement following injections, a rotator cuff tear should be suspected."}
{"id": "17195127", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the rotator cuff interval.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging of the rotator cuff interval. The rotator cuff interval (RCI) is an important and anatomically complex region of the rotator cuff that is critically important to normal glenohumeral function. Recognition of common pathologies in this region on imaging examinations is especially important as injuries may be difficult to detect on clinical examination and even at arthroscopy. Familiarity with the magnetic resonance imaging appearance of the normal and abnormal RCI and the ability to convey findings to orthopedic and sports medicine referrers are essential to facilitate prompt creation of effective treatment plans."}
{"id": "17193870", "title": "Scapular angular positioning at end range internal rotation in cases of glenohumeral internal rotation deficit.", "content": "Scapular angular positioning at end range internal rotation in cases of glenohumeral internal rotation deficit. Controlled laboratory study. Investigate the relationship between glenohumeral internal rotation range-of-motion deficit and 3-dimensional scapular angular positioning during active arm movements in participants with recent participation in overhead sports activity. Subacromial impingement is one of the most common shoulder pathologies and is multifactorial in etiology. Posterior glenohumeral joint capsule tightness has been theorized to contribute to one potential causal factor: abnormal scapular positioning. Twenty-three subjects, who had participated in competitive sports involving overhead activity within the last 5 years, were categorized into 2 groups based on the degree of glenohumeral internal rotation deficit (20% deficit threshold). Scapular angular positioning of subjects performing shoulder internal rotation from 90 degrees flexion and abduction shoulder positions was evaluated using 3-dimensional electromagnetic surface tracking. Additional sensors monitored trunk and humeral motion. Scapular position data at end range glenohumeral internal rotation, along with glenohumeral internal rotation range of motion measurements, were used to analyze the relationship between glenohumeral internal rotation deficit and scapular position using 2-way ANOVA and regression analyses. The internal rotation deficit group had significantly greater scapular anterior tilt (9.2 degrees difference, P = .04) across positions, as compared to the control group. Regression analysis demonstrated a significant association between glenohumeral internal rotation deficit and scapular position (tilting) during flexed internal rotation (r(2) = 0.37, P = .03) and for scapular position (anterior tilting and upward rotation) during abducted internal rotation (r = 0.35, P = .036). These findings demonstrate a significant relationship between glenohumeral internal rotation deficit and abnormal scapular positioning, particularly increased anterior tilt. This relationship identifies a possible mechanism for development of excessive scapular anterior tilt."}
{"id": "17193867", "title": "A comparison of serratus anterior muscle activation during a wall slide exercise and other traditional exercises.", "content": "A comparison of serratus anterior muscle activation during a wall slide exercise and other traditional exercises. Single-group repeated-measures design. To investigate the ability of the wall slide exercise to activate the serratus anterior muscle (SA) at and above 90 degrees of humeral elevation. Strengthening of the SA is a critical component of rehabilitation for patients with shoulder impingement syndromes. Traditional SA exercises have included scapular protraction exercises such as the push-up plus. These exercises promote activation of the SA near 90 degrees of humeral elevation, but not in positions above 90 degrees where patients typically experience pain. Twenty healthy subjects were studied performing 3 exercises: (1) wall slide, (2) plus phase of a wall push-up plus, and (3) scapular plane shoulder elevation. Three-dimensional position of the thorax, scapula, and humerus and muscle activity from the SA, upper and lower trapezius, and latissimus dorsi were recorded. The magnitudes of activation for each muscle at 90 degrees, 120 degrees, and 140 degrees of humeral elevation were quantified from EMG records. Repeated-measures analyses of variance were used to determine the degree to which the different exercises activated the SA at the 3 humeral positions. The intensity of SA activity was not significantly different between the 3 exercises at 90 degrees of humeral elevation (P = .40). For the wall slide and scapular plane shoulder elevation exercises, SA activity increased with increasing humeral elevation angle (P = .001), with no significant differences between the 2 exercises (P = .36). The wall slide is an effective exercise to activate the SA muscle at and above 90 degrees of shoulder elevation. During this exercise, SA activation is not significantly different from SA activation during the push-up plus and scapular plane shoulder elevation, 2 exercises previously validated in the literature."}
{"id": "17157729", "title": "Evidence of validity for the hip outcome score.", "content": "Evidence of validity for the hip outcome score. The purpose of this study was to offer evidence of validity for the Hip Outcome Score (HOS) based on internal structure, test content, and relation to other variables. The study population consisted of 507 subjects with a labral tear. Internal structure was evaluated by use of factor analysis and coefficient alpha. Test content was evaluated by use of item response theory. Pearson correlation coefficients were used to assess relations between the Short Form 36 and the HOS. The mean subject age was 38 years (range, 13 to 66 years), with 232 male and 273 female subjects. Of the subjects, 263 (52%) underwent arthroscopic surgery. Factor analysis found that 17 of 19 items on the activities-of-daily-living (ADL) subscale loaded on 1 factor. The 2 items that did not fit the 1-factor model were omitted from further testing. All 9 items on the sports subscale loaded on 1 factor. The coefficient alpha values were .96 and .95 for the ADL and sports subscales, respectively. The errors associated with a single measure were +/-4.6 and +/-3.8 points for the ADL and sports subscales, respectively. Item response theory found that all items contributed to their test information curves and were potentially responsive. The correlations between the HOS and Short Form 36 measures of physical function were significantly different than their correlation to measures of mental functioning (P < .005). The results of this study provide evidence of validity to support the use of the HOS ADL and sports subscales for individuals with labral tears. This includes individuals who underwent arthroscopic surgery, as well as those who did not. Specifically, the results of this study found that the HOS ADL and sports subscales were unidimensional, had adequate internal consistency, were potentially responsive across the spectrum of ability, and contributed information across the spectrum of ability. In addition, scores obtained by the HOS related to measures of function and did not relate to measures of mental health. Level III, development of diagnostic criteria with nonconsecutive patients."}
{"id": "17157728", "title": "Throwing shoulder injury involving the anterior rotator cuff: concealed tears not as uncommon as previously thought.", "content": "Throwing shoulder injury involving the anterior rotator cuff: concealed tears not as uncommon as previously thought. In throwing athletes, partial rotator cuff tears are usually located posterior to the site of the common rotator cuff tears seen in the general nonthrowing population. However, they sometimes have tears located around the anterior aspect of the supraspinatus tendon. In this study we investigated the characteristics of anterior rotator cuff tears in throwing athletes. We then compared several factors between anterior tears and posterior tears to investigate those related to the presence of anterior tears or the occurrence of such tears. We divided 37 athletes with partial rotator cuff tears into those with anterior tears (n = 17) and those with posterior tears (n = 20). The clinical profile, range of motion and joint laxity with patient under general anesthesia, and operative findings were retrospectively compared between the 2 groups. Among the 17 anterior rotator cuff tears, 12 tears were confined to the anterior one third of the supraspinatus tendon. Interestingly, concealed intratendinous degenerative tears were found in 6 shoulders. These appeared to be very shallow articular-side tears located around the attachment of the greater tuberosity, but severe tears were exposed after resection of the residual capsular portion of the tendon. Posterior capsular tightness was significantly related to the occurrence of anterior tears, whereas a greater tuberosity notch was significantly related to posterior tears. Anterior rotator cuff tears are not uncommon in throwing athletes, and a concealed type of tear was a representative lesion. Different mechanisms may be involved in the development of anterior and posterior rotator cuff tears resulting from throwing injuries. Posterior capsular tightness might influence the occurrence of anterior tears. Level IV, prognostic case series."}
{"id": "17148619", "title": "Partial-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. Partial-thickness rotator cuff tears are not a single entity; rather, they represent a spectrum of disease states. Although often asymptomatic, they can be significantly disabling. Overhead throwing athletes with partial-thickness rotator cuff tears differ with respect to etiology, goals, and treatment from older, nonathlete patients with degenerative tears. Pathogenesis of degenerative partial-thickness tears is multifactorial, with evidence of intrinsic and extrinsic factors playing key roles. Diagnosis of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears should be based on the patient's symptoms together with magnetic resonance imaging studies. Conservative treatment is successful in most patients. Surgery generally is considered for patients with symptoms of sufficient duration and intensity. The role of acromioplasty has not been clearly delineated, but it should be considered when there is evidence of extrinsic causation for the partial-thickness rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "17145874", "title": "Fhit modulates the DNA damage checkpoint response.", "content": "Fhit modulates the DNA damage checkpoint response. In preneoplastic lesions, the DNA damage checkpoint is induced and loss of heterozygosity at the FRA3B/FHIT common chromosome fragile region precedes or is coincident with activation of the checkpoint response in these early stages. Introduction of exogenous Fhit into cells in vitro led to modulation of expression of checkpoint proteins Hus1 and Chk1 at mid-S checkpoint, a modulation that led to induction of apoptosis in esophageal cancer cells but not in noncancerous primary cultures. Mutation of the conserved Fhit tyrosine 114 resulted in failure of this function, confirming the importance of this residue. The results suggest that the DNA damage-susceptible FRA3B/FHIT chromosome fragile region, paradoxically, encodes a protein that is necessary for protecting cells from accumulation of DNA damage through its role in modulation of checkpoint proteins, and inactivation of Fhit contributes to accumulation of abnormal checkpoint phenotypes in cancer development."}
{"id": "17143983", "title": "Soft tissue rheumatic lesions and HIV infection in Zambians.", "content": "Soft tissue rheumatic lesions and HIV infection in Zambians. To explore the relationship between human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and soft tissue rheumatic lesions in HIV-positive black Zambians. We performed a prospective study of all patients over 18 years of age attending a rheumatic clinic in a teaching hospital. All patients underwent routine blood tests, and radiographs were performed when indicated. HIV status was determined by ELISA, and clinical staging was determined by World Health Organization criteria. Patients with isolated sacroiliac pain, enthesitis, or a soft tissue lesion were selected for analysis. For HIV-positive patients, only those in clinical stage 1 (asymptomatic or persistent generalized lymphadenopathy) were selected. Our study cohort comprised 120 patients (41 men, 79 women, age 23-70 yrs). Diagnosis and number (% HIV positive) were distributed as follows: sacroiliitis, 14 (100%); heel pain, 14 (100%); costochondritis, 3 (100%); polyenthesitis (> or = 4 sites), 20 (100%); carpal tunnel syndrome, 8 (63%); rotator cuff syndrome, 18 (30%); tendinitis, 8 (25%); sciatica/cervical spondylosis, 12 (16%); sacroiliac strain, 7 (0%); and de Quervain's tenosynovitis, 16 (0%). HIV seroprevalence was 54% overall, 74% in those under 45 years of age, and 17% in those over 45 years of age. Population prevalence of HIV in Lusaka is about 30% in the 30-40-year age range. Mean erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) in 65 patients positive for HIV was 80 mm/h and in 55 patients negative for HIV, 18 mm/h. Within each subgroup the mean ESR was significantly higher in HIV-positive patients. A young age and a raised ESR are both good indications of HIV infection in Zambian patients with soft tissue lesions. Enthesitis is a distinct HIV-related phenomenon, either an early form or a forme fruste of HIV-related spondyloarthropathy."}
{"id": "17138842", "title": "Clinical trial of exercise for shoulder pain in chronic spinal injury.", "content": "Clinical trial of exercise for shoulder pain in chronic spinal injury. The high prevalence of shoulder pain in wheelchair users may be related to the repetitive use of the upper limbs during self-care and wheelchair-related activities. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of a controlled 8-week, scapula-focused exercise intervention on pain and functional disability in people with spinal cord injury (SCI) and shoulder impingement symptoms. Forty-one manual wheelchair users (with SCI and spina bifida), both with (n=21) and without (n=20) shoulder impingement symptoms, participated. The study design was a clinical trial with an asymptomatic control group. Subjects completed the Wheelchair User's Shoulder Pain Index (WUSPI) and the Shoulder Rating Questionnaire (SRQ) and provided patient satisfaction scores at initial and 8-week visits. Subjects in the intervention group were instructed in a home exercise program consisting of stretching and strengthening exercises. Subjects in the asymptomatic control group received no intervention. An analysis of variance model was used to test for group and time effects for the WUSPI, SRQ, and satisfaction scores. Subjects in the intervention group showed significant improvements in all measures as a result of the intervention, whereas asymptomatic control group subjects remained stable. A selective 8-week home exercise program is effective in reducing pain and improving function and satisfaction in this population of wheelchair users."}
{"id": "17137058", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging findings of a metastatic chemodectoma in a dog.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging findings of a metastatic chemodectoma in a dog. A 6-year-old, male, Collie-cross was presented with a non-weight bearing right thoracic limb lameness, right m. deltoideus, m. infraspinatus and m. supraspinatus atrophy, and severe neck pain with spasm of the cervical epaxial muscles. MRI revealed complete destruction of the 5th and 6th cervical vertebral bodies with lateral extradural spinal cord compression at the level of the 4th and 5th cervical vertebrae. These lesions were very clearly demonstrated on magnetic resonance images, while only subtle changes were seen on survey radiographs. Post mortem investigation revealed a large heart base chemodectoma with multiple smaller tumours in the cranial mediastinum and a single tumour nodule on the thoracic aorta. The 5th cervical vertebral body had necrotic, haemorrhagic and lytic changes. Histopathology of the heart base tumour, the nodules in the cranial mediastinum and on the thoracic aorta and samples from the 5th cervical vertebra confirmed the presence of a malignant aortic or carotid body tumour originating from the chemoreceptor organs. Diagnostic imaging features and post mortem findings are described. To our knowledge, this is the first report of the magnetic resonance features of a metastatic chemodectoma in a dog."}
{"id": "17134052", "title": "Outcomes following open repair of Bankart lesions for recurrent, traumatic anterior glenohumeral dislocations.", "content": "Outcomes following open repair of Bankart lesions for recurrent, traumatic anterior glenohumeral dislocations. Though open stabilization using the Bankart procedure is still considered the \"gold standard,\" few studies have examined the long-term outcomes. Between 1988 and 2001, 64 patients met inclusion criteria and had an open stabilization performed. Forty-one patients were available for follow-up at an average of 6.5 years. Forty (98%) patients reported having a stable shoulder. Average loss of external rotation was 4 degrees and average Rowe score was 96. This study further supports the trustworthiness of an open anatomic subcapsulolabral reconstruction for recurrent anterior instability and provides another standard from which to compare newer surgical methods."}
{"id": "17126245", "title": "The biomechanical role of the subscapularis in latissimus dorsi transfer for the treatment of irreparable rotator cuff tears.", "content": "The biomechanical role of the subscapularis in latissimus dorsi transfer for the treatment of irreparable rotator cuff tears. Inferior functional results of latissimus tendon transfer for the treatment of irreparable rotator cuff tears have been reported in the presence of a subscapularis tendon tear. A biomechanical or experimental explanation for the necessity of an intact subscapularis is unavailable. It was, therefore, the purpose of this investigation to study the biomechanical role of the subscapularis in the treatment of a posterosuperior rotator cuff tear with latissimus dorsi transfer. A biomechanical cadaveric model was developed to reproduce glenohumeral motion patterns created by loading of the transferred latissimus dorsi tendon with and without simultaneous action of the subscapularis muscle. Significant differences could be demonstrated not only for translation but also for rotation of the humeral head depending on subscapularis action. In the neutral and in the abducted/externally rotated position of the arm, anterior translation and dislocation of the joint were encountered without subscapularis action. Our results provide evidence that motion patterns of the humeral head are significantly altered in the absence of the stabilizing effect of the subscapularis muscle. The inferior functional results of latissimus dorsi transfer in the presence of subscapularis dysfunction are explained by the loss of centering of the humeral head upon abduction and elevation if subscapularis function is deficient."}
{"id": "17126241", "title": "Rotator cuff repair: the effect of double-row fixation on three-dimensional repair site.", "content": "Rotator cuff repair: the effect of double-row fixation on three-dimensional repair site. There is a high rate of recurrent and residual tears after rotator cuff repair surgery. Recent cadaveric studies have provided surgeons with new knowledge about the anatomy of the supraspinatus tendon insertion. Traditional repair techniques fail to reproduce the area of the supraspinatus insertion, or footprint, on the greater tuberosity anatomically. Double-row suture anchor (DRSA) fixation is a new technique that has been developed to restore the supraspinatus footprint better. In this study, 3-dimensional mapping was used to determine the area of the footprint recreated with 3 different repair methods: a transosseous simple suture technique, fixation with a single row of suture anchors, and DRSA fixation. The DRSA fixation technique consistently reproduced 100% of the original supraspinatus footprint, whereas the single-row suture anchor fixation and transosseous simple suture techniques reproduced only 46% and 71% of the insertion site, respectively. Therefore, the footprint area of the DRSA fixation technique was significantly larger (P < .05) than that of the other 2 techniques. Furthermore, double-row fixation may provide a tendon-bone interface better suited for biologic healing and restoring normal anatomy."}
{"id": "17087883", "title": "Mini-open rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Mini-open rotator cuff repair. Open shoulder procedures require a deltoid release for proper exposure. Arthroscopic techniques have progressed so that minimally invasive techniques give similar outcomes as more formal open procedures with less risk of morbidity. Arthroscopically assisted open rotator cuff repair offers advantages over open procedures with some diagnostic and decompression performed with the arthroscope. The mini-open technique has more aspects of a cuff repair performed through the arthroscope leaving a few steps to be done open. The modern use of arthroscopic techniques for minimally invasive rotator cuff surgery coupled with advances in rehabilitation is discussed."}
{"id": "17084292", "title": "The effect of double-row fixation on initial repair strength in rotator cuff repair: a biomechanical study.", "content": "The effect of double-row fixation on initial repair strength in rotator cuff repair: a biomechanical study. The purpose of this study was to compare the initial mechanical strength of 3 rotator cuff repair techniques. A total of 30 fresh-frozen cadaveric shoulders were prepared, and full-thickness supraspinatus tears were created. Specimens were randomized and placed into 3 groups: (1) transosseous suture technique (group I: TOS, n = 10, 6F/4M), (2) single-row suture anchor fixation (group II: SRSA, n = 10, 6F/4M), and (3) double-row suture anchor fixation (group III: DRSA, n = 10, 6F/4M). Each specimen underwent cyclic load testing from 5 N to 180 N at a rate of 33 mm/sec. The test was stopped when complete failure (repair site gap of 10 mm) or a total of 5,000 cycles was attained. Group I (TOS) failed at an average of 75.3 +/- 22.49 cycles, and group II (SRSA) at an average of 798.3 +/- 73.28 cycles; group III (DRSA) had no failures because all samples were stopped when 5,000 cycles had been completed. Fixation strength of the DRSA technique proved to be significantly greater than that of SRSA (P < .001), and both suture anchor groups were significantly stronger than the TOS group (P < .001). Suture anchor repairs were significantly stronger than transosseous repairs. Furthermore, double-row suture anchor fixation was significantly stronger than was single-row repair. Therefore, double-row fixation may be superior to other techniques in that it provides a substantially stronger repair that could lead to improved biologic healing. A high incidence of incomplete healing occurs in rotator cuff repair. Use of double-row fixation may help the clinician to address some deficiencies in current methods by increasing the strength of the repair, potentially leading to improved healing rates."}
{"id": "17084291", "title": "Quantifying the extent of a type II SLAP lesion required to cause peel-back of the glenoid labrum--a cadaveric study.", "content": "Quantifying the extent of a type II SLAP lesion required to cause peel-back of the glenoid labrum--a cadaveric study. To quantify the extent of labral disruption required to cause it to peel back when the peel-back test is performed. Ten cadaveric shoulders were prepared by removal of the deltoid and rotator cuff muscles. The glenohumeral joint was concentrically reduced and brought into 90 degrees abduction and maximal external rotation. The peel-back of the labrum was graded 0, 1, or 2. The labrum was sequentially detached from the glenoid in the following order: biceps anchor only, 1 o'clock, 2 o'clock, 11 o'clock, and 3 o'clock positions. After each labral cut, the peel-back test was performed. Labral repair was performed with a single suture anchor placed at the 12:30 o'clock position; labral peel-back was reassessed. A progressive increase was noted in peel-back grade with sequential cutting of the labrum posteriorly. However, disruption of the anchor alone did not lead to a positive peel-back sign. Disruption to the 2 o'clock position resulted in a positive peel-back sign overall in 9 of 10 shoulders (5 were grade 1, and 4 were grade 2). No increase was seen in peel-back grade with anterior extension of the labral detachment. Labral repair with a single anchor placed at the 12:30 o'clock position eliminated labral peel-back in 100% of shoulders. Detachment of the biceps anchor alone does not cause peel-back. The labrum must be disrupted to at least the 2 o'clock position before overt (grade 2) peel-back is observed. A single suture anchor placed at 12:30 o'clock eliminated peel-back of the labrum. Validation of the peel-back test as an important diagnostic tool during shoulder arthroscopy."}
{"id": "17079400", "title": "A biomechanical comparison of single and double-row fixation in arthroscopic rotator cuff repair.", "content": "A biomechanical comparison of single and double-row fixation in arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. The optimal method for arthroscopic rotator cuff repair is not yet known. The hypothesis of the present study was that a double-row repair would demonstrate superior static and cyclic mechanical behavior when compared with a single-row repair. The specific aims were to measure gap formation at the bone-tendon interface under static creep loading and the ultimate strength and mode of failure of both methods of repair under cyclic loading. A standardized tear of the supraspinatus tendon was created in sixteen fresh cadaveric shoulders. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs were performed with use of either a double-row technique (eight specimens) or a single-row technique (eight specimens) with nonabsorbable sutures that were double-loaded on a titanium suture anchor. The repairs were loaded statically for one hour, and the gap formation was measured. Cyclic loading to failure was then performed. Gap formation during static loading was significantly greater in the single-row group than in the double-row group (mean and standard deviation, 5.0 +/- 1.2 mm compared with 3.8 +/- 1.4 mm; p < 0.05). Under cyclic loading, the double-row repairs failed at a mean of 320 +/- 96.9 N whereas the single-row repairs failed at a mean of 224 +/- 147.9 N (p = 0.058). Three single-row repairs and three double-row repairs failed as a result of suture cut-through. Four single-row repairs and one double-row repair failed as a result of anchor or suture failure. The remaining five repairs did not fail, and a midsubstance tear of the tendon occurred. Although more technically demanding, the double-row technique demonstrates superior resistance to gap formation under static loading as compared with the single-row technique. A double-row reconstruction of the supraspinatus tendon insertion may provide a more reliable construct than a single-row repair and could be used as an alternative to open reconstruction for the treatment of isolated tears."}
{"id": "17077728", "title": "Benign intraspinal osteoblastoma stemming from C7 lamina in cervicothoracic junction: a case report.", "content": "Benign intraspinal osteoblastoma stemming from C7 lamina in cervicothoracic junction: a case report. A case report of a rare benign osteoblastoma successfully treated with total en bloc excision. To describe the clinical and radiographic features of an adolescent female patient with intraspinal osteoblastoma in cervicothoracic junction and the effect of surgical treatment. A rare case of massive benign osteoblastoma stemming from left side lamina of C7 and extension to spinal canal from C6 to T1 resulting in spinal cord compressed severely is reported. And the excellent results achieved from surgical intervention are presented. A 13-year-old girl complained of gradually increasing pain of her lower part of the neck and left shoulder radiating to the left upper extremity, and the neurologic deficits were found in physical examination. A massive neoplasm located in intraspinal cervicothoracic junction and the spinal cord compressed severely was shown in radiographs, MRI, and CT. The neoplasm was removed totally with instrumentation performed in surgical intervention. She was followed up for 2.5 years; clinical symptoms and plain radiograph and CT films were investigated. The specimen of the removed mass was proven osteoblastoma pathologically. Her symptoms were relieved and the neurologic deficits recovered completely. Recurrence of the tumor was not seen at the final follow-up. A case of massive intraspinal osteoblastoma stemming from C7 lamina was successfully treated by excised grossly with instrumentation for reconstruction of stability."}
{"id": "17076461", "title": "\"Uncoverage\" of the humeral head by the anterolateral acromion and its relationship to full-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "\"Uncoverage\" of the humeral head by the anterolateral acromion and its relationship to full-thickness rotator cuff tears. The relationship between the humeral head and the anterolateral acromion was compared for subjects with and without full-thickness rotator cuff tears, as indicated by magnetic resonance imaging, using a case-control design. \"Uncoverage\" of the humeral head by the anterolateral acromion was defined as the percentage of the humeral head width not covered superiorly by the anterolateral acromion, as measured digitally on magnetic resonance imaging scans of the shoulder in the oblique coronal plane. The uncoverage of the humeral head by the anterolateral acromion was 32.0% for men > or = 40 years of age with normal rotator cuffs (n = 39) and 38.2% for men > or = 40 years of age with full-thickness rotator cuff tears (n = 43). The difference in uncoverage of 6.2% was statistically significant (p < 0.001). The uncoverage of the humeral head by the anterolateral acromion was 36.1% for women > or = 40 years of age with normal rotator cuffs (n = 10) and 41.8% for women > or = 40 years of age with full-thickness rotator cuff tears (n = 17). The difference in uncoverage of 5.72% was not statistically significant with the number of subjects available (p = 0.108). We concluded that increased uncoverage of the humeral head by the anterolateral acromion may be a factor in the pathogenesis of full-thickness rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "17075837", "title": "The scapuloacromial angle: a 3D analysis of acromial slope and its relationship with shoulder impingement.", "content": "The scapuloacromial angle: a 3D analysis of acromial slope and its relationship with shoulder impingement. To quantify acromial slope (the scapuloacromial [SA] angle). We used shoulder MR studies in 64 subjects who were stratified surgically into impingement (with and without tear) and nonimpingement (shoulder instability) groups. We measure, in three dimensions, the angle between unit normal vectors to planes of best fit to the undersurface of the acromion and the medial surface of the blade of the scapula. We examine the projection of this SA angle onto the transverse, coronal, and sagittal planes to gauge some measure of rotation, lateral tilt, and anterior tilt with respect to the patient. Orientation of the acromion and scapular blade in relation to the MR scanner and therefore to the patient was also calculated. We found no significant differences between these two groups when examining age and side of pathology. A statistically significant difference was seen between males and females. Our study does not support the idea that a flatter acromial slope causes impingement and is an etiological basis for rotator cuff tears. We believe that acromial slope, regardless of imaging plane, is not useful in classifying patients who present with shoulder pain and should not be considered as a source of pathologic changes."}
{"id": "17075105", "title": "Tendon retracts more than muscle in experimental chronic tears of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Tendon retracts more than muscle in experimental chronic tears of the rotator cuff. We released the infraspinatus tendons of six sheep, allowed retraction of the musculotendinous unit over a period of 40 weeks and then performed a repair. We studied retraction of the musculotendinous unit 35 weeks later using CT, MRI and macroscopic dissection. The tendon was retracted by a mean of 4.7 cm (3.8 to 5.1) 40 weeks after release and remained at a mean of 4.2 cm (3.3 to 4.7) 35 weeks after the repair. Retraction of the muscle was only a mean of 2.7 cm (2.0 to 3.3) and 1.7 cm (1.1 to 2.2) respectively at these two points. Thus, the musculotendinous junction had shifted distally by a mean of 2.5 cm (2.0 to 2.8) relative to the tendon. Sheep muscle showed an ability to compensate for approximately 60% of the tendon retraction in a hitherto unknown fashion. Such retraction may not be a quantitatively reliable indicator of retraction of the muscle and may overestimate the need for elongation of the musculotendinous unit during repair."}
{"id": "17073249", "title": "Coracoid impingement syndrome: a treatable cause of anterior shoulder pain.", "content": "Coracoid impingement syndrome: a treatable cause of anterior shoulder pain. Coracoid Impingement Syndrome is a relatively uncommon but generally treatable cause of anterior shoulder pain that can be easily overlooked. It typically presents with anterior shoulder joint pain in activities involving forward flexion, adduction and internal rotation. To assess the outcome of a cohort of patients diagnosed with Coracoid Impingement Syndrome. Patients were investigated clinically and radiologically. They received appropriate therapeutic measures and were followed-up in an orthopaedic outpatient setting. Twelve patients were identified over a four-year period. All patients have made good progress. Thus far, none have needed operative intervention for symptom relief. Coracoid impingement syndrome is an uncommon cause of anterior shoulder pain but diagnosed patients can expect good symptomatic relief following referral to a dedicated shoulder unit. An increase in clinical awareness of the condition may prevent undue diagnostic delay in such cases."}
{"id": "17072446", "title": "An anatomical study of the subcoracoid space.", "content": "An anatomical study of the subcoracoid space. To evaluate the amplitude of the subcoracoid space under maximum internal and external rotations of the humeral head and measure the distance between the apex of the coracoid process and the following anatomical structures: (a) point of entry of the musculocutaneous nerve and its branches into the coracobrachial muscles and into the short head of the biceps brachii muscle; (b) acromial artery; (c) lesser tubercle of the humerus. Thirty shoulders of fresh cadavers, without any kind of shoulder pathology, (9 males and 6 females) were dissected, and the distances (in mm) were measured between the anatomical structures defined above and the apex of the coracoid process. The mean distance between the apex of the coracoid process and the musculocutaneous nerve was 49.2 mm (in all specimens a proximal branch of the nerve was identified 34.2 mm away from the apex of the coracoid process), which was not significantly different between the sexes or body sides; the mean distance between the apex of the coracoid process and the acromial artery was 12.4 mm, which was not significantly different between the sexes or body sides; the mean distance between the apex of the coracoid process and the lesser tubercle of the humerus, with the humeral head under internal rotation, was 10.6 mm in men and 8.6 mm in women, values that were significantly different between the sexes. In women, the smaller distance between the apex of the coracoid process and the lesser tubercle of the humerus in the arm internal rotation suggests a higher chance of impingement between those bone structures among the female sex."}
{"id": "17055750", "title": "Rupture of the subscapularis tendon (isolated or in combination with supraspinatus tear): when is a repair indicated?", "content": "Rupture of the subscapularis tendon (isolated or in combination with supraspinatus tear): when is a repair indicated? Ruptures of the subscapularis tendon, isolated or combined, are rare, and the treatment modalities are controversial. Of 1345 patients who underwent rotator cuff repair in a 7-year period, 73 had either an isolated rupture of the subscapularis or a subscapularis rupture combined with rupture of the supraspinatus. All reconstructions were performed through a deltopectoral approach. Reinsertion of the subscapularis was combined with reconstruction of the supraspinatus in 32 patients. Of the patients, 63 (86%) were re-examined at a mean follow-up of 35 months. The modified Constant score improved from 62% preoperatively to 91% at follow-up. Isolated or combined reconstructions did not result in significant differences with respect to the Constant score. Of the patients, 62 (98%) were satisfied with the operation. Rerupture was found by ultrasound in 8 subscapularis tendons (13%) and 4 supraspinatus tendons (13%). The rerupture rate showed a significant correlation with the Goutallier stage of fatty degeneration and the interval between injury and operation."}
{"id": "17054230", "title": "Exercise for women receiving adjuvant therapy for breast cancer.", "content": "Exercise for women receiving adjuvant therapy for breast cancer. A huge clinical research database on adjuvant cancer treatment has verified improvements in breast cancer outcomes such as recurrence and mortality rates. On the other hand, adjuvant therapy with agents such as hormone therapy, chemotherapy and radiotherapy impacts on quality of life due to substantial short- and long-term side effects. To assess the effect of aerobic or resistance exercise interventions during adjuvant treatment for breast cancer on treatment-related side effects such as physical deterioration, fatigue, psychosocial distress and physiological, morphological and biological changes. We searched the Cochrane Breast Cancer Specialised Register (16 July 2004) and the following electronic databases: MEDLINE (1966 to 2006), EMBASE (1988 to 2004), CINAHL (1982 to 2004), SPORTDiscus (1975 to 2004), PsycINFO (1872 to 2003), SIGLE (1880 to 2004), ProQuest Digital Dissertations (1861 to 2004) and Conference Papers Index (1973 to 2004). Furthermore, we screened references in relevant reviews and clinical trials and handsearched relevant journals. We included randomised and non-randomised controlled trials that examined aerobic or resistance exercise, or both, in women undergoing adjuvant treatment for breast cancer. Two authors independently extracted data and assessed methodological quality and adequacy of the training stimulus following a set of standardised criteria. Meta-analyses were performed for physical fitness, fatigue and weight gain using a random-effects model. Nine trials involving 452 women met the inclusion criteria. Meta-analysis for cardiorespiratory fitness (involving 207 participants) suggested that exercise improves cardiorespiratory fitness (SMD 0.66, 95% CI 0.20 to 1.12). Meta-analysis for fatigue (317 participants) found statistically non-significant improvements for participants in the exercise intervention groups compared to control (non-exercising) groups (SMD -0.12, 95% CI -0.37 to 0.13); the same applied for the meta-analysis of weight gain (147 participants) (SMD -1.11, 95% CI -2.44 to 0.22). Evidence for other outcomes remains limited. Adverse effects (lymphedema and shoulder tendonitis) were observed in two trials. The results from non-randomised controlled trials are similar to those of randomised controlled trials and do not appear to produce any bias. This review is based on a small number of trials with a considerable degree of clinical heterogeneity regarding adjuvant cancer treatments and exercise interventions. Exercise during adjuvant treatment for breast cancer can be regarded as a supportive self-care intervention which results in improved physical fitness and thus the capacity for performing activities of daily life, which may otherwise be impaired due to inactivity during treatment. Improvements in fatigue were ambiguous and there was a lack of evidence for improvement with exercise for other treatment-related side effects. Since exercise interventions (for sedentary participants) require behaviour change, strategies for behaviour change should underpin these interventions. Furthermore, long-term evaluation is required due to possible long-term side effects."}
{"id": "17042899", "title": "Pre- and postoperative evaluation of the metabolic activity in muscles associated with ruptured rotator cuffs by F-FDG PET imaging.", "content": "Pre- and postoperative evaluation of the metabolic activity in muscles associated with ruptured rotator cuffs by F-FDG PET imaging. We examined uptake of 2-[(18)F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) using positron emission tomography (PET) into the bilateral shoulder muscles of four patients before and after unilateral rotator cuff repair. The relative ratio of the subtracted standardized uptake value on the supraspinatus with a torn supraspinatus tendon to that of the subscapularis on the ipsilateral side was significantly lower than that on the normal side (0.69 +/- 0.05 versus 1.06 +/- 0.36). The relative ratio of the infraspinatus on the rupture side was also significantly lower than that on the normal side (0.91 +/- 0.09 versus 1.41 +/- 0.35). However, by 6 months postoperative, the reduced glucose metabolism in these muscles had recovered to the same levels as those on the normal side. As indicated by FDG PET, muscle metabolism in rotator cuff tears was reduced, subsequently recovering to the level of the normal side after operative repair."}
{"id": "17042025", "title": "Physiotherapy rehabilitation in patients with massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Physiotherapy rehabilitation in patients with massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears. Massive rotator cuff tears provide a challenge for effective rehabilitation. Work has been ongoing at Torbay Hospital, Devon since 2000 to develop an exercise programme for the management of this patient group. This programme has been evaluated in a pilot study and a further randomised controlled trial is currently taking place which will enable us to estimate the treatment effect. This paper discusses the background to the development of the rehabilitation programme, the programme itself and the results of the pilot study. The pilot study was an evaluation of the rehabilitation programme. This study examined the effectiveness of a physiotherapy regime for the treatment of patients with massive rotator cuff tears. Patients identified through primary and secondary care referrals to physiotherapy with a clinical diagnosis of a massive rotator cuff tear underwent an ultrasound scan to confirm the diagnosis. A massive cuff tear was one where the leading edge of the tear had retracted past the glenoid margin. The clinical diagnosis was based on the presence of some or all of the following signs: positive humeral thrust on elevation, gross weakness and wasting of supraspinatus and infraspinatus, infraspinatus lag and rupture of the long head of biceps. Eligible patients were invited to take part in the study and informed consent was obtained. The baseline assessment was carried out and then the patient undertook the treatment programme. Outcome measures were reassessed 12 weeks from the baseline assessment. A cohort study of 10 patients evaluating the change from baseline to twelve weeks in the shoulder function of patients undergoing a programme of anterior deltoid strengthening and functional rehabilitation. The outcome measures used were the Oxford Shoulder Disability Questionnaire (OSDQ) and SF36. The OSDQ is validated for use with the UK population and has 12 questions with 5 point responses. The lowest (best) score is 12 and the highest (worse) score is 60. Scores on the OSDQ improved with all patients. The mean improvement was 9 (range 3 to 16, standard deviation 10.3). The SF36 showed an improvement in the pain scores for all patients (mean 22 points) and an overall improvement of 10 points for the sections on role limitation due to physical health. There was an overall decline in perceived general health (9 points) and in role limitation due to emotional health (23 points). As all 10 patients showed improved scores on the OSDQ, in spite of the long-standing nature of many of their shoulder problems, this rehabilitation programme was shown to improve shoulder function in this group of patients. The variation shown in the quality of life scores reflects the age group of this cohort who had a mean age of 75.5 years. All patients deemed their pain and function to have improved over the three-month period."}
{"id": "17039215", "title": "Pain relief in early rehabilitation of rotator cuff tendinitis: any role for indirect suprascapular nerve block?", "content": "Pain relief in early rehabilitation of rotator cuff tendinitis: any role for indirect suprascapular nerve block? The purpose of the trial was to evaluate the efficacy of suprascapular nerve block (SSNB) to relieve the shoulder pain, ameliorate recovery after physiotherapy and reduce disability due to a rotator cuff tendinitis (RCT). A prospective, randomized, comparison cross over investigation was performed in the setting of a large inpatient rehabilitation unit with more than 200 admissions annually. A total of 40 potential study subjects, who complained of shoulder pain from a RCT, were enrolled and randomly assigned to standard rehabilitation treatment plus SSNB (Group A) or to standard rehabilitation treatment alone (Group B). The UCLA shoulder rating scale was used to assess the shoulder mobility on admission and discharge, and to calculate the percentage of potential improvement achieved during rehabilitation (effectiveness). A pain visual analogic scale was used to serially assess pain. At the end of the trial, a self-report questionnaire evaluated whether patients could sleep and achieve activity of day life carry out everyday activities better than they could before treatment. Forty patients suffering from RCT entered the study. Those receiving nerve block from the beginning of the treatment in addition to standard rehabilitation therapy reported significantly less pain during physiotherapy and better final outcomes. During treatment with SSNBs, patients reported a more significant reduction in the intensity of pain and a better reduction of pain during sleep and rehabilitation exercises in comparison to with the standard therapy alone. A statistically significant inverse correlation was found between shoulder pain and mobility. The results indicate that combining nerve block with standard rehabilitative therapy may improve the final outcome of painful RCT. It decreased the severity and frequency of the perceived pain, improved the compliance with physiotherapy, restored more normal sleep patterns, and increased compliance with the rehabilitation program. This result proves to be an effective, safe and inexpensive therapeutic option for patients suffering from painful disabling shoulder tendinitis."}
{"id": "17030126", "title": "Subacromial plica as a cause of impingement in the shoulder.", "content": "Subacromial plica as a cause of impingement in the shoulder. The subacromial bursa is the largest bursa in the body. In 1934, Codman described the presence of subacromial plicae, similar to the suprapatellar plicae found in the knee. It is recognized that plicae in the knee can cause anterior knee pain with impingement against the patella in young persons. We investigated the possibility that a similar situation exists with plicae of the subacromial bursa. The aims of this study were to document the prevalence of bursal plicae seen at bursoscopy during arthroscopic subacromial decompression of the shoulder and to assess whether there is any pattern in the occurrence of these plicae, as well as the relationship to impingement lesions seen at bursoscopy. Between January 1996 and July 2001, all cases undergoing arthroscopic decompression were evaluated for anatomic-pathologic changes of the subacromial bursa, including the presence of plicae and impingement lesions. A total of 1732 cases complying with inclusion criteria were recorded, with plicae observed in 104 (6.0%). The occurrence of plicae showed a highly significant younger age predilection (P = .0008, chi(2) test) but no differences between sexes or sides. The occurrence of subacromial plicae was highly associated with the combined severity of the impingement lesion on the acromial and bursal side. Plicae were most common in shoulders showing an impingement lesion on the cuff bursal side, with no impingement lesion on the acromial side. The odds of the impingement lesion being milder on the acromial side was 3.41 times higher in shoulders with a plica compared with shoulders without a plica. This suggests that impingement of the cuff may be due to the plica itself. This study is the first to describe the presence of subacromial plicae in living subjects and correlates with previous anatomic studies. The younger age predominance correlates with the findings of plicae in the knee. Our findings suggest that subacromial plicae may be a cause of impingement in young patients."}
{"id": "17028867", "title": "Sclerosing polidocanol injections to treat chronic painful shoulder impingement syndrome-results of a two-centre collaborative pilot study.", "content": "Sclerosing polidocanol injections to treat chronic painful shoulder impingement syndrome-results of a two-centre collaborative pilot study. The histological changes found in the supraspinatus tendon have similarities with the findings in Achilles-, patellar- and extensor carpi radialis brevis (ECRB)-tendinopathy. In recent studies, we have found a vasculo-neural ingrowth in chronic painful Achilles and patellar tendinopathy, and demonstrated good short-term clinical effects with injections of the sclerosing substance polidocanol. In this collaborative two-centre pilot study, 15 patients (10 males and 5 females, mean age 46 years) with a long duration of shoulder pain (mean 28 months), and given the diagnosis chronic painful shoulder impingement syndrome, were included. They had tried rest, traditional rehabilitation exercises and multiple subacromial corticosteroid injections, without effect. We found vascularity (neovessels) in chronic painful, but not in pain-free, supraspinatus tendons, and prospectively studied the clinical effects of ultrasound (US) and colour Doppler (CD)-guided injections of polidocanol, targeting the area with neovessels. The patients evaluated the amount of shoulder pain during horizontal shoulder activity on a visual analogue scale (VAS), and satisfaction with treatment. Two (median) (range 1-5) polidocanol treatments (with 4-8 weeks in between) were given. In four patients (considered treatment failure), cortisone was injected into an inflamed subacromial bursa at one separate occasion weeks after the last polidocanol injection. At follow-up, 8 (median) (range 4-17) months after the treatment, 14 patients were satisfied with the result. Using the visual analogue scale evaluation (VAS), the pain dropped from 79 before treatment to 21 at follow-up (P < 0.05). In the short-term perspective, sclerosing polidocanol injections targeting the neovessels in the supraspinatus tendon and/or bursa wall seems to have a potential to reduce the pain during shoulder loading activity."}
{"id": "17027412", "title": "Open and arthroscopic treatment of multidirectional instability of the shoulder.", "content": "Open and arthroscopic treatment of multidirectional instability of the shoulder. Multidirectional instability of the shoulder can be a difficult diagnostic and therapeutic dilemma for orthopaedic surgeons. First described by Neer and Foster, the mainstay of treatment is usually conservative, with most patients doing very well with nonoperative management. In patients with recalcitrant symptoms, surgical treatment primarily has been aimed at addressing the pathologically increased capsular volume. Newer studies suggest that the pathology also includes abnormal labral morphology and perhaps inadequate neuromuscular control. The arthroscopic treatment of multidirectional instability has come to have comparable results to open techniques when the multifactorial nature of the disease is recognized and the multiple techniques are used in combination to fully treat all pathology. Thermal capsulorrhaphy cannot be recommended at this time, except perhaps as an adjunct to other capsular plication or capsulorrhaphy techniques. The advantages of a less invasive procedure make arthroscopic capsular plication attractive, but it is associated with increased technical difficulty and a steep learning curve. Further studies are needed to distinguish a clear advantage of one over the other. Regardless of the technique used, the key to success is addressing the capsular laxity and redundancy to restore anatomic capsuloligamentous tension without overconstraining the shoulder."}
{"id": "17027405", "title": "The bear-hug test: a new and sensitive test for diagnosing a subscapularis tear.", "content": "The bear-hug test: a new and sensitive test for diagnosing a subscapularis tear. It was our intent to devise a new clinical test that would more accurately diagnose subscapularis tears than the current clinical tests. This new test is called the bear-hug test. The purpose of this study was to assess the bear-hug test and compare it with the current tests of subscapularis function (lift-off, belly-press, and Napoleon tests). Between January 2004 and March 2004, 68 consecutive patients scheduled for an arthroscopic procedure were evaluated preoperatively; the preoperative clinical examination findings were then correlated with arthroscopic findings. Lift-off, belly-press, Napoleon, and bear-hug tests were included in the examination. Furthermore, for the belly-press and bear-hug tests, the strength was precisely quantified by means of an electronic digital tensiometer (Kern HBC). Diagnostic arthroscopy was the reference that determined the actual pathologic lesions. Subscapularis tears occurred with a prevalence rate of 29.4%. Of the subscapularis tears, 40% were not predicted by preoperative assessment by use of all of the tests. The bear-hug test was found to be the most sensitive test (60%) of all of those studied (belly-press test, 40%; Napoleon test, 25%; and lift-off test, 17.6%). In contrast, all 4 tests had a high specificity (lift-off test, 100%; Napoleon test, 97.9%; belly-press test, 97.9%; and bear-hug test, 91.7%). No statistically significant difference was found between the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of the bear-hug test and that of the belly-press test in diagnosing a torn subscapularis. However, the areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve for both the bear-hug test and the belly-press test were significantly greater than those for the lift-off and Napoleon tests (P < .05). Positive bear-hug and belly-press tests suggest a tear of at least 30% of the subscapularis, whereas a positive Napoleon test indicates that greater than 50% of the subscapularis is torn. Furthermore, a positive lift-off test is not found until at least 75% of the subscapularis is torn. The bear-hug test optimizes the chance of detecting a tear of the upper part of the subscapularis tendon. Moreover, because the bear-hug test represents the most sensitive test, it can be considered to be the most likely clinical test to alert the surgeon to a possible subscapularis tear. Performing all of the subscapularis tests is useful in predicting the size of the tear. Level I, diagnostic study: testing of previously developed criteria in a series of consecutive patients with arthroscopy used as the criterion standard."}
{"id": "17027404", "title": "Evaluation of residual rotator cuff defects after in vivo single- versus double-row rotator cuff repairs.", "content": "Evaluation of residual rotator cuff defects after in vivo single- versus double-row rotator cuff repairs. As arthroscopic rotator cuff surgery has advanced, new techniques have emerged to maximize the biomechanical strength of the repair construct. The double-row repair has been recommended as a means of increasing the contact area of the repaired rotator cuff to the native bone bed. This study attempts to sequentially examine and measure the rotator cuff footprint (in vivo) before cuff repair, after an initial lateral-row repair (before the medial-row sutures are tied), and finally, after the double-row repair. In this way, the rotator cuff footprint of single- and double-row repairs can be quantified and compared. Between October 2004 and February 2005, 26 patients were enrolled in the study. These patients had rotator cuff tears that were amenable to double-row repair by means of performing the lateral-row repair before the medial-row repair. After preparation of the greater tuberosity footprint, the native footprint was measured in the medial-to-lateral direction. Next, the medial-row anchors and sutures were passed through the cuff (but not tied), and then the lateral row was secured via suture anchors and the arthroscope was reinserted into the intra-articular space. A depth gauge was introduced through the repaired cuff (lateral row only), and the residual bare footprint was measured. The medial row was then tied, and the cuff was again visualized from the intra-articular position to measure any remaining bare footprint. The mean footprint measured 17.0 +/- 1.9 mm from medial to lateral. After repair of the lateral row, the mean residual uncovered footprint measured 9.0 +/- 2.0 mm. This constituted a 52.7% +/- 9.2% uncovered area after a single lateral-row repair. After the medial row was secured, there were no remaining residual deficits of the cuff footprint. After an isolated lateral-row repair, 52.7% +/- 9.2% of the rotator cuff footprint remains uncovered. On average, the double-row repair offered over twice the footprint coverage yielded by a single-row repair. The arthroscopic shoulder surgeon should be aware of the enhanced footprint coverage offered by double-row rotator cuff fixation as opposed to single-row rotator cuff fixation."}
{"id": "17017270", "title": "The intertester reliability of the Scapular Assistance Test.", "content": "The intertester reliability of the Scapular Assistance Test. Test-retest reliability study. To determine interrater reliability of the modified scapular assistance test (SAT). The modified SAT is designed to assess the contribution of scapular motion to shoulder pain. Abnormal scapular motion has been implicated in different shoulder disorders. However, there is a lack of clinical evaluation tools to assess the scapular component of shoulder dysfunction. Forty-six subjects who were referred to physical therapy for treatment of various shoulder pathologies were recruited for this study. The modified SAT was performed on each participant by 2 different examiners. Percent agreement and kappa coefficient were utilized to determine interrater reliability of the modified SAT. The kappa coefficient and percent agreement were .53 and 77%, respectively, when the test was performed in the scapular plane, and .62 and 91%, respectively, when the test was performed in the sagittal plane. The modified SAT possesses acceptable interrater reliability for clinical use."}
{"id": "17016557", "title": "Rapid vascular regrowth in tumors after reversal of VEGF inhibition.", "content": "Rapid vascular regrowth in tumors after reversal of VEGF inhibition. Inhibitors of VEGF signaling can block angiogenesis and reduce tumor vascularity, but little is known about the reversibility of these changes after treatment ends. In the present study, regrowth of blood vessels in spontaneous RIP-Tag2 tumors and implanted Lewis lung carcinomas in mice was assessed after inhibition of VEGF receptor signaling by AG-013736 or AG-028262 for 7 days. Both agents caused loss of 50%-60% of tumor vasculature. Empty sleeves of basement membrane were left behind. Pericytes also survived but had less alpha-SMA immunoreactivity. One day after drug withdrawal, endothelial sprouts grew into empty sleeves of basement membrane. Vessel patency and connection to the bloodstream followed close behind. By 7 days, tumors were fully revascularized, and the pericyte phenotype returned to baseline. Importantly, the regrown vasculature regressed as much during a second treatment as it did in the first. Inhibition of MMPs or targeting of type IV collagen cryptic sites by antibody HUIV26 did not eliminate the sleeves or slow revascularization. These results suggest that empty sleeves of basement membrane and accompanying pericytes provide a scaffold for rapid revascularization of tumors after removal of anti-VEGF therapy and highlight their importance as potential targets in cancer therapy."}
{"id": "17016215", "title": "Comprehensive morphologic evaluation of the hip in patients with symptomatic labral tear.", "content": "Comprehensive morphologic evaluation of the hip in patients with symptomatic labral tear. A torn acetabular labrum is a well-documented source of hip pain, but the mechanism of injury is debated because the relationship between the bone morphology and labral tears is poorly understood. We compared hips with and without labral abnormalities to determine the relative incidence of morphologic abnormalities. The study group consisted of patients with a labral tear confirmed by arthroscopy or arthrotomy at the time of open d\u00e9bridement or periacetabular osteotomy. We compared the affected hip with the contralateral, unaffected hip to ascertain signs of hip dysplasia and impingement. We observed differences in the center edge angle, acetabular depth to width index, acetabular index of elevation, femoral head extrusion, lateral and superior subluxation, Sharp's angle, peak to edge distance, and acetabular retroversion. Similar differences occurred in the subgroup analyses. Symptomatic labral tears correlated with abnormal hip morphology as reflected by radiographic measurements of dysplasia and impingement. This relationship occurred in patients with hip dysplasia and patients without obvious femoral head uncovering. Our findings suggest abnormal hip morphology may be a risk factor for labral tears."}
{"id": "17001436", "title": "Reliability, validity and responsiveness of the German Short Musculoskeletal Function Assessment Questionnaire in patients undergoing surgical or conservative inpatient treatment.", "content": "Reliability, validity and responsiveness of the German Short Musculoskeletal Function Assessment Questionnaire in patients undergoing surgical or conservative inpatient treatment. The patient-based evaluation of outcome is gaining increased importance. The aim of the study was to demonstrate the reliability, validity and responsiveness of the German version of the Short Musculoskeletal Function Assessment Questionnaire (SMFA-D) in patients undergoing surgical or conservative treatment. Three hundred and thirty-two patients suffering from osteoarthritis of the hip or knee, rheumatoid arthritis or rotator cuff tear undergoing surgical or medical inpatient treatment were followed up for 12 month. Patients underwent both SMFA-D and other assessments and clinical as well as radiological examinations. Reliability, validity and responsiveness of the SMFA-D were evaluated. Values of the SMFA-D subscales, Function index (M 22-49, SD 12-20, range 0-96) and Bother index (M 29-52, SD 15-23, range 0-100), showed a normal distribution. Internal consistency (0.88-0.97) and retest reliability (0.71-0.96) coefficients were satisfactory to excellent. In most cases, the SMFA-D correlated significantly with function tests, physicians' function ratings, patients' pain ratings and other quality-of-life questionnaires in all patient subgroups. The results support both the construct and criterion validity of the measure. Different patient groups and subgroups could be discriminated with the SMFA-D scales. The standardized response means of SMFA-D subscales were in surgical patients better than in conservatively treated patients and comparable to those of the SF-36 Physical Component Summary scale. The German version of SMFA is a reliable, valid and responsive questionnaire in patients with osteoarthritis of the hip or knee, rheumatoid arthritis or rotator cuff tear undergoing surgical or medical inpatient treatment. Thus, the use of the SMFA-D in these patients can be recommended."}
{"id": "16985130", "title": "MR arthrography in the differential diagnosis of type II superior labral anteroposterior lesion and sublabral recess.", "content": "MR arthrography in the differential diagnosis of type II superior labral anteroposterior lesion and sublabral recess. The objective of our study was to assess the utility of five MR arthrographic findings in differentiating type II superior labral anteroposterior (SLAP) lesion from superior sublabral recess. The MR arthrograms of 55 patients (57 cases) with either type II SLAP lesion (34 cases) or superior sublabral recess (23 cases) who underwent arthroscopic surgery and MR arthrography were retrospectively reviewed. Two independent reviewers searched for the extension, direction, and shape of high signal intensity in the superior labrum on MR arthrograms. In addition, the presence of concomitant anterosuperior labral tear and anteroposterior extension of high signal intensity on axial images was evaluated. The frequencies of these findings in cases of type II SLAP lesion and sublabral recess were evaluated, and the statistical significance of each finding in differentiation of the two groups was assessed. Extension of high signal intensity behind the biceps anchor that extended beneath the labrum on fat-saturated oblique coronal T1-weighted images was found in 33 (97%) of the cases of type II SLAP lesion and 21 (91%) of the cases of sublabral recess. Laterally curved high signal intensity was found in 17 (50%) of the cases of type II SLAP lesion but in only four (17%) of the cases of sublabral recess. Globular or irregular shape of the superior labrum was present in 22 (65%) of the cases of type II SLAP lesion and in 10 (43%) of the cases of sublabral recess. Concomitant anterosuperior labral tear was seen in 14 (41%) of the cases of type II SLAP lesion but in only two (8.7%) of the cases of sublabral recess. Anteroposterior extension of high signal intensity in the superior labrum on fat-saturated axial T1-weighted images was detected in 33 cases of type II SLAP lesion (97%) and in 14 cases of sublabral recess (61%). Although the MR arthrographic findings were similar for type II SLAP lesion and sublabral recess, laterally curved high signal intensity on oblique coronal images, concomitant anterosuperior labral tear, and anteroposterior extension of high signal intensity on axial images were helpful findings in the diagnosis of type II SLAP lesion."}
{"id": "16979917", "title": "Quantification and characterization of carotid calcium with multi-detector CT-angiography.", "content": "Quantification and characterization of carotid calcium with multi-detector CT-angiography. The aim of this study was to assess the accuracy of CT-angiography for identification and measurement of calcification of carotid atherosclerotic plaques and to characterise the content and distribution pattern of mineral calcium (hydroxyapatite, Ca) in carotid bifurcations and investigate its relationship with neurological symptoms. Twenty-six patients with ICA stenosis > 60% (13 symptomatic, 13 asymptomatic) were selected for study. Ca was estimated from the weight of the ashed remnants of carotid endarterectomy (CEA) specimens in 11 patients. Calcium content (calcification volume (mm3),CV), and average calcium density (Hounsfield units (HU),CD), were determined by CT-angiography. The distribution pattern of calcium within the lesion (base (posterior), shoulder or luminal surface) was assessed in all cases. CT-derived estimation of CV and Ca mass (modified Agatston Score, (mAS) = CV x CD) showed a good correlation with its direct measurement in CEA specimens (r = 0.911 and 0.993 respectively, p < 0,005). Asymptomatic patients with ICA stenosis > 60% showed statistically significant higher content of Ca than those who were symptomatic (mAS: 122.6 +/- 138.0 HU mm3 vs 42.8 +/- 59.1 HU mm3, p = 0.04). Calcification on the surface of the plaque was observed more commonly in asymptomatic patients (9/12 vs 3/15, p = 0.006). Non-calcified or plaques with posterior calcification were 12 times more likely to be symptomatic (OR: 12, 95%CI 1.5-91.1, p = 0.021). CT-angiography permits the reliable quantification of calcification of carotid plaques. A lower content of calcium in carotid plaques, as well as its distribution in the base of the lesion, was associated with a greater prevalence of neurological symptoms. These parameters may be useful to identify those patients at higher risk of stroke."}
{"id": "16979061", "title": "Effects of glenoid component version on humeral head displacement and joint reaction forces: an experimental study.", "content": "Effects of glenoid component version on humeral head displacement and joint reaction forces: an experimental study. The purpose of this study was to determine whether changes in glenoid version are associated with humeral head displacement and changes in the joint reaction forces, as these might contribute to instability or loosening in total shoulder replacement. A total shoulder prosthesis was implanted in neutral version in 6 cadaveric shoulders. Glenoid version was then changed in steps of 4 degrees toward more anteversion and retroversion. An increase in anteversion resulted in anterior translation of the humeral head and in eccentric loading of the anterior part of the glenoid. Retroversion was associated with posterior displacement and posterior loading of the glenoid. A change in rotation of the humeral component did not compensate for altered version of the glenoid component. These results suggest that both instability and glenoid component loosening may be related to the version of the glenoid component. Therefore, assessment of loosening and instability justifies precise assessment of glenoid component version."}
{"id": "16979053", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging accuracy for the diagnosis of superior labrum anterior-posterior lesions in the community setting: eighty-three arthroscopically confirmed cases.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging accuracy for the diagnosis of superior labrum anterior-posterior lesions in the community setting: eighty-three arthroscopically confirmed cases. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been shown in the literature to have high accuracy for the diagnosis of superior labrum anterior-to-posterior (SLAP) lesions. However, these studies have been performed at specialized institutions and have not been evaluated for community settings. Our hypothesis was that MRI diagnosis of SLAP lesions in the community setting is not as accurate as suggested by previous literature. The MRI reports for 83 consecutive surgically confirmed type II SLAP lesions were evaluated. The findings regarding the presence of SLAP lesions were documented from the community radiologists' MRI readings. Two blinded, fellowship-trained musculoskeletal radiologists evaluated these same 83 MRIs, as well as 17 MRIs with surgically confirmed normal superior labra. The musculoskeletal radiologists also used a visual analog scale to subjectively grade the quality of each MRI. MRIs were performed at 14 different centers and were read by 28 different community radiologists. There were 37 noncontrast MRIs and 46 MRI arthrograms. The community radiologists accurately identified 51% of the SLAP lesions. The sensitivities for the community radiologists were significantly better for the MRI arthrograms than for the noncontrast MRIs (P = .0002). For the two musculoskeletal radiologists, the sensitivities were 60% and 67.5%, and the specificities were 71% and 76.5%. The accuracies for the musculoskeletal radiologists were 62% and 69%. One of the musculoskeletal radiologists had significant correlation between the visual analog score and MRI diagnostic accuracy (P = .0006). The sensitivity for one of the musculoskeletal radiologists was significantly greater than the sensitivity for the community radiologists (P = .0063). The accuracies between the other musculoskeletal radiologist and the community radiologists were not significantly different (P = .0577). In this community setting, MRI was not accurate for the diagnosis of SLAP lesions. Musculoskeletal radiologists were more accurate than the community radiologists; however, the musculoskeletal radiologists were not as accurate as previous literature might predict."}
{"id": "16979052", "title": "Electromyographic analysis of physical examination tests for type II superior labrum anterior-posterior lesions.", "content": "Electromyographic analysis of physical examination tests for type II superior labrum anterior-posterior lesions. Physical examination tests that place tension on the long head of the biceps may best reproduce symptoms in patients with type II superior labrum anterior-posterior (SLAP) lesions. The objective of this study is to compare the normalized electromyographic signal of the long head of the biceps for SLAP lesion physical examination tests. The active compression test, anterior-superior SLAP test, biceps load test II, biceps tension test, and pain provocation test were performed on 13 subjects while biceps electromyographic data were recorded. The active compression test and biceps tension test had significantly higher electromyographic signals than the other tests. We found no significant differences when comparing forearm supination and pronation within individual tests. Because the active compression and biceps tension tests maximize muscle activation on the long head of the biceps, they may be the best physical examination tests by which to identify type II SLAP lesions."}
{"id": "16979047", "title": "Ultrasound evaluation and clinical correlation of subscapularis repair after total shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Ultrasound evaluation and clinical correlation of subscapularis repair after total shoulder arthroplasty. The purpose of this study was to document the subscapularis healing rate by use of postoperative ultrasound and correlate healing to physical examination findings. We included 23 patients (30 shoulders), who underwent total shoulder arthroplasty in the study. The evaluation included a standard history and physical examination, ultrasound evaluation, and outcome questionnaires. The postoperative examination included careful documentation of an abdominal-compression test to evaluate subscapularis function. All patients had an improvement in functional outcome scores and shoulder range of motion. Of 30 shoulders, 26 (87%) had an intact subscapularis as determined by ultrasound. By use of ultrasound as the gold standard, the abdominal-compression test had 7 false-positive results, 3 false-negative results, 19 true-negative results, and 1 true-positive result. The sensitivity of the abdominal-compression test was 25%, and the specificity was 73%. The negative predictive value was 86%, and the positive predictive value was 13%. The abdominal-compression test demonstrated a low sensitivity, specificity, and positive predictive value in this study for the assessment of subscapularis function after total shoulder arthroplasty. If a subscapularis tear is suspected in a patient after total shoulder arthroplasty, the abdominal-compression test is unreliable in predicting a subscapularis defect."}
{"id": "16979046", "title": "Neer Award 2005: The Grammont reverse shoulder prosthesis: results in cuff tear arthritis, fracture sequelae, and revision arthroplasty.", "content": "Neer Award 2005: The Grammont reverse shoulder prosthesis: results in cuff tear arthritis, fracture sequelae, and revision arthroplasty. This clinical study was performed to analyze the midterm results and potential complications of the reverse prosthesis in different diagnosis. Forty-five consecutive patients with Grammont prosthesis were evaluated clinically and radiographically with a mean follow-up of 40 months (range, 24-72 months). The indication was a massive and irreparable cuff tear associated with arthrosis (CTA) in 21 cases, fracture sequelae (FS) with arthritis in 5 cases, and failure of a revision arthroplasty (revision) in 19 cases. Fourteen complications occurred in 11 patients. 3 dislocations, 3 deep infections (all 3 in the revision group), 1 case of aseptic humeral loosening, 2 periprosthetic humeral fractures, 1 intraoperative glenoid fracture, 1 wound hematoma, 2 late acromial fractures, and 1 axillary nerve palsy. Of the patients, 10 (22%) required further surgery: 4 reoperations, 4 prosthesis revisions, and 2 prosthesis removals. Complications were higher in revision than in CTA (47% vs. 5%). All 3 groups showed a significant increase in active elevation (from 55 degrees preoperatively to 121 degrees postoperatively) and Constant score (from 17 to 58 points) but no significant change in active external rotation (from 7 degrees to 11 degrees ) or internal rotation (S1 preoperatively and postoperatively). Of the patients, 78% were satisfied or very satisfied with the result and 67% had no or slight pain. However, the postoperative Constant score, adjusted Constant score, and American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons shoulder score were all significantly higher in the CTA group with as compared with the revision group (P = .01, .004, and .002, respectively). Scapular notching was seen in 24 cases (68%). No glenoid loosening was observed at current follow-up, even when the notch extended beyond the inferior screw (28% of cases). Atrophy of severe fatty infiltration of the teres minor was associated with lower external rotation (15 degrees vs 0 degrees , P = .02) and lower functional results (Constant score of 46 points vs 66 points, P < .007). The Grammont reverse prosthesis can improve function and restore active elevation in patients with incongruent cuff-deficient shoulders; active rotation is usually unchanged. Results are less predictable and complication and revision rates are higher in patients undergoing revision surgery as compared with those in patients with CTA. Results of the reverse prosthesis depend on the diagnosis and on the remaining cuff muscles, specifically the teres minor. Surgeons should be vigilant with regard to low-grade infection in revision surgery."}
{"id": "16973781", "title": "From the archives of the AFIP: Imaging of synovial sarcoma with radiologic-pathologic correlation.", "content": "From the archives of the AFIP: Imaging of synovial sarcoma with radiologic-pathologic correlation. Synovial sarcoma is the fourth most common type of soft-tissue sarcoma, accounting for 2.5%-10.5% of all primary soft-tissue malignancies worldwide. Synovial sarcoma most often affects the extremities (80%-95% of cases), particularly the knee in the popliteal fossa, of adolescents and young adults (15-40 years of age). Despite its name, the lesion does not commonly arise in an intraarticular location but usually occurs near joints. Histologic subtypes include monophasic, biphasic, and poorly differentiated; the cytogenetic aberration of the t(X;18) translocation is highly specific for synovial sarcoma. Although radiographic features of these tumors are not pathognomonic, findings of a soft-tissue mass, particularly if calcified (30%), near but not in a joint of a young patient, are very suggestive of the diagnosis. Cross-sectional imaging features are vital for staging tumor extent and planning surgical resection; they also frequently reveal suggestive appearances of multilobulation and marked heterogeneity (creating the \"triple sign\") with hemorrhage, fluid levels, and septa (creating the \"bowl of grapes\" sign). Two features associated with synovial sarcoma that may lead to an initial mistaken diagnosis of a benign indolent process are slow growth (average time to diagnosis, 2-4 years) and small size (< 5 cm at initial presentation); in addition, these lesions may demonstrate well-defined margins and homogeneous appearance on cross-sectional images. Synovial sarcoma is an intermediate- to high-grade lesion, and, despite initial aggressive wide surgical resection, local recurrence and metastatic disease are common and prognosis is guarded. Understanding and recognizing the spectrum of appearances of synovial sarcoma, which reflect the underlying pathologic characteristics, improve radiologic assessment and are important for optimal patient management."}
{"id": "16963285", "title": "The inferior glenohumeral ligament: a correlative investigation.", "content": "The inferior glenohumeral ligament: a correlative investigation. The inferior glenohumeral ligament (IGHL) was investigated by correlating the biomechanical properties, biochemical composition, and histologic morphology of its 3 anatomic regions (superior band, anterior axillary pouch, and posterior axillary pouch) in 8 human cadaveric shoulders. The overall biochemical composition of the IGHL appeared similar to other ligaments, with average water content of 80.9 +/- 2.5%, collagen content of 80.0 +/- 9.2%, and crosslinks of 0.715 +/- 0.13 mol/mol collagen. The proteoglycan content was highest in the superior band (2.73 +/- 0.7 mg/g dry weight) and may, in part, explain its viscoelastic behavior. Histologic analysis demonstrated longitudinally organized fiber bundles that were more uniform in the mid-substance but more interwoven and less uniformly oriented near the insertion sites. The superior band had the most pronounced fiber bundle interweaving, while crimping was more evident in the anterior axillary pouch. Elastin was identified in each of the regions. Tensile testing demonstrated a trend toward higher ultimate tensile stress (16.9 +/- 7.9 MPa) and tensile modulus (130.3 +/- 47.9 MPa) in the superior band compared to the axillary pouch. The mean ultimate tensile strain of the IGHL was 16.8 +/- 4.6%. These complex IGHL properties may help to explain its unique functions in stabilizing the shoulder in different arm positions and at different rates of loading, including the failure patterns seen clinically, as in Bankart lesions (insertion site) versus capsular stretching (ligament substance)."}
{"id": "16958438", "title": "Diagnosis and management of massive rotator cuff tears: the surgeon's dilemma.", "content": "Diagnosis and management of massive rotator cuff tears: the surgeon's dilemma. Several studies have documented high success rates following the surgical treatment of full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Historically, however, less favorable and predictable results have been found in the treatment of massive tears (>5 cm) compared with small and medium sized tears. Determining the most appropriate treatment for a patient with a massive rotator cuff tear can be challenging because of inconsistent outcome results. Some patients function well with nonsurgical treatment of massive tears, some have initially favorable results from surgical d\u00e9bridement of tears without repair that then deteriorate over time, and other patients who are surgically treated continue to maintain good function despite documented retears. Nonsurgical treatment of massive rotator cuff tears may be suitable for elderly patients with chronic tears and limited functional goals below shoulder level. Surgical d\u00e9bridement without repair of the tear may be considered for patients with low physical demands whose predominant symptom is pain. Surgical repair is recommended for patients who require maximal postoperative function, particularly for overhead activities. Open repairs have a lower rate of rerupture than arthroscopic repairs; however, arthroscopic repair offers the benefits of decreased morbidity and decreased risk of postoperative deltoid detachment. Early studies of arthroscopic repairs have shown good functional results; however, there has been a high incidence of retears. Tendon transfers and other reconstruction techniques may offer improvements in certain salvage cases, but results of these procedures are inferior to those for primary repair. Preservation of the coracoacromial arch should be considered in all forms of treatment of massive rotator cuff tears to avoid the devastating complication of superior humeral head escape."}
{"id": "16958437", "title": "Scapular involvement in impingement: signs and symptoms.", "content": "Scapular involvement in impingement: signs and symptoms. Normal scapular motion is closely integrated with arm motion to provide efficient scapulohumeral rhythm in shoulder function. This rhythm is often disrupted in patients with symptoms and signs of shoulder impingement. A large percentage of patients with shoulder impingement have scapular dyskinesis and alterations in the normal resting position of the scapula or in dynamic scapular motion. Scapular dyskinesis usually manifests as a loss of control in the motions of scapular external rotation and the translation of scapular retraction. This loss of control results in alteration in timing and magnitude of acromial upward rotation, excessive antetilting of the glenoid, and loss of maximal rotator cuff muscle activation capability. These pathophysiologic and pathomechanical alterations cause or increase the dysfunction associated with impingement. Scapular dyskinesis may have proximal or distal causative factors. Proximal factors are mainly associated with muscle factors, and can usually be treated with rehabilitation. Distal factors are mainly caused by internal derangements of joints and frequently require surgical treatment followed by appropriate rehabilitation. Physical examination techniques that specifically evaluate scapular dyskinesis can identify the causative factors and guide treatment and rehabilitation strategies."}
{"id": "16958434", "title": "Clinical evaluation of impingement: what to do and what works.", "content": "Clinical evaluation of impingement: what to do and what works. Theories about the etiologies of anterior and lateral shoulder pain have changed greatly since \"impingement disease\" was first described. It is thought that such pain may be caused by contact between the rotator cuff and the acromion and coracoacromial ligament, but the exact pathophysiology of rotator cuff disease remains unclear. The shoulder is notoriously difficult to examine because of the variability of the physical findings in patients with rotator cuff disease. New concepts of impingement, such as coracoid impingement and internal impingement, have been advanced. Although no test is definitive for all causes of anterior and lateral shoulder pain, as the pathophysiology of these conditions becomes better understood the ability to evaluate them clinically also improves."}
{"id": "16952733", "title": "Arthroscopic subscapularis repair: surgical tips and pearls A to Z.", "content": "Arthroscopic subscapularis repair: surgical tips and pearls A to Z. Arthroscopic subscapularis repair can be technically challenging. This article summarizes a number of technical tips that can greatly simplify and expedite what otherwise might be a daunting surgical procedure. Specific tips and pearls include the following: 1. A description of a new clinical test--the bear-hug test--for detecting subscapularis tears on physical examination. 2. How to accurately place portals for precise subscapularis repair. 3. How to safely and accurately perform a coracoplasty. 4. How to identify and mobilize a retracted subscapularis tear. 5. How the comma sign can be used to simplify arthroscopic subscapularis repair. 6. How to securely repair all sizes of subscapularis tear. 7. A description of postoperative immobilization and rehabilitation to optimize results of arthroscopic subscapularis repair."}
{"id": "16952721", "title": "The subscapularis footprint: an anatomic study of the subscapularis tendon insertion.", "content": "The subscapularis footprint: an anatomic study of the subscapularis tendon insertion. Arthroscopic repair of the subscapularis tendon has become more prevalent in recent years. Tears of the subscapularis insertion can be measured arthroscopically when the size of the average subscapularis tendon insertion is known. This anatomic study was performed to measure the dimensions and describe the anatomy of the subscapularis footprint. A total of 6 male and 6 female shoulders were dissected down to the insertion of the subscapularis tendon. The insertion was demarcated, the tendon was detached, and the dimensions of the insertion site were measured. The footprint is the insertion of the subscapularis tendon onto the lesser tubercle. The shape of the footprint was characterized as resembling a human ear. The insertion is broad proximally and tapered distally and has a straight medial border that is almost parallel to the longitudinal axis of the humerus. The total average cephalocaudal height of the footprint was 25.8 mm (+/-3.2 mm). The total average width was 18.1 mm (+/-1.6 mm). Average male cephalocaudal height was 26.7 mm (range, 22 to 32 mm), and width was 18.3 mm (range, 16 to 21 mm). Average female cephalocaudal height was 24.8 mm (range, 22 to 29 mm), and width was 17.8 mm (range, 15 to 19 mm). Although the male footprint was slightly larger than the female footprint, differences were not statistically significant (P = .18 and .31 for height and width, respectively). An anatomic study was performed to determine the size of the footprint of the subscapularis tendon. We found that the average cephalocaudal height of the footprint was 25.8 mm, and the average width was 18.1 mm. Subscapularis tears are now more frequently addressed arthroscopically. This anatomic study was performed to characterize the anatomy of the subscapularis footprint so that the surgeon can achieve a more anatomic repair."}
{"id": "16951091", "title": "The reverse shoulder prosthesis for glenohumeral arthritis associated with severe rotator cuff deficiency. a minimum two-year follow-up study of sixty patients surgical technique.", "content": "The reverse shoulder prosthesis for glenohumeral arthritis associated with severe rotator cuff deficiency. a minimum two-year follow-up study of sixty patients surgical technique. Patients who have pain and dysfunction from glenohumeral arthritis associated with severe rotator cuff deficiency have few treatment options. The goal of this study was to retrospectively evaluate the short-term results of arthroplasty with use of the Reverse Shoulder Prosthesis in the management of this problem. We report the results for sixty patients (sixty shoulders) with a rotator cuff deficiency and glenohumeral arthritis who were followed for a minimum of two years. Thirty-five patients had no previous shoulder surgery, whereas twenty-three had had either an open or arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, one had had a subacromial decompression, and one had had a biceps tendon repair. All patients were assessed preoperatively and postoperatively with the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scoring system for pain and function and with visual analog scales for pain and function. They were also asked to rate their satisfaction with the outcome. The shoulder range of motion was measured preoperatively and postoperatively. The average age of the patients was seventy-one years. The average duration of follow-up was thirty-three months. All measures improved significantly (p < 0.0001). The mean total score on the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons system improved from 34.3 to 68.2; the mean function score, from 16.1 to 29.4; and the mean pain score, from 18.2 to 38.7. The score for function on the visual analog scale improved from 2.7 to 6.0, and the score for pain on the visual analog scale improved from 6.3 to 2.2. Forward flexion increased from 55.0 degrees to 105.1 degrees , and abduction increased from 41.4 degrees to 101.8 degrees . Forty-one of the sixty patients rated the outcome as good or excellent; sixteen were satisfied, and three were dissatisfied. There were a total of thirteen complications in ten patients (17%). Seven patients (12%) had eight failures, requiring revision surgery to another Reverse Shoulder Prosthesis in five patients (one shoulder had two revisions) and revision to a hemiarthroplasty in two patients because of deep infection. The data from this study suggest that arthroplasty with the Reverse Shoulder Prosthesis may be a viable treatment for patients with glenohumeral arthritis and a massive rotator cuff tear. However, future studies will be necessary to determine the longevity of the implant and whether it will provide continued improvement in function."}
{"id": "16951090", "title": "Lesser tuberosity osteotomy for total shoulder arthroplasty. Surgical technique.", "content": "Lesser tuberosity osteotomy for total shoulder arthroplasty. Surgical technique. Recent studies have suggested that tenotomy and repair of the subscapularis tendon carried out for anterior approaches to the shoulder can be followed by failure of the tendon repair and by changes resulting in permanent loss of subscapularis function. We hypothesized that release of the subscapularis with use of a superficial osteotomy of the lesser tuberosity followed by repair of the two opposing bone surfaces would lead to consistent bone-to-bone healing, which would be possible to monitor radiographically, and would lead to satisfactory clinical and structural outcomes. Thirty-nine shoulders in thirty-six consecutive patients who, at an average age of fifty-seven years, had undergone total shoulder replacement through an anterior approach involving an osteotomy of the lesser tuberosity were evaluated at an average of thirty-nine months. Assessment included a standardized interview and physical examination, scoring according to the system described by Constant and Murley, and imaging with conventional radiography and computed tomography to assess healing of the osteotomy site and changes in the subscapularis. The osteotomized tuberosity fragment healed in an anatomical position in all shoulders, and no cuff tendon ruptures were observed. At the time of follow-up, thirty-three (89%) of thirty-seven shoulders evaluated with a belly-press test had a negative result and twenty-seven (75%) of thirty-six shoulders evaluated with a lift-off test had an unequivocally normal result. Fatty infiltration of the subscapularis muscle increased after the operation (p < 0.0001) and was at least stage two in eleven (32%) of thirty-four shoulders. The fatty infiltration had progressed by one stage in eight (24%) of the thirty-four shoulders, by two stages in five shoulders (15%), and by three stages in two shoulders (6%). Osteotomy of the lesser tuberosity provides an easy anterior approach for total shoulder replacement and is followed by consistent bone-to-bone healing, which can be monitored, and good subscapularis function. In the presence of documented anatomical healing of the osteotomy site, postoperative fatty infiltration of the subscapularis muscle remains unexplained and needs to be investigated further as it is associated with a poorer clinical outcome."}
{"id": "16943859", "title": "Interpreting positive signs of the supraspinatus test in screening for torn rotator cuff.", "content": "Interpreting positive signs of the supraspinatus test in screening for torn rotator cuff. The purpose of this study was to investigate the validity of the supraspinatus test as a screening test for detecting torn rotator cuff and to determine what its valuable positive signs were. Both the empty-can test and full-can test were performed on 200 shoulders diagnosed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-and in some cases, surgical findings-to have full-thickness or partial-thickness torn rotator cuff s, or no tear in the rotator cuff . During the maneuver, the presence of pain or weakness or both pain and weakness were recorded as positive signs, and the distribution of these signs were analyzed according to the degree of tear. The predictive values were calculated in 2 ways by considering (1) only full-thickness tears as tears and (2) both full- and partial-thickness tears as tears. The 2 tests and the 2 ways of considering partial-thickness tears were compared. Pain and weakness were severity-dependent, and the empty-can test had a higher incidence of pain. The sensitivities of the 2 supraspinatus tests in all positive signs were higher when including partial-thickness tears in the tear group ; however, their specificities were higher when excluding partial-thickness tears. Both pain and weakness were interpretive for the supraspinatus test, and both tests were sensitive to full- and partial- thickness tears and specific for full-thickness tears."}
{"id": "16921511", "title": "Force steadiness, muscle activity, and maximal muscle strength in subjects with subacromial impingement syndrome.", "content": "Force steadiness, muscle activity, and maximal muscle strength in subjects with subacromial impingement syndrome. We investigated the effects of the subacromial impingement syndrome (SIS) on shoulder sensory-motor control and maximal shoulder muscle strength. It was hypothesized that both would be impaired due to chronic shoulder pain associated with the syndrome. Nine subjects with unilateral SIS who remained physically active in spite of shoulder pain and nine healthy matched controls were examined to determine isometric and isokinetic submaximal shoulder-abduction force steadiness at target forces corresponding to 20%, 27.5%, and 35% of the maximal shoulder abductor torque, and maximal shoulder muscle strength (MVC). Electromyographic (EMG) activity was assessed using surface and intramuscular recordings from eight shoulder muscles. Force steadiness was impaired in SIS subjects during concentric contractions at the highest target force level only, with muscle activity largely unaffected. No between-group differences in shoulder MVC were observed. The present data suggest that shoulder sensory-motor control is only mildly impaired in subjects with SIS who are able to continue with upper body physical activity in spite of shoulder pain. Thus, physical activity should be continued by patients with SIS, if possible, to avoid the loss in neural and muscle functions associated with inactivity."}
{"id": "16918119", "title": "Airway management: a patient with Madelung disease.", "content": "Airway management: a patient with Madelung disease. This case study describes a 51-year-old, ASA physical status II Hispanic man who underwent liposuction to the anterior neck and resection of adipose tissue of the posterior neck. The patient was diagnosed with multiple symmetric lipomatosis, better known by its eponym, Madelung disease. This disease is characterized by abnormal adipose tissue growth primarily in the neck and shoulder regions. As a result of this pathology, a complete airway assessment was challenging. The patient's Mallampati classification was class III with visualization of the soft palate only. Other elements of a full assessment such as thyromental distance, sternomental distance, and tracheal orientation were impossible to evaluate because of the extreme circumferential girth of the adipose tissue in the neck. In addition, flexion and extension of the neck was limited by a minimum of 20 degrees because of the pathology. The patient was deemed as having a difficult airway, and an awake fiberoptic intubation was planned and used successfully. The subsequent surgical procedure progressed without incident, and the patient was transferred to a stepdown unit for monitoring of his airway postoperatively."}
{"id": "16915981", "title": "Management of shoulder hemiarthroplasty in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis.", "content": "Management of shoulder hemiarthroplasty in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis. Case report. Rehabilitation after shoulder hemiarthroplasty for rotator cuff tear arthropathy (RCTA) represents a significant challenge to physical therapists. Limited goals have been defined for this patient population and include no pain or slight pain at rest, moderate pain with vigorous activity, shoulder external rotation active range of motion (AROM) greater than 20 degrees, and shoulder abduction AROM greater than 90 degrees. The patient was a 60-year-old female elementary school teacher with functional class III adult-onset rheumatoid arthritis, who came to physical therapy 2 weeks after undergoing a hemiarthroplasty for RCTA of the right shoulder. Physical therapy included 33 treatment sessions involving 4 to 11 exercises each session. All sessions were performed under the direct supervision of a physical therapist utilizing specially designed equipment. Physical therapy emphasized early active assisted elevation range of motion (ROM), graded progressive exercise, and functional training. All exercises were performed in a pain-free ROM or a ROM that did not increase shoulder pain. Following physical therapy, subjective pain scale at rest was 0/10 and during vigorous activity 1/10 to 2/10. Shoulder AROM was normal and shoulder rotation and elevation strength was good. There was a significant improvement in shoulder proprioception and the patient demonstrated a negative belly press test for subscapularis muscle integrity. Additionally, the patient's score on the self-report section of the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons Assessment Form increased from 0% at the initial examination to 70% at discharge. Despite limited expectations, this patient achieved normal shoulder ROM and near normal shoulder strength after 14 weeks of physical therapy. Overall, an early, aggressive, progressively graded exercise program appears to be a safe and effective form of treatment after shoulder hemiarthroplasty for RCTA."}
{"id": "16915978", "title": "Reliability of function-related tests in patients with shoulder pathologies.", "content": "Reliability of function-related tests in patients with shoulder pathologies. Nonexperimental. To investigate the intertester and intratester reliability of a battery of function-related tests in patients with shoulder pathologies and associated reduced range of motion. A battery of function-related tests has the potential to complement assessment of functional limitation in patients who have shoulder pathologies. Three function-related tests (hand to neck, hand to scapula, and hand to opposite scapula) were conducted on 46 patients with shoulder pathologies, and 46 age- and gender-matched control subjects. The tests were performed by 2 independent physiotherapists to test intertester reliability. Intratester reliability was examined by investigating the reproducibility of the tests performed twice, with 3 to 5 days between tests, by the same physiotherapist. Comparison of the scores on the function-related tests between patients and controls was evaluated. A correlation matrix was calculated to test the level of association among the tests. Intratester and intertester reliability on the 3 tests (weighted K) varied from 0.83 to 0.90. The patient's test performances were decreased in comparison to the control group. The correlation matrix demonstrated a level of associations among the 3 tests varying from r = 0.64 to r = 0.66. The results of this study indicate that function-related tests are reliable and could be used in clinical practice to document reduced function of the shoulder. The level of association among the tests indicates that each test measured different aspects of shoulder function."}
{"id": "16910855", "title": "Disorders of the infraspinatus tendon and bursa in three horses.", "content": "Disorders of the infraspinatus tendon and bursa in three horses. 3 horses with penetrating wounds to the shoulder area were examined because of forelimb lameness. All horses had physical examination findings (decreased cranial phase of the stride, swelling in the shoulder region, and signs of pain on manipulation of the shoulder) that were suggestive of problems in the upper portion of the forelimb. Injury to the biceps tendon or bursa was the primary differential diagnosis in each instance, but no abnormalities involving those structures were found. Radiographic and ultrasonographic imaging revealed injuries to the caudal eminence of the greater tubercle of the humerus, the infraspinatus tendon, and the infraspinatus bursa. Examination with ultrasound was more sensitive than radiography at detecting both osseous and soft tissue changes. All 3 horses responded favorably to treatment with antimicrobials and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Although initial response to standing lavage was favorable in 1 horse, endoscopic lavage was later required. Standing removal of fracture fragments was performed in 2 horses. Ultrasonographic imaging was helpful in monitoring the response to treatment and changes in the affected structures. All 3 horses eventually became sound after treatment. Infraspinatus bursitis and tendonitis should be included in the differential diagnoses of horses with shoulder lameness. Diagnosis and monitoring should include ultrasonographic monitoring. The prognosis for return to soundness after appropriate treatment appears to be good."}
{"id": "16906084", "title": "Brachial plexus lesions after backpack carriage in young adults.", "content": "Brachial plexus lesions after backpack carriage in young adults. Carrying a heavy backpack exerts compression on shoulders, with the potential to cause brachial plexopathy. We evaluated the incidence and predisposing factors of compression plexopathy of the shoulder region in 152,095 military conscripts, hypothesizing that a low body mass index and poor physical fitness predispose to the plexus lesion. Reports of conscripts with neural lesions of the upper arm associated with load carriage were reviewed retrospectively for details associated with the condition onset, symptoms, signs, nerve conduction studies, and electromyographic examinations. Height, weight, and physical fitness scores were obtained from their military training data. The incidence of neural compression after shoulder load carriage in Finnish soldiers was 53.7 (95% confidence interval, 39.5-67.8) per 100,000 conscripts per year. The long thoracic nerve was affected in 19, the axillary nerve in 13, the suprascapular nerve in seven, and the musculocutaneous nerve in six patients. Four patients (7%) had hereditary neuropathy with susceptibility to pressure palsies (HNPP). Symptoms were induced by lighter loads in patients with HNPP. Vulnerability to brachial plexopathy was not predictable from body structure or physical fitness level. To prevent these lesions, awareness of the condition and its symptoms should be increased and backpack designs should be improved."}
{"id": "16899656", "title": "An approximately 140-kb deletion associated with feline spinal muscular atrophy implies an essential LIX1 function for motor neuron survival.", "content": "An approximately 140-kb deletion associated with feline spinal muscular atrophy implies an essential LIX1 function for motor neuron survival. The leading genetic cause of infant mortality is spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of disorders. Previously we described a domestic cat model of autosomal recessive, juvenile-onset SMA similar to human SMA type III. Here we report results of a whole-genome scan for linkage in the feline SMA pedigree using recently developed species-specific and comparative mapping resources. We identified a novel SMA gene candidate, LIX1, in an approximately140-kb deletion on feline chromosome A1q in a region of conserved synteny to human chromosome 5q15. Though LIX1 function is unknown, the predicted secondary structure is compatible with a role in RNA metabolism. LIX1 expression is largely restricted to the central nervous system, primarily in spinal motor neurons, thus offering explanation of the tissue restriction of pathology in feline SMA. An exon sequence screen of 25 human SMA cases, not otherwise explicable by mutations at the SMN1 locus, failed to identify comparable LIX1 mutations. Nonetheless, a LIX1-associated etiology in feline SMA implicates a previously undetected mechanism of motor neuron maintenance and mandates consideration of LIX1 as a candidate gene in human SMA when SMN1 mutations are not found."}
{"id": "16896671", "title": "Predictive value of 99mTc-sestamibi scintigraphy for healing of extremity amputation.", "content": "Predictive value of 99mTc-sestamibi scintigraphy for healing of extremity amputation. Although various non-invasive procedures have been proposed to determine the optimal level of amputation of limbs in patients who have vascular disease, currently there are no consistent criteria that can be applied before surgery. The purpose of this study was to determine whether (99m)Tc-sestamibi imaging can accurately predict the healing of amputation sites. In a prospective study in 26 patients (21 men, 5 women; age range 23-94 years) presenting with ulcers or gangrene of the foot and hand, (99m)Tc-sestamibi imaging was performed preoperatively. The indications for amputation included gangrene (23 patients), electrical injury (2 patients) and trauma (1 patient) of extremities. Although the amputation levels were chosen according to clinical criteria and scintigraphic results, the final amputation level was defined by scintigraphic results. Two below-knee, one above-knee, 12 toe, 11 transmetatarsal, two phalanx, one finger and one thumb amputations and one shoulder disarticulation were performed. In four cases, the amputation defect was not suitable for coverage using a local dermal flap; rather, it was covered with free tissue transfer. Patients had clinical follow-up for 6-36 months (mean 11.69 months) to assess healing of the stump. Scan results were compared with clinical outcome to assess prediction of healing. There was healing in all amputations at the end of the follow-up period. When evaluated regarding preoperative (99m)Tc-sestamibi uptake pattern, there was no perfusion to the lesion site in 21 patients and perfusion to an area smaller than the extent of skin necrosis in four patients; thus, in these 25 patients, (99m)Tc-sestamibi scintigraphy suggested non-viable tissue in the extremities with clear-cut edges of perfused muscle tissue. Diffusely decreased uptake was seen below the left knee in one case. How scintigraphy changed management was analysed. The amputation levels proposed before scintigraphy were divided into two groups, \"definite\" (n=14) and \"indefinite\" (n=12), based on visual examination and Doppler findings. In nine patients in the definite group, the proposed amputation level before scintigraphy was not altered by the scintigraphic data. However, (99m)Tc-sestamibi scan enabled unnecessarily high amputation levels to be avoided in 12 patients in the indefinite group and in five patients in the definite group. Therefore, there was change in management of 65% of cases based on scintigraphic findings. Since healing of the stump was seen in all cases, outcome was correctly predicted by scintigraphy. This preliminary study supports the use of (99m)Tc-sestamibi scan in selecting the optimal amputation level consistent with subsequent stump healing."}
{"id": "16894391", "title": "Metastatic spinal cord compression: the hidden danger.", "content": "Metastatic spinal cord compression: the hidden danger. A 47-year-old male underwent resection of a left-shoulder melanoma in 1997. In November 2004 he was found to have multiple brain lesions and adrenal, lung, and bone metastases, and in January 2005 underwent resection of his symptomatic right parietal lobe lesion and subsequent whole-brain radiation. In February 2005 he experienced headaches and word-finding difficulty and was found to have four progressive brain lesions on MRI. These were resistant to conventional radiotherapy and were treated with stereotactic radiosurgery. The patient later developed an obstruction of the jejunum and underwent resection of multiple abdominal masses. In April 2005, the patient commenced temozolomide and underwent radiation therapy to the left arm for pain thought to be caused by an increase in size of his melanoma metastasis. In August 2005 the patient reported persistent and worsening arm pain, despite a further course of radiotherapy in June 2005. Physical examination including a thorough neurological examination, radiography, X-ray, CT scan, and MRI. Metastatic melanoma to the cervical spine (C7 vertebra) with spinal cord compression. Involved field radiotherapy, temozolomide, opioids, gabapentin, corticosteroids, and Cyberknife therapy."}
{"id": "16892932", "title": "Responsiveness of isokinetic dynamometry parameters, pain and activity level scores to evaluate changes in patients with capsulitis of the shoulder.", "content": "Responsiveness of isokinetic dynamometry parameters, pain and activity level scores to evaluate changes in patients with capsulitis of the shoulder. To determine the responsiveness to change of isokinetic dynamometry of the shoulder and to compare this responsiveness with outcome measures of pain and activity level. Responsiveness was evaluated as the change in outcome after intra-articular steroid injection in patients with capsulitis of the shoulder. Effect sizes of all outcome measures, quantified as standardized response means, were compared. Relationships between change scores of shoulder function and activities were assessed. Ten patients with unilateral capsulitis of the shoulder. Muscle strength and active range of motion were measured by isokinetic dynamometry. We then calculated involved/uninvolved ratios of the maximal peak torques of abduction, adduction, external and internal rotation, active range of motion of abduction and external rotation. In addition, pain was scored using the numeric rating scale (NRS-101) and activity level was scored using the Shoulder Disability Questionnaire. The standardized response mean of all outcome parameters was equal to or greater than 0.8, except for active range of motion of abduction. No significant differences between the standardized response means were found. There is a significant correlation between the change scores of NRS-101 and Shoulder Disability Questionnaire. No significant correlations were found between the change scores of NRS-101 and Shoulder Disability Questionnaire on the one hand, and involved/ uninvolved ratios of peak torques and active range of motion on the other. Responsiveness of all outcome measures is good. Parameters of isokinetic dynamometry may provide additional information as compared with the usual outcome measures of pain and functional level."}
{"id": "16890886", "title": "Pathological muscle activation patterns in patients with massive rotator cuff tears, with and without subacromial anaesthetics.", "content": "Pathological muscle activation patterns in patients with massive rotator cuff tears, with and without subacromial anaesthetics. A mechanical deficit due to a massive rotator cuff tear is generally concurrent to a pain-induced decrease of maximum arm elevation and peak elevation torque. The purpose of this study was to measure shoulder muscle coordination in patients with massive cuff tears, including the effect of subacromial pain suppression. Ten patients, with MRI-proven cuff tears, performed an isometric force task in which they were asked to exert a force in 24 equidistant intervals in a plane perpendicular to the humerus. By means of bi-polar surface electromyography (EMG) the direction of the maximal muscle activation or principal action of six muscles, as well as the external force, were identified prior to, and after subacromial pain suppression. Subacromial lidocaine injection led to a significant reduction of pain and a significant increase in exerted arm force. Prior to the pain suppression, we observed an activation pattern of the arm adductors (pectoralis major pars clavicularis and/or latissimus dorsi and/or teres major) during abduction force delivery in eight patients. In these eight patients, adductor activation was different from the normal adductor activation pattern. Five out of these eight restored this aberrant activity (partly) in one or more adductor muscles after subacromial lidocaine injection. Absence of glenoid directed forces of the supraspinate muscle and compensation for the lost supraspinate abduction torque by the deltoideus leads to destabilizating forces in the glenohumeral joint, with subsequent upward translation of the humeral head and pain. In order to reduce the superior translation force, arm adductors will be co-activated at the cost of arm force and abduction torque. Pain seems to be the key factor in this (avoidance) mechanism, explaining the observed limitations in arm force and limitations in maximum arm elevation in patients suffering subacromial pathologies. Masking this pain may further deteriorate the subacromial tissues as a result of proximal migration of the humeral head and subsequent impingement of subacromial tissues."}
{"id": "16889138", "title": "Calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff: functional outcome after arthroscopic treatment.", "content": "Calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff: functional outcome after arthroscopic treatment. In this study, we assessed the functional results after arthroscopic excision of rotator cuff calcifications. Sixty-one shoulders in 57 patients with chronic calcifying tendinitis of the rotator cuff were treated with arthroscopic excision, subacromial bursa debridement and shaving. In patients with fraying or roughness of the coracoacromial ligament, an acromioplasty was also performed. Patients were evaluated after a mean follow-up of 15 months. The modified Constant score and DASH score significantly improved from 33.4 to 66.8 and from 49.7 to 17.3 respectively. Performing an acromioplasty did not influence the final outcome. Frozen shoulder was a frequent complication (18%) without significant effect on the final DASH or Constant score. The presence of residual calcifications after arthroscopic needling did not influence the final outcome. We therefore believe that the presence of residual calcifications can be accepted if this is deemed necessary to preserve the integrity of the tendon."}
{"id": "16885478", "title": "Recurrent posterior shoulder instability.", "content": "Recurrent posterior shoulder instability. Recurrent posterior shoulder instability is an uncommon condition. It is often unrecognized, leading to incorrect diagnoses, delays in diagnosis, and even missed diagnoses. Posterior instability encompasses a wide spectrum of pathology, ranging from unidirectional posterior subluxation to multidirectional instability to locked posterior dislocations. Nonsurgical treatment of posterior shoulder instability is successful in most cases; however, surgical intervention is indicated when conservative treatment fails. For optimal results, the surgeon must accurately define the pattern of instability and address all soft-tissue and bony injuries present at the time of surgery. Arthroscopic treatment of posterior shoulder instability has increased application, and a variety of techniques has been described to manage posterior glenohumeral instability related to posterior capsulolabral injury."}
{"id": "16882896", "title": "Reverse total shoulder arthroplasty. Survivorship analysis of eighty replacements followed for five to ten years.", "content": "Reverse total shoulder arthroplasty. Survivorship analysis of eighty replacements followed for five to ten years. Reverse total shoulder arthroplasty is currently being used to treat selected patients with disabling shoulder arthropathy. The purposes of this study were to investigate the medium-term results of reverse total shoulder arthroplasty and to analyze the influence of etiology on the result. We carried out a multicenter study with a minimum follow-up of five years and determined the survival rate of the prosthesis according to the initial etiology of the shoulder arthropathy. Eighty prostheses were implanted in seventy-seven patients between 1992 and 1998. Sixty-six shoulders had an arthropathy with a massive rotator cuff tear, and fourteen shoulders had a disorder with another etiology (rheumatoid arthritis, trauma, or revision arthropathy). At the time of review, eighteen patients had died and two were lost to follow-up. The remaining fifty-seven patients (sixty shoulders) were examined or interviewed by telephone at a mean follow-up of 69.6 months. Cumulative survival curves were generated with replacement of the prosthesis, glenoid loosening, and a functional Constant score of <30 as the end points. The survival rate with replacement of the prosthesis and glenoid loosening as the end points were 91% and 84%, respectively, at 120 months, with shoulders that had arthropathy with a massive rotator cuff tear demonstrating a significantly better result than those that had a disorder with another etiology (p < 0.05). On the other hand, the survival rate with an absolute Constant score of <30 as an end point was 58% at 120 months, with no significant difference with respect to etiology. Two breaks were observed in the survival curves. The first concerned survival until replacement of the prosthesis and occurred at around three years, reflecting early loosening of the prosthesis. The curve then became stable. A second break started at around six years and reflected progressive deterioration of the functional result. Our findings indicate that the reverse total prosthesis should be reserved for the treatment of very disabling shoulder arthropathy with a massive rotator cuff rupture, and it should be used exclusively in patients over seventy years old with low functional demands."}
{"id": "16882895", "title": "Treatment of femoro-acetabular impingement with surgical dislocation and d\u00e9bridement in young adults.", "content": "Treatment of femoro-acetabular impingement with surgical dislocation and d\u00e9bridement in young adults. Femoro-acetabular impingement has been associated with acetabular labral and/or articular cartilage damage that may ultimately result in osteoarthritis of the hip. Surgical treatment of femoro-acetabular impingement is directed at restoring a more normal femoral head-neck offset to alleviate femoral abutment against the acetabular rim and treating associated labral and articular cartilage damage. Thirty hips with femoro-acetabular impingement (in twenty-nine patients) underwent d\u00e9bridement through a greater trochanteric flip osteotomy and anterior dislocation of the femoral head. There were sixteen male patients and thirteen female patients with a mean age of thirty-one years. Cam (femoral based) impingement was noted in fourteen hips; pincer (acetabular based) impingement, in one hip; and combined cam and pincer impingement, in fifteen hips. The mean duration of clinical and radiographic follow-up was thirty-two months. All patients were followed according to a prospective protocol, with Harris hip scores and plain radiographs obtained preoperatively and at six months, one year, and annually for a minimum of two years. The mean Harris hip score improved from 70 points preoperatively to 87 points at the time of final follow-up (p < 0.0001). Osteonecrosis did not develop in any hip, and there were no trochanteric nonunions. In eighteen hips, severe damage of the acetabular articular cartilage that had not been appreciated on preoperative plain radiographs or magnetic resonance arthrography was noted on arthrotomy. Eight of these eighteen hips subsequently had radiographic evidence of progression of the osteoarthritis, and four of the eight hips required or were expected to soon require conversion to a total hip arthroplasty to treat progressive pain. At the time of early follow-up, we found that surgical dislocation and d\u00e9bridement of the hip for the treatment of femoro-acetabular impingement in hips without substantial damage to the articular cartilage can reduce pain and improve function. This procedure has a low rate of complications. Radiographic signs of progression of osteoarthritis and clinical failure requiring conversion to a total hip arthroplasty were seen only in patients with severe damage to the acetabular articular cartilage, a finding that emphasizes the need for better imaging methods to assess the extent of damage to the acetabular articular cartilage in patients with this disorder."}
{"id": "16882890", "title": "The demographic and morphological features of rotator cuff disease. A comparison of asymptomatic and symptomatic shoulders.", "content": "The demographic and morphological features of rotator cuff disease. A comparison of asymptomatic and symptomatic shoulders. Very little comparative information is available regarding the demographic and morphological characteristics of asymptomatic and symptomatic rotator cuff tears. This information is important to provide insight into the natural history of rotator cuff disease and to identify which factors may be important in the development of pain. The purpose of the present study was to compare the morphological characteristics and prevalences of asymptomatic and symptomatic rotator cuff disease in patients who presented with unilateral shoulder pain. Five hundred and eighty-eight consecutive patients in whom a standardized ultrasonographic study had been performed by an experienced radiologist for the assessment of unilateral shoulder pain were evaluated with regard to the presence and size of rotator cuff tears in each shoulder. The demographic factors that were analyzed included age, gender, side, and cuff thickness. All of these factors were evaluated with regard to their correlation with the presence of pain. Of the 588 consecutive patients who met the inclusion criteria, 212 had an intact rotator cuff bilaterally, 199 had a unilateral rotator cuff tear (either partial or full thickness), and 177 had a bilateral tear (either partial or full thickness). The presence of rotator cuff disease was highly correlated with age. The average age was 48.7 years for patients with no rotator cuff tear, 58.7 years for those with a unilateral tear, and 67.8 years for those with a bilateral tear. Logistic regression analysis indicated a 50% likelihood of a bilateral tear after the age of sixty-six years (p < 0.01). In patients with a bilateral rotator cuff tear in whom one tear was symptomatic and the other tear was asymptomatic, the symptomatic tear was significantly larger (p < 0.01). The average size of a symptomatic tear was 30% greater than that of an asymptomatic tear. Overall, patients who presented with a full-thickness symptomatic tear had a 35.5% prevalence of a full-thickness tear on the contralateral side. There is a high correlation between the onset of rotator cuff tears (either partial or full thickness) and increasing age. Bilateral rotator cuff disease, either symptomatic or asymptomatic, is common in patients who present with unilateral symptomatic disease. As the size of a tear appears to be an important factor in the development of symptoms, we recommend surveillance at yearly intervals for patients with known rotator cuff tears that are treated nonoperatively."}
{"id": "16881468", "title": "The hip joint: arthroscopic procedures and postoperative rehabilitation.", "content": "The hip joint: arthroscopic procedures and postoperative rehabilitation. Recent technological improvements have resulted in a greater number of surgical options available for individuals with hip joint pathology. These options are particularly pertinent to the relatively younger and more active population. The diagnosis and treatment of acetabular labral tears have become topics of particular interest. Improvements in diagnostic capability and surgical technology have resulted in an increased number of arthroscopic procedures being performed to address acetabular labral tears and associated pathology. Associated conditions include capsular laxity, femoral-acetabular impingement, and chondral lesions. Arthroscopic techniques include labral tear resection, labral repair, capsular modification, osteoplasty, and microfracture procedures. Postoperative rehabilitation following arthroscopic procedures of the hip joint carries particular concerns regarding range of motion, weight-bearing precautions, and initiation of strength activities. Postoperative rehabilitation protocols that have been typically used for surgeries such as total hip arthroplasty are often not sufficient for the population of patients undergoing arthroscopic procedures of the hip joint. Postoperative rehabilitation should be based upon the principles of tissue healing as well as individual patient characteristics. As arthroscopic procedures to address acetabular labral tears and associated pathology evolve, physical therapists have the opportunity to play a significant role through the development of corresponding rehabilitation protocols."}
{"id": "16881467", "title": "Acetabular labral tears of the hip: examination and diagnostic challenges.", "content": "Acetabular labral tears of the hip: examination and diagnostic challenges. The purpose of this clinical commentary is to provide an evidence-based review of the examination process and diagnostic challenges associated with acetabular labral tears of the hip. Once considered an uncommon entity, labral tears have recently received wider recognition as a source of symptoms and functional limitation. Information regarding acetabular labral tears and their association to capsular laxity, femoral acetabular impingement (FAI), dysplasia of the acetabulum, and chondral lesions is emerging. Physical therapists should understand the anatomical structures of the hip and recognize how the clinical presentation of labral tears is difficult to view isolated from other hip articular pathologies. Clinical examination should consider lumbopelvic and extra-articular pathologies in addition to intra-articular pathologies when assessing for the source of symptoms and functional limitation. If a labral tear is suspected, further diagnostic testing may be indicated. Although up-and-coming evidence suggests that information obtained from patient history and clinical examination can be useful, continued research is warranted to determine the diagnostic accuracy of our examination techniques."}
{"id": "16881465", "title": "Scapular dysfunction in throwers with pathologic internal impingement.", "content": "Scapular dysfunction in throwers with pathologic internal impingement. Case control group study. To compare scapular position and orientation between baseball players with and without pathologic internal impingement. Scapular dysfunction has been implicated as a contributor to throwing-related pathologic internal impingement of the shoulder due to its role in increasing the contact between the greater tuberosity and posterior-superior glenoid, thereby impinging the posterior rotator cuff tendon(s) and labrum. However, to date, no definitive data demonstrate this scapular dysfunction in throwing athletes. The purpose of this study was to assess, in a controlled laboratory environment, whether scapular position and orientation would be different in throwing athletes diagnosed with pathologic internal impingement than in a control group of throwing athletes. Eleven throwing athletes diagnosed with pathologic internal impingement, using both clinical examination and a magnetic resonance arthrogram, were demographically matched with a control group of 11 throwers with no history of upper extremity injury. An electromagnetic tracking device was used to measure scapular internal/external rotation, anterior/posterior tilt, upward/downward rotation, sternoclavicular protraction/retraction, and elevation/depression during humeral elevation within the scapular plane. Comparisons were made between groups with analysis of variance models (P<.05). The individuals in the pathologic internal impingement group demonstrated statistically significant increased sternoclavicular elevation when elevating their humerus from 30 degrees to 120 degrees (P = .002) and from 60 degrees to 120 degrees (P = .003), compared to the control group. Furthermore, these patients also had increased posterior scapular tilt position (P = .016). No statistically significant differences were present in any other scapular variables measured. Based on the results of this study, throwing athletes diagnosed with pathologic internal impingement present with statistically significant increases in sternoclavicular elevation and scapular posterior tilt position during humeral elevation in the scapular plane."}
{"id": "16879042", "title": "Shoulder function and 3-dimensional scapular kinematics in people with and without shoulder impingement syndrome.", "content": "Shoulder function and 3-dimensional scapular kinematics in people with and without shoulder impingement syndrome. Several factors such as posture, muscle force, range of motion, and scapular dysfunction are commonly believed to contribute to shoulder impingement. The purpose of this study was to compare 3-dimensional scapular kinematics, shoulder range of motion, shoulder muscle force, and posture in subjects with and without primary shoulder impingement syndrome. Forty-five subjects with impingement syndrome were recruited and compared with 45 subjects without known pathology or impairments matched by age, sex, and hand dominance. Shoulder motion and thoracic spine posture were measured goniometrically, and force was measured with a dynamometer. An electromagnetic motion analysis system was used to capture shoulder kinematics during active elevation in both the sagittal and scapular planes as well as during external rotation with the arm at 90 degrees of elevation in the frontal plane. The impingement group demonstrated slightly greater scapular upward rotation and clavicular elevation during flexion and slightly greater scapular posterior tilt and clavicular retraction during scapular-plane elevation compared with the control group. The impingement group demonstrated less range of motion and force in all directions compared with the control group. There were no differences in resting posture between the groups. The kinematic differences found in subjects with impingement may represent scapulothoracic compensatory strategies for glenohumeral weakness or motion loss. The decreased range of motion and force found in subjects with impingement support rehabilitation approaches that focus on strengthening and restoring flexibility."}
{"id": "16878835", "title": "A survey of decision-making processes in the treatment of common shoulder ailments among primary care physicians.", "content": "A survey of decision-making processes in the treatment of common shoulder ailments among primary care physicians. To encourage consistent care for patients with musculoskeletal complaints, the AAOS developed treatment algorithms to aid primary care physicians in the management of these patients. A survey was designed to assess whether a random group of primary care physicians treated their patients in a manner consistent with these algorithms. The AAOS algorithm for shoulder pain was used to develop a questionnaire for primary care physicians. An Internet company provided access to a national base of physicians who volunteered to complete the survey. Ten questions were presented on five shoulder conditions: rotator cuff disease, fractures, instability, arthritis, and frozen shoulder The \"correct\" answer was based upon the AAOS algorithm. The survey was completed by 706 physicians who treated variable (one to greater than ten) numbers of shoulder patients per month. Forty-eight percent of the physicians treated acute trauma according to the algorithm, 87% treated arthritis, and 58% treated instability. Only 46% of physicians chose the correct answer for an acute rotator cuff tear and 29% for chronic rotator cuff symptoms. Forty-four percent followed the algorithm for frozen shoulder. Overall only 49% of the patients described were treated according to the AAOS algorithms. Based on the number of shoulder patients seen each month, in one month over 2000 patients could be tested by the surveyed physicians in a manner inconsistent with the treatment algorithms, suggesting the need for improved musculoskeletal education for primary care physicians."}
{"id": "16878833", "title": "A biodegradable button to augment suture attachment in rotator cuff repair.", "content": "A biodegradable button to augment suture attachment in rotator cuff repair. Recent experimental studies suggest that the use of suture anchors for rotator cuff tear (RCT) repair transfers the \"weak link\" to the suture-tendon interface where failure occurs as the sutures cut through the tendon. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of using a suture augmentation button on the fixation strength of rotator cuff tendon repair. A 1.5 cm by 2 cm defect was created in the supraspinatus tendon of seven cadaveric shoulder pairs and two suture anchors inserted in each humerus for suture attachment. For one of each pair, the defect was repaired with sutures placed in a horizontal mattress configuration. The other side was repaired with the sutures being passed through low profile, bioabsorbable buttons placed on the bursal tendon surface prior to knot tying. The supraspinatus tendon was cyclically loaded at a physiologic rate and load (33 mm/sec and 180 N, respectively). The number of loading cycles was recorded when the specimens developed 0.75 cm and 1.5 cm gaps at the repair site. The specimens were then tested to failure. Specimens in the unaugmented group developed 0.75 cm and 1.5 cm gaps at an average of 135 cycles and 362 cycles, respectively. The button augmented group developed these gaps at average of 420 cycles and 708 cycles, respectively. These differences were statistically significant (p < 0.05). The gaps progressively increased in all specimens, which eventually failed by suture cutting through tendon in all specimens. This study demonstrates that in vitro, suture augmentation with a low profile, bioabsorbable button provides significantly enhanced fixation when using suture anchors to repair torn rotator cuff tendon. This device may be a useful adjunct to current methods of rotator cuff repair."}
{"id": "16871412", "title": "Adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder: the rate of manipulation following distension arthrogram.", "content": "Adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder: the rate of manipulation following distension arthrogram. To determine the rate of manipulation under anaesthesia (MUA) following distension arthrogram for adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder. Thirty-nine patients (42 shoulders) between 1998 and 2004 were treated with distension arthrogram for adhesive capsulitis diagnosed by the clinical picture of progressive pain and stiffness. Capsular disruption into the subscapular bursa was demonstrated in 40 of the 42 shoulders (95%). Thirty-seven of 42 (88%) shoulders were painfree following distension arthrogram. 15 of 42 (36%) shoulders underwent MUA following distension arthrogram for stiffness although 10 of these (67%) were painfree. Prior to distension arthrogram, the range of external rotation (ER) was no different between those that had MUA and those that did not (P = 0.36). The improvement in ER was 33% (P = 0.28) in those that had MUA and 50% (P = 0.001) in those that did not. The only complication was a vasovagal episode during the procedure. Distension arthrogram can be used as a therapeutic procedure for achieving symptomatic pain relief in the majority of adhesive capsulitis and decrease the rate of MUA of the shoulder."}
{"id": "16870821", "title": "Outcome and structural integrity after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using 2 rows of fixation: minimum 2-year follow-up.", "content": "Outcome and structural integrity after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using 2 rows of fixation: minimum 2-year follow-up. Although arthroscopic repairs of the rotator cuff are becoming increasingly popular, security of fixation remains a concern. Two-row repairs have been described, but clinical outcome reports have primarily involved open techniques. An arthroscopic repair technique that uses 2 rows of fixation produces satisfactory outcome and structural integrity by ultrasonography. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Forty-eight patients (52 shoulders) with a full-thickness, but fully reducible, rotator cuff tear who met the inclusion criteria were treated with an arthroscopic rotator cuff repair using 2 rows of suture anchors. The mean tear size was 2.47 cm (range, 1-4 cm). Patients were evaluated by subjective functional assessment (L'Insalata Shoulder Rating Questionnaire), clinical examination, including measured strength testing, and ultrasonography. At a mean follow-up of 30 months (minimum of 2 years), functional scores improved from a mean of 42 preoperatively to 93 postoperatively (P < .001). Active range of motion was increased in all measured planes (P < .001). Strength was also increased in elevation (P < .001), external rotation (P < .001), and internal rotation (P = .033). Nine of the 52 shoulders (17%) had evidence of retear or persistent defect on postoperative ultrasonography. There were no differences detected in functional scores between those with an intact repair and those with a defect, but those with an intact repair were stronger in elevation (P = .006) and external rotation (P = .001). An arthroscopic 2-row rotator cuff repair produces excellent functional outcome and repair integrity comparable with previously reported open repairs. Presence of a defect after repair did not appear to affect patient-reported function and return to preinjury activity but did affect measured strength."}
{"id": "16869012", "title": "Ultrasound findings of teres minor denervation in suspected quadrilateral space syndrome.", "content": "Ultrasound findings of teres minor denervation in suspected quadrilateral space syndrome. Isolated teres minor denervation is an uncommon finding on sonographic examination. We present a case of a 64-year-old man with increased echogenity of the teres minor muscle and a slight reduction in muscle bulk. Investigation of a suspected axillary nerve lesion included a detailed sonographic examination of the posterior shoulder and the axillary space, followed by MR imaging and electrophysiologic testing. This case demonstrates the potential importance of examining rotator cuff muscles when performing sonographic examination of the shoulder in patients with persistent symptoms, no history of trauma, and absence of tendon tears."}
{"id": "16862340", "title": "Biomechanical properties of the biceps-labral complex submitted to mechanical stress.", "content": "Biomechanical properties of the biceps-labral complex submitted to mechanical stress. To determine biomechanical properties of the superior labrum-biceps tendon complex submitted to continuous and sudden mechanical strain. Eighteen shoulder specimens from 15 unclaimed corpses, ages ranging from 20 to 40 years, were submitted to continuous or sudden tensile tests using 3 different traction machines. Shoulders presenting signs of degenerative diseases or preexisting traumatic lesions were excluded. Rupture of the distal portion of the long hand of the biceps occurred when stretching forces reached 290N in continuous traction and 384N in sudden traction. No labral-complex lesions were observed. Either a simple continuous or a sudden uniaxial traction of the arm do not play a role in the genesis of superior labrum anterior-posterior (SLAP) lesions in the shoulder joint."}
{"id": "16861541", "title": "Association between rotator cuff abnormalities and reduced acromiohumeral distance.", "content": "Association between rotator cuff abnormalities and reduced acromiohumeral distance. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the association between rotator cuff abnormalities and reduced acromiohumeral distance. Acromiohumeral distance was measured on conventional radiographs and on MR images. Three age- and sex-matched patient groups each including 21 patients were stratified according to acromiohumeral distance on conventional radiographs (group 1, <or= 7 mm; group 2, 8-10 mm; group 3, > 10 mm). Acromiohumeral distance was related to the presence, location, and size of a rotator cuff tear and the degree of fatty degeneration of the muscle assessed on MR arthrography. The relative influence on acromiohumeral distance of the various MR arthrographic findings was assessed. Spearman's rank correlation and stepwise regression were used for statistical analysis. In group 1 (acromiohumeral distance <or= 7 mm) full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears were present in 90% (19/21) of the patients, infraspinatus tendon tears in 67% (14/21) of the patients, and subscapularis tendon tears in 43% (9/21) of the patients. The size of rotator cuff tendon tears and the degree of fatty degeneration in all rotator cuff muscles showed a significant negative correlation with acromiohumeral distance (p < 0.05). After stepwise regression, a significant relative influence on acromiohumeral distance remained for size of rotator cuff tear (p < 0.0001) and for degree of fatty degeneration of the infraspinatus muscle (p = 0.013). Tendon tears and fatty muscle degeneration in the rotator cuff correlate with reduced acromiohumeral distance. Size of rotator cuff tear and degree of fatty degeneration of the infraspinatus muscle have the most pronounced influence on acromiohumeral distance."}
{"id": "16857978", "title": "Cam and pincer femoroacetabular impingement: characteristic MR arthrographic findings in 50 patients.", "content": "Cam and pincer femoroacetabular impingement: characteristic MR arthrographic findings in 50 patients. To retrospectively characterize magnetic resonance (MR) arthrographic findings in patients with cam femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) and in those with pincer FAI. Institutional review board approval and informed consent were not required. MR arthrographic studies obtained in 50 consecutive patients (30 men, 20 women; mean age, 28.8 years) with FAI were analyzed for labral abnormalities, cartilage lesions, and osseous abnormalities of the acetabular rim. The nonspherical shape of the femoral head at the head-neck junction was measured in eight positions around the femoral head and neck and used to calculate the alpha angle. Acetabular depth was measured. Surgical diagnosis served as the reference standard. The Wilcoxon rank sum test was used for statistical analysis. At surgery, hips in 33 patients were classified as having cam FAI and hips in 17 patients were classified as having pincer FAI. In both groups, the mean age of patients was 28.8 years. There were significantly more men (n = 27) with cam FAI and more women (n = 14) with pincer FAI. The alpha angle was significantly larger in patients with cam FAI at the anterior and anterosuperior positions. The acetabulum was significantly deeper in patients with pincer FAI than in patients with cam FAI. Cartilage lesions at the anterosuperior and superior positions were significantly larger in patients with cam FAI than in patients with pincer FAI. Cartilage lesions at the posteroinferior position were significantly larger and labral lesions at the posterior and posteroinferior positions were more pronounced in patients with pincer FAI than in patients with cam FAI. Osseous abnormalities were not significantly different between the groups. Osseous bump formation at the femoral neck was significantly more common in patients with cam FAI than in patients with pincer FAI. Characteristic MR arthrographic findings of cam FAI include large alpha angles and cartilage lesions at the anterosuperior position and osseous bump formation at the femoral neck; characteristic findings of pincer FAI include a deep acetabulum and posteroinferior cartilage lesions."}
{"id": "16849802", "title": "Characterization of proteinase-adhesin complexes of Porphyromonas gingivalis.", "content": "Characterization of proteinase-adhesin complexes of Porphyromonas gingivalis. Proteinase-adhesin complexes of Porphyromonas gingivalis wild-type and RgpA and Kgp mutants were extracted using a Triton X-114 procedure and purified using arginine-affinity chromatography. The complexes were then characterized by peptide mass fingerprinting (PMF) and their equilibrium binding constants, immunogenicity and ability to induce protection as vaccines in the murine lesion model determined. The Triton X-114 procedure resulted in consistently higher yield and specific activity of the wild-type (wt) complex compared with that produced by the previously published sonication method. PMF and N-terminal sequencing of the purified wt complex showed that it consisted of the previously identified Arg-specific proteinase RgpA(cat), the Lys-specific proteinase Kgp(cat) and adhesin domains RgpA A1, RgpA A2, RgpA A3, Kgp A1 and Kgp A2. However, analysis of the 30 kDa band in the wt complex, previously suggested to be RgpA A4, indicated that this band contained C-terminally truncated Kgp A1 (which has an identical N-terminus to RgpA A4) as well as the HagA A1* adhesin. Analysis of the Triton X-114 extracted complexes from the P. gingivalis isogenic mutants kgp (RgpA complex) and rgpA (Kgp complex) suggested that the Kgp complex consisted of Kgp(cat), Kgp A1 and Kgp A2/HagA A2 and that the RgpA complex consisted of RgpA(cat), RgpA A1, HagA A1*, RgpA A2 and RgpA A3. Each of the complexes was found to have equilibrium binding constants (K(D)) in the nanomolar range for fibrinogen, fibronectin, haemoglobin, collagen type V and laminin. However, the Triton-wt complex exhibited significantly lower K(D) values for binding to each host protein compared with the sonication-wt complex, or the Triton-RgpA complex and Triton-Kgp complex. Furthermore, the Triton-wt complex induced a stronger antibody response to the A1 adhesins and tended to be more effective in providing protection in the mouse lesion model compared with the sonication-wt complex."}
{"id": "16848064", "title": "Arthroscopic capsular release for painful throwing shoulder with posterior capsular tightness.", "content": "Arthroscopic capsular release for painful throwing shoulder with posterior capsular tightness. Posterior capsular tightness with glenohumeral internal rotation deficit is usually considered to be an acquired condition of the throwing shoulder and is usually treated conservatively. However, because posterior capsular tightness is sometimes irreversible, we have performed arthroscopic capsular release for painful throwing shoulder with posterior capsular tightness. The true loss of internal rotation and posterior stiffness was confirmed by examination with the patient under anesthesia, and contracture of the posterior capsule and the posterior band of the inferior glenohumeral ligamant was observed arthroscopically. Because an extensive adhesion between the capsule and the fascia of the external rotators was noted, a capsular release was performed from 6 o'clock to 11 o'clock (in the right shoulder) to completely expose the muscle belly of the external rotators. Of the first 16 consecutive patients, 4 had no concomitant lesions and underwent posterior capsular release alone. With a minimum of 2 years' follow-up, it was ascertained that the throwing pain completely disappeared in 14 patients and improved in 2. In all, 11 patients returned to their preinjury performance level, and 5 returned to a lower level of function. In the 4 patients who had no concomitant lesions, throwing pain completely disappeared, and all were able to return to their preinjury performance level."}
{"id": "16846761", "title": "Ultrasound of the shoulder and elbow.", "content": "Ultrasound of the shoulder and elbow. Ultrasound examination of the shoulder and elbow requires careful technique, appreciation of normal anatomy, and appropriate high-end equipment. Ultrasound provides detailed diagnostic information. Its accuracy is comparable to that of MRI in the assessment of the rotator cuff. Ultrasound is cheaper than MRI and is preferred by patients."}
{"id": "16845547", "title": "Influence of tendon healing after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair on clinical outcome using single-row Mason-Allen suture technique: a prospective, MRI controlled study.", "content": "Influence of tendon healing after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair on clinical outcome using single-row Mason-Allen suture technique: a prospective, MRI controlled study. The reported functional results of rotator cuff repair performed arthroscopically have been good. Only little is known about the cuff integrity after arthroscopic repair and how it influences the outcome. The aim of the study is to set a baseline of what rate of healing response respectively re-tears to expect and how cuff integrity alters the outcome. Fifty-three consecutive patients with an isolated supraspinatus tendon tear were arthroscopically operated and their tendons repaired. All pre- and postoperative data were prospectively collected. At a minimum follow-up after 24 months (average 26.4 months), the integrity of the cuff was evaluated by an open magnetic resonance imaging and the patients' function and satisfaction were documented and graded to the sex- and age-related Constant-score also using a dynamometer for strength testing. The re-tear rate was 24.5% with 13 non-healed tendons. The Constant-score of all patients improved significantly. The scores of the patients with a re-tear were significantly lower than those of the patient with an intact cuff. That was due to a less good performance in strength testing. The other categories of the Constant-score did not show any differences. The age of the patients with a re-tear was significantly higher. With the exception of age, we did not find any negative prognostic factor for a re-tear, and with the exception of re-tear no other factor influenced the Constant-score. Arthroscopic supraspinatus tendon repair yields a re-tear rate of 25% which is comparable with the results of open or mini/open repair. Cuff integrity influences postoperative strength and Constant-score. Patients older than 65 years show a higher re-tear rate. Therapeutic Level IV is the level of evidence."}
{"id": "16843811", "title": "Simulated capsulolabral lesion in cadavers: dislocation does not result from a bankart lesion only.", "content": "Simulated capsulolabral lesion in cadavers: dislocation does not result from a bankart lesion only. Although an anteroinferior capsulolabral detachment (typical Bankart lesion) has been evaluated in other experimental studies, it has not yet been tested with an apprehension test in an intact shoulder model. Adjacent combinations of 4 zones of the capsuloligamentous complex were sequentially detached from the glenoid neck in 50 cadaveric shoulders. Stability was tested before and after each resection step: inferior stability with a sulcus test and anterior stability with an anterior drawer test and with a load-and-shift test in the apprehension position. A metastable anteroinferior dislocation occurred in 18 specimens after section of 3 zones and in 14 only after section of 4 zones. A locked dislocation occurred after section of all 4 zones in 33 specimens and in the other 17 shoulders only after the posterior capsule was also cut. The humeral head cannot dislocate anteroinferiorly when there only is a Bankart lesion. In our study superior and posterior extension was necessary before the tensioning mechanism in external rotation and abduction failed enough for dislocation to occur. Because the Bankart lesion is most likely not the only lesion present in patients with recurrent dislocation, a careful search for other lesions needs to be done when one is attempting surgical treatment. These lesions would need to be treated as well if one wants to avoid the risk of residual instability."}
{"id": "16843808", "title": "Concomitant rotator cuff and capsuloligamentous lesions of the shoulder: a cadaver study.", "content": "Concomitant rotator cuff and capsuloligamentous lesions of the shoulder: a cadaver study. Rotator cuff lesions have not yet been evaluated in association with capsuloligamentous lesions in an otherwise intact shoulder model. Our hypothesis was that less extensive capsuloligamentous lesions are necessary to allow dislocation in the presence of rotator cuff lesions. The supraspinatus and infraspinatus, or the subscapularis, or all 3 tendons were carefully detached from their insertion without damage to the underlying capsule. Adjacent combinations of 4 zones of the capsuloligamentous complex were then sequentially detached from the glenoid or from the humerus in 80 cadaver shoulders. Stability was tested before and after each resection step; this included testing of inferior stability with a sulcus test, and of anterior stability with a drawer test and with an apprehension maneuver. Findings from these specimens were statistically compared with those from the same types of tests in specimens with intact rotator cuffs. Subluxation during the drawer and sulcus tests is already reached after the tendon lesion has been created, or after only 1 ligamentous zone has been cut. In the presence of a tendon lesion, at least 1 less cutting step is necessary for dislocation to occur in the apprehension position. There is a difference, however, between glenoid- and humerus-based lesions. The humeral head dislocates easily with less extensive capsuloligamentous lesions when rotator cuff lesions are present. In the present experimental model, passive stabilization provided by the rotator cuff appears more easily disrupted when associated with ligamentous lesions on the humeral side than with lesions on the glenoid side. This may be so because interdigitation of the cuff tendons with each other and with the capsule through the rotator cable is maintained with glenoid-sided lesions. Rotator cuff lesions destabilize the glenohumeral joint. This effect is less pronounced when cuff tendons continue to interact with underlying capsuloligamentous structures. This finding may be relevant for small cuff tears and for partial cuff tears, especially those seen after dislocation."}
{"id": "16843807", "title": "Suprascapular nerve palsy secondary to spinoglenoid cysts: results of arthroscopic treatment.", "content": "Suprascapular nerve palsy secondary to spinoglenoid cysts: results of arthroscopic treatment. The purpose of this study was to investigate the results of arthroscopic treatment in 14 patients with suprascapular nerve palsy secondary to spinoglenoid ganglion cysts. Fourteen patients underwent arthroscopic decompression of ganglion cysts associated with suprascapular neuropathy. The most common presenting symptoms were pain and weakness, which lasted an average of 7.5 months. Ten of 14 patients were noted on examination to have atrophy, and all 14 patients had weakness of the infraspinatus. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed spinoglenoid ganglion cysts in all 14 patients; average cyst size was 3 cm. MRI revealed labral pathology in 12 of 14 cases; labral pathology was identified intraoperatively in all 14 patients. Postoperatively, the average Simple Shoulder Test (SST) score was 11.5 (12 maximum), which was improved from an estimated preoperative score of 4.3. Improvement in external rotation strength was seen in 100% of patients who were examined postoperatively. No patients were taking pain medicine at latest follow-up. No complications were reported, and there were no clinical or symptomatic recurrences at an average follow-up of 51 months. Arthroscopic treatment of patients with spinoglenoid ganglion cysts is safe and effective, resulting in good clinical outcomes. In our study of 14 patients, no recurrences were seen at an average of 51 months of follow-up. Level of Evidence: Level IV, therapeutic case series. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "16843805", "title": "Loss of passive external rotation at 90 degrees abduction is predictive of a medially healed Bankart lesion.", "content": "Loss of passive external rotation at 90 degrees abduction is predictive of a medially healed Bankart lesion. This prospective study correlates passive range of external rotation with arthroscopic findings in patients with anterior instability for the purpose of defining criteria that can be used to detect a medially healed Bankart lesion. External rotation at 90 degrees abduction (ER90) was assessed on examination with the patient under anesthesia in bilateral shoulders of 46 consecutive patients with unidirectional, anterior glenohumeral instability. Arthroscopy was used to identify 22 patients with a detached Bankart lesion (group I) and 24 patients with a medially healed Bankart lesion (group II). Differences in ER90 between symptomatic and asymptomatic shoulders for both groups were compared. The t test and the Wilcoxon rank-sum test measured significance. In group I, mean ER90 in the symptomatic shoulder was 5 degrees greater than in the asymptomatic shoulder; in group II, mean ER90 in the symptomatic shoulder was 7.4 degrees less than in the asymptomatic shoulder (P < .001). Loss of ER90 was highly sensitive (92%) and specific (95%), with a positive predictive value of 96% for detection of a medially healed Bankart lesion. If a loss of 5 degrees or more of ER90 in the affected shoulder is found on examination under anesthesia, one should have a high degree of suspicion for the presence of a medially healed Bankart lesion. Level II, development of diagnostic criteria on basis of consecutive patients."}
{"id": "16840776", "title": "Quantitative assessment of glenohumeral translation after anterior shoulder dislocation and subsequent arthroscopic bankart repair.", "content": "Quantitative assessment of glenohumeral translation after anterior shoulder dislocation and subsequent arthroscopic bankart repair. During the past decade, developments in arthroscopic technology have made arthroscopic repair of labral lesions feasible. However, results with the use of the transglenoid suture technique, or with the use of bioabsorbable tacks, have remained variable in the literature, and the recurrence rates are still inferior to those of open Bankart repair. Arthroscopic Bankart repair with suture anchors can re-create translational and rotational range of motion of the intact glenohumeral joint, and the number of preoperative dislocations has an influence on the result. Controlled laboratory study. Twelve cadaveric shoulders were tested in a robot-assisted shoulder simulator. Anterior and posterior translation and external rotation were measured for intact, dislocated (shoulders were randomly selected to 1 of 3 groups, which were dislocated 1, 3, or 7 times), and repaired conditions at 0 degrees and 90 degrees of glenohumeral elevation. After shoulder dislocation, a significant increase was found in translation and rotation, confirming the creation of a traumatic shoulder instability model. Further testing of the specimen revealed that translational and rotational ranges of motion were reduced by arthroscopic Bankart repair at both testing positions. External rotation was decreased significantly at 0 degrees and 90 degrees of abduction. No significant differences were found between the 3 dislocation groups. The results demonstrate a sufficient biomechanical performance of arthroscopic Bankart repair using suture anchors in a traumatic anterior shoulder instability model. With the numbers available, no relationship was found between the number of dislocations and the postoperative result concerning translational or rotational motion. Glenohumeral translation and rotation after arthroscopic Bankart repair with use of suture anchors approached near normal values, confirming the clinical success of this technique."}
{"id": "16839648", "title": "Vaccination with recombinant adhesins from the RgpA-Kgp proteinase-adhesin complex protects against Porphyromonas gingivalis infection.", "content": "Vaccination with recombinant adhesins from the RgpA-Kgp proteinase-adhesin complex protects against Porphyromonas gingivalis infection. Porphyromonas gingivalis is a pathogen associated with chronic periodontitis, an inflammatory disease of the supporting tissues of the teeth. A major virulence factor for P. gingivalis is the RgpA-Kgp proteinase-adhesin complex. We have prepared the following recombinant proteins corresponding to domains/regions of the RgpA-Kgp complex; rRgpA(cat), rRgpA(A1), rRgpA(A2), rRgpA(A4), rRgpA(A1)(784-1009), rRgpA(A1)(911-1009), rKgp(A1) and rKgp(A1)(759-989). The ability of each recombinant protein to attenuate P. gingivalis infection, when used as a vaccine, in the murine lesion model was determined. All of the recombinant adhesin domains were found to significantly attenuate P. gingivalis infection with the most effective being rKgp(A1) and rKgp(A1)(759-989) followed by rRgpA(A1), rRgpA(A1)(784-1009) and rRgpA(A1)(911-1009). The predominant antibody isotype was IgG1. The A1 adhesins, which gave the best protection, contain specific motifs implicated in binding to host tissue. Immunisation with rRgpA(cat) had no effect on P. gingivalis infection. As well as detecting the Kgp(A1) adhesin in a Western blot, the rKgp(A1) and rKgp(A1)(759-989) antisera were also immunoreactive with the A1 and A3 adhesins of RgpA and HagA. Flow cytometric analysis indicated that rKgp(A1) and rRgpA(A1) antisera recognised native antigen on P. gingivalis whole cells. Furthermore, the rKgp(A1) and rKgp(A1)(759-989) antisera exhibited a similar immunoreactive profile with outer membrane preparations of all P. gingivalis serotypes and clinical isolates tested. The recombinant A1 adhesin therefore has potential in the development of a P. gingivalis vaccine."}
{"id": "16831646", "title": "Painful os acromiale (or unfused acromial apophysis) in athletes.", "content": "Painful os acromiale (or unfused acromial apophysis) in athletes. Twelve male competitive athletes (fourteen shoulders) presented with persistent shoulder pain that interfered with athletic participation. Patient ages ranged from 18 to 25 years. Symptoms included impingement-like pain with overhead activity and weightlifting. Local tenderness was present over the acromion near the same coronal plane as the posterior border of the clavicle. In each case, plain radiographs revealed the presence of an unfused anterior meso-acromial fragment. Magnetic resonance images were obtained in 5 shoulders and revealed edema at the junction of the anterior acromial fragment and the body of the acromion. Nine patients (eleven shoulders) were treated with arthroscopic excision of the anterior acromial fragment. They were followed up for a minimum of 2 years after the procedure. All surgically treated patients were able to return to full athletic participation by 14 weeks after surgery. Isokinetic testing at the latest follow-up revealed no significant deficits in abduction, internal rotation, or external rotation strength compared with the opposite side."}
{"id": "16831643", "title": "Long head of the biceps pathology as a cause of anterior shoulder pain after shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Long head of the biceps pathology as a cause of anterior shoulder pain after shoulder arthroplasty. The use of shoulder arthroplasty has been increasing over the last decade, with nearly 20,000 shoulder arthroplasties being performed each year. Although many patients have excellent results, there exists a subset of patients in whom anterior catching shoulder pain develops after arthroplasty. The purpose of this study was to examine this group of patients and explore treatment options and outcomes for this condition. We undertook a review of 8 shoulders in 7 patients who were treated for anterior shoulder pain radiating into the biceps muscle after shoulder arthroplasty. Three patients had a hemiarthroplasty for fracture, and five had a total shoulder arthroplasty. All patients had anterior shoulder pain with physical examination findings consistent with biceps tendon pathology. Definitive diagnosis and treatment consisted of either arthroscopy, in 7 of 8 shoulders, or an open procedure, in 1 of 8 shoulders. The range of motion improved in all shoulders. The hemiarthroplasty group showed an increase in flexion of 36 degrees (range, 68 degrees -104 degrees ), external rotation of 23 degrees (range, 11 degrees -34 degrees ), and internal rotation to L4. The total shoulder group demonstrated an increase in flexion of 50 degrees (range, 66 degrees -166 degrees ), external rotation of 27 degrees (range, 22 degrees -39 degrees ), and internal rotation to L3. The Hospital for Special Surgery score improved in all shoulders, with all patients being satisfied with their final outcome. Pain scores improved from a mean of 6.9 (range, 4-9) preoperatively to 1.4 (range, 0.5-2) postoperatively on a scale of 1 to 10, with 10 indicating the most pain. The role of the biceps tendon in the pathology of anterior shoulder pain after shoulder arthroplasty appears to be consistent with fibrosis and inflammation. Initial results, achieved with arthroscopic debridement or tenodesis, were encouraging."}
{"id": "16831639", "title": "The association of suprascapular neuropathy with massive rotator cuff tears: a preliminary report.", "content": "The association of suprascapular neuropathy with massive rotator cuff tears: a preliminary report. We studied a prospective, consecutive series of 8 patients presenting with massive rotator cuff tears (>5 cm. in maximum dimension), all associated with severe retraction and fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus muscle on magnetic resonance imaging studies. All 8 patients had suprascapular neuropathy shown by electromyography (EMG) findings of denervation in the supraspinatus and/or infraspinatus muscles. Clinically, all patients had severe limitation of active motion, with no patient able to elevate their affected arm actively >40 degrees . Four patients elected d\u00e9bridement and partial surgical repair using margin convergence principles via a mini-open approach. Follow-up of these patients averaged 24 months. All 4 patients regained the ability to elevate their affected arm to >90 degrees , and to place their hand actively behind their head without assistance. Two of the 4 surgical patients consented to follow-up EMG studies that demonstrated, in both cases, that the suprascapular nerve had significant renervation potentials, with almost complete recovery of the nerve in 1 case. We conclude that suprascapular neuropathy may be associated with massive rotator cuff tears, and that partial rotator cuff repair may allow recovery of the nerve and improvement of function."}
{"id": "16829247", "title": "MR imaging of the rotator cuff interval.", "content": "MR imaging of the rotator cuff interval. The rotator cuff interval is defined as the space between the anterior aspect of the supraspinatus tendon and the superior aspect of the subscapularis tendon. Knowledge of the anatomy, an understanding of the commonly encountered pathology, and an approach for the systematic inspection of the rotator cuff interval is crucial for the accurate characterization and diagnosis of pathology of this region. This article reviews the basic normal anatomy of the rotator cuff interval, imaging considerations unique to this area, and commonly encountered pathology."}
{"id": "16826091", "title": "Shoulder kinematics in 25 patients with impingement and 12 controls.", "content": "Shoulder kinematics in 25 patients with impingement and 12 controls. We used dynamic radiostereometry to study the three-dimensional kinematics of the shoulder joint during active abduction. Twenty-five patients experiencing shoulder symptoms (Neer Stage 2) for more than 18 months, without total rotator cuff tears, participated. Eight men and four women without shoulder symptoms constituted controls. The rotation of the humeral head relative to a fixed scapula and the absolute rotation of the humerus (caused by humeral, scapular, and trunk motion) were measured. The rotations were calculated in the order of abduction/adduction (anteroposterior axis), internal/external rotation (longitudinal axis), and flexion/extension (transverse axis). The absolute abduction of the humerus in our patients did not differ from controls, nor did the abduction in the glenohumeral joint. During abduction, the humeral centre displaced medially, proximally, and anteriorly. In the patient group, slightly more (1-1.5 mm) proximal translation was observed. Presence of impingement syndrome was associated with increased proximal translation of the humeral head center, which occurred in the early phase of the arc of motion. Diagnostic Level I. See Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of Levels of Evidence."}
{"id": "16822450", "title": "Clinical inquiries. What is the best way to diagnose a suspected rotator cuff tear?", "content": "Clinical inquiries. What is the best way to diagnose a suspected rotator cuff tear? The evaluation of a suspected rotator cuff tear should start with a history and a clinical exam of the shoulder (strength of recommendation [SOR]: B, based on a systematic review of cohort studies). Three clinical test results in particular--supraspinatus weakness, weakness of external rotation, and impingement--or 2 positive tests for a patient older than 60 years were highly predictive of rotator cuff tear (SOR: B, based on individual prospective study). Either magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or ultrasound can confirm a possible full-thickness tear (SOR: B, based on a systematic review of cohort studies). If a patient has an implantable device prohibiting MRI imaging, conventional arthrography is an alternative (SOR: A, individual randomized controlled trial). Suspected partial-thickness tears are best verified with an ultrasound (SOR: B, based on a systematic review of cohort studies)."}
{"id": "16820984", "title": "[Arthroscopic Bankart operation using absorbable suture anchors].", "content": "[Arthroscopic Bankart operation using absorbable suture anchors]. Arthroscopic refixation of the labrum-ligament complex at the glenoid. Posttraumatic anterior or anterior-inferior shoulder instability with Bankart or ALPSA lesion (anterior labral periosteal sleeve avulsion). Atraumatic shoulder instability. Instabilities due to blunted or frayed degeneration of the labrum-ligament complex. HAGL lesion (humeral avulsion of the glenohumeral ligaments) with humeral detachment of the glenohumeral ligaments. Larger bony glenoid defects. Mobilization of the labrum-ligament complex from the neck of the glenoid, superior tightening and refixation at the glenoid rim with the aid of absorbable suture anchors. Immobilization of the affected arm for 4 weeks in an immobilization bandage with abduction pillows. Daily pendulum exercises. Active flexion up to 70 degrees and abduction up to 40 degrees, all in neutral or internal rotation. Avoidance of external rotation for a total of 6 weeks. From January 1999 to December 2001, 58 patients with a Bankart or ALPSA lesion were treated with arthroscopic shoulder stabilization using absorbable suture anchors and slowly absorbable braided sutures. 56 patients underwent a follow-up clinical examination after, on average, 31 months (24-48 months). None of these patients had suffered more than five shoulder dislocations before the operation (average 2.8). Of the intraoperative lesions, a plain Bankart lesion was present in twelve patients (21.4%), 44 patients had an ALPSA lesion (78.6%), of which one in two were combined with an SLAP 2 or SLAP 3 lesion (superior labrum from anterior to posterior). In the evaluation using the Rowe Score, there was an excellent result for 40 patients (71.4%), and a good result for twelve (21.4%). Four patients suffered a repeat dislocation and were therefore classified as poor results (7.2%)."}
{"id": "16818978", "title": "Surgical technique and anatomic study of latissimus dorsi and teres major transfers.", "content": "Surgical technique and anatomic study of latissimus dorsi and teres major transfers. Combined latissimus dorsi and teres major musculotendinous transfer has been described for the treatment of massive rotator cuff deficits. The procedure is technically complex because of the proximity of the radial nerve, the axillary nerve and its posterior branches, and the neurovascular bundles to the muscles. The purpose of the present cadaveric study was to examine surgically relevant relationships for latissimus dorsi and teres major tendon transfers. Twelve cadaveric shoulder girdles were dissected, and the latissimus dorsi, the teres major, and the posterior cord of the brachial plexus and its branches were identified. The relationships between the tendons and local neurologic structures were measured during various steps of the latissimus dorsi/teres major transfer procedure. The effect of humeral rotation on the exposure of the latissimus dorsi and teres major tendons through the posterior approach was quantified, and relevant surgical landmarks were described. The radial nerve passed directly anterior to the tendons at an average of 2.9 cm medial to the superior aspect and 2.3 cm medial to the inferior aspect of the humeral insertions. From the posterior axillary approach, maximal internal rotation facilitated exposure for tenotomy by delivering the tendon insertions on the humerus into the surgical field. During axial mobilization of the musculotendinous units, the neurovascular pedicles to the latissimus dorsi and teres major were identified at an average of 13.1 and 7.4 cm axial to the humeral insertions, respectively. The posterior branch of the axillary nerve was noted to cross superficially over the transferred tendons as they were tunneled under the posterior deltoid. Multiple steps of the combined latissimus dorsi and teres major musculotendinous transfer place local neurologic structures at risk. These steps include tendon release, musculotendinous axial mobilization, and tendon tunneling in the plane between the infraspinatus-teres minor and the posterior deltoid. We have quantified and described the relationship of the axillary and radial nerves to the tendons during tenotomy, the distance from the tendons' insertions to their neurovascular bundle that must be identified during axial mobilization, and the course of the posterior branch of the axillary nerve in relation to the tunneled path of the tendons. The present study provides important anatomic findings for the safe mobilization and transfer of the latissimus dorsi and teres major tendons during the surgical treatment of irreparable rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "16818975", "title": "Outcomes analysis of revision total shoulder replacement.", "content": "Outcomes analysis of revision total shoulder replacement. The number of total shoulder arthroplasties has increased exponentially over the last ten years, creating a more prominent role for revision shoulder arthroplasty in the future. The main reasons for failure of shoulder arthroplasty can be classified as soft-tissue deficiencies, osseous deficiencies, component wear, or infection. We hypothesized that, despite appropriate surgical techniques, the outcome of revision total shoulder replacement can be predicted on the basis of the indication for the revision procedure. We conducted a retrospective review of seventy-eight shoulders that had undergone revision shoulder arthroplasty. The shoulders were divided into two categories: (1) those with osseous or component-related problems and (2) those with soft-tissue deficiency. Category 1 consisted of four cohorts of shoulders: twenty-two treated with revision of the glenoid component, sixteen treated with conversion of a hemiarthroplasty to a total shoulder arthroplasty because of glenoid arthrosis, eight treated with revision of the humeral stem, and four treated for a periprosthetic fracture. Category 2 consisted of five cohorts of shoulders: ten treated with rotator cuff repair following total shoulder replacement, four with a failed tuberosity reconstruction, four with cuff tear arthropathy, five with instability, and five with infection. Patients were evaluated with the UCLA subjective outcome instrument, the L'Insalata shoulder questionnaire, and a subjective satisfaction scale (maximum score of 5 points). The average UCLA score was 21.4 points and the average L'Insalata score was 68.73 points for the seventy-eight shoulders that were analyzed. The average score on the subjective satisfaction questionnaire was 2.91 points. According to the UCLA scores, twenty-four revisions were considered to have had an excellent result; fifteen, a good result; twenty-four, a fair result; and fifteen, a poor result. The average scores for the category-1 shoulders were significantly better than those for the category-2 shoulders (p < 0.05). Of the different types of operations, revision or implantation of a glenoid component and open reduction and internal fixation of a periprosthetic fracture provided the best outcomes. Tuberosity reconstruction, hemiarthroplasty for treatment of cuff tear arthropathy, and revision due to infection had uniformly poor outcomes. In general, these results indicate that the outcome of revision shoulder arthroplasty can be predicted on the basis of the indication for the procedure. Component revisions, excluding humeral head revision for salvage, provide the best results, whereas soft-tissue reconstructions can be expected to yield poorer results overall. Prognostic Level II. See Instructions to Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "16818969", "title": "Clinical presentation of patients with tears of the acetabular labrum.", "content": "Clinical presentation of patients with tears of the acetabular labrum. The clinical presentation of a labral tear of the acetabulum may be variable, and the diagnosis is often delayed. We sought to define the clinical characteristics associated with symptomatic acetabular labral tears by reviewing a group of patients who had an arthroscopically confirmed diagnosis. We retrospectively reviewed the records for sixty-six consecutive patients (sixty-six hips) who had a documented labral tear that had been confirmed with hip arthroscopy. We had prospectively recorded demographic factors, symptoms, physical examination findings, previous treatments, functional limitations, the manner of onset, the duration of symptoms until the diagnosis of the labral tear, other diagnoses offered by health-care providers, and other surgical procedures that these patients had undergone. Radiographic abnormalities and magnetic resonance arthrography findings were also recorded. The study group included forty-seven female patients (71%) and nineteen male patients (29%) with a mean age of thirty-eight years. The initial presentation was insidious in forty patients, was associated with a low-energy acute injury in twenty, and was associated with major trauma in six. Moderate to severe pain was reported by fifty-seven patients (86%), with groin pain predominating (sixty-one patients; 92%). Sixty patients (91%) had activity-related pain (p < 0.0001), and forty-seven patients (71%) had night pain (p = 0.0006). On examination, twenty-six patients (39%) had a limp, twenty-five (38%) had a positive Trendelenburg sign, and sixty-three (95%) had a positive impingement sign. The mean time from the onset of symptoms to the diagnosis of a labral tear was twenty-one months. A mean of 3.3 health-care providers had been seen by the patients prior to the definitive diagnosis. Surgery on another anatomic site had been recommended for eleven patients (17%), and four had undergone an unsuccessful operative procedure prior to the diagnosis of the labral tear. At an average of 16.4 months after hip arthroscopy, fifty-nine patients (89%) reported clinical improvement in comparison with the preoperative status. The clinical presentation of a patient who has a labral tear may vary, and the correct diagnosis may not be considered initially. In young, active patients with a predominant complaint of groin pain with or without a history of trauma, the diagnosis of a labral tear should be suspected and investigated as radiographs and the history may be nonspecific for this diagnosis. Diagnostic Level IV. See Instructions to Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "16813452", "title": "Validation of a new model-based tracking technique for measuring three-dimensional, in vivo glenohumeral joint kinematics.", "content": "Validation of a new model-based tracking technique for measuring three-dimensional, in vivo glenohumeral joint kinematics. Shoulder motion is complex and significant research efforts have focused on measuring glenohumeral joint motion. Unfortunately, conventional motion measurement techniques are unable to measure glenohumeral joint kinematics during dynamic shoulder motion to clinically significant levels of accuracy. The purpose of this study was to validate the accuracy of a new model-based tracking technique for measuring three-dimensional, in vivo glenohumeral joint kinematics. We have developed a model-based tracking technique for accurately measuring in vivo joint motion from biplane radiographic images that tracks the position of bones based on their three-dimensional shape and texture. To validate this technique, we implanted tantalum beads into the humerus and scapula of both shoulders from three cadaver specimens and then recorded biplane radiographic images of the shoulder while manually moving each specimen's arm. The position of the humerus and scapula were measured using the model-based tracking system and with a previously validated dynamic radiostereometric analysis (RSA) technique. Accuracy was reported in terms of measurement bias, measurement precision, and overall dynamic accuracy by comparing the model-based tracking results to the dynamic RSA results. The model-based tracking technique produced results that were in excellent agreement with the RSA technique. Measurement bias ranged from -0.126 to 0.199 mm for the scapula and ranged from -0.022 to 0.079 mm for the humerus. Dynamic measurement precision was better than 0.130 mm for the scapula and 0.095 mm for the humerus. Overall dynamic accuracy indicated that rms errors in any one direction were less than 0.385 mm for the scapula and less than 0.374 mm for the humerus. These errors correspond to rotational inaccuracies of approximately 0.25 deg for the scapula and 0.47 deg for the humerus. This new model-based tracking approach represents a non-invasive technique for accurately measuring dynamic glenohumeral joint motion under in vivo conditions. The model-based technique achieves accuracy levels that far surpass all previously reported non-invasive techniques for measuring in vivo glenohumeral joint motion. This technique is supported by a rigorous validation study that provides a realistic simulation of in vivo conditions and we fully expect to achieve these levels of accuracy with in vivo human testing. Future research will use this technique to analyze shoulder motion under a variety of testing conditions and to investigate the effects of conservative and surgical treatment of rotator cuff tears on dynamic joint stability."}
{"id": "16808992", "title": "Shoulder joint kinetics and pathology in manual wheelchair users.", "content": "Shoulder joint kinetics and pathology in manual wheelchair users. Manual wheelchair users rely heavily on their upper limbs for independent mobility which likely leads to a high prevalence of shoulder pain and injury. The goal of this study was to examine the relationship between shoulder forces and moments experienced during wheelchair propulsion and shoulder pathology. Kinetic and kinematic data was recorded from 33 subjects with paraplegia as they propelled their wheelchairs at two speeds (0.9 and 1.8 m/s). Shoulder joint forces and moments were calculated using inverse dynamic methods and shoulder pathology was evaluated using a physical exam and magnetic resonance imaging scan. Subjects who experienced higher posterior force (Odds Ratio (OR)=1.29, P=0.03), lateral force (OR=1.35, P=0.047), or extension moment (OR=1.35, P=0.09) during propulsion were more likely to exhibit coracoacromial ligament edema. Individuals who displayed larger lateral forces (OR=4.35, P=0.045) or abduction moments (OR=1.58, P=0.06) were more likely to have coracoacromial ligament thickening. Higher superior forces (OR=1.05, P=0.09) and internal rotation moments (OR=1.61 P=0.02) at the shoulder were associated with increased signs of shoulder pathology during the physical exam. Specific joint forces and moments were related to measures of shoulder pathology. This may indicate a need to reduce the overall force required to propel a wheelchair in order to preserve upper limb integrity. Potential interventions include changes to wheelchair setup, propulsion training, or alternative means of mobility."}
{"id": "16798138", "title": "Entrapment neuropathies of the shoulder and elbow in the athlete.", "content": "Entrapment neuropathies of the shoulder and elbow in the athlete. MRI is a useful diagnostic method for evaluating nerve disease at the shoulder and elbow. MRI can depict the normal anatomy of the nerves, confirm and identify the cause of the neuropathy, identify the site of entrapment based on muscle denervation patterns, and detect unsuspected space-occupying lesions. MRI can also narrow down the differential diagnosis of nerve disease, such as in the case of suprascapular nerve syndrome versus Parsonage-Turner syndrome, or radial tunnel syndrome versus lateral epicondylitis. Large prospective studies with surgical correlation, however, are still necessary to better elucidate MRI's exact role in the assessment of entrapment neuropathies of the upper extremity."}
{"id": "16798137", "title": "MRI of the postoperative shoulder.", "content": "MRI of the postoperative shoulder. Pain in the postoperative shoulder is difficult for all individuals involved. The patient has already undergone a surgical procedure and is presenting now with pain possibly relating to a complication of the procedure or reinjury. In addition, the patient typically has undergone a series of maneuvers, from physical therapy to cortisone injection, without relief of the symptoms. For the orthopaedic surgeon the possibility of a complication of the procedure is disheartening. Finally, for the radiologist the postoperative shoulder usually is more difficult to interpret because of a change in the normal anatomy, not knowing exactly what was accomplished at surgery or what techniques or types of equipment were used, and, more typically, the presence of artifact."}
{"id": "16798047", "title": "From \"periarthritis\" to hip \"rotator cuff\" tears. Trochanteric tendinobursitis.", "content": "From \"periarthritis\" to hip \"rotator cuff\" tears. Trochanteric tendinobursitis."}
{"id": "16781433", "title": "Hip arthroscopy technique and indications.", "content": "Hip arthroscopy technique and indications. The recent advances in hip arthroscopy have made it a useful minimally invasive approach to the diagnosis and treatment of intra-articular hip pathology. It offers the benefits of being an outpatient procedure with short rehabilitation and few reported complications and does not hinder opportunities for future surgical interventions. The lateral approach has been widely accepted, and technical details are discussed. Patients typically present with mechanical symptoms and persistent pain resistant to a reasonable trial of conservative treatment and are without significant joint space narrowing. Indications include debridement of labral lesions and loose bodies as well as treatment of impingement syndrome and avascular necrosis. Arthroscopy has also proven a useful tool in evaluation components in symptomatic patients after hip arthroplasty and in the treatment of native and replacement joint infections."}
{"id": "16781027", "title": "Decreasing glenoid inclination improves function in shoulders with simulated massive rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Decreasing glenoid inclination improves function in shoulders with simulated massive rotator cuff tears. A massive rotator cuff tear leads to poor shoulder function as evidenced by diminished glenohumeral abduction and superior translation of the humeral head compared to its normal position. The inclination angle of the glenoid has been associated with rotator cuff tears. The objective of this study was to quantify the effect of a decreased glenoid inclination angle on glenohumeral kinematics during active abduction in shoulders with a simulated, massive rotator cuff tear. Eight fresh-frozen full upper extremities were tested using a dynamic shoulder testing apparatus. After recording the kinematics of the intact shoulder, a massive rotator cuff tear was surgically simulated. An osteotomy of the glenoid was then performed and the inclination angle was decreased by 30 degrees . The translation of the humeral head during abduction and the maximum abduction angle were recorded. With an intact rotator cuff minimal humeral head translation on the glenoid occurred and the maximum abduction angle was mean 85.5 degrees (SD 7.4 degrees ). A massive rotator cuff tear resulted in superior translation of the humeral head with impingement on the acromion. The maximum abduction angle was mean 15.5 degrees (SD 9.4 degrees ). Decreasing the inclination angle of the glenoid resulted in a significant reduction of superior humeral head translation during abduction and there was no impingement on the acromion. The maximum abduction achieved was mean 28.5 degrees (SD 17.0 degrees ). From a clinical perspective the reduced superior translation may decrease shoulder pain since the humeral head no longer impinges on the acromion. Further investigations are necessary to assess if the improvement in abduction is clinically significant."}
{"id": "16779827", "title": "Stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1, CXCL12) is increased in subacromial bursitis and downregulated by steroid and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents.", "content": "Stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1, CXCL12) is increased in subacromial bursitis and downregulated by steroid and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents. Several studies have demonstrated that inflammation in the subacromial bursa is an important component in the pathogenesis of impingement syndrome. We have demonstrated in a previous study that many inflammatory cytokines, including stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1, CXCL12), are increased in the subacromial bursa [Blaine et al. 2005. J Shoulder Elbow Surg 14(Suppl 1):84S-89S]. SDF-1 is a potent chemotactic and angiogenic factor that stimulates recruitment of inflammatory cells. In the current study, we proposed that the resident cells in subacromial bursal tissue produce SDF-1, which can play a role in the inflammatory reponse of bursal tissue, and that this chemokine can be regulated by steroid (dexamethasone) and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs). Twenty-two subacromial bursa tissues (18 bursitis and 4 normal bursa) were obtained intraoperatively from patients during shoulder surgery and analyzed using the cDNA Array technique in accordance with an IRB approved protocol. cDNA array results were confirmed with real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Bursal cells (from 4 normal bursa, 3 bursitis) and two normal bone marrow with whole tissue explants were cultured for one passage. Cell culture supernatants were collected and SDF-1 protein was detected with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Cultured bursal cells were treated with a COX-2 inhibitor and dexamethasone, and cells was harvested at 1-day and 4-day intervals. SDF-1 expression was evaluated by real-time RT-PCR and ELISA. cDNA Array analysis demonstrated that the gene expression of SDF-1 was increased in patients with subacromial bursitis compared to controls (p < 0.05). Real-time RT-PCR also revealed that the mRNA expression of SDF-1 in bursitis tissue is increased 10-fold over control tissue. While the normal bursal cells produced negligible amounts of SDF-1 protein, cultured cells derived from bursitis lesion released as much SDF-1 protein (235 pg/100,000 cells) as normal bone marrow stromal cells (283 pg/100,000 cells) as measured by ELISA. The addition of a COX-2 inhibitor and dexamethasone to bursitis cell lines led to decreased SDF-1 expression levels compared to untreated bursitis cell lines. These studies demonstrate that there is a significant elevation of SDF-1 expression in the subacromial bursa of patients with rotator cuff disease. Furthermore, this chemokine can be downregulated by COX-2 inhibitors and steroids. These results provide biologic evidence for the use of steroid and NSAIDs in the treatment of subacromial bursitis. In the future, targeted inhibition of molecules such as SDF-1 in the subacromial bursa may present a therapeutic strategy that may avoid the side effects of these other (steroid and NSAID) medications."}
{"id": "16779813", "title": "Variation in external rotation moment arms among subregions of supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor muscles.", "content": "Variation in external rotation moment arms among subregions of supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor muscles. A rotator cuff tear causes morphologic changes in rotator cuff muscles and tendons and reduced shoulder strength. The mechanisms by which these changes affect joint strength are not understood. This study's purpose was to empirically determine rotation moment arms for subregions of supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and for teres minor, and to test the hypothesis that subregions of the cuff tendons increase their effective moment arms through connections to other subregions. Tendon excursions were measured for full ranges of rotation on 10 independent glenohumeral specimens with the humerus abducted in the scapular plane at 10 and 60 degrees . Supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons were divided into equal width subregions. Two conditions were tested: tendon divided to the musculotendinous junction, and tendon divided to the insertion on the humerus. Moment arms were determined from tendon excursion via the principle of virtual work. Moment arms for the infraspinatus (p < 0.001) and supraspinatus (p < 0.001) were significantly greater when the tendon was only divided to the musculotendinous junction versus division to the humeral head. Moment arms across subregions of infraspinatus (p < 0.001) and supraspinatus (p < 0.001) were significantly different. A difference in teres minor moment arm was not found for the two cuff tendon conditions. Moment arm differences between muscle subregions and for tendon division conditions have clinical implications. Interaction between cuff regions could explain why some subjects retain strength after a small cuff tear. This finding helps explain why a partial cuff repair may be beneficial when a complete repair is not possible. Data presented here can help differentiate between cuff tear cases that would benefit from cuff repair and cases for which cuff repair might not be as favorable."}
{"id": "16778635", "title": "Hypoplasia of the glenoid neck of the scapula: imaging findings and report of 16 patients.", "content": "Hypoplasia of the glenoid neck of the scapula: imaging findings and report of 16 patients. Our purpose was to describe the primary and associated imaging findings in patients with glenoid hypoplasia required for an accurate diagnostic appraisal of this uncommon abnormality. The medical records and imaging studies of 16 patients with glenoid hypoplasia were retrospectively reviewed. Plain films were available in all patients, arthrography in 2, computed tomography (CT) in 5, CT arthrotomography in 3, magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in 9, and MR arthrography in 3 patients. The imaging studies were reviewed with special attention to the primary and secondary findings associated with glenoid hypoplasia. On radiographs, the 21 abnormal shoulders documented in the 16 patients with glenoid hypoplasia had an irregular (n=15) or shallow and smooth (n=6) articular surface of the glenoid. Computed tomography findings showed subluxation of the humeral head in 5 cases. On MR images, the hypoplastic bony glenoid and scapular neck were replaced by abnormal tissue of inhomogeneous signal intensity, showing the signal intensity characteristics of fibrocartilage (n=6) or fat (n=5). Widening of the inferior glenohumeral joint space was seen in all cases. Magnetic resonance imaging or MR arthrography revealed variable abnormalities of the labrum, including enlargement (10 shoulders), detachment of labrum from the bony glenoid (6 shoulders), intrasubstance tear (4 shoulders), and perilabral cyst (2 shoulders). The posterior labrum was absent (n=1) or torn (n=1) in one patient with bilateral deformity. Other findings included partial tear of the subscapularis tendon (n=1) and rotator cuff atrophy (n=1) and tear (n=2). Glenoid hypoplasia is a developmental skeletal anomaly comprising a spectrum of associated osseous and cartilaginous changes of the articular cartilage and glenoid labrum. Cross-sectional imaging studies, with or without arthrography, may help further characterize associated derangements of the shoulder, some of which are indicative of shoulder instability."}
{"id": "16776489", "title": "A retrospective, descriptive study of shoulder outcomes in outpatient physical therapy.", "content": "A retrospective, descriptive study of shoulder outcomes in outpatient physical therapy. A retrospective, descriptive study of clients with shoulder dysfunction referred to physical therapy. To (1) describe the clinical and functional outcomes of clients with shoulder dysfunction following outpatient physical therapy, and (2) to compare the outcomes by type of shoulder dysfunction. Although individuals with shoulder dysfunction are commonly referred to physical therapy few large descriptive studies regarding outcomes following physical therapy are available. Data for 878 clients (468 female, 410 male) were retrieved and analyzed. This database was developed between 1997 and 2000 and included 4 outpatient facilities from 1 healthcare system in the southwest corner of Michigan. Clients were classified by type of shoulder dysfunction, and standardized tests were performed upon admittance and discharge to physical therapy. Descriptive and inferential statistics were calculated for all data. Of all clients, 55.1% had shoulder impingement, while 18.3% had postoperative repair, 8.9% had a frozen shoulder, 7.6% had a rotator cuff tear, 3.0% had shoulder instability, 2.1% were post fracture, and the remaining 4.9% had miscellaneous diagnoses. The average (+/-SD) age of the patients was 53.6 +/- 16.4 years, with an average (+/-SD) number of treatment sessions of 13.7 +/- 11.0. All groups showed significant changes following physical therapy intervention. Clients with diverse types of shoulder dysfunction demonstrated improvement in both clinical and functional measures at the conclusion of physical therapy, although it is not possible to determine whether these changes were due to the interventions or due to time. The type of shoulder dysfunction appears to affect the prognosis, thus expected outcomes should be based upon initial diagnosis and specific measures."}
{"id": "16775714", "title": "Shoulder and elbow function 2 years following long head triceps interposition flap transfer for massive rotator cuff tear reconstruction.", "content": "Shoulder and elbow function 2 years following long head triceps interposition flap transfer for massive rotator cuff tear reconstruction. Patient outcomes were determined at a minimum of 2 years following massive rotator cuff tear ( > or = 5 cm(2)) reconstruction using a triceps brachii long head interposition flap. A physiotherapist at an independent clinic performed all measurements. Of 24 total eligible patients, 19 completed pre-operative and follow-up UCLA Shoulder Scores and ASES Function Scores. Of these 19 patients, 14 who did not have co-morbidities that negatively impacted their ability to perform intense exercise underwent a comprehensive clinical examination of involved and uninvolved side shoulder and elbow active range of motion and strength (both isometric instrumented manual muscle testing and concentric isokinetic measurements). At 2 years following surgery, pre-operative UCLA Shoulder Scores improved from 10.6 +/- 3 to 27.4 +/- 5 and pre-operative ASES Function Scores improved from 20.1 +/- 10 to 43.2 +/- 5. However, isometric involved side shoulder abductor torque was decreased by 28.2% with instrumented manual muscle testing, and concentric shoulder external rotator torque was decreased by 44.6% at 60 degrees/s and by 53.8% at 120 degrees/s with isokinetic testing. Isometric involved side elbow extensor torque was decreased by 39% with instrumented manual muscle testing, and concentric elbow extensor torque was decreased by 17.7% and 19.2% at 60 and 120 degrees/s, respectively, with isokinetic testing. Including three additional patients who were contacted via telephone, the majority of patients (21 of 22, 95.4%) were satisfied with their improved shoulder function and reduced pain. Despite reduced pain and improved shoulder function, residual involved side shoulder abductor; shoulder external rotator and elbow extensor strength deficits were evident at 2 years following surgery. This suggests the need for more focused rehabilitation, particularly for involved side elbow extensor strengthening to further improve patient function and minimize disability."}
{"id": "16766370", "title": "Exercises may be as efficient as subacromial decompression in patients with subacromial stage II impingement: 4-8-years' follow-up in a prospective, randomized study.", "content": "Exercises may be as efficient as subacromial decompression in patients with subacromial stage II impingement: 4-8-years' follow-up in a prospective, randomized study. To compare the prognosis of subacromial impingement (SAI) stage II treated conservatively or with subacromial decompression. A follow-up study after 4-8 years in a randomized controlled trial (RCT) with 90 adult cases with SAI treated in a Danish hospital from 1996 to 2000 with graded physiotherapy and exercises or arthroscopic subacromial decompression. Outcomes were proportion of time per year with income transfers (indexed 0-1), including total transfers (marginalization), sick leave and disability pension obtained from the registry at the Ministry of Work. Self-reported function, working capability, employment status and global improvement were obtained by questionnaire in September 2004. The main outcomes are given as differences in development from baseline. Seventy-nine (88%) responded to the questionnaire and registry data were obtained from 81. After 1 year the marginalization index increased by 0.45 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.35-0.56] for surgery and 0.25 (0.16-0.34) for physiotherapy. Cases undergoing surgery also tended to have more sick payments during the first year, but the difference was not significant. Four years after inclusion, changes in indices did not differ between treatment groups. Self-reported outcomes after 4-8 years did not differ between treatment groups. The results of surgical decompression were equal to those of conservative treatment, and the surgery group had more income transferrals during the first year of follow-up."}
{"id": "16762721", "title": "Arthroscopic surgery for degenerative rupture of the ligamentum teres femoris.", "content": "Arthroscopic surgery for degenerative rupture of the ligamentum teres femoris. We performed arthroscopic debridement for degenerative rupture of the ligamentum teres femoris in a patient and obtained good results. A 78-year-old woman suddenly developed intense load-bearing pain from the left lumbar to gluteal region, and giving way, without a definitive cause. At presentation, the range of motion of the left hip joint for external rotation was 0 degrees, showing restricted motion. When passive internal rotation was applied at 90 degrees of flexion, intense pain in the left gluteal region was induced. At the initial radiographic examination, there were no abnormal findings in the left hip joint. However, arthroscopic findings showed degeneration in the articular cartilage and labrum but no tear. In addition, degenerative rupture of the ligamentum teres femoris was observed and it was entrapped in the posterior joint space. Using a bipolar radiofrequency scalpel, the entrapped stump of the ligamentum teres was vaporized and excised. The restriction in external rotation of the hip joint observable even under anesthesia was resolved immediately after surgery. Two years after surgery, the patient had regained her preoperative walking ability with the aid of a T cane, and radiographic examination showed no coxarthrosis changes. This case indicates that coxalgia caused by degenerative rupture of the ligamentum teres femoris is also a good indication for arthroscopic debridement."}
{"id": "16762701", "title": "Arthroscopic stabilization of superior labral (SLAP) tears with biodegradable tack: outcomes to 2 years.", "content": "Arthroscopic stabilization of superior labral (SLAP) tears with biodegradable tack: outcomes to 2 years. This prospective study aimed to document the pain and functional outcomes, over time, of patients whose SLAP lesions had been repaired with biodegradable tacks. Superior labral tears were identified in 24 patients from a cohort of 500 patients who had shoulder problems sufficiently disabling to warrant arthroscopic evaluation and management. These labral tears were arthroscopically repaired with 1 to 3 biodegradable tacks (mean, 1.6). Before surgery, all patients completed a questionnaire regarding their shoulder pain and function and were given a systematic clinical examination. To observe their postoperative outcomes over time, the same assessments were made at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, and 2 years after surgery. After labral reattachment, decreases were noted in the patients' mean shoulder pain scores at rest (64% at 3 months), at night (76% at 3 months), and with activity (73% at 6 months). The most significant reductions in mean scores occurred between 6 and 12 weeks (P < .001). Patient-perceived weakness, instability, and stiffness scores also improved from week 6. The ranking of the patients' \"overall problem\" reduced from an average ranking of \"severe\" to \"mild\" by the third preoperative month (P < .001) and was still at this level by the time of their 2-year follow-up appointment. Activity levels for 22 of 24 patients returned to their preinjury levels by 6 months after surgery. Arthroscopically delivered biodegradable tacks effectively managed superior labral tears and, on average, resulted in a near-complete improvement of pain and recovery of function by 3 months. These good outcomes did not improve further or deteriorate at the 2-year follow-up appointment. Level IV, therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "16762699", "title": "Broken or dislodged poly-L-lactic acid bioabsorbable tacks in patients after SLAP lesion surgery.", "content": "Broken or dislodged poly-L-lactic acid bioabsorbable tacks in patients after SLAP lesion surgery. To document the complication of bioabsorbable poly-L-lactic acid (PLLA) tack breakage and repair failure after arthroscopic stabilization of SLAP lesions. Six patients (average age, 38 years) were referred to the senior author because of persistent postoperative pain and disability after arthroscopic stabilization of an unstable SLAP lesion was performed with bioabsorbable PLLA tacks. A total of eight tacks were used in the six patients, and the time from index procedure to evaluation at our facility averaged 9.5 months (range, 8 to 12 months). Three patients experienced an identifiable reinjury an average of 4 months after the index procedure was performed. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a broken or dislodged tack in all cases. All patients were taken to the operating room for arthroscopic evaluation of the biceps anchor, tack fragment removal, and restabilization of the SLAP lesion as needed. At repeat arthroscopy, all shoulders were found to have minimal healing of the SLAP lesion with failure of the bioabsorbable tack. Chondral injury was noted in 2 cases. In all cases, revision SLAP repair was performed with the use of arthroscopic suture repair. At an average follow-up of 14 months (range, 8 to 17 months), all patients reported alleviation of symptoms. Five patients had returned to work with no or minimal symptoms. One patient experienced significant improvement in function and range of motion but did not return to work. Bioabsorbable PLLA tack breakage or dislodgement is a potential postoperative complication after SLAP lesions are arthroscopically stabilized. This event may result in postoperative reports of pain or mechanical symptoms. Surgeons who use these devices must be aware of the potential complications when they evaluate postoperative patients with persistent complaints. MRI may be helpful in identifying tack fragments. Subsequent arthroscopy to evaluate biceps anchor healing, remove tack fragments, and restabilize the labral lesion may be indicated. Level IV, case series."}
{"id": "16762695", "title": "All-arthroscopic versus mini-open rotator cuff repair: a retrospective review with minimum 2-year follow-up.", "content": "All-arthroscopic versus mini-open rotator cuff repair: a retrospective review with minimum 2-year follow-up. To compare the clinical outcomes of patients undergoing all-arthroscopic versus mini-open rotator cuff repair. In addition, ultrasound was used to assess the integrity of the repair. A total of 38 patients who had undergone all-arthroscopic repair and 33 patients who had undergone mini-open repair with minimum 2-year follow-up were evaluated. All patients completed the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons' Scoring Survey (ASES), the Simple Shoulder Test, the L'Insalata Scoring Survey, and visual analog scales for pain. Physical examination, including strength testing and ultrasound evaluation to determine the integrity of the rotator cuff, was performed. No statistical difference in ASES scores was noted between patients who had all-arthroscopic repair versus mini-open repair, and 24% of all-arthroscopic repairs and 27% of mini-open repairs showed recurrent defects on ultrasound at follow-up. This difference was not statistically significant. Patients with an original tear larger than 3 cm were 7 times more likely to have a recurrent defect at follow-up. Patients with persistent defects had statistically significant deficits in strength on forward elevation and external rotation when compared with those with a normal shoulder. However, no difference was observed with regard to pain or outcome scores between patients with intact repairs and those with persistent defects. No difference in clinical outcomes was found between patients with rotator cuffs repaired arthroscopically and those repaired with use of a mini-open technique. Level III, retrospective comparative study."}
{"id": "16762585", "title": "Gluteus tendon rupture is underrecognized by French orthopedic surgeons: results of a mail survey.", "content": "Gluteus tendon rupture is underrecognized by French orthopedic surgeons: results of a mail survey. To obtain information on the diagnosis and surgical treatment of hip rotator cuff tears by French orthopedic surgeons. Survey conducted in 2003 by mailing questionnaires to 459 orthopedic surgeons practicing in France. Of the 84 respondents, 38 (45%) were not aware that tears could occur in the hip rotator cuff and 11 (13%) had never suspected this diagnosis in any of their patients. The 35 (42%) remaining surgeons had experience with at least one case of gluteal tendon repair; among them, 24 (29%) made the diagnosis fortuitously during surgery for another reason (total hip arthroplasty). Only 11 (13%) surgeons had performed surgery to treat gluteal tendon tears that were diagnosed preoperatively (gluteus medius in 20 cases, gluteus maximus in six cases, and gluteus minimus in three cases; total, 29 cases). Of these 29 cases, only 14 were treated by surgical tendon repair (by six [7%] surgeons); the remaining repair procedures were done during total hip arthroplasty. The retrospective data collection procedure and absence of medium-term follow-up data preclude conclusions about the outcomes of surgical treatment. Gluteal tendon tears may be underrecognized by orthopedic surgeons in France, who may have limited experience with repairing these lesions. Autopsy and imaging studies have shown gluteal tendon tears in up to 10% of individuals older than 60 years."}
{"id": "16751732", "title": "Kinematic analysis of the upper limb: a useful tool in children with cerebral palsy.", "content": "Kinematic analysis of the upper limb: a useful tool in children with cerebral palsy. Upper limb involvement in cerebral palsy is usually more complex than lower limb involvement. Each child has a specific brain lesion and the clinical pattern is highly variable. Current clinical methods of assessment do not fully evaluate the kinematic activity during simple activities of daily life. We defined an upper limb three-dimensional kinematic protocol in order to complete the clinical analysis of such patients and reproducibility tests are in progress. Data were presented for one of the patients studied and showed some important differences between the clinical analysis and the kinematic one. A three-dimensional upper limb motion analysis gives a more complete kinematic evaluation and should help better measure the results of treatments."}
{"id": "16741738", "title": "Humeral head cysts and rotator cuff tears: an MR arthrographic study.", "content": "Humeral head cysts and rotator cuff tears: an MR arthrographic study. Humeral tuberosity cysts are a common finding, with previous reports suggesting they are related to rotator cuff tear or aging. The aim of this study was to investigate the characteristics of cysts in the tuberosities of the humeral head and their relationship with rotator cuff tear and age. Shoulder MR arthrograms were reviewed in 120 consecutive patients-83 males (mean age 38.0, range 19-59 years) and 37 females (mean age 41.2, range 15-59 years). Patients were referred for investigation of a variety of conditions, and instability was suspected in only a minority of cases. MR was performed before and after direct arthrography with 0.01% solution of gadolinium. Cysts were defined as well-demarcated circular/ovoid foci in two planes that demonstrated high signal on pre-arthrographic T2W sequences. Location, size and numbers of cysts and post-arthrographic enhancement were documented, along with the location of rotator cuff tears, if present. Cysts in the tuberosities of the humerus were identified in 84 patients (70%), and were seen seven times more frequently in the posterior aspect of the greater tuberosity than anteriorly. Most cysts (94%) demonstrated communication with the joint post-arthrogram. Rotator cuff tears were present in 36 patients, and 79% of all tears occurred in supraspinatus tendon. There was no significant difference in the occurrence of cysts between patients older or younger than age 40 or between genders, but rotator cuff tears were seen significantly more often in the older age group (p<0.01). Tuberosity cysts and rotator cuff tears did not appear to be related (p=0.55). However, whilst this lack of association was quite obvious posteriorly (p=0.84), the trend in the anterior aspect of the greater tuberosity is not as clear (p=0.14). Humeral cysts are most often located in the posterior aspect of the greater tuberosity, communicate with the joint space and, in this location, are not related to aging or rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "16735587", "title": "Evaluation of apparent and absolute supraspinatus strength in patients with shoulder injury using the scapular retraction test.", "content": "Evaluation of apparent and absolute supraspinatus strength in patients with shoulder injury using the scapular retraction test. Physical examination of patients with shoulder injury not involving actual rotator cuff tears frequently demonstrates decreased rotator cuff strength on manual muscle testing. This decrease has been attributed to supraspinatus muscle weakness, but it may be owing to alterations in scapular position. The position of stabilized scapular retraction, by minimizing proximal kinetic chain factors and providing a stable base of muscle origin, positively influences demonstrated supraspinatus strength. Controlled laboratory study. Supraspinatus strength was tested in 20 injured patients and 10 healthy controls in both the empty-can arm position and a position of scapular retraction using a handheld dynamometer. Pain in both maneuvers was measured by use of a visual analog scale. Paired t tests indicated the scapular retraction position resulted in statistically significantly (P = .001) higher supraspinatus strength values within both groups. There was no significant difference between the 2 positions in visual analog scale scores. This study shows that demonstrated apparent supraspinatus weakness on clinical examination in symptomatic patients may be dependent on scapular position. The weakness may be owing to other factors besides supraspinatus muscle weakness, such as a lack of a stable base in the kinetic chain or scapula. The clinical examination that addresses scapular posture and includes scapular retraction will allow more accurate determination of absolute supraspinatus muscle strength and allow efficacious rehabilitation protocols to address the source of the demonstrated weakness."}
{"id": "16734166", "title": "Cholecystectomy in situs viscerum inversus totalis. Does laparoscopy increase the pitalls?", "content": "Cholecystectomy in situs viscerum inversus totalis. Does laparoscopy increase the pitalls? Situs viscerum inversus is a rare condition in which the organs are transposed, totally or partially, to the opposite side of the body. Normally, there are no organ dysfunctions. Clinically, symptoms of cholelithiasis may be clear but confused by the location of the gallbladder on the opposite side. We report the case of a 43-year-old female with occasional colic pain in the epigastrium radiating to the right side and subscapular region, particularly after lunch. The laboratory findings showed normal values and, at physical examination, deep palpation of the abdomen in the epigastric region provoked pain. X-rays, ultrasonography, and CT scan showed the presence of multiple gallstones and the situs viscerum inversus of the abdominal organs. The only pathological finding was cholecystolithiasis. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy was judged advisable. Situs viscerum inversus is not a contraindication for laparoscopic cholecystectomy. This abnormal anatomical condition may create some initial difficulty for the surgeons, because of the inverted position of the organs. The peculiarity of our case is the unlikely site of the abdominal pain, located in the epigastrium and on the right side although the patient had situs viscerum inversus. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy can be performed on the left-sided gallbladder proceeding with the \"american technique\". In difficult cases, open cholecystectomy can be unavoidable."}
{"id": "16731223", "title": "Synovial chondromatosis in an elite cyclist: a case report.", "content": "Synovial chondromatosis in an elite cyclist: a case report. Primary synovial chondromatosis is a rare disorder that can present as chronic hip and groin pain. It is characterized by formation of osteocartilaginous nodules arising from the synovium. We report the first case, to our knowledge, of an Olympic-caliber cyclist, in her mid thirties, with primary synovial chondromatosis of the left hip. Clinical examination showed decreased internal rotation, external rotation, forward flexion, and abduction of the left hip. A radiograph of the left hip showed slight hip-joint narrowing centrally. A magnetic resonance imaging arthrogram showed a small anterior labral tear and innumerable small intermediate-intensity filling defects situated diffusely within the joint fluid. Fluoroscopically guided injection of the left hip with local anesthetic and cortisone produced temporary pain relief. Conservative treatment was marginally helpful. Results of a rheumatology workup were unremarkable. Arthroscopic removal of loose bodies and synovectomy were performed. The diagnosis of primary synovial chondromatosis was confirmed by histologic examination. At the 17-month follow-up, our patient was essentially pain free and had returned to her previous athletic activities."}
{"id": "16729747", "title": "Isolated teres minor atrophy: manifestation of quadrilateral space syndrome or traction injury to the axillary nerve?", "content": "Isolated teres minor atrophy: manifestation of quadrilateral space syndrome or traction injury to the axillary nerve? This article prospectively determines through magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) the incidence of isolated teres minor atrophy and its gender and age distribution, and documents associated findings related to the rotator cuff, labroligamentous complex, and quadrilateral space. Two hundred seventeen consecutive shoulder MRI examinations performed over a 3-month period were prospectively reviewed and evaluated for isolated teres minor atrophy. Twelve (5.5%) patients had non-compressive isolated teres minor atrophy. Ninety-two percent (n=11) of these patients had rotator cuff or labroligamentous complex tears. No patients had an associated mass within the quadrilateral space. The average patient age was 60 years and 11 of the 12 patients were male. Isolated teres minor atrophy on MRI is most commonly seen in older patients who do not fit the expected clinical presentation of quadrilateral space syndrome. The anatomical relationship of the teres minor nerve to the joint capsule and the frequency of associated shoulder injuries in these patients raises the possibility of an association between humeral decentering and teres minor atrophy. Quadrilateral space syndrome would appear to be a very rare cause of isolated teres minor atrophy."}
{"id": "16721363", "title": "Reduced tau expression in gastric cancer can identify candidates for successful Paclitaxel treatment.", "content": "Reduced tau expression in gastric cancer can identify candidates for successful Paclitaxel treatment. A recent study disclosed that breast cancer cases with low 'tau' expression can predict susceptibility to Paclitaxel administration. In the current study, the clinical significance of tau expression in gastric cancer cases was established by identifying candidates with Paclitaxel administration. Tissue specimens from 20 cases of in-operable or noncuratively resected gastric cancer were examined. Subsequent to the administration of 80 mg m(-2) of Paclitaxel in six 3-h intravenous infusions, the clinical effectiveness of Paclitaxel was evaluated by the size of metastatic lesions with computed tomography. The status of the tau expression was determined by immunohistochemistry. Based on a previously reported classification scheme, six were classified as tau-negative expression (0, 1+) cases and 14 were classified as tau-positive expression (2+, 3+) cases. All six (100%) cases of tau-negative expression showed a favourable response (partial response or minor response) to Paclitaxel administration. However, 12 (86%) of the 14 cases of tau-positive expression showed progressive disease (n = 11) or no change (n = 1) after Paclitaxel administration. The serum carcinoembryonic antigen values of the six cases of tau-negative expression were markedly decreased in comparison to the 14 tau-positive cases. These data indicate that tau-negative expression can be used to select gastric cancer patients, which will favourably respond to Paclitaxel treatment."}
{"id": "16720768", "title": "Single-stage bilateral total shoulder arthroplasty: a preliminary study.", "content": "Single-stage bilateral total shoulder arthroplasty: a preliminary study. We compared six patients with a mean age of 70 years (49 to 80) with severe bilateral, painful glenohumeral joint destruction who underwent a single-stage bilateral total shoulder replacement, with eight patients of mean age 61 years (22 to 89) who underwent bilateral total shoulder replacement in two stages, at a mean interval of 18 months (6 to 43). The overall function, pain and strength improved significantly in both groups. The subjective shoulder value, relative Constant score, active external rotation and the strength were improved significantly more in the single-stage group. Active elevation, abduction and overall function improved, significantly more in the single-stage group. Both the total duration of hospitalisation and the time off work per shoulder were substantially shorter in the single-stage group. The overall rate of complication was lower in the single-stage group. Our findings indicated that single-stage bilateral total shoulder replacement yielded significantly better clinical results with shorter hospitalisation and rehabilitation than staged replacement, and was not associated with any increase in complications."}
{"id": "16715658", "title": "Comparison of the MR findings on indirect MR arthrography in patients with rotator cuff tears with and without symptoms.", "content": "Comparison of the MR findings on indirect MR arthrography in patients with rotator cuff tears with and without symptoms. To compare indirect magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography findings in patients with rotator cuff tears with and without symptoms. Indirect MR arthrography results of 15 asymptomatic and 23 symptomatic rotator cuff tears were retrospectively reviewed, comparing the type and size of tears and amount of subacrominal-subdeltoid bursal fluid. There were 14 partial-thickness tears and one full-thickness tear in the asymptomatic group, with 4 small and 11 medium tears. In the symptomatic group, there were 16 partial-thickness and 7 full-thickness tears, with 14 small, 5 medium, and 4 large tears. In the asymptomatic group, the amount of subacrominal-subdeltoid bursal fluid was grade 0, 6 patients; grade 1, 6 patients; grade 2, 2 patients; and grade 3, 1 patient. In the symptomatic group, the amount of subacrominal-subdeltoid bursal fluid was grade 0, 4 patients; grade 1, 3 patients; grade 2, 8 patients; and grade 3, 8 patients. We found no statistically significant difference between symptomatic and asymptomatic tears in the kind and size of tears, and in the amount of subacrominal-subdeltoid bursal fluid. We found no difference in the MR findings between symptomatic and asymptomatic rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "16709790", "title": "Indirect MR arthrography of the shoulder: use of abduction and external rotation to detect full- and partial-thickness tears of the supraspinatus tendon.", "content": "Indirect MR arthrography of the shoulder: use of abduction and external rotation to detect full- and partial-thickness tears of the supraspinatus tendon. To evaluate prospectively the accuracy of indirect magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography for supraspinatus tendon tears during neutral positioning or abduction and external rotation (ABER) and neutral positioning. Informed consent was obtained in all patients, and the study was approved by the institutional review board. Indirect MR arthrography of the shoulder was performed in 51 symptomatic patients (14 female, 37 male; mean age, 47 years) in the neutral position (set 1) and in the neutral and ABER positions (set 2). Two readers independently interpreted both sets, and diagnoses were compared with arthroscopic findings. Diagnostic accuracy was calculated, and 95% confidence intervals were used to detect significant differences between sets. Diagnostic confidence was recorded by using a three-level confidence score. Differences between sets were evaluated by using the Wilcoxon signed rank test. Interobserver agreement was determined separately for each set and for all diagnoses, full-thickness tears, and partial-thickness tears. For full-thickness tears, there was no benefit to reading set 2. For reader 1, sensitivity and specificity were 95% and 100%, respectively, for set 1 and 100% and 100%, respectively, for set 2. For reader 2, sensitivity and specificity were 80% and 100%, respectively, for set 1 and 100% and 100%, respectively, for set 2. For partial-thickness tears, sensitivity was significantly higher after reading set 2. For reader 1, sensitivity and specificity were 71% and 88%, respectively, for set 1 and 93% and 100%, respectively, for set 2. For reader 2, sensitivity and specificity were 50% and 88%, respectively, for set 1 and 86% and 94%, respectively, for set 2. For both readers, diagnostic confidence for partial-thickness tears was significantly higher after reading set 2. After the interpretation of set 2, kappa values increased from 0.35 to 1.00 for full-thickness tears and from 0.12 to 0.63 for partial-thickness tears. Indirect MR arthrography with supplementary images obtained with patients in the ABER position significantly improved sensitivity and increased diagnostic confidence for partial-thickness tears of the supraspinatus tendon. Interobserver agreement was improved for both full- and partial-thickness tears."}
{"id": "16709684", "title": "The magic-angle effect of the supraspinatus tendon.", "content": "The magic-angle effect of the supraspinatus tendon. Rotator cuff injuries are common and result in either a tear or tendinopathy within the distal portion of the supraspinatus tendon. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging shows the injury as a high signal region within the distal tendon. Similarly, a magic-angle effect also appears within healthy patients in this same region on T1- or proton density (PD)-weighted MR sequences. This study was conducted to evaluate the prevalence of the magic-angle effect found with MR imaging within the supraspinatus tendon. In this study, 300 consecutive patients were selected from those symptomatic patients referred for MR evaluation of the shoulder using a 1.5T unit and both PD and T2-weighted sequences. To eliminate patients with a real injury, the written reports were reviewed; those with positive findings for injury to the supraspinatus tendon were eliminated from the sample group, leaving 164 patients. Two radiographers independently examined the oblique coronal images nearest the center of the supraspinatus tendon and compared the signal on PD and T2-weighted images. Images found to have a higher signal with the PD sequence were classified as having the magic-angle effect since a real injury would be more likely to have a strong signal on T2-weighted images. Of the 164 patients evaluated, both reviewers found the same 8 patients to have the magic-angle effect. Based on these results, our study suggests the artifact will appear in 5% of healthy patients and may lead to false-positive results on oblique coronal PD-weighted images through the supraspinatus tendon. In comparison with previous studies that have shown a much greater incidence rate, our findings also suggest that external rotation of the arm greatly reduces the incidence of the magic-angle effect."}
{"id": "16685091", "title": "Thermal capsulorrhaphy for the treatment of shoulder instability.", "content": "Thermal capsulorrhaphy for the treatment of shoulder instability. Thermal capsulorrhaphy has been used to treat many different types of shoulder instability, including multidirectional instability, unidirectional instability, and microinstability in overhead-throwing athletes. A device that delivers laser energy or radiofrequency energy to the capsule tissue causes the collagen to denature and the capsule to shrink. The optimal temperature to achieve the most shrinkage without causing necrosis of the tissue is between 65 degrees and 75 degrees centigrade. This treatment causes a significant decrease in mechanical stiffness for the first 2 weeks, and then, after the tissue undergoes active cellular repair from the surrounding uninjured tissue, the mechanical properties return to near normal by 12 weeks. If the thermal energy is applied in a grid pattern, then the tissue heals with more stiffness by 6 weeks. Clinical studies on thermal capsulorrhaphy for the treatment of multidirectional instability have shown a high rate of recurrent instability (12%-64%). The clinical studies on unidirectional instability showed much better recurrence rates (4%-25%), but because most of the patients also underwent concomitant Bankart repairs and superior labral anterior posterior lesion repairs, the efficacy of the thermal treatment cannot be ascertained. A randomized controlled trial would be needed to assess whether instability with Bankart lesions requires augmentation with thermal capsulorrhaphy. For the patients with microinstability who are overhead-throwing athletes, thermal capsulorrhaphy has shown varying results from a 97% rate of return to sports to a 62% rate of return to sports. Complications of this technique include temporary nerve injuries that usually involve the sensory branch of the axillary nerve and thermal necrosis of the capsule, which is rare."}
{"id": "16680380", "title": "Natural course of nontraumatic rotator cuff tendinitis and shoulder symptoms in a working population.", "content": "Natural course of nontraumatic rotator cuff tendinitis and shoulder symptoms in a working population. This study assessed the prevalence, incidence, and persistence of nontraumatic rotator cuff tendinitis and shoulder symptoms over a 1-year period in a working population and the predictive value of symptoms and physical findings. A 1-year prospective study of 436 active workers was conducted at 12 different worksites. Detailed health interviews, psychosocial questionnaires, and physical examinations were conducted at baseline and again after 1 year, with shorter evaluations at 4 and 8 months. Individual observed exposure assessment of shoulder posture, arm-hand activity, and hand forces was conducted. The prevalence of rotator cuff tendinitis at baseline was 7.6% [95% confidence interval (95% CI 5.1-10.1%)] for the right and 4.8% (95% CI 3.0-7.0%) for the left, compared with shoulder symptoms of 18.6% (95% CI 14.9-22.3%) (right) and 11.2% (95% CI 8.2-14.2%) (left). The incidence of rotator cuff tendinitis was 5.5% (95% CI 2.8-6.8%) and 2.9% (95% CI 1.0-3.8%), respectively. Higher proportions of participants with current symptoms or physical findings at baseline became clinical cases after 1 year than those without symptoms or findings. The 1-year persistence of clinical case status was 31.3% (95% CI 26.9-35.7%) (right) and 31.6% (95% CI 27.2-36.0%) (left). There were significant differences at baseline between the asymptomatic participants and the clinical cases with respect to physical health on the 12-item Short-form Health Survey (P=0.0002), the perception of general health (P=0.0027), and the frequency of high hand force exposure (P=0.0177). Considerable movement occurs between different stages of shoulder problems. Symptoms and physical findings alone appear to predict clinical case status within 1 year. Frequent follow-up is necessary to capture changes in health and exposure status in prospective studies."}
{"id": "16679241", "title": "Expression of growth factors in the early phase of supraspinatus tendon healing in rabbits.", "content": "Expression of growth factors in the early phase of supraspinatus tendon healing in rabbits. Growth factors are known to appear during wound healing. We hypothesized that growth factors would also appear during the healing process of a rotator cuff tear. We determined the expression of various growth factors during healing of acute rotator cuff tears in the rabbit. We made a full-thickness defect in the supraspinatus tendon of 27 Japanese white rabbits. The shoulders were harvested on days 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 14, 21, and 28 postoperatively (n = 3 at each time point). We assessed the expression of basic fibroblast growth factor, insulin-like growth factor 1, platelet-derived growth factor, and transforming growth factor beta. Basic fibroblast growth factor appeared with its peak on days 7 and 9, insulin-like growth factor 1 appeared with its peak on day 5, platelet-derived growth factor appeared with a mild expression between days 7 and 14, and transforming growth factor beta appeared with constant mild expression throughout the observation period. It is likely that each of these growth factors plays a role in the early phase of healing of the supraspinatus tendon in rabbits."}
{"id": "16679239", "title": "Functional outcomes and general health status after ulnohumeral arthroplasty for primary degenerative arthritis of the elbow.", "content": "Functional outcomes and general health status after ulnohumeral arthroplasty for primary degenerative arthritis of the elbow. Ulnohumeral arthroplasty (UHA) is considered a satisfactory surgical treatment option for patients with primary degenerative arthritis of the elbow. Most series have used categoric elbow scoring systems to evaluate the outcome of this procedure. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the outcome of UHA with patient-derived functional and general health status outcome instruments. We evaluated 17 patients (18 elbows) with primary degenerative arthritis of the elbow at a mean of 85 months after UHA. The mean age at the time of surgery was 42 years (range, 26 to 58 years). At the follow-up evaluation, the patients were assessed with a physical examination, outcome assessment tools, and plain radiographs. The mean elbow flexion arc improved by 16 degrees (range, -15 degrees to 60 degrees ; P = .012), and the mean forearm rotation arc (supination/pronation) improved by 35 degrees (range, -20 degrees to 90 degrees ; P < .001). Of the elbows, 11 were painless, 4 were painful with motion, and 3 were painful at rest and with motion. The mean Hospital for Special Surgery elbow score was 70 (range, 40 to 99), and the mean Mayo Elbow Performance Score was 83 (range, 50 to 100). The mean Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand score was 9.75 (range, 0 to 43.48). The Short Form-36 scores were better than the mean age- and sex-adjusted normal values. Patient self-assessed outcomes and general health status after UHA for primary degenerative elbow arthritis appear to be better than those determined by some categoric scoring systems. Consequently, the clinical utility of UHA may be underrepresented if physician-derived categoric scoring systems are the only measures of outcome assessment."}
{"id": "16679233", "title": "Comparison of three stretches for the pectoralis minor muscle.", "content": "Comparison of three stretches for the pectoralis minor muscle. Pectoralis minor adaptive shortening in healthy individuals is associated with altered scapular kinematics similar to the alterations demonstrated in individuals with subacromial impingement. This associative relationship suggests that stretching of the pectoralis minor may improve scapular kinematics and assist in the management of shoulder impingement. Several stretches for the pectoralis minor are used clinically, although it is not known which stretch optimally lengthens the muscle. The purpose of this analysis was to compare the mean length change for 3 pectoralis minor stretches. Fifty subjects without shoulder pathology were examined for the change in length of the pectoralis minor during 3 separate stretches by use of an electromagnetic motion-capture system. The stretches analyzed were a unilateral self-stretch, a supine manual stretch, and a sitting manual stretch. Each stretch was significantly different from the other two (df, 2/98; F ratio, 39.09; P < .00001), with the unilateral self-stretch demonstrating the greatest length change (2.24 cm), followed by the supine manual stretch (1.69 cm) and the sitting manual stretch (0.77 cm). Knowledge of the most effective method of elongating the pectoralis minor muscle may improve clinical decision making when targeting this anterior scapulothoracic muscle as part of intervention for or prevention of shoulder impingement."}
{"id": "16679232", "title": "Subacromial pressures in vivo and effects of selective experimental suprascapular nerve block.", "content": "Subacromial pressures in vivo and effects of selective experimental suprascapular nerve block. Subacromial impingement has been related to increased subacromial pressures. High subacromial pressures may, therefore, have a negative effect on tendon healing after rotator cuff repair, but avoidance of high pressures during healing is only possible if pressures in different positions of the arm are known. The purpose of this study was to determine the subacromial pressures for different positions of active shoulder movement and to determine the effects of supraspinatus and infraspinatus failure on subacromial pressures, as it is currently held that rotator cuff weakness might increase subacromial pressures. Subacromial pressures were statistically significantly altered by arm position (P = .001). There was an increase in pressure from 17.5 mm Hg at rest up to more than 60 mm Hg during abduction and flexion. Subacromial pressure decreased in external rotation and increased in internal rotation. Generally, patients with strong external rotation (arm at the side) had lower subacromial pressures. Conversely, paralysis of the supraspinatus or infraspinatus muscles had no statistically significant effect on subacromial pressures at rest or during active movements of the shoulder. High subacromial pressures can be prevented by avoiding active abduction, flexion, and internal rotation of the arm. External rotation does not need to be limited to reduce subacromial pressure."}
{"id": "16679227", "title": "Cuff integrity after arthroscopic versus open rotator cuff repair: a prospective study.", "content": "Cuff integrity after arthroscopic versus open rotator cuff repair: a prospective study. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair (RCR) has been reported to have good clinical results but high retear rates by ultrasound. We prospectively assessed postoperative cuff integrity and outcome after arthroscopic RCR (40 patients) and compared these results with open RCR (32 patients). Evaluation preoperatively and at 1 year included a physical examination and magnetic resonance imaging. American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons and Constant scores improved significantly in both groups (P < .0001). Overall, 69% of repairs in the open group and 53% in the arthroscopic group were intact by magnetic resonance imaging. Of tears less than 3 cm in size, 74% in the open group and 84% in the arthroscopic group were intact. Of tears greater than 3 cm in size, 62% in the open group and 24% in the arthroscopic group were intact (P < .036). In the arthroscopic group, patients with an intact cuff had significantly greater strength of elevation (P = .01) and external rotation (P = .02). We conclude that open and arthroscopic RCRs have similar clinical outcomes. Cuff integrity is comparable for small tears, but large tears have twice the retear rate after arthroscopic repair."}
{"id": "16679225", "title": "Pathogenesis of partial tear of the rotator cuff: a clinical and pathologic study.", "content": "Pathogenesis of partial tear of the rotator cuff: a clinical and pathologic study. This prospective study investigated the clinical and pathologic results in 66 patients with partial tears of the rotator cuff from January 1996 to December 1998. The pathologic change in the rotator cuff was graded from the magnetic resonance images by using the criteria described by Zlatkin and Iannotti. A modified grading system from Ozaki and Panni was used for pathologic grading of the anterior acromion. The functional score of Constant and Murley was used for clinical assessment. The pathologic change in the rotator cuff revealed by the magnetic resonance imaging study was more severe in patients with articular side tears compared with patients who had bursal side tears. On the contrary, the pathologic changes in the acromion were significantly milder in patients with articular side tears compared with bursal side tears. These observations indicate that articular side tears of the rotator cuff are mainly associated with intrinsic pathologic changes of the rotator cuff, whereas bursal side tears are associated with subacromial impingement on an underlying milder pathologic change of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "16651565", "title": "Treatment of femoro-acetabular impingement: preliminary results of labral refixation.", "content": "Treatment of femoro-acetabular impingement: preliminary results of labral refixation. Recent advances in the understanding of the anatomy and function of the acetabular labrum suggest that it is important for normal joint function. We found no available data regarding whether labral refixation after treatment of femoro-acetabular impingement affects the clinical and radiographic results. We retrospectively reviewed the clinical and radiographic results of fifty-two patients (sixty hips) with femoro-acetabular impingement who underwent arthrotomy and surgical dislocation of the hip to allow trimming of the acetabular rim and femoral osteochondroplasty. In the first twenty-five hips, the torn labrum was resected (Group 1); in the next thirty-five hips, the intact portion of the labrum was reattached to the acetabular rim (Group 2). At one and two years postoperatively, the Merle d'Aubign\u00e9 clinical score and the T\u00f6nnis arthrosis classification system were used to compare the two groups. At one year postoperatively, both groups showed a significant improvement in their clinical scores (mainly pain reduction) compared with their preoperative values (p = 0.0003 for Group 1 and p < 0.0001 for Group 2). At two years postoperatively, 28% of the hips in Group 1 (labral resection) had an excellent result, 48% had a good result, 20% had a moderate result, and 4% had a poor result. In contrast, in Group 2 (labral reattachment), 80% of the hips had an excellent result, 14% had a good result, and 6% had a moderate result. Comparison of the clinical scores between the two groups revealed significantly better outcomes for Group 2 at one year (p = 0.0001) and at two years (p = 0.01). Radiographic signs of osteoarthritis were significantly more prevalent in Group 1 than in Group 2 at one year (p = 0.02) and at two years (p = 0.009). Patients treated with labral refixation recovered earlier and had superior clinical and radiographic results when compared with patients who had undergone resection of a torn labrum. Although the results must be considered preliminary, we now recommend refixation of the intact portion of the labrum after trimming of the acetabular rim during surgical treatment of femoro-acetabular impingement."}
{"id": "16651166", "title": "Treatment of patients with spinoglenoid cysts associated with superior labral tears without cyst aspiration, debridement, or excision.", "content": "Treatment of patients with spinoglenoid cysts associated with superior labral tears without cyst aspiration, debridement, or excision. To describe a case series of 10 consecutive patients with spinoglenoid cysts and associated superior labral tears treated by labral repair performed by the same surgeon without formal cyst aspiration, debridement, or excision. Ten patients with spinoglenoid cysts and associated superior labral tears demonstrated on preoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were retrospectively reviewed. Evidence of weakness on examination was further evaluated through nerve conduction studies. All 10 patients underwent surgical repair of the labral tear performed by the same surgeon without formal cyst aspiration, debridement, or excision. Postoperatively, detailed shoulder and neurologic examinations were performed, and follow-up nerve conduction studies and MRIs were obtained. Ten patients were evaluated clinically at a mean of 10.2 months after surgical repair (range, 6 to 27 months). In all, 8 males and 2 females of average age 47.7 years (range, 35 to 56 years) were studied. Preoperative examination revealed that 6 patients had external rotation weakness. Nerve conduction studies performed in these 6 patients confirmed suprascapular neuropathy in 4 of them. Labral repair without formal cyst excision resulted in successful outcomes for all 10 patients after spinoglenoid cysts associated with superior labral tears had been diagnosed. All 4 patients with suprascapular neuropathy recovered strength and demonstrated normal nerve conduction studies postoperatively. In 8 of 10 patients, MRIs performed postoperatively demonstrated complete resolution of the cyst, along with labral healing. All patients were able to return to work with no restrictions on activities, and all were satisfied with their outcomes. This study demonstrated successful clinical, electromyographic, and MRI outcomes for patients with spinoglenoid cysts and superior labral tears, who were treated by labral repair without formal cyst excision. Treatment given for intra-articular disease is the key component of surgical management. Level IV, case series study."}
{"id": "16651165", "title": "Arthroscopic anterior stabilization and posterior capsular plication for anterior glenohumeral instability: a report of 71 cases.", "content": "Arthroscopic anterior stabilization and posterior capsular plication for anterior glenohumeral instability: a report of 71 cases. Results after arthroscopic treatment of anterior glenohumeral instability continue to improve as advancements are made in instrumentation and techniques. We present 71 cases of anterior glenohumeral instability treated with arthroscopic anterior stabilization and posterior capsular plication. Case series. Arthroscopic anterior reconstruction and posterior inferior \"pinch-tuck\" capsular plication was performed in 71 shoulders (67 patients) with anterior glenohumeral instability. The average follow-up was 33.3 months (range, 20 to 24 months). Outcomes were assessed by completion of the Simple Shoulder Test (SST), Western Ontario Shoulder Instability (WOSI) Index, a Rowe score, and a subjective self-assessment shoulder instability form. Postoperative dislocation occurred in 5 patients (7%). The average SST score was 11.2 (12 maximum) and the average WOSI Index was 85.6% (range, 30.6% to 100%). The average Rowe score was 85. Ninety-seven percent of patients reported they were able to return to their normal activity level, and 90% of patients reported that they were able to return to their previous level of athletics; 100% of patients reported that they were doing better than before surgery and were satisfied with their result; 100% of patients reported that they would undergo the procedure again. Arthroscopic anterior stabilization using suture anchors, combined with posterior capsular suture plication, is a reliable treatment option for anterior glenohumeral instability. Level IV."}
{"id": "16651163", "title": "Volume analysis of arthroscopic capsular shift.", "content": "Volume analysis of arthroscopic capsular shift. To determine how much volume reduction can be obtained with varying amounts of arthroscopic capsular plication. Six fresh-frozen, cadaveric specimens were used. Specimens were rejected if a rotator cuff tear was present. The volume of each shoulder joint was measured under 3 conditions: no capsular shift, 5-mm capsular shift, and 10-mm capsular shift. For each shift, 4 sutures were placed arthroscopically, 2 anteriorly and 2 posteriorly. Repeated measures were used to confirm the validity of the measurements. Data were analyzed with parametric and nonparametric tests. The average percentage of volume reduction at 5 mm of capsular plication from control was 16.2% (range, 9.7% to 21.5%). The percentage of volume reduction from control to 10 mm of capsular plication averaged 33.7% (range, 25.3% to 44.6%). Statistical significance was found with both parametric (P < .0001) and nonparametric tests (P < .0313). The current study found that capsular volume reduction was related to the amount of capsular plication with reproducible results. Capsular plication can produce volume reduction comparable to other techniques. The data could be used to determine the potential number of sutures and amount of tissue plication needed for the amount of laxity found at surgery."}
{"id": "16651161", "title": "Arthroscopic distal clavicle resection: a comparison of bursal and direct approaches.", "content": "Arthroscopic distal clavicle resection: a comparison of bursal and direct approaches. To test the hypothesis that the direct (superior) approach to arthroscopic distal clavicle resection is as safe and effective as the bursal (subacromial) approach. All patients who had an arthroscopic distal clavicle resection in our institution between 1994 and 2002 were reviewed. Patients with a history of acromioclavicular joint (ACJ) instability, previous shoulder surgery, glenohumeral pathology, full-thickness rotator cuff tear, or other significant orthopaedic comorbidity were excluded. Outcome data were collected including the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) score as well as subjective ratings of pain and instability. Follow-up was completed on 66 shoulders of 60 patients. Twenty-four shoulders had a bursal approach (group I) and 42 had a direct approach (group II). There were 45 men and 15 women with an average age of 46 years (range, 21 to 78 years). Follow-up averaged 6.0 years (range, 2 to 11.5 years). The average ASES score was 90 (range, 53-100) in group I and 94 (range, 55-100) in group II. Four patients (10%) in group II required reoperation: 2 patients required ACJ stabilization at 6 and 9 months postoperatively because of anteroposterior instability, and 2 patients required resection again at 5 years because of recurrent symptoms. Both the direct and bursal approaches lead to satisfactory outcomes in the majority of patients with ACJ arthrosis. However, the direct approach to the ACJ may damage the superior capsular ligaments, potentially leading to distal clavicle instability. Care should be taken when performing the direct ACJ resection to avoid disrupting the capsular restraints. Level IV therapeutic case series."}
{"id": "16649891", "title": "Effectiveness of radial shock-wave therapy for calcific tendinitis of the shoulder: single-blind, randomized clinical study.", "content": "Effectiveness of radial shock-wave therapy for calcific tendinitis of the shoulder: single-blind, randomized clinical study. Radial shock-wave therapy (RSWT) is a pneumatically generated, low- to medium-energy type of shock-wave therapy. This single-blind, randomized, \"less active similar therapy\"-controlled study was performed to evaluate the effectiveness of RSWT for the management of calcific tendinitis of the shoulder. Ninety patients with radiographically verified calcific tendinitis of the shoulder were tested. Subjects were randomly assigned to either a treatment group (n=45) or a control group (n=45). Pain and functional level were evaluated before and after treatment and at a 6-month follow-up. Radiographic modifications in calcifications were evaluated before and after treatment. The treatment group displayed improvement in all of the parameters analyzed after treatment and at the 6-month follow-up. Calcifications disappeared completely in 86.6% of the subjects in the treatment group and partially in 13.4% of subjects; only 8.8% of the subjects in the control group displayed partially reduced calcifications, and none displayed a total disappearance. The results suggest that the use of RSWT for the management of calcific tendinitis of the shoulder is safe and effective, leading to a significant reduction in pain and improvement of shoulder function after 4 weeks, without adverse effects."}
{"id": "16643194", "title": "Shoulder pain -- a common problem in world-class badminton players.", "content": "Shoulder pain -- a common problem in world-class badminton players. Badminton is a sport that requires a lot of over-shoulder motion, with the shoulder in abduction/external rotation. This questionnaire study on 188 international top-level badminton players during the World Mixed Team Championships showed that previous or present shoulder pain on the dominant side was reported by 52% of the players. Previous shoulder pain was reported by 37% of the players and on-going shoulder pain by 20% of the players. There were no significant differences in the prevalence of shoulder pain between men and women. The majority of the shoulder pain had started gradually. The pain was usually associated with shoulder activity, and stiffness was a common, associated symptom. Furthermore, the shoulder pain was associated with consequences such as sleeping disturbances, changes in training and competition habits, and it also affected activities of daily living. The majority of the players had sought medical advice and had been given different kinds of treatment. The study showed that shoulder pain is a common and significant problem in world-class badminton players, and the consequences are most likely of importance for their training and playing capacity."}
{"id": "16638495", "title": "Microfracture of the hip in athletes.", "content": "Microfracture of the hip in athletes. Most studies addressing treatment of chondral injuries have involved the knee. Various techniques have been used in the knee. Microfracture has shown excellent results in the knee. Chondral injuries of the hip are common in athletes with labral tears and femoroacetabular impingement. The microfracture technique is now being used in the hip joint. Indications include full-thickness cartilage loss or unstable flap on a weight-bearing surface. An important contraindication is the patients unwillingness to follow the postoperative protocol and rehabilitation plan. The microfracture technique in the hip is similar to that in the knee. Postoperatively, patients use a continuous passive motion and are flat foot (20 lbs.) weightbearing for 8 weeks. Early results following microfracture in the hip have been encouraging."}
{"id": "16638491", "title": "Labral tears, extra-articular injuries, and hip arthroscopy in the athlete.", "content": "Labral tears, extra-articular injuries, and hip arthroscopy in the athlete. Labral tears in athletes can lead to disabling hip pain and affect their athletic performance. Other intra-articular lesions, including chondral injuries, capsular abnormalities, and ligamentum teres tears, commonly coexist with acetabular labral tears. Isolated athletic injury or repetitive traumatic activity can lead to labral tears; however, underlying structural (femoroacetabular impingement) and developmental abnormalities predisposing athletes to labral pathology must be addressed. Recent studies have demonstrated lesions associated with acetabular labral tears, and that labral tears rarely occur as isolated injuries. Return to sport is favorable in athletes who have labral tears if they are properly treated with arthroscopic intervention."}
{"id": "16638489", "title": "Pediatric athlete hip disorders.", "content": "Pediatric athlete hip disorders. Injuries of the hip and pelvis in pediatric athletes are receiving increased attention. The majority of injuries are soft tissue injuries or apophyseal injuries that heal with nonoperative supportive treatment. Unique injury patterns can be seen in patients who have underlying pediatric hip disorders such as slipped capital femoral epiphysis, and Legg-Perthes disease. With the advent of hip arthroscopy and the development of more advanced imaging of the hip through MR arthrography, internal derangements of the hip such as labral tears, loose bodies, and chondral injuries are being diagnosed and treated with increased frequency. This article reviews the more common injuries of the hip and pelvis in pediatric athletes."}
{"id": "16638488", "title": "Radiographic and MR imaging of the athletic hip.", "content": "Radiographic and MR imaging of the athletic hip. Imaging of the athletic hip has changed significantly over the past 10 years to address clinical concerns of intra-articular pathology and femoroacetabular impingement. Currently, high-resolution direct MR arthrography of the hip provides the best means for evaluating intra-articular pathology. However, radiography remains important for the diagnosis of subtle bony irregularities associated with femoroacetabular impingement. Therefore, a comprehensive imaging strategy requires conventional radiographs and MRI to evaluate intra- and extra-articular sources of pain. Because of newer surgical techniques, MR interpretations should provide description of labral tears and assessment of cartilage defects, as well as, capsule/iliofemoral ligament injury, femoroacetabular impingement, and tears of the ligamentum teres to aid preoperative planning and help provide prognostic information."}
{"id": "16636345", "title": "Short-term effectiveness of hyperthermia for supraspinatus tendinopathy in athletes: a short-term randomized controlled study.", "content": "Short-term effectiveness of hyperthermia for supraspinatus tendinopathy in athletes: a short-term randomized controlled study. Hyperthermia has been introduced as a physical therapy modality for soft tissue injuries. The authors tested the null hypothesis that there are no short-term differences after the use of hyperthermia, ultrasound, and exercises for tendinopathy of the supraspinatus tendon. Randomized controlled trial; Level of evidence, 1. The authors studied 37 athletes (29 men, 8 women; mean age, 26.7 +/- 5.8 years; range, 19-43 years) with supraspinatus tendinopathy who had had symptoms between 3 and 6 months. Subjects were randomly assigned to 3 groups. Group A (n = 14) received hyperthermia at 434 MHz. Group B (n = 12) received continuous ultrasound at 1 MHz at an intensity of 2.0 w/cm(2) 3 times a week. Group C (n = 11) undertook exercises, consisting of pendular swinging and stretching exercises 5 minutes twice a day every day. All interventions were undertaken for 4 weeks. Subjects were evaluated at baseline, immediately on completion of treatment, and at 6 weeks after the end of the intervention using mean pain score for pain at night, during movement, and at rest on a visual analog scale; pain on resisted movement and painful arc on active abduction between 40 degrees and 120 degrees on a 4-point scale; and Constant score. Patients who received hyperthermia experienced significantly better pain relief than did patients receiving ultrasound or exercises: group A, 5.96 to 1.2 (P = .03); group B, 6.3 to 5.15 (P = .10); group C, 6.1 to 4.9 (P = .09). Hyperthermia at 434 MHz appears safe and effective in the short term for the management of supraspinatus tendinopathy."}
{"id": "16633790", "title": "MR imaging in sports-related glenohumeral instability.", "content": "MR imaging in sports-related glenohumeral instability. Sports-related shoulder pain and injuries represent a common problem. In this context, glenohumeral instability is currently believed to play a central role either as a recognized or as an unrecognized condition. Shoulder instabilities can roughly be divided into traumatic, atraumatic, and microtraumatic glenohumeral instabilities. In athletes, atraumatic and microtraumatic instabilities can lead to secondary impingement syndromes and chronic damage to intraarticular structures. Magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography is superior to conventional MR imaging in the diagnosis of labro-ligamentous injuries, intrinsic impingement, and SLAP (superior labral anteroposterior) lesions, and thus represents the most informative imaging modality in the overall assessment of glenohumeral instability. This article reviews the imaging criteria for the detection and classification of instability-related injuries in athletes with special emphasis on the influence of MR findings on therapeutic decisions."}
{"id": "16632711", "title": "Shoulder pain and disability: comparison with MR findings.", "content": "Shoulder pain and disability: comparison with MR findings. The objective of our study was to compare the level of disability induced by shoulder pain as reported by patients on the L'Insalata Self-Administered Questionnaire (SAQ) with shoulder MRI results. One thousand seventy-nine consecutive patients referred for shoulder MRI were asked to complete the L'Insalata SAQ. Results from the L'Insalata SAQ and MRI were cross-tabulated and analyzed with multivariable linear regression. No statistical relationship could be found between the level of pain, impairment, and disability as reported on the L'Insalata SAQ and the location and size of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff as observed on MRI. Pain and disability are significantly linked to the presence of supraspinatus tendon lesions and the presence of bursitis, but these factors contribute little to the symptoms. Patients with biceps tendinopathy did not experience increased pain when compared with patients without biceps tendinopathy or with biceps tendon rupture. No statistical relationship was found between the level of pain and disability and the size and location of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "16632128", "title": "In vivo measurements of subacromial impingement: substantial compression develops in abduction with large internal rotation.", "content": "In vivo measurements of subacromial impingement: substantial compression develops in abduction with large internal rotation. Subacromial impingement is a widely recognized mechanism of chronic shoulder pain. The magnitudes of the compressive forces that impinge the subacromial structures were often measured from cadaveric specimens, but it is questionable to use this data as a sole basis to determine the shoulder motions and/or shoulder configurations that induce impingement in live subjects performing active motion. The purpose of the present study was to determine in vivo the magnitude of the compressive force at selected shoulder configurations. The subacromial structures may be impinged by the downward-directed forces exerted by the coraco-acromial ligament. The reactions of these forces push the ligament upwards and deform it into a curved shape. A single resultant of these reaction forces was determined with an inverse approach to quantify the magnitude of the impingement force. An ultrasound unit was used to visualize the deformed shape of the coraco-acromial ligament for thirteen subjects with no symptomatic shoulder problem actively holding their shoulders in five configurations. The impingement force in 90 degrees abduction+maximum internal rotation (mean=21.3N) and that in the Hawkins test position (mean=18.3N) were significantly greater than those in 90 degrees abduction+neutral and external rotation (means < or = 3N). For young asymptomatic shoulders, the motions that induce impingement are not any arm abduction, but the arm abduction with a large internal rotation. Further study is indicated to examine the impingement force among various age groups."}
{"id": "16628997", "title": "The incidence of rotator cuff disease in smoking and non-smoking patients: a cadaveric study.", "content": "The incidence of rotator cuff disease in smoking and non-smoking patients: a cadaveric study. The etiology of rotator cuff disease is multifactorial. One theory behind the high incidence of rotator cuff tears in the shoulder is that the supraspinatus/infraspinatus tendon contains a zone of relative avascularity in the area proximal to its insertion at the greater tuberosity. Tobacco smoking is known to contribute to microvascular disease, and it can be hypothesized that smoking tobacco further compromises the vascular supply to the supraspinatus/infraspinatus tendon, thus increasing the incidence of tendinous pathology in the rotator cuff. This article evaluates the rotator cuffs of 72 shoulders in 36 cadavers and compares the incidence of macroscopic and microscopic disease within the rotator cuff tendon. Microscopic evaluation of the accompanying lung tissue from the respective cadaver also was performed. As a result, we were able to determine the presence or absence of a smoking history or emphysema from each cadaver as it related to rotator cuff disease in the shoulder. Of the 36 shoulders that exhibited macroscopic rotator cuff tears, 23 were from cadavers with a history of smoking compared to only 13 from cadavers with no history of smoking. Furthermore, the presence of advanced microscopic rotator cuff pathology (Grade 3 or 4 fibrous degeneration) was more than twice as likely in the cadavers with a history of smoking (22/32) compared to only 10 of 32 shoulders from cadavers with no history of smoking. While none of this data was statistically significant due to the insufficient number of subject cadavers, strong trends were noted in these findings."}
{"id": "16628056", "title": "Range of normal and abnormal subacromial/subdeltoid bursa fluid.", "content": "Range of normal and abnormal subacromial/subdeltoid bursa fluid. To determine the range of normal and abnormal subacromial/subdeltoid (SA/SD) bursa fluid. Using a 1.5-T magnetic resonance (MR) imaging scanner, 2 observers evaluated coronal oblique T2-weighted, fast spin echo, fat-suppressed images of 71 persons (36 asymptomatic volunteers and 35 patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears [RCTs]) for the 1) widest thickness of the SA/SD bursa; 2) medial extent of bursa from the acromioclavicular joint (ACJ); and 3) because patients were supine, whether fluid was in the posterior quarter, middle quarter, anterior quarter, or anterior-most quarter of the bursa. The range of bursa thickness was 0 to 7 mm (mean = 1.3 mm, median = 2 mm) in normal bursas and 0 to 8 mm (mean = 3.3 mm, median = 3 mm; P < 0.05, t test) in RCTs. Only 2 volunteers exceeded 3 mm in bursa thickness. In volunteers, 36% had no fluid present, 61% had a small amount of fluid lateral to the ACJ, and 1 had fluid directly beneath the ACJ (P < 0.05). In RCT patients, 37% had fluid directly under the ACJ or medial to the ACJ. Only 1 patient with an RCT had no bursal fluid. In volunteers, most fluid was in the posterior quarter (53%) or middle quarter (22%) of the bursa, whereas in RCT patients, most fluid was located in the anterior quarter of the humerus or anterior to the humerus (89%; P < 0.05). Normal SA/SD bursa fluid is rarely thicker than 2 mm and tends to be located posteriorly. An abnormal amount of fluid is present when the thickness exceeds 3 mm, fluid is present medial to the ACJ, and fluid is seen in the part of the bursa anterior to the humerus."}
{"id": "16627629", "title": "A prospective outcome evaluation of arthroscopic Bankart repairs: minimum 2-year follow-up.", "content": "A prospective outcome evaluation of arthroscopic Bankart repairs: minimum 2-year follow-up. Arthroscopic treatment of anterior shoulder dislocation has become possible through improvements in instruments and techniques. To prospectively evaluate results of arthroscopic Bankart repairs at a minimum 2-year follow-up for patients with histories of shoulder dislocation and an anterior-inferior labral tear at the time of diagnostic arthroscopy. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. A consecutive series of 85 patients (70 men, 15 women; mean age, 26 years) with Bankart lesions were treated with arthroscopic repair using suture anchors; 18 patients (27%) had extension of the labral injury into the superior labrum affecting some or all of the biceps anchor. Anchors were loaded with no. 2 nonabsorbable braided suture and placed 2 mm into the edge of the glenoid surface. A low anterior (5-o'clock) portal through the subscapularis tendon was used in all patients; 72 patients were evaluated at a minimum of 2 years postoperatively (mean, 46 months). Seven patients (10%) experienced recurrent instability after repair. Four patients had redislocations; 3 experienced recurrent subluxations. One patient had pain with the apprehension test without a clear history of recurrent instability. Of 18 collision athletes, 2 had dislocations at 22 and 60 months postoperatively. There were no complications, including no neurologic deficits. Clinical strength testing of the subscapularis muscle was normal in all patients. The mean Rowe score was 88 of 100 points, with 90% excellent or good results. Simple Shoulder Test responses improved from 66% positive preoperatively to 88% positive postoperatively. The American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scoring index averaged 92 of 100 points postoperatively. Pain analog scales improved from 5.5 preoperatively to 0.35 postoperatively on a 10-point scale. SF-12 scores improved for physical function. Patient satisfaction was rated 8.9 on a 10-point visual analog scale. Bankart repairs performed arthroscopically using properly implanted suture anchors and nonabsorbable sutures and in which associated pathoanatomy is addressed demonstrate low recurrence rates (10%) similar to historical open controls."}
{"id": "16623305", "title": "One-shot CT and MR arthrography of the shoulder with a mixture of iodinated and paramagnetic contrast agents using arthroscopy as a gold standard.", "content": "One-shot CT and MR arthrography of the shoulder with a mixture of iodinated and paramagnetic contrast agents using arthroscopy as a gold standard. Our aim was to perform computed tomography arthrography (CTA) and magnetic resonance arthrography (MRA) of the shoulder as a one-shot examination and to evaluate its value on the basis of arthroscopy as a gold standard. Fifteen men and 16 women with planned arthroscopy for chronic (n=17) or traumatic tear of the rotator cuff (n=8), congenital atraumatic (n=1) or traumatic glenohumeral instability (n=2), traumatic tear of the rotator cuff with glenohumeral instability (n=1), or \"frozen shoulder\" (n=2) underwent plain helical CT in neutral position and intra-articular CT-guided injection of a mixture of iodinated and paramagnetic contrast agents (gadodiamide at 1:250 and iobitridol 350 at 1:5 in 20 ml of saline solution). CT helical scans in intra- and extrarotation and T1-weighted MRA scans in the neutral position were obtained. CTA and MRA were evaluated separately and jointly (CTA-MRA) in different blinded sessions, giving a 0-3 score to the agreement of CTA, MRA, and CTA-MRA with arthroscopy. The injected volume of the solution ranged from 10 to 24 ml. No side effects were observed. CTA obtained a score of 2.33+/-0.62, MRA 2.47+/-0.52, and CTA-MRA 2.67+/-0.49. Significant differences were found for CTA-MRA versus CTA (p=0.0281) and MRA (p=0.0277). There was no significant difference for CTA versus MRA. CTA and MRA can be performed as a one-shot exam. CTA-MRA seems to give more information than CTA or MRA separately."}
{"id": "16623304", "title": "Supraspinatus tendon US morphology in basketball players: correlation with main pathologic models of secondary impingement syndrome in young overhead athletes. Preliminary report.", "content": "Supraspinatus tendon US morphology in basketball players: correlation with main pathologic models of secondary impingement syndrome in young overhead athletes. Preliminary report. The purpose of this study was to investigate supraspinatus tendon sonographic morphology in a population of young overhead athletes in correlation with main pathologic models of secondary shoulder impingement syndrome. Between April and May 2004, 20 subjects (ten professional basketball players and ten non-athlete controls of the same age, weight and height ranges) underwent bilateral, standardised, sonographic sholulder examination to evaluate supraspinatus echotexture, supraspinatus and subacromial bursa thickness, subacromial space width (cutoff of 7 mm) and dynamic anterior impingement beneath the acromial margin. All subjects were right handed. No symptomatic controls were found. Four players showed signs and symptoms of right atraumatic shoulder instability (two cases) or supraspinatus impingement with anterior pain (one right and one left shoulder). Subacromial space width was reduced in five right-dominant players' shoulders (three symptomatic and two asymptomatic) versus zero controls (p<0.05) and in eight players' shoulders versus zero controls on total shoulders (p<0.05). No other significant differences were observed between the two groups in sonographic parameters considered. Despite the study limitations, ultrasonography (US) is able to detect subacromial space narrowing in young overhead athletes as early shoulder impingement sign, according to the continuum impingement-instability pathologic model."}
{"id": "16621392", "title": "MR-imaging of anterior tibiotalar impingement syndrome: agreement, sensitivity and specificity of MR-imaging and indirect MR-arthrography.", "content": "MR-imaging of anterior tibiotalar impingement syndrome: agreement, sensitivity and specificity of MR-imaging and indirect MR-arthrography. To clarify the role of MR-imaging in the diagnosis of anterior ankle impingement syndromes. We prospectively examined 51 consecutive patients with chronic ankle pain by MR-imaging. Arthroscopy was performed in 29 patients who previously underwent non-enhanced MR-imaging; in 11 patients, indirect MR-arthrography additionally was performed. MR-examinations were correlated with clinical findings; MR and arthroscopy scores were statistically compared, agreement was measured. Arthroscopy demonstrated granulation tissue in the lateral gutter (38%) and anterior recess (31%), lesions of the anterior tibiofibular (31%) and the anterior talofibular ligament (21%) as well as intraarticular bodies (10%). Stenosing tenosynovitis and a ganglionic cyst were revealed as extraarticular causes for chronic ankle pain by MR-examination (17%). Agreement of MR-imaging and arthroscopy was fair for the anterior talofibular ligament and the anterior joint cavity (kappa 0.40). Major discrepancy was found for non-enhanced MR scans (kappa 0.49) when compared with indirect MR-arthrography (kappa 0.03) in the anterior cavity. The sensitivity for lesions of the anterior talofibular and calcaneofibular ligament and the anterior cavity (0.91-0.87) detected by MR-imaging was superior in comparison to lesions of the anterior tibiofibular ligament and anteromedial cavity (0.50-0.24). MR-imaging provides additional information about the mechanics of chronic ankle impingement rather than an accurate diagnosis of this clinical entity. The method is helpful in differentiating extra- from intra-articular causes of ankle impingement. Indirect MR-arthrography has little or no additional value in patients with ankle impingement syndrome."}
{"id": "16619659", "title": "Suprascapular intraneural ganglia and glenohumeral joint connections.", "content": "Suprascapular intraneural ganglia and glenohumeral joint connections. Unlike the more commonly noted paralabral cysts (extraneural ganglia), which are well known to result in suprascapular nerve compression, only four cases of suprascapular intraneural ganglia have been reported. Because of their rarity, the pathogenesis of suprascapular intraneural ganglia has been poorly understood and a pathoanatomical explanation has not been provided. In view of the growing literature demonstrating strong associations between paralabral cysts and labral (capsular) pathology, joint connections, and joint communications, the authors retrospectively reviewed the magnetic resonance (MR) imaging studies and postoperative results in the two featured patients to test a hypothesis that suprascapular intraneural ganglia would have analogous findings. Two patients who presented with suprascapular neuropathy were found to have intraneural ganglia. Connections to the glenohumeral joint could be established in both patients through posterior labrocapsular complex tears. In neither patient was the joint connection identified preoperatively or intraoperatively, and cyst decompression was performed by itself without attention to the labral tear. The suprascapular intraneural ganglia extended from the glenohumeral joint as far proximally as the level of the nerves' origin from the upper trunk in the supraclavicular fossa. Although both patients experienced symptomatic improvement after surgery, neurological recovery was incomplete. In both cases, postoperative MR images revealed cyst persistence. In addition, previously unrecognized superior labral anteroposterior (SLAP) Type II lesions (tears of the superior labrum extending anteroposterior and involving the biceps anchor at the labrum without actual extension into the tendon) were visualized. In one patient with a persistent cyst, an MR arthrogram was obtained and demonstrated a communication between the joint and the cyst. The findings in these two patients support the synovial theory for intraneural ganglia. Based on their experience with intraneural ganglia at other sites, the authors believe that suprascapular intraneural ganglia arise from the glenohumeral joint, egress through a superior (posterior) labral tear, and dissect within the epineurium along an articular branch into the main nerve, following the path of least resistance. Furthermore, these two cases of intraneural ganglia with SLAP lesions are directly analogous to the many cases of paralabral cysts associated with these types of labral tears. By better understanding the origin of this unusual type of ganglia and drawing analogies to the more common extraneural cysts, surgical strategies can be formulated to address the underlying pathoanatomy, improve operative outcomes, and prevent recurrences."}
{"id": "16616215", "title": "Factors predictive of early or late aneurysm sac size change following endovascular repair.", "content": "Factors predictive of early or late aneurysm sac size change following endovascular repair. The purpose of this study was to determine the relationship between aneurysm sac size change at 1, 6, 12, and 24 months and a set of 10 independent \"predictive\" variables by using a general linear model analysis. In a multicenter trial, 351 patients received the Zenith tri-modular bifurcated endograft. The predictive variables used for this analysis were endoleak by type, age, gender, smoking status, and the preprocedure variables of maximum aneurysm major diameter, minor neck diameter, proximal neck length, neck plaque/thrombus, and neck shape; and patent inferior mesenteric artery at predischarge. The aneurysm change was calculated as the difference from the predischarge (< or = 7 days of implant) maximum aneurysm major diameter measurement to the maximum aneurysm major diameter measurement at follow-up examination periods of 1, 6, 12, and 24 months. The same 10 predictive variables were used to assess the absolute change in maximum aneurysm minor diameter and aneurysm area. Additionally, the percent change from predischarge was also assessed for the major diameter, minor diameter, and aneurysm area. None of the independent variables were predictive of absolute sac size change or percent change at 1 month. At 6 months, the presence of an endoleak (P < .01) and preprocedure neck thrombus/plaque (P = .01) were significant predictors of absolute and relative aneurysm size change for all measurements (major diameter, minor diameter, and area) and were more likely to be associated with less sac shrinkage or to have sac growth. Additionally, preoperative maximum aneurysm major diameter was a significant predictor for absolute change in area (P < .01). Larger preprocedure aneurysm diameters were more likely to experience more shrinkage. The significant predictors of size change at 12 months included preprocedure maximum aneurysm major diameter, the presence of endoleak at 12 months, preoperative neck thrombus/plaque, and gender. At 24 months, significant predictors of aneurysm size change included preprocedure maximum aneurysm major diameter, endoleak at 24 months, and preprocedure neck thrombus/plaque. When the longitudinal model was used, the presence of an endoleak, thrombus/plaque within the proximal neck at preprocedure, and preprocedure maximum aneurysm major diameter were found to be significantly related to the size of the maximum aneurysm major diameter over time. This study supports the concept that early and late sac size change following EVAR is influenced by identifiable independent predictive variables."}
{"id": "16603286", "title": "Suprascapular nerve block disrupts the normal pattern of scapular kinematics.", "content": "Suprascapular nerve block disrupts the normal pattern of scapular kinematics. Patients with full thickness rotator cuff tears typically demonstrate an increase in scapular motion, both in the clinic and under controlled laboratory conditions. To better understand the mechanisms behind this pattern of motion, we propose a suprascapular nerve block as an appropriate model of dysfunction of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus, which are the two tendons most commonly affected in cuff tear patients. Healthy subjects underwent testing for 3D scapular kinematics with a Polhemus magnetic tracking device and isometric force measurements during external rotation. A suprascapular nerve block was then performed with the injection of lidocaine into the suprascapular notch of each subject. Scapular kinematics and isometric force measurements were repeated after confirmation of the block. The nerve block resulted in no significant changes in clavicular rotations and scapular posterior tilting. However, there was a significant increase in scapular external rotation and upward rotation. While kinematic changes returned to baseline within 25 min of the block, force measurements did not return to baseline until 75 min post-block. Interpretation. The results of this study, especially those for upward rotation, are in general agreement with what has been found for patients with rotator cuff tears. While the supraspinatus and infraspinatus do not directly control the movement of the scapula, they appear to result in a compensatory change in scapular motion. Although more work needs to be done, it appears that abnormal scapular motion patterns observed in patients with cuff tears may therefore be compensatory in nature."}
{"id": "16601984", "title": "Inflammatory infiltrate of the edges of a torn rotator cuff.", "content": "Inflammatory infiltrate of the edges of a torn rotator cuff. There is still considerable controversy as to whether or not the inflamed margins of a cuff tear should be excised during surgical suture. We have tried to discover whether anti-inflammatory drugs used before surgical treatment could resolve this issue. Thirty-eight patients were randomly either treated with an anti-inflammatory drug for 2 weeks or not. During the subsequent arthroscopic repair, a few fragments of supraspinatus edge were excised and examined microscopically. No significant differences emerged among samples belonging to the two groups. In all cases, we observed inflammatory infiltrate-lined tear edges. Fibrocytes and newly formed vessels were detected near the margin. Dystrophic calcifications were observed in both groups. Away from the edge, the tendon appeared hypocellular; containing areas with myxoid or fatty degeneration. Our study demonstrates that an anti-inflammatory drug is unable to resolve the inflammatory infiltrate. This failure is probably related to the poor blood supply to the cuff, which, in cases of rupture, is deprived of vessels coming from the humeral periosteum. Further studies are needed to understand how to eliminate the inflammatory process and clarify whether it might inhibit cuff healing and give rise to re-tearing of the sutured cuff."}
{"id": "16595470", "title": "Association of a large lateral extension of the acromion with rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Association of a large lateral extension of the acromion with rotator cuff tears. Factors predisposing to tearing of the rotator cuff are poorly understood. We have observed that the acromion of patients with a rotator cuff tear very often appears large on anteroposterior radiographs or during surgery. The purpose of this study was to quantify the lateral extension of the acromion in patients with a full-thickness rotator cuff tear and in patients with an intact rotator cuff. The lateral extension of the acromion was assessed on true anteroposterior radiographs made with the arm in neutral rotation. The distance from the glenoid plane to the lateral border of the acromion was divided by the distance from the glenoid plane to the lateral aspect of the humeral head to calculate the acromion index. This index was determined in a group of 102 patients (average age, 65.0 years) with a proven full-thickness rotator cuff tear, in an age and gender-matched group of forty-seven patients (average age, 63.7 years) with osteoarthritis of the shoulder and an intact rotator cuff, and in an age and gender-matched control group of seventy volunteers (average age, 64.4 years) with an intact rotator cuff as demonstrated by ultrasonography. The average acromion index (and standard deviation) was 0.73 +/- 0.06 in the shoulders with a full-thickness tear, 0.60 +/- 0.08 in those with osteoarthritis and an intact rotator cuff, and 0.64 +/- 0.06 in the asymptomatic, normal shoulders with an intact rotator cuff. The difference between the index in the shoulders with a full-thickness supraspinatus tear and the index in those with an intact rotator cuff was highly significant (p < 0.0001). A large lateral extension of the acromion appears to be associated with full-thickness tearing of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "16583431", "title": "Thalidomide therapy for myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia.", "content": "Thalidomide therapy for myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia. Thalidomide is a putative antiangiogenesis agent with activity in several hematologic malignancies. Forty-four patients who had myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia received treatment with thalidomide in a Phase II clinical trial at a dose of 200 mg daily with escalation by 200 mg weekly until the best tolerated dose (maximum, 800 mg) was reached. Seventeen of 41 evaluable patients (41%) who received treatment for at least 15 days had a response. A complete response (without reversal of bone marrow fibrosis) was achieved in 4 patients (10%), a partial response was achieved in 4 patients (10%), and hematologic improvements in anemia, thrombopenia, and/or splenomegaly were observed in 9 patients (21%). Improvements in anemia occurred in 7 of 35 patients (20%) with hemoglobin levels <10.0 g/dL, and improvements in thrombopenia occurred in 5 of 24 patients (21%) with platelet counts <100 x 10(9)/L. Five of 24 patients (21%) became transfusion-independent. Major or minor regression of splenomegaly was noted in 9 of 29 evaluable patients (31%), and complete regression was noted in 5 patients. Responders had a lower baseline median vascular endothelial growth factor levels (77.9 pg/mL vs. 97.7 pg/mL; P <.01) and higher median basis fibroblast growth factor levels (60.8 pg/mL vs. 37.4 pg/mL; P <.01) compared with nonresponders. Nine patients (22%) had deterioration that was attributed to thalidomide (resolved after withdrawal) with either progressive cytopenias or excessive proliferation. Two patients developed Grade 3 neutropenia with recovery and resumed therapy with dose reductions, and both later achieved a complete response. Dose-related toxicities included fatigue (50%), constipation (48%), rash or pruritus (37%), sedation (35%), peripheral edema (29%), tremors (23%), peripheral neuropathy (22%), and orthostasis (16%). Thalidomide warrants further evaluation in patients with MMM, particularly in combination regimens, along with the investigation of newer analogs."}
{"id": "16579671", "title": "Resting position variables at the shoulder: evidence to support a posture-impairment association.", "content": "Resting position variables at the shoulder: evidence to support a posture-impairment association. A relationship between posture and impairment at the shoulder is theorized, but not supported by evidence. It is proposed that posture and impairment are not directly related, but linked by movement dysfunction. The purpose of this analysis was to explore the relationships among posture, pectoralis minor muscle length, and movement alterations at the shoulder. Subjects who were asymptomatic for shoulder pathology were divided into 2 groups of 25 subjects each based on normalized pectoralis minor muscle resting length. Scapula orientation, thoracic kyphosis, and pectoralis minor muscle lengths were measured, and ratios and indexes of postural variables were calculated. All variables were analyzed for correlations and group differences. Significant group differences were demonstrated for several posture variables, including thoracic spine kyphosis and scapular internal rotation. The distance from the sternal notch to the coracoid process demonstrated the highest correlation with pectoralis minor muscle length. The findings indicate a relationship between posture and pectoralis minor muscle length and support a proposed model linking posture, an anatomical variable, movement dysfunction, and impairment."}
{"id": "16572024", "title": "Arthroscopy of the hip joint: an overview.", "content": "Arthroscopy of the hip joint: an overview. Hip arthroscopy is a procedure that is gaining popularity for treating hip pain related to intraarticular cartilage lesions or loose bodies. It offers an alternative procedure that can decrease or eliminate hip pain and increase a patient's ability to do activities of daily living. This article provides a comprehensive overview of hip arthroscopy and also addresses the anatomy of the hip, appropriate diagnoses for the procedure, operative considerations and postoperative teaching."}
{"id": "16570176", "title": "The reverse shoulder prosthesis: A review of imaging features and complications.", "content": "The reverse shoulder prosthesis: A review of imaging features and complications. The reverse shoulder prosthesis is a prosthesis that has been in clinical use in Europe since 1985 and was approved for use in the United States in 2004. This unique prosthesis has a baseplate attached to the glenoid, which holds a spherical component, while the humeral component includes a polyethylene insert that is flat. This design is the \"reverse\" configuration of that seen with a conventional arthroplasty, in which the spherical component is part of the humeral component. The indications for the reverse prosthesis are: (1) painful arthritis associated with irreparable rotator cuff tears (cuff tear arthropathy), (2) failed hemiarthroplasty with irreparable rotator cuff tears, (3) pseudoparalysis due to massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears, (4) some reconstructions after tumor resection, and (5) some fractures of the shoulder not repairable or reconstructable with other techniques. This prosthesis can produce a significant reduction in pain and some improvement in function for most of the indications mentioned. However, the unique configuration and the challenge of its insertion can result in a high incidence of a wide variety of unusual complications. Some of these complications, such as dislocation of the components, are similar to conventional shoulder replacement. Other complications, such as notching of the scapula and acromial stress fractures, are unique to this prosthesis. The configuration of the reverse prosthesis, its normal radiographic appearance and potential complications associated with its use are reviewed."}
{"id": "16567784", "title": "Pathology of the torn rotator cuff tendon. Reduction in potential for repair as tear size increases.", "content": "Pathology of the torn rotator cuff tendon. Reduction in potential for repair as tear size increases. We have studied cellular and vascular changes in different stages of full thickness tears of the rotator cuff. We examined biopsies from the supraspinatus tendon in 40 patients with chronic rotator cuff tears who were undergoing surgery and compared them with biopsies from four uninjured subscapularis tendons. Morphological and immunocytochemical methods using monoclonal antibodies directed against leucocytes, macrophages, mast cells, proliferative and vascular markers were used. Histological changes indicative of repair and inflammation were most evident in small sized rotator cuff tears with increased fibroblast cellularity and intimal hyperplasia, together with increased expression of leucocyte and vascular markers. These reparative and inflammatory changes diminished as the size of the rotator cuff tear increased. Marked oedema and degeneration was seen in large and massive tears, which more often showed chondroid metaplasia and amyloid deposition. There was no association between the age of the patient and the duration of symptoms. In contrast, large and massive tears showed no increase in the number of inflammatory cells and blood vessels. Small sized rotator cuff tears retained the greatest potential to heal, showing increased fibroblast cellularity, blood vessel proliferation and the presence of a significant inflammatory component. Tissue from large and massive tears is of such a degenerative nature that it may be a significant cause of re-rupture after surgical repair and could make healing improbable in this group."}
{"id": "16552608", "title": "The painful hip: new concepts.", "content": "The painful hip: new concepts. Hip pain is a common condition, and the work-up often includes imaging. This article reviews the normal MR anatomy of the hip and the imaging findings of internal derangements, snapping hip, and femoral acetabular impingement. We will describe the role of MR arthrography in evaluating the patient with suspected labral and articular cartilage abnormalities, as well as the pitfalls in interpretation. We will review the causes of a snapping hip, and the role of sonography in evaluating and guiding treatment of the snapping iliopsoas tendon. We will also review the radiographic and MRI signs of femoroacetabular impingement (FAI), a cause of early degenerative joint disease and hip pain."}
{"id": "16549619", "title": "From the RSNA refresher courses: US of the rotator cuff: pitfalls, limitations, and artifacts.", "content": "From the RSNA refresher courses: US of the rotator cuff: pitfalls, limitations, and artifacts. High-resolution ultrasonography (US) has gained increasing popularity as a diagnostic tool for assessment of the soft tissues in shoulder impingement syndrome. US is a powerful and accurate method for diagnosis of rotator cuff tears and other rotator cuff abnormalities, provided the examiner has a detailed knowledge of shoulder anatomy, uses a standardized examination technique, and has a thorough understanding of the potential pitfalls, limitations, and artifacts. False-positive sonographic findings of rotator cuff tears can be caused by the technique (anisotropy, transducer positioning, acoustic shadowing by the deltoid septum), by the anatomy (rotator cuff interval, supraspinatus-infraspinatus interface, musculotendinous junction, fibrocartilaginous insertion), or by disease (criteria for diagnosis of rotator cuff tears, tendon inhomogeneity, acoustic shadowing by scar tissue or calcification, rotator cuff thinning). False-negative sonographic findings of rotator cuff tears can be caused by the technique (transducer frequency, suboptimal focusing, imaging protocol, transducer handling), by the anatomy (nondiastasis of the ruptured tendon fibers, posttraumatic obscuration of landmarks), by disease (tendinosis, calcifications, synovial proliferation, granulation or scar tissue, bursal thickening, massive rotator cuff tears), or by patient factors (obesity, muscularity, limited shoulder motion)."}
{"id": "16543591", "title": "Shoulder impingement: objective 3D shape analysis of acromial morphologic features.", "content": "Shoulder impingement: objective 3D shape analysis of acromial morphologic features. To retrospectively and quantitatively analyze the acromial undersurface in three dimensions and to determine its association with impingement syndrome and rotator cuff tears. Institutional review board approval was received with exemption of informed consent for this retrospective HIPAA-compliant study. Magnetic resonance images were evaluated in 84 patients (63 males, 21 females; mean age, 42.6 years; age range, 15-74 years). On the basis of surgical results, patients were separated into three groups: those without shoulder impingement or rotator cuff tears (31 patients), those with shoulder impingement (22 patients), and those with rotator cuff tears (31 patients). To quantitate the acromial undersurface, the structure was manually plotted, and a mathematic model was created by using splines. The undersurface was divided into a 20 x 20 grid. For each patient, a shape index (SI) data set and local undersurface angulation (LUA) data set were determined. Regression analyses were used to identify differences between groups, and prediction models were constructed on the basis of correspondent areas. Analysis of both data sets yielded no apparent progression between groups and demonstrated a lack of similarity between the impingement and rotator cuff tear groups. Discrimination between groups could be demonstrated by dividing the lateral portion of the acromial undersurface into contiguous blocks. The highest overall diagnostic accuracy of our prediction models was 58.3% (49 of 84) by using 10 blocks of the SI data set and 73.8% (62 of 84) by using five blocks of the LUA data set. Three-dimensional modeling yields objective data about the acromial undersurface. On the basis of this method, osseous impingement by the acromion is not a primary cause of shoulder impingement syndrome or rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "16542602", "title": "Subacromial decompression for shoulder impingement syndrome.", "content": "Subacromial decompression for shoulder impingement syndrome. To evaluate the results in a consecutive series of patients who underwent subacromial decompression for shoulder impingement syndrome. Interventional quasi experimental study. Orthopaedic Department at St Mary s Hospital, Isle of Wight Healthcare England from May 1999 to August 2001. Twenty-five consecutive shoulders from 22 patients who underwent subacromial decompression for shoulder impingement syndrome were studied. Nineteen out of 25 shoulders were in stage I or II and 6 had stage III disease, having rotator cuff tear. All patients had a median 10 months course of conservative treatment before surgery. Patients were followed-up for 6 to 24 months postoperatively and assessed by clinical examination and the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) shoulder rating scale. Results were analysed by Wilcoxon s non-parametric test for internal comparison. The differences in pre- and postoperative scores for pain, function, active forward flexion, strength of forward flexion and overall patient satisfaction were improved with p-values < 0.01 in for each. This was an overall improvement in 88% cases. Subacromial decompression is an effective treatment for shoulder impingement syndrome. Accurate diagnosis, careful patient selection and appropriate surgical intervention results in a successful outcome and return to normal activities in majority of patients."}
{"id": "16534714", "title": "High patient satisfaction after arthroscopic subacromial decompression for shoulder impingement: a prospective study of 50 patients.", "content": "High patient satisfaction after arthroscopic subacromial decompression for shoulder impingement: a prospective study of 50 patients. Arthroscopic subacromial decompression (ASD) for shoulder impingement has gained popularity. We evaluated the result of this common procedure prospectively, from a patient perspective. We used the Disability of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand questionnaire (DASH) and the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) to evaluate 50 patients with a mean age of 49 (27-72) years. All patients had undergone 6 months of failed nonoperative treatment prior to surgery. Exclusion criteria were total rotator cuff rupture, shoulder instability, clinically verified acromioclavicular joint osteoarthritis, calcifying tendonitis or neurological symptoms. All the decompressions were done by experienced shoulder arthroscopists. A significant improvement in both the median DASH score and the VAS had occurred 6 months after surgery. ASD for impingement in properly selected patients performed by experienced surgeons gives a high degree of patient satisfaction 6 months after surgery."}
{"id": "16534558", "title": "Arthroscopic transosseous reinsertion of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Arthroscopic transosseous reinsertion of the rotator cuff. Arthroscopic reinsertion of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons by means of imitation of an open transosseous reinsertion technique. Tears in the tendon cuffs of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles. Patients < 75 years of age. Retracted tendons that cannot be sufficiently mobilized to provide a tension-free reinsertion. Tears of the tendon cuff of the subscapsularis muscle. The free edges of the tendons are sparingly resected. The tendon attachment site on the greater tuberosity is freed of soft tissue and decorticated using an arthroscopic bone burr. A full-radius burr is used to drill insertion sites for the sutures in the tuberosity. A hollow needle is inserted percutaneously to puncture the free edges of the tendon for a single reinsertion suture. The hollow needle is then fed through the greater tuberosity to the lateral portal. The suture is guided through the needle and advanced via a working cannula. If the tear is > 2 cm in width, a mattress suture should be placed via another channel in the bone. This is to provide plane contact of the tendon to the reinsertion site. Restriction of movement using a shoulder bandage for 6 weeks after the operation. In the 75 patients treated using a single suture, there was an improvement compared to the related Constant Score from 55.8% before the operation to 80.4% at the follow-up examination, after an average of 26.8 months. The average age in this group was 58.2 years (range 35-75 years). In the 21 patients treated with a mattress suture, there was an improvement compared to the related Constant score from 59% before the operation to 83% at 14.3 months after the operation. The average age in this group was 58 years (range 35-75 years)."}
{"id": "16533405", "title": "Cross-sectional and longitudinal construct validity of two rotator cuff disease-specific outcome measures.", "content": "Cross-sectional and longitudinal construct validity of two rotator cuff disease-specific outcome measures. Disease-specific Quality Of Life (QOL) measures are devised to assess the impact of a specific disease across a spectrum of important domains of life. The purpose of this study was to examine the cross-sectional and longitudinal construct validity (sensitivity to change) of two rotator cuff disease-specific measures, the Rotator Cuff-Quality Of Life (RC-QOL) and the Western Ontario Rotator Cuff (WORC) index, in relation to one another and to other joint and limb specific measures in the same population of the patients suffering from rotator cuff pathology. Participants enrolled were consecutive patients who received physical therapy for management of impingement syndrome or received treatment following rotator cuff repair, acromioplasty or decompression surgeries. All subjects received physical therapy treatment and completed four outcome measures at 3 single points (initial, interim, and final). Cross-sectional convergent validity was assessed at each of the 3 time-points by correlating the WORC and RC-QOL's scores to each other and to two alternative scales; a joint-specific scale, the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) standardized shoulder assessment form and a limb-specific measure, the Upper Extremity Functional Index (UEFI). Non-parametric statistics (Spearman's rho and Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney tests) examined the construct validity. The standardized response mean (SRM) was used to examine sensitivity to change. Forty-one participants entered the study and their scores were compared at 3 cross sectional single points. The correlation coefficients among the 4 measures varied from 0.60 to 0.91. Correlation between corresponding domains of the WORC and RC-QOL varied from 0.45 to 0.85. The known group validity was not significantly different among individual sub-scores and total scores. The final SRMs were (1.42), (1.43), (1.44), and (1.54) for the ASES, RCQOL, WORC, and UEFI respectively. The WORC and RC-QOL exhibit similar cross-sectional convergent validity in patients suffering from rotator cuff pathology. The sensitivity to change was very close among all scores, with the UEFI having the highest sensitivity. Further research is needed to examine the extent to which each physical or emotional domain contributes to prognostic or therapeutic decision-making."}
{"id": "16526877", "title": "Two-photon excited autofluorescence imaging of human retinal pigment epithelial cells.", "content": "Two-photon excited autofluorescence imaging of human retinal pigment epithelial cells. Degeneration of retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells severely impairs the visual function of retina photoreceptors. However, little is known about the events that trigger the death of RPE cells at the subcellular level. Two-photon excited autofluorescence (TPEF) imaging of RPE cells proves to be well suited to investigate both the morphological and the spectral characteristics of the human RPE cells. The dominant fluorophores of autofluorescence derive from lipofuscin (LF) granules that accumulate in the cytoplasm of the RPE cells with increasing age. Spectral TPEF imaging reveals the existence of abnormal LF granules with blue shifted autofluorescence in RPE cells of aging patients and brings new insights into the complicated composition of the LF granules. Based on a proposed two-photon laser scanning ophthalmoscope, TPEF imaging of the living retina may be valuable for diagnostic and pathological studies of age related eye diseases."}
{"id": "16518655", "title": "MR assessment of the repaired rotator cuff: prevalence, size, location, and clinical relevance of tendon rerupture.", "content": "MR assessment of the repaired rotator cuff: prevalence, size, location, and clinical relevance of tendon rerupture. The objectives of this study were to use magnetic resonance (MR) imaging to evaluate the prevalence, size, location, and clinical relevance of tendon rerupture following complete repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tear (RCT). A total of 78 surgically proven full-thickness rotator cuff tears in 74 patients were retrospectively included in the study. Clinical assessment was performed using the University of California at Los Angeles score. Postoperative MR imaging was evaluated to determine prevalence, size, and location of tendon rerupture. At a mean 48.4 months' follow-up, 62 shoulders (79.5%) had favorable outcomes and 45 shoulders (57.6%) showed rerupture on MR imaging studies. Reruptures were significantly more prevalent among patients with intermediate-to-bad outcomes (81.3%), with surgically demonstrated two-tendon tears (78.9%) or three-tendon tears (100%), and with preoperative fatty degeneration of the supraspinatus muscle greater than 1 (91.6%). Reruptures were also significantly larger in those subgroups. Complete repair of RCT of all sizes may have favorable outcomes in a significant proportion of patients in spite of a high prevalence of reruptures. Preoperative tear size and degree of muscle fatty degeneration influence the prevalence and rerupture size. After repair of supraspinatus tears, reruptures tend to invade the posterior aspect of the tendon."}
{"id": "16517370", "title": "Reconstruction of large rotator cuff tendon defects with porcine small intestinal submucosa in an animal model.", "content": "Reconstruction of large rotator cuff tendon defects with porcine small intestinal submucosa in an animal model. Large rotator cuff tears represent a challenging problem. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the small intestinal submucosa (SIS) extracellular matrix in reconstruction of such defects in an animal model. Forty rats were equally divided into an SIS group (reconstruction of a large supraspinatus tendon defect by use of the SIS) and a defect group (no repair). The operative and contralateral normal shoulders underwent histologic evaluation and biomechanical testing at 6 and 16 weeks. Neovascularization and fibroblastic ingrowth were present in SIS-regenerated tendons, which had an ultimate force to failure that was 78% of normal at 16 weeks. This was higher than in the defect group, which demonstrated an ultimate force to failure that was 34% of normal (P = .008). The ultimate force to failure of the SIS-regenerated tendons approached that of the normal tendon at 16 weeks. The SIS extracellular matrix served as a scaffold promoting host tissue ingrowth and appears promising in the management of large rotator cuff defects in a rat model. However, human beings sustain tears at the bone-tendon interface and demonstrate decreased healing potential relative to rats. Therefore, the findings of this preliminary study should not be extrapolated to human beings without further investigation."}
{"id": "16517362", "title": "Adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder in human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients during highly active antiretroviral therapy.", "content": "Adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder in human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients during highly active antiretroviral therapy. Many adverse events have been described in patients treated with highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). Recently, among these, adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder has been described in some patients using protease inhibitors. We report our experience with 6 human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients in whom adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder developed during HAART. All 6 patients were treated with the same antiretroviral drug combination (HAART) including nucleoside reverse transcriptase (stavudine and lamivudine) and protease inhibitors (indinavir). The clinical pattern of adhesive capsulitis during HAART is similar to the classical form of adhesive capsulitis. Examining our case studies, we postulate a correlation between HAART and adhesive capsulitis. Discontinuation or reduction of the dosage of protease inhibitors associated with conventional conservative treatment is effective in reducing the symptoms and resolving the disease."}
{"id": "16517358", "title": "Tension-free cuff repairs with excision of macroscopic tendon lesions and muscular advancement: results in a prospective series with limited fatty muscular degeneration.", "content": "Tension-free cuff repairs with excision of macroscopic tendon lesions and muscular advancement: results in a prospective series with limited fatty muscular degeneration. Recurrent tears after rotator cuff repairs are frequent. These could be influenced by excessive tension on a degenerated tendinous stump and by fatty degeneration of the cuff muscles. The goal of this study was to evaluate the anatomic and functional results of tension-free cuff repairs with the excision of macroscopic tendon lesions in a series with limited muscular fatty degeneration of the infraspinatus and a global fatty degeneration index of rotator cuff muscles equal to or lower than 2. We studied 27 tears, comprising 13 cases involving both supraspinatus and infraspinatus tears, 13 cases with 3-tendon tears, and 1 case with only a supraspinatus tear. All shoulders were operated on through a transacromial approach easily repaired with 2 titanium screws with washers. To obtain a repair without tension, a single advancement was performed in 20 cases and a double advancement of both the supraspinatus and infraspinatus was done in 7 cases. The shoulders were evaluated clinically preoperatively and postoperatively with the non-weighted Constant score and anatomically with computed arthrotomography scans. The mean age at operation was 59.5 years, and the length of follow-up ranged from 1 to 4 years. Of the cuffs, 23 (85%) were watertight 1 year after surgery. No predictive factor of retear could be found. The functional improvement was statistically significant only for watertight cuffs, with an improvement of the Constant score from 57.8 to 75. The only predictive factor of functional outcome in this watertight group was the preoperative Constant score. Single and double advancements yielded similar functional results regardless of the extent of the initial tear, provided that the cuff was watertight at revision."}
{"id": "16517356", "title": "Results of early operative treatment of rotator cuff tears with acute symptoms.", "content": "Results of early operative treatment of rotator cuff tears with acute symptoms. The distinction among an acute tear, acute symptoms of a chronic tear, or the acute extension of an existing chronic tear is very difficult, if not impossible, to make. In general, operative treatment of lesions with a sudden onset has yielded favorable results in many studies. However, the timing of the operation for tears with an acute onset of symptoms is still a very controversial issue, as are the treatment options for chronic tears with acute symptoms. This study analyzes the follow-up results of early operative treatment of rotator cuff tears with an acute onset of symptoms, regardless of tear type. Twenty-nine patients with a sudden onset of symptoms and significant impairment of shoulder function had a full-thickness rotator cuff tear. The patients were operated on within 3 weeks from the beginning of the symptoms. Twenty-six patients underwent follow-up. The results were evaluated by use of the UCLA shoulder rating scale. At follow-up, 22 patients (85%) had no pain and 21 (81%) had returned to normal activities and had normal shoulder function. Active forward flexion averaged 51 degrees preoperatively and 167 degrees at follow-up. After repair of the tear, shoulder strength was normal in 22 of 26 shoulders (85%); 3 patients had fair strength, all after repair of a massive tear. Of the patients, 25 (96%) were satisfied with the result. The overall result was excellent in 20 patients (77%), good in 4 (15%), fair in 1 (4%), and poor in 1 (4%). Early operative treatment appears to be better for rotator cuff tears with a sudden onset of symptoms and poor function to achieve maximal return of shoulder function. With time, the tear may enlarge, and the cuff may lose its elasticity, thus making the late surgical repair more difficult or even impossible."}
{"id": "16517311", "title": "The accuracy of subacromial injections: a prospective randomized magnetic resonance imaging study.", "content": "The accuracy of subacromial injections: a prospective randomized magnetic resonance imaging study. To assess the accuracy of shoulder infiltrations in the subacromial bursa (SAB) by a posterior or an anteromedial approach. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and clinical outcome were used for evaluation. A prospective randomized study. Thirty-three patients (22 women, 11 men; average age, 46 years; range, 25 to 64 years) with clinical signs of subacromial impingement were infiltrated with a mixture of bupivacaine, methylprednisolone, and gadolinium-DTPA directly followed by MRI to determine the actual site of injection. The SAB was randomly infiltrated posteriorly (n = 17) or anteromedially (n = 16). Injection confidence of the surgeon and body-mass index of the patient were recorded. Follow-up consisted of the Constant Score, Simple Shoulder Test, and visual analog scale score for pain taken within 24 hours and 6 weeks after infiltration. Thirteen injections (76%) were in the SAB with a posterior approach and 10 (69%) with an anteromedial approach. Many surrounding structures were hit as well, especially the rotator cuff. A positive correlation between the injection confidence of the orthopaedic surgeon and the MRI was found in 66%. Only injection of the SAB alone resulted in a significant decrease of the pain (P = .004) and an increase in the functional scores. Injection in the bursa and rotator cuff muscle showed a significant increase in pain (P = .032) but no change in clinical scores. The body mass index had no influence on the scores. Injections in the SAB are inaccurate, despite the confident feeling of the clinician. The finding that many different structures can be infiltrated with 1 injection can create both false-positive and -negative results. Level II."}
{"id": "16517310", "title": "Shoulder instability and related rotator cuff tears: arthroscopic findings and treatment in patients aged 40 to 60 years.", "content": "Shoulder instability and related rotator cuff tears: arthroscopic findings and treatment in patients aged 40 to 60 years. To report our experience with the arthroscopic treatment of patients aged 40 to 60 years with rotator cuff lesions, shoulder instability, or both, and to seek a relationship among capsular-labral complex lesions, cuff tears, number of dislocations, and patient age. Case series. From January 2000, all patients aged between 40 and 60 years undergoing an arthroscopic procedure for rotator cuff lesions, shoulder instability, or both were divided into 3 cohorts: shoulder instability (group I), complete cuff tear (group C), and instability and complete cuff tear (group IC). In May 2002 there were 50 patients per group. Arthroscopic findings were analyzed using the Pearson correlation coefficient and the chi2 test to seek correlations between the lesions. The Student t test was used to highlight significant differences between preoperative and postoperative scores. There was a strong correlation between the rising number of dislocations and associated lesions of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus (P < .001); this correlation became stronger after 7 episodes of dislocation (P < .0001). There was no correlation between capsular or Bankart lesion and presence or absence of rotator cuff tears (P > .5). Two cases of recurrence of instability were recorded in group IC. Postoperatively, the Constant and Rowe scores rose significantly and consistently in all patients (P < .001). Rotator cuff tears and glenohumeral instability appear to be closely related. Patient age and number of dislocations do not appear to correlate with Bankart or capsular lesions, whereas posterosuperior cuff tears seem to be influenced by number of dislocations. Although data do not permit us to conclude whether repair of the sole cuff tear can achieve shoulder stability nor whether shoulder stabilization alone can resolve the instability, treatment of both lesions should be performed arthroscopically. Level IV, case series."}
{"id": "16515904", "title": "Determinants of operative mortality in valvular heart surgery.", "content": "Determinants of operative mortality in valvular heart surgery. In some respects, outcome reporting in valvular surgery has been hampered by focusing on specific populations, reluctance to publish high-risk subgroups, and possibly skewed or inadequate samples. The goal of this study was to evaluate risk factors for operative mortality comprehensively across the entire spectrum of cardiac valvular procedures over the past decade. All 409,904 valve procedures in the Society of Thoracic Surgeons database performed between 1994 and 2003 were assessed, and Society of Thoracic Surgeons preoperative and operative variables were related to operative mortality by using a multivariable logistic regression model. Data were greater than 95% complete, and the relative importance of relevant risk factors was determined by ranking odds ratios. The analysis had a high predictive power, with a C statistic of 0.735. In the model, 19 variables independently influenced operative mortality (all P < .01). The most significant was nonelective (acute) presentation (odds ratios, 2.11), followed by advanced age (odds ratios, 1.88), reoperation (odds ratios, 1.61), endocarditis (odds ratios, 1.59), and coronary disease (odds ratios, 1.58). Generally, valve replacement was associated with higher mortality than repair (odds ratios, 1.52). Overall, female gender was very important (odds ratios, 1.37), and earlier year of operation increased risk (odds ratios, 1.34), implying improving outcomes over time. Although any single comorbidity, on average, was only moderately contributory (odds ratios, 1.19), specific comorbidities, such as renal failure, or multiple comorbidities in a given patient could be very significant. Aortic root reconstruction carried the highest risk (odds ratios, 2.78), followed by tricuspid valve surgery (odds ratios, 2.26), multiple valve procedures (odds ratios, 2.06), and then isolated mitral (odds ratios, 1.47), pulmonic (odds ratios, 1.29), and aortic (reference procedure) operations. Reduced ejection fraction and severity of valve lesion were relatively less important (odds ratios, 1.34 and 0.83, respectively). These data illustrate the significance of acute presentation in determining operative risk, and earlier surgical intervention under elective conditions might be emphasized for all types of significant valve lesions. Because aortic root reconstruction doubles mortality compared with simple aortic valve procedures, root replacement should be reserved for specific root pathology. Finally, issues related to reoperation, endocarditis, valve repair, gender, and the various procedures deserve more detailed examination."}
{"id": "16510819", "title": "Effect of medical comorbidity on self-assessed pain, function, and general health status after rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Effect of medical comorbidity on self-assessed pain, function, and general health status after rotator cuff repair. In a previous study, we found that medical comorbidities have a negative effect on preoperative pain, function, and general health status in patients with a chronic rotator cuff tear. In this study, we evaluated the relationship between medical comorbidities and the postoperative outcome of rotator cuff repair. One hundred and twenty-five patients were evaluated on the basis of a history (including medical comorbidities) and use of outcome tools preoperatively and at one year after rotator cuff repair. Outcome was evaluated with the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) Questionnaire, the Simple Shoulder Test (SST), visual analog scales (pain, function, and quality of life), and the Short Form-36 (SF-36). The mean number of medical comorbidities was 1.91 (range, zero to six). At one year after rotator cuff repair, there were no significant correlations between comorbidities and pain, shoulder function, or quality of life as determined with the SST, DASH, and visual analog scales (p > 0.05). A greater number of comorbidities was associated with a worse postoperative general health status (SF-36 role emotional [p = 0.045], SF-36 bodily pain [p = 0.032], SF-36 general health [p = 0.001], and SF-36 vitality [p = 0.033]). Nevertheless, a greater number of comorbidities was associated with greater improvement, compared with the preoperative status, in the pain score on the visual analog scale (p = 0.009), function as assessed with the visual analog scale (p = 0.022) and the DASH (p = 0.044), and quality of life as assessed with the visual analog scale (p = 0.041). Patients with more medical comorbidities have a worse general health status after rotator cuff repair. Interestingly, it also appears that these patients have greater improvement in overall shoulder pain, function, and quality-of-life scores compared with preoperative scores. Therefore, despite a negative effect of comorbidities on outcomes, patients with more comorbidities have greater improvement after the repair, to the point where postoperative shoulder function and pain are not significantly influenced by medical comorbidities. Consequently, a higher number of medical comorbidities should not be considered a negative factor in determining whether a patient should undergo rotator cuff repair."}
{"id": "16510810", "title": "Long-term outcome after structural failure of rotator cuff repairs.", "content": "Long-term outcome after structural failure of rotator cuff repairs. In a previous study, twenty consecutive patients with a rerupture of the rotator cuff, as documented with magnetic resonance imaging, were found to have significantly less pain and better function and strength, compared with the preoperative state, at 3.2 years postoperatively. It was the purpose of this study to determine the clinical and structural outcomes of these reruptures in the same twenty patients after a longer period of follow-up. At a mean of 7.6 years postoperatively, the twenty patients were reexamined clinically and with standard radiographs and magnetic resonance imaging with use of the same clinical, radiographic, and magnetic resonance imaging criteria as were utilized in the review at 3.2 years. The mean age at the time of final follow-up was sixty-six years. Nineteen of the twenty patients continued to be either very satisfied or satisfied with the outcome. The relative Constant score averaged 88% and was not significantly different from the score at 3.2 years, which averaged 83%. The mean scores for pain, function, and strength also had not changed significantly. Overall, the twenty reruptures had not increased in size, and eight of them had healed structurally at the time of the 7.6-year follow-up. Seven of these eight reruptures had been of the supraspinatus tendon only, and seven had been smaller than 400 mm(2) at 3.2 years. Twelve reruptures persisted, and five were larger than the preoperative tear. Fatty infiltration of the infraspinatus muscle progressed significantly (p = 0.015) and the acromiohumeral distance decreased significantly (p = 0.006) between the two follow-up periods. Neither fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus and subscapularis muscles nor glenohumeral osteoarthritis progressed significantly. At an average of 7.6 years, the clinical outcomes after structural failure of rotator cuff repairs remained significantly improved over the preoperative state in terms of pain, function, strength, and patient satisfaction. Overall, the reruptures that had been present at 3.2 years did not increase in size. We also found that reruptures of the supraspinatus that had been smaller than 400 mm(2) had the potential to heal."}
{"id": "16506872", "title": "Comparison of high-grade and low-grade mobilization techniques in the management of adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder: randomized controlled trial.", "content": "Comparison of high-grade and low-grade mobilization techniques in the management of adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder: randomized controlled trial. In many physical therapy programs for subjects with adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder, mobilization techniques are an important part of the intervention. The purpose of this study was to compare the effectiveness of high-grade mobilization techniques (HGMT) with that of low-grade mobilization techniques (LGMT) in subjects with adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder. One hundred subjects with unilateral adhesive capsulitis lasting 3 months or more and a > or =50% decrease in passive joint mobility relative to the nonaffected side were enrolled in this study. Subjects randomly assigned to the HGMT group were treated with intensive passive mobilization techniques in end-range positions of the glenohumeral joint, and subjects in the LGMT group were treated with passive mobilization techniques within the pain-free zone. The duration of treatment was a maximum of 12 weeks (24 sessions) in both groups. Subjects were assessed at baseline and at 3, 6, and 12 months by a masked assessor. Primary outcome measures included active and passive range of motion and shoulder disability (Shoulder Rating Questionnaire [SRQ] and Shoulder Disability Questionnaire [SDQ]). An analysis of covariance with adjustments for baseline values and a general linear mixed-effect model for repeated measurements were used to compare the change scores for the 2 treatment groups at the various time points and over the total period of 1 year, respectively. Overall, subjects in both groups improved over 12 months. Statistically significant greater change scores were found in the HGMT group for passive abduction (at the time points 3 and 12 months), and for active and passive external rotation (at 12 months). A statistically significant difference in trend between both groups over the total follow-up period of 12 months was found for passive external rotation, SRQ, and SDQ with greater change scores in the HGMT group. In subjects with adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder, HGMTs appear to be more effective in improving glenohumeral joint mobility and reducing disability than LGMTs, with the overall differences between the 2 interventions being small."}
{"id": "16497236", "title": "Canine limbal melanoma: 30 cases (1992-2004). Part 1. Signalment, clinical and histological features and pedigree analysis.", "content": "Canine limbal melanoma: 30 cases (1992-2004). Part 1. Signalment, clinical and histological features and pedigree analysis. (1) To review the signalment, clinical, and histological features of canine limbal melanoma; (2) to perform pedigree analysis on breeds predisposed to limbal melanoma to establish if common ancestry exists; and (3) to investigate if any ancestral relationship exists between canine limbal melanoma and canine anterior uveal melanoma (CAUM). Retrospective study. Thirty dogs with limbal melanoma. Medical records of patients were reviewed. Follow-up information was obtained by re-examination of patients or telecommunications with the referring veterinary surgeons or the owners. Pedigrees were analyzed for common ancestry amongst affected dogs. RESULTS The mean age (+/- SD) at diagnosis was 6.2 (+/- 2.75) years with a range from 1 to 11 years. There was a bimodal distribution of ages with a peak at 3-4 years and a peak at 7-10 years. There was no eye predilection or predisposition for sex or coat color. Twenty-five (83%) of the limbal melanomas occurred within a dorsal arc from the dorsomedial to the ventrolateral limbus. Golden retrievers were four times more common in the melanoma group compared to the Animal Health Trust population (P < 0.0001). Labrador retrievers were three times more common in the melanoma group (P=0.01). Pedigree analysis on eight Golden retrievers [limbal melanoma (n=5), CAUM (n=2) and diffuse ocular melanosis (n=1)], revealed a pattern of inter-relatedness consistent with the condition(s) being caused, at least in part, by a genetic mutation(s). A similar level of inter relatedness was evident in six Labrador retrievers (limbal melanoma (n=2) and CAUM (n=4)). In 5/22 cases (23%), histological features suggestive of malignancy were present including intratumor necrosis in 4/22 cases (18%) and cellular atypia in 1/22 cases (5%). In Golden and Labrador retrievers there is evidence that limbal melanomas, CAUM and ocular melanosis are at least in part heritable and that the same genetic mutation(s) may be causally associated with melanocytic disease at different ocular sites. The same genetic mutation(s) may be present in these two breeds. Histology should be performed on all cases to identify those with greater malignant potential."}
{"id": "16493175", "title": "The rotator cuff functional index.", "content": "The rotator cuff functional index. Despite improvements in the clinical assessment of rotator cuff injuries, shortcomings exist in diagnosing rotator cuff tears. To formulate a clinical rotator cuff functional index for predicting rotator cuff tears based on handheld dynamometer measurements for shoulder strength testing and to assess its ability to diagnose a rotator cuff tear. Cohort study (diagnosis); Level of evidence, 2. Preoperative handheld dynamometer measurements, including supraspinatus, external rotation, internal rotation, adduction, and lift-off force, were compared in 100 patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears (> 1.0 cm) and 100 patients with no rotator cuff injury (confirmed by arthroscopy). Using multiple logistic regression analysis, the rotator cuff functional index and index for rotator cuff tear size were formulated in which 100 represented excellent rotator cuff function and less than 0 indicated a full-thickness supraspinatus tear. Each patient's index was calculated to determine its clinical value in predicting a rotator cuff tear; the Pearson correlation coefficient was established for the rotator cuff functional index for rotator cuff size. Two handheld dynamometer measurements predicted a rotator cuff tear (P < .001, r = 0.53), with rotator cuff functional index = 1.27 * supraspinatus (N) - 0.72 * adduction (N) - 11.6, but not tear size (r = 0.38). In predicting a rotator cuff tear (rotator cuff functional index < 0 = rotator cuff tear; rotator cuff functional index > 0 = no tear), the rotator cuff functional index had 83% sensitivity, 79% specificity, 80% positive predictive value, 82% negative predictive value, likelihood ratio of 4.0 for a positive test result and 0.2 for a negative test result and an accuracy of 81%. The 2 most useful tests for determining a rotator cuff tear with a handheld dynamometer were supraspinatus force and adduction force (as negative control). A functional index based on these measurements was able to rule out a rotator cuff tear and predict the presence but not the size of the tear."}
{"id": "16490749", "title": "Current concepts in the management of tendon disorders.", "content": "Current concepts in the management of tendon disorders. Primary disorders of tendons are common and constitute a high proportion of referrals to rheumatologists. Certain tendons are particularly vulnerable to degenerative pathology; these include the Achilles, patella, elements of the rotator cuff, forearm extensors, biceps brachi and tibialis posterior tendons. Disorders of these tendons are often chronic and can be difficult to manage successfully in the long term. Significant advances have been made in understanding the pathophysiology of these conditions. Histopathological evidence, together with advances in imaging techniques, has made us more appreciative of the degenerative (rather that inflammatory) nature of these conditions. Additionally the presence of neovascularization is now well-recognized in long-standing tendinopathy. We review the mechanical, vascular and developing neural theories that attempt to explain the aetiology of degenerative tendinopathy. We also explore theories of why specific tendons (such as the Achilles and supraspinatus tendons) are particularly prone to degenerative pathology. Traditionally, treatments have placed a heavy emphasis on anti-inflammatory strategies, which are often inappropriate. Recently, however, significant advances in the practical management of tendon disorders have been made. In particular the advent of 'eccentric loading' training programmes has revolutionized the treatment of Achilles tendinopathy in some patients. This concept is currently being extended to include other commonly injured tendons. Other current treatments are reviewed, as are potential future treatments."}
{"id": "16489907", "title": "5. Recent advances in sports medicine.", "content": "5. Recent advances in sports medicine. New research has changed our perception and management of common injuries. Magnetic resonance imaging and arthroscopy of the hip have shown that labral injuries, chondral injuries, rim lesions, synovitis and tears of the ligament teres are common causes of hip, groin and low-back pain. Hip arthroscopy is used both as a diagnostic and therapeutic tool; it has been shown to be of benefit in recent traumatic labral injury, but disappointing in the management of chronic hip pain (which may be associated with degenerative change, and chondral lesions of the acetabulum). The McConnell multimodal physiotherapy regimen is effective in treating patellofemoral pain. Anterior cruciate ligament rupture is three to five times more common in women, but neuromuscular training appears to decrease its incidence. Patellar tendon and hamstring grafts appear to be equally effective in anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. Articular cartilage defects remain a significant problem, and the efficacy of treatments such as autologous chondrocyte implantation is still unclear."}
{"id": "16488235", "title": "Using support vector machines to optimally classify rotator cuff strength data and quantify post-operative strength in rotator cuff tear patients.", "content": "Using support vector machines to optimally classify rotator cuff strength data and quantify post-operative strength in rotator cuff tear patients. Shoulder strength data are important for post-operative assessment of shoulder function and have been used in diagnosis of rotator cuff pathology. Support vector machines (SVM) employ complex analysis techniques to solve classification and regression problems. A SVM, a machine learning technique, can be used for analysis and classification of shoulder strength data. The goals of this study were to determine the diagnostic competency of SVM based on shoulder strength data and to apply SVM analysis in efforts to derive a single representative shoulder strength score. Data were taken from fourteen isometric shoulder strength measurements of each shoulder (involved and uninvolved) in 45 rotator cuff tear patients. SVM diagnostic proficiency was found to be comparable to reported ultrasound values. Improvement of shoulder function was accurately represented by a single score in pairwise comparison of the pre-operative and the 12 month post-operative group (P < 0.004). Thus, the SVM-based score may be a promising metric for summarizing rotator cuff strength data."}
{"id": "16477333", "title": "Imaging factors related to rotator cuff tear in patients with deltoid contracture.", "content": "Imaging factors related to rotator cuff tear in patients with deltoid contracture. Bony deformity and muscular malfunction around the shoulder induced by deltoid contracture may influence rotator cuff function and lead to subsequent tearing. The purpose of this study was to investigate the imaging and clinical factors related to rotator cuff tear in patients with deltoid contracture. We retrospectively reviewed 48 shoulders in 44 patients with magnetic resonance imaging diagnosis of deltoid contracture and surgically-proven rotator cuff tear. These shoulders were subdivided into partial-thickness and full-thickness tear groups. Another 17 shoulders in 17 patients with deltoid contracture but no evident rotator cuff tear were included as the control group. The characteristics, including age, gender and imaging features, of these three groups were compared. Two patients who underwent initial operations for cuff tears required secondary operations for distal release of deltoid contracture. The age of patients with full-thickness tear was significantly greater than that of patients with partial-thickness tear or without tear. The winging angle of the glenoid (WAG) in the full-thickness tear group was significantly greater than that in the partial-thickness tear group. Patients with partial-thickness tear also had greater WAG than those without tear. However, WAG was not significantly correlated with the fibrotic size or age of the patient. In patients with deltoid contracture, age and WAG are associated with the development of rotator cuff tear. To prevent the occurrence of rotator cuff tear, early surgical release of deltoid contracture is highly recommended, especially in patients with greater WAG."}
{"id": "16475277", "title": "Clinical evaluation of impingement: what to do and what works.", "content": "Clinical evaluation of impingement: what to do and what works."}
{"id": "16474925", "title": "Biomechanics of the deltoideus.", "content": "Biomechanics of the deltoideus. The objective of this study was to determine the direction of the migration engendered by the middle deltoideus on the upper end of the humerus. Eleven patients suffering from shoulder pathology underwent an MRI examination (3 mm thick slices). From these MRI slices, 3D reconstructions were obtained for each patient by using a manual data capture system (SliceOmatic((R))). From this geometry, a mechanical model of the deltoideus was produced, taking into account the contacts between the latter and the following anatomical parts: supraspinatus, infraspinatus and humeral head. For the 11 shoulders, we have obtained a deltoideus showing a global resultant oriented upwards. There was, however, a component oriented downwards (at the level of the humeral head), its intensity being 40-80% less than the component oriented upwards (at the level of the deltoideus V). It is important to note that this study is valid only in the initial degrees of lateral elevation. The deltoideus is an elevator muscle of the humeral head in the glenoid, presenting nevertheless a component oriented downwards. The deltoideus would, therefore, intervene to recenter the shoulder during an abduction movement."}
{"id": "16473085", "title": "Fracture load of composite resin and feldspathic all-ceramic CAD/CAM crowns.", "content": "Fracture load of composite resin and feldspathic all-ceramic CAD/CAM crowns. Various machinable materials are currently used with computer-aided design/computer-assisted manufacturing (CAD/CAM) technologies for the chairside fabrication of restorations. However, properties of these new machinable materials, such as fracture load, wear, marginal deterioration, and color stability, should be investigated in vitro under replicated clinical conditions prior to time-consuming clinical studies. This study investigated the effect of cyclic loading fatigue and different luting agents under wet conditions on the fracture load of CAD/CAM machined composite resin and all-ceramic crowns. Ninety-six intact human maxillary premolars were prepared for composite resin and all-ceramic crowns with the following preparation criteria: 6-degree axial taper, 1.5-mm shoulder finish line placed 0.5 mm occlusal to the cemento-enamel junction, 1.5-mm axial reduction, 2-mm occlusal reduction, and 5-mm occluso-gingival height. Sixteen unprepared premolars served as controls. Forty-eight all-ceramic crowns (Vita Mark II) and 48 millable composite resin crowns (MZ100 Block) were fabricated using a CAD/CAM system (Cerec 3). Three luting agents-RelyX ARC (RX), GC Fuji CEM (FC), and zinc phosphate cement (ZP)-were used for cementation (n = 16). After 1-week storage in water, half of the specimens (n=8) in each subgroup were cyclically loaded and thermal cycled under wet conditions for 600,000 masticatory cycles and 3500 thermal cycles (58 degrees C/4 degrees C; dwell time, 60 seconds) in a masticatory simulator; the other half (n = 8) were fractured without cyclic loading. All specimens were loaded in a universal testing machine with a compressive load (N) applied along the long axis of the specimen at a crosshead speed of 1 mm/min until fracture. Fracture loads (N) were recorded for each specimen. Three-way analysis of variance was used to detect the effects of the experimental factors (crown material, luting agent, and loading conditions) on the fracture load. The comparison with the unprepared natural teeth as controls was done by means of t tests (alpha=.05). Analysis of variance revealed a statistically significant influence of the luting agent and the cyclic loading (P < .001), whereas the crown material had no significant influence. Cyclic loading fatigue significantly decreased the mean fracture load of test groups independent of the 3 luting agents used: MZ100/ZP, 827.1 to 552.5 N; MZ100/FC, 914.7 to 706.2 N; MZ100/RX, 955.9 to 724.4 N; Vita/ZP, 772.3 to 571.5 N; Vita/FC, 923.6 to 721.1 N; and Vita/RX, 929.1 to 752.7 N. However, there was no significant difference in the mean fracture load of control specimens before and after cyclic loading (1140.1 N and 1066.2 N, respectively). Adhesive luting agents RelyX ARC and GC Fuji CEM increased fracture load significantly compared to zinc phosphate cement. Cyclic loading fatigue significantly reduced the fracture loads of composite resin and all-ceramic crowns, whereas adhesive cementation significantly increased the fracture loads."}
{"id": "16472394", "title": "The Shoulder Pain and Disability Index demonstrates factor, construct and longitudinal validity.", "content": "The Shoulder Pain and Disability Index demonstrates factor, construct and longitudinal validity. The Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI) is a self-report measure developed to evaluate patients with shoulder pathology. While some validation has been conducted, broader analyses are indicated. This study determined aspects of cross-sectional and longitudinal validity of the SPADI. Community volunteers (n = 129) who self-identified as having shoulder pain were enrolled. Patients were examined by a physical therapist using a standardized assessment process to insure that their pain was musculoskeletal in nature. This included examination of pain reported during active and passive shoulder motion as reported on a visual analogue pain scale. Patients completed the SPADI, the Coping Strategies Questionnaire (CSQ) and the Sickness Impact Profile (SIP) at a baseline assessment and again 3 and 6 months later. Factor analysis with varimax rotation was used to assess subscale structure. Expectations regarding convergent and divergent subscales of CSQ and SIP were determined a priori and analysed using Pearson correlations. Constructed hypotheses that patients with a specific diagnosis or on pain medication would demonstrate higher SPADI scores were tested. Correlations between the observed changes recorded across different instruments were used to assess longitudinal validity. The internal consistencies of the SPADI subscales were high (alpha > 0.92). Factor analysis with varimax rotation indicated that the majority of items fell into 2 factors that represent pain and disability. Two difficult functional items tended to align with pain items. Higher pain and disability was correlated to passive or negative coping strategies, i.e., praying/hoping, catastrophizing on the CSQ. The correlations between subscales of the SPADI and SIP were low with divergent subscales and low to moderate with convergent subscales. Correlations, r > 0.60, were observed between the SPADI and pain reported on a VAS pain scale during active and passive movement. The two constructed validity hypotheses (on diagnosis and use of pain medications) were both supported (p < 0.01). The SPADI demonstrated significant changes over time, but these were poorly correlated to the SIP or CSQ suggesting that these scales measure different parameters. The SPADI is a valid measure to assess pain and disability in community-based patients reporting shoulder pain due to musculoskeletal pathology."}
{"id": "16464555", "title": "An overview of MR arthrography with emphasis on the current technique and applicational hints and tips.", "content": "An overview of MR arthrography with emphasis on the current technique and applicational hints and tips. Magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography has been investigated in every major peripheral joint of the body, and has been proven to be effective in determining the integrity of intraarticular ligamentous and fibrocartilaginous structures and in the detection or assessment of osteochondral lesions and loose bodies in selected cases. Several methods could be used to create arthrogram effect during MR imaging, however, direct MR arthrography using diluted gadolinium as the contrast agent is the most commonly used technique and is the most reliable of all. MR arthrography is useful for demonstrating labrocapsular-ligamentous abnormalities and distinguishing partial thickness rotator cuff tears from focal full thickness tears in the shoulder, identifying or excluding recurrent tears following meniscal operations in the knee, demonstrating perforations of the triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC) and ligaments in the wrist, showing labral tears in the hip, diagnosing ligament tears in the ankle and identifying osteochondral lesions or loose bodies in any of the aforementioned joints. In this article, an overview of techniques of MR arthrography is provided with emphasis on direct MR arthrography using diluted gadolinium as the contrast agent. The current applications of the technique in major peripheral joints are reviewed, with emphasis given to the shoulder joint where the role of this technique has become well established."}
{"id": "16462449", "title": "Proximal migration can be measured accurately on standardized anteroposterior shoulder radiographs.", "content": "Proximal migration can be measured accurately on standardized anteroposterior shoulder radiographs. During the last decade, investigators of several studies have stressed the importance of early diagnosis and treatment of rotator cuff tears to improve outcome of surgical repair. Proximal migration of the humeral head is thought to be indicative for rotator cuff disorders. We wanted to assess the accuracy of proximal migration measurement on anteroposterior radiographs. Computed tomography scans and anteroposterior radiographs of 43 shoulders in 26 patients were taken using the same protocol. Proximal migration was measured as the acromiohumeral interval and the upward migration index. The mean absolute difference for the upward migration index was only 0.06 (standard deviation, 0.07), this was less then 5% of the mean upward migration index measured on computed tomography reformations. The correlation coefficient and Bland-Altman plot showed a strong correlation between computed tomography and radiographic measurements, especially for the upward migration index (correlation coefficient, 0.82). Our results indicate that measurement of subacromial space on anteroposterior radiographs, controlled for positioning, scaling, and individual differences by using the upward migration index, presents an accurate measurement for proximal migration. Diagnostic study, Level I (testing of previously developed diagnostic criteria on consecutive patients--with universally applied reference \"gold\" standard). See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "16462348", "title": "Suprascapular nerve reconstruction in 118 cases of adult posttraumatic brachial plexus.", "content": "Suprascapular nerve reconstruction in 118 cases of adult posttraumatic brachial plexus. Shoulder stabilization is of utmost importance in upper extremity reanimation following paralysis from devastating brachial plexus injuries. The purpose of this report is to present the authors' experience with suprascapular nerve reconstruction in 118 cases of adult brachial plexus lesions. Outcomes were analyzed in relation to various factors, including patient age, denervation time, donor nerve used, and functional restoration achieved in the supraspinatus versus the infraspinatus muscles. The medical records of 118 adult patients operated on by a single surgeon between 1978 and 2002 who had suprascapular nerve reconstruction were reviewed; 102 patients had adequate follow-up. Direct neurotization of the suprascapular nerve was carried out in 78 patients, while in 40 patients, interposition nerve grafts were used. In 80 patients, the distal spinal accessory was used as the motor donor nerve for suprascapular nerve neurotization, while in 10 patients, other extraplexus motor donors were used. In 28 patients, intraplexus motor donors were used to reinnervate the suprascapular nerve. Results were good or excellent in 79 percent of the patients for the supraspinatus muscle and in 55 percent for the infraspinatus. There was a statistically significant difference between direct spinal accessory to suprascapular nerve neurotization and accessory to suprascapular via a nerve graft. Early surgery and less than 6 months of denervation time yielded significantly better results than late surgery and more than 6 months of delay in the treatment. Suprascapular nerve neurotization is a high priority in upper limb reanimation for restoration of glenohumeral joint stability, shoulder abduction, and external rotation. Concomitant neurotization of the axillary nerve yields improved outcomes in shoulder abduction function. The best results are seen when direct neurotization of the suprascapular nerve is performed within 6 months from the injury."}
{"id": "16458798", "title": "Outcomes of isolated type II SLAP lesions treated with arthroscopic fixation using a bioabsorbable tack.", "content": "Outcomes of isolated type II SLAP lesions treated with arthroscopic fixation using a bioabsorbable tack. The objective was to clinically evaluate the treatment of type II Slap lesions repaired surgically using a bioabsorbable device. Retrospective clinical follow-up study. Forty-one patients with isolated type II SLAP lesions who were treated with arthroscopic fixation were identified. Patients were excluded for rotator cuff tears, instability, or subacromial decompression. Patients completed the L'Insalata and the American Society of Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) questionnaires, and underwent a thorough shoulder examination at a minimum of 2 years postoperatively. At a mean of 3.7 years follow-up, 33 of 41 patients returned for physical examination and 6 others returned the L'Insalata questionnaire. The mean L'Insalata and ASES scores were 86.7 and 86.8, respectively; 27 patients reported their satisfaction as good to excellent but only 14 of the 29 athletes returned to their preinjury level of athletics. The average ASES scores were statistically different in patients who had their rotator cuff pierced versus those who did not (P< .05). In addition, 13 of 16 patients who experienced night pain had a cuff piercing approach. Despite high outcome scores, overall patient satisfaction was only 71%. In addition, up to 41% continued to experience some degree of night pain. Patients treated with a rotator cuff piercing had a significantly poorer outcome. Moreover, the patients who were athletes performed poorer on their outcomes evaluation than did their nonathletic counterparts. Whereas the outcome scores overall were high, this problem is still difficult to treat successfully. This may be because of the high demands of athletes. The data also suggest that placing portals through the rotator cuff may be associated with poorer surgical outcomes. Level III."}
{"id": "16453345", "title": "Effect of experimental suprascapular nerve block on active glenohumeral translations in vivo.", "content": "Effect of experimental suprascapular nerve block on active glenohumeral translations in vivo. Static superior shoulder instability is associated with long-standing rotator cuff tears. Factors or mechanisms which can prevent superior migration of the humeral head, and therefore allow preservation or restoration of shoulder function despite nonanatomical cuff repair, are poorly understood. The question has therefore arisen, whether centering of the humeral head was the result of active shoulder muscle function. It was the goal of this experimental investigation to (1) determine the pattern of glenohumeral translations during active shoulder abduction measured by open-magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques, and to (2) determine the influence of experimental paralysis of the infra- and supraspinatus muscles on these translations. In contrast to prior experimental investigations, the humeral head remained always centered in the glenoid fossa during active abduction. No superior migration of the humeral head could be provoked with experimental paralysis of the supra- and/or infraspinatus muscles. The hypothesis that static or dynamic superior humeral head displacement is prevented by active-supra- and/or infraspinatus muscle function must therefore be rejected, for the shoulder with a structurally intact muscle-tendon-bone unit."}
{"id": "16452746", "title": "Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable posterosuperior rotator cuff tears. Factors affecting outcome.", "content": "Latissimus dorsi tendon transfer for irreparable posterosuperior rotator cuff tears. Factors affecting outcome. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical results of latissimus dorsi tendon transfer in patients with an irreparable posterosuperior rotator cuff tear to help determine which patient and anatomic factors affect clinical outcome. Fourteen patients with a latissimus dorsi tendon transfer were clinically evaluated with use of the PENN (University of Pennsylvania) shoulder score as well as with quantitative measurement of isometric muscle strength and the range of motion of both shoulders at a minimum of twenty-four months postoperatively. The anatomic results were evaluated with postoperative magnetic resonance imaging and electromyography. Nine patients were satisfied with the outcome, had significant clinical improvement, and reported that they would have the operation again under similar circumstances. The other five patients were dissatisfied with the result and had significantly worse PENN scores, active elevation, and objective measures of strength. Eight of the nine patients with a good clinical result were male, and four of the five with a poor result were female. Patients with a good clinical result had had significantly better preoperative function in active forward flexion and active external rotation compared with the patients with a poor result. The magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated healing of the tendon to the greater tuberosity in twelve patients and equivocal healing in two. There was no significant atrophy of any of the transferred muscles. Electromyography demonstrated clear activity in the transferred latissimus muscle during humeral adduction in all fourteen patients, some electrical activity with active forward elevation in only one patient, and some electrical activity with active external rotation in six of the nine patients with a good clinical result. None of the patients with a poor clinical result demonstrated electrical activity of the transferred muscle with active forward flexion or external rotation. Synchronous in-phase contraction of the transferred latissimus dorsi is a variable finding following the surgical treatment of irreparable posterosuperior rotator cuff tears, but when it is present it is associated with a better clinical result. Preoperative shoulder function and general strength influence the clinical result. Female patients with poor shoulder function and generalized muscle weakness prior to surgery have a greater likelihood of having a poor clinical result."}
{"id": "16452742", "title": "Clinical and structural results of open repair of an isolated one-tendon tear of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Clinical and structural results of open repair of an isolated one-tendon tear of the rotator cuff. The clinical outcomes of open rotator cuff repair are well established, but the structural results and their effect on clinical outcome are poorly known. We assessed the structural changes in the musculotendinous units after open rotator cuff repair and correlated these findings with the clinical outcome to establish a benchmark for future series. Thirty-two consecutive standardized open repairs of a single tendon tear of the rotator cuff were analyzed in twenty-one men and eleven women with an average age of 59.0 years. The supraspinatus tendon was involved in twenty-two patients and the subscapularis tendon, in ten. The clinical outcome, including the Constant score, was assessed prospectively for all patients at an average of thirty-eight months postoperatively. The structural outcome was assessed on standardized magnetic resonance imaging scans. The mean overall subjective shoulder value was 82.8% of the value for a normal shoulder. On the average, the age and gender-adjusted Constant score increased from 63.9% preoperatively to 94.5% postoperatively (p < 0.0001); the score for pain, from 6.8 points to 13.2 points (p < 0.0001); and the score for activities of daily living, from 11.2 points to 17.9 points (p < 0.0001). The overall rerupture rate was 13% (four of the thirty-two shoulders). All reruptures were distinctly smaller than the original tear. Muscular atrophy or fatty infiltration did not significantly decrease after the tendon repair. In fact, fatty infiltration in the supraspinatus (p < 0.0053) and infraspinatus (p < 0.003) muscles increased significantly. Direct open repair of a complete, isolated tear of one tendon of the rotator cuff resulted in significant subjective and objective improvement and very high patient satisfaction. Successful direct repair was not associated with a decrease in preoperative muscular atrophy and was associated with increased fatty infiltration of the muscle."}
{"id": "16450185", "title": "Locked knee caused by intraarticular ganglion.", "content": "Locked knee caused by intraarticular ganglion. Intraarticular ganglion cyst arising from the cruciate ligament is difficult to diagnose by clinical symptom. In our case, Cyst attached anteriorly to posterior cruciate ligament, and limited both flexion and extension of knee. The cyst was excised in a piecemeal fashion arthroscopically. Knee pain and limitation in knee motion disappeared by the day after surgery. We hypothesize that reason of restriction of extension is impingement between anterior cruciate ligament and intracondylar, and reason of restriction of flexion is stimulation nerve ending in the synovial membrane stretched with knee motion."}
{"id": "16443102", "title": "Intraneural ganglion of the suprascapular nerve: case report.", "content": "Intraneural ganglion of the suprascapular nerve: case report. We present a case of multicystic ganglion of the suprascapular nerve in an 18-year-old man. Pain and shoulder weakness were present and examination showed weakness and atrophy of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles. Electromyography showed severe denervation of the infraspinatus and supraspinatus muscles. At surgery a multicystic lesion of the suprascapular nerve extending approximately 5.7 cm from its origin was resected and reconstructed by sural nerve grafting. Therapeutic, Level V."}
{"id": "16442988", "title": "Hemiplegic shoulder pain syndrome: interrater reliability of physical diagnosis signs.", "content": "Hemiplegic shoulder pain syndrome: interrater reliability of physical diagnosis signs. To determine the interrater reliability of shoulder physical diagnosis signs in the acute stroke rehabilitation setting. Prospective inception cohort. Academic inpatient stroke rehabilitation service. People admitted to stroke rehabilitation service. Not applicable. The Neer impingement test, Speed test, acromioclavicular shear test, Rowe shoulder score, and palpation. Two examiners evaluated 46 consecutively admitted participants at 18.9+/-14.1 days after stroke. Percentage agreement was 78% or higher on all tests. The kappa statistic was in the fair to excellent interrater reliability range on all tests except those involving the acromioclavicular joint, for which findings were infrequent. Most of the shoulder physical diagnosis signs used in this study have sufficient interrater reliability for use in future clinical studies of hemiplegic shoulder pain."}
{"id": "16435349", "title": "Delay of supraspinatus repair by up to 12 weeks does not impair enthesis formation: a quantitative histologic study in rabbits.", "content": "Delay of supraspinatus repair by up to 12 weeks does not impair enthesis formation: a quantitative histologic study in rabbits. The purpose of this study was to find out whether supraspinatus repair delayed by up to12 weeks affects the formation of a new enthesis when compared to an immediate repair. In 67 rabbits, the supraspinatus fibrocartilaginous enthesis of one shoulder was resected. The tendon was attached to the greater tuberosity either immediately, after a 6-week, or after a 12-week delay. Five histologic variables were used to assess enthesis formation: number of non-chondrocytes, number of chondrocytes, alignment of chondrocytes in rows, area of metachromasia on toluidine blue (TB)-stained sections indicating proteoglycan content, and area of diffracted polarized light indicating spatial alignment of collagen fibers. For every variable, progressive enthesis formation was observed. Again, for every variable and at every time point studied, no statistically significant difference was observed between tendons repaired immediately, after 6, or after 12 weeks (all p>0.05). Supraspinatus tendon repairs delayed by 6 and 12 weeks constituted an enthesis which proceeded identically to one immediately repaired. Formation of a fibrocartilaginous enthesis depended on the elapsed time after repair and not on the duration between detachment and repair. Despite stated limitations, these results support both a trial of conservative treatment after a rotator cuff tear and a positive outcome of rotator cuff repair even if delayed by up to 12 weeks."}
{"id": "16434526", "title": "Transfer of the tendon of latissimus dorsi for the treatment of massive tears of the rotator cuff: a new single-incision technique.", "content": "Transfer of the tendon of latissimus dorsi for the treatment of massive tears of the rotator cuff: a new single-incision technique. We describe 14 patients who underwent transfer of latissimus dorsi using a new technique through a single-incision. Their mean age was 61 years (47 to 76) and the mean follow-up was 32 months (19 to 42). The mean Constant score improved from 46.5 to 74.6 points. The mean active flexion increased from 119 degrees to 170 degrees , mean abduction from 118 degrees to 169 degrees and mean external rotation from 19 degrees to 33 degrees . The Hornblower sign remained positive in three patients (23%) as did the external rotation lag sign also in three patients (23%). No patient had a positive drop-arm sign at follow-up. No significant difference was noted between the mean pre- and postoperative acromiohumeral distance as seen on radiographs. An increased grade of osteoarthritis was found in three patients (23%). Electromyographic analysis showed activity of the transferred muscle in all patients."}
{"id": "16423952", "title": "Abnormalities on MRI of the subscapularis tendon in the presence of a full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tear.", "content": "Abnormalities on MRI of the subscapularis tendon in the presence of a full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tear. Our objective was to determine the association between size and chronicity of full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears with subscapularis tendon abnormalities on MRI. One hundred forty-two MRI examinations with full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears were categorized on the basis of the supraspinatus muscle (SS): normal muscle (SS(normal)), suggesting a recent or small tear; reduced muscle bulk without fatty atrophy (SS(volume loss)); and those with fatty atrophy, suggesting a large or chronic tear (SS(fatty atrophy)). Subscapularis tendon abnormalities, the subcoracoid interval, and subcortical bone marrow edema in the lesser tuberosity and coracoid process were recorded. The mean size of supraspinatus tendon tears in the SS(normal) (n = 45) group was 8.5 mm, 16.6 mm in SS(volume loss) (n = 53), and 29 mm in the SS(fatty atrophy) group (n = 44). Subscapularis tendon abnormality was identified in 22% of SS(normal) patients, 61% of SS(volume loss), and 86% of the SS(fatty atrophy) group (p < 0.001). There was moderate correlation between chronicity of supraspinatus tendon tears and subscapularis tendon abnormality (r = 0.47; p < 0.0001), with no correlation between the subcoracoid interval and abnormalities of the subscapularis tendon. There was moderate correlation between chronicity of supraspinatus tendon tears and bone marrow changes in the lesser tuberosity (r = 0.44; p < 0.0001). Subscapularis tendon abnormality is related to chronicity of supraspinatus tendon tears. Bone marrow edema in the lesser tuberosity with a subscapularis tendon abnormality suggests increased stress at the subscapularis tendon insertion with chronicity of full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tears. Lack of correlation with the subcoracoid interval indicates that anterior instability may be a more important contributing factor to subscapularis tendon abnormalities than static subcoracoid impingement in the setting of a full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tear."}
{"id": "16414478", "title": "The effect of cementing technique on structural fixation of pegged glenoid components in total shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "The effect of cementing technique on structural fixation of pegged glenoid components in total shoulder arthroplasty. Although loosening of cemented glenoid components is one of the major complications of total shoulder arthroplasty, there is little information about factors affecting initial fixation of these components in the scapular neck. This study was performed to assess the characteristics of structural fixation of pegged glenoid components, if inserted with two different recommended cementing techniques. Six fresh-frozen shoulder specimens and two types of glenoid components were used. The glenoids were prepared according to the instructions and with the instrumentation of the manufacturer. In 3 specimens, the bone cement was inserted into the peg receiving holes (n = 12) and applied to the back surface of the glenoid component with a syringe. In the other 3 specimens, the cement was inserted into the holes (n = 15) by use of pure finger pressure: no cement was applied on the backside of the component. Micro-computed tomography scans with a resolution of 36 microm showed an intact cement mantle around all 12 pegs (100%) when a syringe was used. An incomplete cement plug was found in 7 of 15 pegs (47%) when the finger-pressure technique was used. Cement penetration into the cancellous bone was deeper in osteopenic bone. Application of bone cement on the backside of the glenoid prosthesis improved seating by filling out small spaces between bone and polyethylene resulting from irregularities after reaming or local cement extrusion from a drill hole. The fixation of a pegged glenoid component is better if the holes are filled with cement under pressure by use of a syringe and if cement is applied to the back of the glenoid component than if cement is inserted with pure finger pressure and no cement is applied to the back surface of the component."}
{"id": "16414473", "title": "Rotator cuff repair after shoulder replacement.", "content": "Rotator cuff repair after shoulder replacement. Development of a rotator cuff tear after shoulder arthroplasty can adversely affect outcome. To assess the results of a subsequent procedure to repair the torn cuff, we reviewed all shoulder arthroplasties performed at our institution to identify patients who had a subsequent operation for cuff repair with or without component revision. We identified 19 patients and 20 involved shoulders. One patient was lost to follow-up, and one was excluded because the subsequent cuff repair could not be adequately accomplished. Patients were studied retrospectively a mean of 9.1 years after cuff repair by analysis of prospectively collected data supplemented by use of a questionnaire (10 shoulders). The presence of the tear was diagnosed preoperatively by physical examination or routine radiographs in 13 shoulders, an arthrogram in 3, and surgical exploration in 2. The tear involved the subscapularis in 7 shoulders, the supraspinatus in 15, and the infraspinatus in 8. Rotator cuff repair was successful in only 4 shoulders and was unsuccessful in the remaining 14. Pain was absent in 4 shoulders, slight in 6, occasionally moderate in 5, and moderate in 3. The mean visual analog pain score was 5.6. Range of motion was limited, with mean values for elevation of 78 degrees and external rotation of 54 degrees . Because results of subsequent cuff repair are poor, every attempt should be made to repair the cuff securely and carefully direct postoperative physical therapy."}
{"id": "16414472", "title": "Posterior shoulder pain in throwing athletes with a Bennett lesion: factors that influence throwing pain.", "content": "Posterior shoulder pain in throwing athletes with a Bennett lesion: factors that influence throwing pain. A Bennett lesion is a bony spur at the posterior glenoid that is often seen in baseball players and usually asymptomatic. However, it sometimes becomes painful, but the mechanism of throwing pain is still unknown. The purposes of this study were to identify clinical characteristics associated with the Bennett lesion causing shoulder pain (painful Bennett lesion) and to try to predict which type of Bennett lesion might become painful. Several clinical factors in 51 consecutive baseball players who underwent arthroscopic surgery were investigated. Of these baseball players, 24 had a bony spur: 13 were diagnosed as having a painful Bennett lesion and 11 were diagnosed as having an asymptomatic Bennett lesion, according to our previously reported criteria. The other 27 players did not have a bony spur. Posterior joint laxity, no deficit of internal rotation, and an avulsed fragment on computed tomography scan were determined to be the characteristic clinical features in the shoulders with a painful Bennett lesion."}
{"id": "16414471", "title": "Loss of total arc of motion in collegiate baseball players.", "content": "Loss of total arc of motion in collegiate baseball players. Published studies on asymptomatic athletes show an increase in external rotation and decrease in internal rotation while maintaining the total arc of motion of the glenohumeral joint. The purpose of this study was to determine whether overhand athletes with shoulder pain maintained their total arc of motion. Sixty-seven college-level baseball players were examined. Internal rotation and external rotation of the glenohumeral joint, measured at 90 degrees of abduction, and total arc of shoulder motion were compared between dominant and nondominant extremities in athletes with and without shoulder pain. Dominant shoulders in the pain group had a mean arc of 136.2 degrees compared with 145.8 degrees in the nondominant group, for a side-to-side difference of 9.6 degrees. We demonstrate that college-level baseball players with shoulder pain have a significant decrease in total arc of shoulder motion and internal rotation compared with their nondominant shoulder and with pain-free athletes."}
{"id": "16414467", "title": "In vivo anatomy of the Neer and Hawkins sign positions for shoulder impingement.", "content": "In vivo anatomy of the Neer and Hawkins sign positions for shoulder impingement. The Neer and Hawkins impingement signs are commonly used to diagnose subacromial pathology, but the anatomy of these maneuvers has not been well elucidated in vivo. This 3-dimensional open magnetic resonance imaging study characterized shoulder anatomy and rotator cuff impingement in 8 normal volunteers placed in the Neer and Hawkins positions. Subacromial and intraarticular contact of the rotator cuff was graded, and minimum distances were computed between the tendon insertion sites and the glenoid, acromion, and coracoid. Both the Neer and Hawkins maneuvers significantly decreased the distance from the supraspinatus insertion to the acromion and posterior glenoid and from the subscapularis insertion to the anterior glenoid. However, the Hawkins position resulted in significantly greater subacromial space narrowing and subacromial rotator cuff contact than the Neer position. In the Hawkins position, subacromial contact of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus was observed in 7 of 8 and 5 of 8 subjects, respectively. In contrast, rotator cuff contact with the acromion did not occur in any subject in the Neer position. Intraarticular contact of the supraspinatus with the posterosuperior glenoid was observed in all subjects in both positions. Subscapularis contact with the anterior glenoid was also seen in 7 of 8 subjects in the Neer position and in all subjects in the Hawkins position. This extensive intraarticular contact suggests that internal impingement may play a role in the Neer and Hawkins signs."}
{"id": "16414464", "title": "Complications of total shoulder arthroplasty: are they fewer or different?", "content": "Complications of total shoulder arthroplasty: are they fewer or different? There has been significant evolution of total shoulder arthroplasty design and improvement in technique over the past 25 years, but there is no information available as to whether this has translated into lower complication rates or different sorts of complications. The purpose of this study was to determine the contemporary complications and their frequency. Between 1990 and 2000, 431 total shoulder arthroplasties were performed with a cemented all-polyethylene glenoid component. Follow-up averaged 4.2 years. Complications were categorized by type as early or late and as minor, major, or major requiring reoperation. In total, 53 surgical complications occurred in 53 patients (12%). Of these, 32 were major complications (7.4%), with 17 of these requiring reoperation. Index complications in order of frequency included rotator cuff tearing, postoperative glenohumeral instability, and periprosthetic humeral fracture. Notably, glenoid and humeral component loosening requiring reoperation occurred in only 1 shoulder. Developing a complication was unrelated to diagnosis, previous surgery, age, sex, humeral head size, or cementing or not cementing the humeral component. Data from the contemporary patient group suggest that there are fewer complications of shoulder arthroplasty and less need for reoperation. Especially striking is the near absence of component revision because of loosening or other mechanical factors. Periprosthetic humeral fractures are more common; the explanation for this warrants further study."}
{"id": "16399471", "title": "Diagnosis, pathology, and nonsurgical treatment of painful shoulder.", "content": "Diagnosis, pathology, and nonsurgical treatment of painful shoulder."}
{"id": "16399462", "title": "Gender differences in quality of life and extent of rotator cuff pathology.", "content": "Gender differences in quality of life and extent of rotator cuff pathology. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of age and gender on functional and emotional status and extent of rotator cuff and associated pathology in patients undergoing arthroscopic surgery. Historical cohort study. This study involved 279 patients who underwent rotator cuff decompression or rotator cuff repair and for whom scores for the 5 domains of a preoperative rotator cuff outcome measure were available. Arthroscopic examination was used to identify the extent of pathology in the rotator cuff, biceps tendon, and superior labrum. Over a period of 3 years, 108 women and 171 men underwent surgery. There was a statistically significant difference in the domain of emotions (P = .024) for men and women. The levels of symptoms (P = .020), difficulty with performing sports and recreational activities (P = .043), and emotions (P = .001) were significantly different between individuals under 55 years of age and those 55 and older, with older patients reporting less difficulty. In terms of extent of pathology, the chi-square analysis showed a statistically significant difference in the incidence of full-thickness tears (P < .0001) between different age groups and SLAP lesions types II to IV (P = .009) between men and women. Female candidates for rotator cuff-related surgeries report more emotional difficulties. Older age group appear to have less functional and emotional disability despite an increase in the prevalence of major rotator cuff pathology. Gender and age have important roles on quality of life and extent of shoulder pathology. Level II, investigating the outcome of disease."}
{"id": "16399461", "title": "Arthroscopic shoulder synovectomy in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.", "content": "Arthroscopic shoulder synovectomy in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Currently, there is little information available concerning the results of shoulder synovectomy in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Furthermore, it remains difficult to assess the success of shoulder synovectomy because of a high association of rotator cuff tears in rheumatoid patients. We hypothesized that synovectomy in patients with a functionally intact rotator cuff would provide durable pain relief. Case series. Sixteen shoulders in 13 patients with rheumatoid arthritis were treated with arthroscopic shoulder synovectomy from 1988 to 2002 with a mean follow-up of 5.5 years. Patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears or partial tears that required repair were excluded. Two of the 13 patients had been diagnosed with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and 11 had adult-onset disease. The medical records of the patients were reviewed and patients were assessed clinically and by questionnaire to assess pain, satisfaction, range of motion, radiographic outcomes, and occurrence of complications. There was an improvement in pain at long-term follow-up in 13 of 16 patients (P < .001). Active shoulder elevation improved from a median of 145 degrees to 160 degrees but was not significant (P = .14). External rotation improved significantly (P = .01) from a median of 45 degrees (range, 0 degrees to 90 degrees) to 60 degrees (range, 0 degrees to 100 degrees). According to the Neer rating system, there were 5 excellent, 8 satisfactory, and 3 unsatisfactory results. Seven of 8 shoulders followed-up radiographically for more than 1 year showed radiographic progression of disease. All 3 patients reporting pain that was no better or worse than before surgery had radiographic arthrosis at last follow-up with advancing periarticular erosions and reduction of glenoid articular space. Arthroscopic synovectomy of the shoulder in patients with rheumatoid arthritis with an intact rotator cuff offers a reliable decrease in pain with less predictable improvements in range of motion. Limitations in predicting final results based on preoperative radiographs should be discussed with patients; those with more advanced radiographic changes may not benefit from the procedure. Level IV, therapeutic study, case series, no control group."}
{"id": "16399460", "title": "Long-term clinical and ultrasound evaluation after arthroscopic acromioplasty in patients with partial rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Long-term clinical and ultrasound evaluation after arthroscopic acromioplasty in patients with partial rotator cuff tears. Clinical and ultrasound evaluation of patients who had undergone debridement of a partial rotator cuff tear in conjunction with an arthroscopic acromioplasty. Retrospective follow-up study. Thirty-three consecutive patients were included in the study; 26 of the 33 (79%) patients underwent ultrasound evaluation of both shoulders and were examined by independent observers after a follow-up period of 101 months (range, 60 to 128 months; minimum, 5 years). The median time between onset of symptoms and surgery was 24 months (range, 6 to 360 months). At follow-up, the Constant score was 65 points (range, 15-98). The Constant score on the contralateral side was 84 points (range, 15-96; P < .0001). The strength in abduction was 4.7 kg (range, 1.2 to 11.1 kg) on the operated side and 5.1 kg (range, 1.8 to 10.4 kg) on the contralateral side (not significant). Twelve of the 26 patients reported discomfort or pain in the contralateral shoulder and during the follow-up period, and 3 of 26 had undergone an arthroscopic acromioplasty of the contralateral shoulder. Two of 26 patients underwent further surgery of the index shoulder during the follow-up period. The visual analogue score for pain for the index shoulder was 20 mm (range, 0 to 85). The ultrasound evaluation revealed that 9 of 26 patients had a full-thickness rotator cuff tear in the index shoulder and, of these, 3 of 9 were bilateral. It appears that an arthroscopic acromioplasty and rotator cuff debridement in patients with partial tears does not protect the rotator cuff from undergoing further degeneration. Level IV."}
{"id": "16394743", "title": "Displaced proximal humeral fractures: part I. Classification and evaluation. 1970.", "content": "Displaced proximal humeral fractures: part I. Classification and evaluation. 1970."}
{"id": "16391256", "title": "Latissimus dorsi transfer for the treatment of irreparable rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Latissimus dorsi transfer for the treatment of irreparable rotator cuff tears. Treatment of irreparable rotator cuff tears remains controversial. Latissimus dorsi transfer to the greater tuberosity has been proposed for the treatment of irreparable tears associated with severe functional impairment and chronic, disabling pain. Sixty-seven patients with sixty-nine irreparable, full-thickness tears of at least two complete tendons were managed with latissimus dorsi transfer and were reviewed clinically and radiographically after an average of fifty-three months. The study group included fifty-two men and fifteen women, with an average age of sixty-one years. Thirteen patients also had deficient subscapularis function preoperatively. Outcome measures included the Constant and Murley score and the Subjective Shoulder Value. Osteoarthritis and acromiohumeral distance were measured on standardized radiographs. The mean Subjective Shoulder Value increased from 28% preoperatively to 66% at the time of follow-up (p < 0.0001). The mean age and gender-matched Constant and Murley score improved from 55% to 73% (p < 0.0001). The pain score improved from 6 to 12 points (of a possible 15 points) (p < 0.0001). Flexion increased from 104 degrees to 123 degrees , abduction increased from 101 degrees to 119 degrees , and external rotation increased from 22 degrees to 29 degrees (p < 0.05). Abduction strength increased from 0.9 to 1.8 kg (p < 0.0001). There was a slight but significant increase in osteoarthritic changes (from stage 0.8 to stage 1.3; p = 0.0002). In shoulders with a negative preoperative lift-off test, significant improvements were observed in terms of both function and pain, and strength doubled from 1.0 to 2.0 kg (p = 0.0001), but osteoarthritic changes progressed from stage 0.7 to stage 1.1 (p = 0.0006). In shoulders with poor subscapularis function, no improvement in these parameters was observed. Latissimus dorsi transfer durably and substantially improves chronically painful, dysfunctional shoulders with irreparable rotator cuff tears, especially if the subscapularis is intact. If subscapularis function is deficient, the procedure is of questionable benefit and probably should not be used."}
{"id": "16391220", "title": "Messenger molecules and cell death: therapeutic implications.", "content": "Messenger molecules and cell death: therapeutic implications. Programmed cell death, also called apoptosis, participates not only in normal physiologic processes such as development of the immune system, but also in many diseases. A loss of normal cell death may occur in cancer, and excessive cell death is found in a variety of neurodegenerative conditions. We describe 3 distinct pathways that regulate cell death. First, bilirubin, often thought to be a toxic end product of heme metabolism, serves as a physiologic cytoprotectant that may attenuate multiple forms of morbidity. In a second pathway, the glycolytic enzyme glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) mediates a novel cell death cascade. Cytotoxic stimuli, via nitric oxide generation, lead to the binding of GAPDH to the protein Siah1, translocation of GAPDH-Siah1 to the nucleus, and ultimately cell death. Third, cytochrome c, released from mitochondria early in apoptosis, synergizes with inositol-1,4,5-triphosphate (IP3) to elicit massive cellular calcium release, resulting in cell death. These pathways may regulate cell survival in a variety of pathologic states and represent fertile targets for novel therapies."}
{"id": "16382328", "title": "Ultrasound appearance of tendon tears. Part 2: lower extremity and myotendinous tears.", "content": "Ultrasound appearance of tendon tears. Part 2: lower extremity and myotendinous tears. Traumatic tears of the musculotendinous complex at the lower limb are common in clinical practice but can be difficult to detect and to evaluate because of swelling and pain that can limit proper physical examination. They can affect sedentary subjects or active sports participants involved in amateur or professional activities. In the first group tendons are more commonly affected, while myotendinous tears are common in sports players. The aims of this review article are to review the aetiology and pathomechanism of the most common ruptures affecting the tendons and the main myotendinous junctions of the lower extremity and to describe their ultrasound findings as well as to correlate ultrasound appearance with that of the other imaging modalities."}
{"id": "16377490", "title": "Tumoral calcinosis-like metastatic calcification in a patient on renal dialysis.", "content": "Tumoral calcinosis-like metastatic calcification in a patient on renal dialysis. Tumoral calcinosis-like metastatic calcification in a patient with uremia on dialysis has rarely been reported in the radiological literatures. This report describes the radiographic, scintigraphic, ultrasound, and CT findings of this condition in a 54-year-old man who had a clinical history of renal dialysis for 6 years. Elevation of serum phosphate and parathyroid hormone levels was noted. Physical examination revealed a hard, movable, and tender mass over his left arm. Plain radiographs of the left shoulder showed an amorphous massive calcification in the upper arm. Scintigraphy showed increased tracer accumulation in the soft tissue of the proximal portion of the left arm and both thighs, where CT scan revealed multilocular, amorphous, calcified masses in these areas. Scintigraphy can help in screening multiple lesions, and CT scan may further help in identifying the extent of a localized lesion such as joint involvement. Ultrasound showed localized multiloculated fluid accumulation within hyperechoic masses and perifocal interstitial fluid collection, which can help to determine the activity of the lesion. Ultrasound findings of tumoral calcinosis have not been reported before."}
{"id": "16365372", "title": "Arthroscopic treatment of posterolateral elbow impingement from lateral synovial plicae in throwing athletes and golfers.", "content": "Arthroscopic treatment of posterolateral elbow impingement from lateral synovial plicae in throwing athletes and golfers. Although elbow pain is common in throwing athletes and golfers, posterolateral impingement from a hypertrophic synovial plica is a rare but possibly underdiagnosed condition. To evaluate the clinical results of arthroscopic treatment of symptomatic lateral elbow plicae in this athletic population. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Twelve patients, 9 male and 3 female, whose mean age was 21.6 years (range, 17-33 years), were reviewed. There were 7 baseball pitchers, 2 softball players, and 3 golfers. All patients had diagnosed isolated lateral elbow plica; none had lateral epicondylitis, instability, osteochondritis dissecans, arthritis, loose bodies, or nerve conditions. The mean time from onset of symptoms to treatment was 9.25 months (range, 3-24.5 months). At a mean follow-up of 33.8 months (range, 24-65.5 months), patients were evaluated with a questionnaire and examination, based on the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons standardized elbow assessment and previously reported elbow outcome score. Posterolateral elbow pain was present in all patients. Fifty-eight percent (7 of 12 patients) complained of clicking or catching, whereas only 25% (3 of 12) experienced swelling or effusion. At elbow arthroscopy, a thickened synovial lateral plica was debrided in all cases. Ninety-two percent (11 of 12 patients) reported an excellent outcome with a mean elbow score of 92.5 points (maximum, 100 points). Return to competitive play averaged 4.8 months (range, 3-9.5 months). One patient with a fair outcome developed medial elbow instability that later required reconstructive surgery. Posterolateral elbow impingement from hypertrophic synovial plicae can cause significant pain and disability in throwing athletes and golfers. With careful diagnosis and exclusion of other elbow problems, treatment with arthroscopic debridement and focused rehabilitation is highly successful and allows these athletes to return to their previous level of play."}
{"id": "16357549", "title": "Shoulder impingement syndrome: relationships between clinical, functional, and radiologic findings.", "content": "Shoulder impingement syndrome: relationships between clinical, functional, and radiologic findings. Although there has been much research about imaging methods for shoulder impingement syndrome, the clinical information and upper limb level of disability have been generally ignored. The purpose of this study was to detect the relationships between clinical, functional, and radiologic variables in patients with shoulder impingement syndrome. A cross-sectional, clinical, and radiologic study was planned and 59 shoulders of 58 consecutive patients waiting for physical therapy because of a clinically suspected shoulder impingement syndrome were included into this study. Comprehensive clinical examination, radiography, shoulder ultrasonography, and magnetic resonance imaging were performed in the same month. Despite the high sensitivities of ultrasonography for diagnosing rotator cuff tears (98.1%) and biceps pathologies (100%), magnetic resonance imaging was superior to ultrasonography in many important shoulder structures such as a glenoid labral tear and subacromial bursal effusion/hypertrophy (P < 0.01). These structures were the determinants of the shoulder's disability measured by disabilities of the arm, shoulder, and hand questionnaire. Ultrasonography and magnetic resonance imaging had comparable high accuracy for identifying the biceps pathologies and rotator cuff tears. The basic clinical tests had modest accuracy in both disorders. The choice of which imaging test to perform should be based on the patient's clinical information (regarding lesion of glenoid labrum, joint capsule, muscle, and bone), cost, and imaging experience of the radiology department."}
{"id": "16357410", "title": "Coracohumeral interval imaging in subcoracoid impingement syndrome on MRI.", "content": "Coracohumeral interval imaging in subcoracoid impingement syndrome on MRI. The coracohumeral interval previously has been described as predictive of subcoracoid impingement on dynamic screening. The purpose of this study was to determine whether a coracohumeral interval acquired from routinely performed MRI can reliably diagnose subcoracoid impingement. Preoperative MRI examinations of 19 patients (16 males, three females) with subsequent surgical confirmation of subcoracoid impingement were reviewed retrospectively and compared with MRI studies of 41 control subjects (22 males, 19 females). Axial and oblique sagittal coracohumeral interval measurements were taken. The morphology of the coracoid process and lesser tuberosity was assessed. Postanalysis application of the data to two smaller groups of patients was performed. The first group consisted of nine subjects (three males, six females) for whom subcoracoid impingement was diagnosed prospectively on the basis of abnormalities found by MRI. The second group consisted of seven patients (two males, five females) who were referred for MRI evaluation because of clinically suspected subcoracoid impingement. The average coracohumeral interval for females was 3 mm smaller than that for males. Using sex-adjusted data, we found a statistically significant difference between individuals with or without subcoracoid impingement in the axial coracohumeral interval (p = 0.01). This value, however, was poorly predictive (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, 0.73). An 11.5-mm axial coracohumeral interval had 84% sensitivity but only 44% specificity. A 10.5-mm axial coracohumeral interval had 79% sensitivity and 59% specificity. The shoulder morphologic features assessed and intraarticular contrast use were not statistically significantly related to the coracohumeral interval. In postanalysis application of data, in the group of nine subjects without clinical diagnosis of subcoracoid impingement, all prospective MRI subcoracoid impingement diagnoses were falsely positive. However, if subcoracoid impingement was the referring diagnosis, prospective MRI evaluation more often was correct (n = 7 [three true-negatives, two true-positives, two false-negatives]). A sex-adjusted coracohumeral interval of 10.5-11.5 mm, although statistically significantly related to subcoracoid impingement, is poorly predictive of this diagnosis when acquired via routinely performed MRI. Subcoracoid impingement is primarily a clinical diagnosis that may be supported, but not established, by this means."}
{"id": "16352733", "title": "US of the shoulder: rotator cuff and non-rotator cuff disorders.", "content": "US of the shoulder: rotator cuff and non-rotator cuff disorders. Ultrasonography (US) has been shown to be an effective imaging modality in the evaluation of both rotator cuff and non-rotator cuff disorders, usually serving in a complementary role to magnetic resonance imaging of the shoulder. US technique for shoulder examination depends on patient positioning, scanning protocol for every tendon and anatomic part, and dynamic imaging. The primary US signs for rotator cuff supraspinatus tendon tears are tendon nonvisualization for complete tears, focal tendon defect for full-thickness tears, a hypoechoic defect of the articular side of the tendon for an articular-side partial-thickness tear, and flattening of the bursal surface of the tendon for a bursal-side partial-thickness tear. Secondary US signs such as cortical irregularity of the greater tuberosity and joint and subacromial-subdeltoid bursal fluid are helpful when correlated with the primary signs. Tendon degeneration, tendinosis, and intrasubstance tear are demonstrated as internal heterogeneity. Long-head biceps tendon abnormalities include instability, acute or chronic tear, and tendinosis. The acromioclavicular joint is assessed for dislocation, fluid collection, cysts, and bone erosions. Other non-rotator cuff disorders include synovial disorders such as adhesive capsulitis and synovial osteochondromatosis; degenerative disorders such as osteoarthritis, amyloid arthropathy, hemarthrosis, and chondrocalcinosis; infectious disorders such as septic arthritis and bursitis; and space-occupying lesions."}
{"id": "16328380", "title": "Imaging findings of spontaneous detachment of the deltoid muscle as a complication of massive rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Imaging findings of spontaneous detachment of the deltoid muscle as a complication of massive rotator cuff tear. A tear at the origin of the deltoid muscle is uncommon and usually occurs as a complication of shoulder surgery. We report a case of spontaneous deltoid detachment as a complication of massive rotator cuff tear in a 70-year-old woman evaluated by standard radiographs, ultrasound, arthrography and MR-arthrography. We present the multimodality imaging findings with review of the literature. We found that ultrasound is an accurate modality in detecting and assessing spontaneous detachment of the deltoid muscle. As ultrasound is a noninvasive, low-cost, and universally available imaging modality we suggest using ultrasound as the first modality for evaluation of spontaneous detachment of the deltoid muscle."}
{"id": "16315210", "title": "Anterior-inferior labral lesions of recurrent shoulder dislocation evaluated by MR arthrography in an adduction internal rotation (ADIR) position.", "content": "Anterior-inferior labral lesions of recurrent shoulder dislocation evaluated by MR arthrography in an adduction internal rotation (ADIR) position. To introduce and evaluate the usefulness of the adduction internal rotation (ADIR) position in MR arthrography for discriminating the following subtypes of Bankart lesions: classic Bankart lesions, anterior labroligamentous periosteal sleeve avulsion (ALPSA) lesions, and Perthes lesions. The study group consisted of 25 patients who had been referred for MR arthrography of the shoulder and then underwent arthroscopy due to recurrent episodes of shoulder dislocation. MR arthrography was performed in three different positions: neutral, abduction external rotation (ABER), and ADIR. The authors evaluated the statistical significance of the method's discriminative diagnostic ability for the subtypes of Bankart lesions according to the position changes. Twenty-three patients had the following single or complex labral lesions: classic Bankart (N = 8), ALPSA (N = 3), complex classic Bankart/ALPSA (N = 8), and complex ALPSA/Perthes (N = 4). Two patients had no visible anteroinferior labral lesions. The performance of ADIR positioning for differentiating ALPSA lesions was superior to the neutral or ABER positioning. The difference of the discriminative lesion detection ability was statistically significant (P <.01) only for detecting ALPSA lesions in the ADIR position. MR arthrography in the ADIR position provides high accuracy for the diagnosis of ALPSA lesions, and complements routine MR arthrography when used to diagnose labroligamentous lesions in patients with recurrent shoulder dislocations."}
{"id": "16307290", "title": "A study for evaluating the effect of the deltoid-flap repair in massive rotator cuff defects.", "content": "A study for evaluating the effect of the deltoid-flap repair in massive rotator cuff defects. The repair of massive cuff defects by direct suture often is impossible. In these cases, a repair by musculo-tendineous flaps (latissimus-dorsi, pectoralis or deltoideus) is required. It was the goal of this study to evaluate the result of delta-flap repair in case of massive cuff defects with a diameter of 5 cm or more. Between 1998 and 2000 for all patients who were suffering from a massive rotator cuff tear more than 5 cm a deltoid transfer was performed. A total of 20 patients (14 male, 6 female; age: 60.9+/-8.7 years) were available for a follow-up after 47.2+/-8.0 (range, 36 to 60) month. The operation included an arthroscopic evaluation, acromioplasty with resection of the lateral clavicular end, and biceps tenodesis. The cuff defect was repaired by transfer a muscular flap from the anterior part of the deltoid (about 2 x 6 cm) into the defect. The patients subjectively rated their result-10 excellent, 9 good, and 1 poor. Preoperatively, the Constant amounted 26.3+/-5.1 points. At follow-up, the score significantly increased to 74.5+/-8.5 points. The acromiohumeral distance increased from 4.9+/-1.1 to 9.2+/-1.7 mm. In MRI examination of 11 patients all had an intact flap. Two complications (a wound hematoma and a deep infection) did not influence the result. The repair of massive rotator cuff tears by a deltoid transfer produces acceptable clinical and radiological results."}
{"id": "16303877", "title": "Glenohumeral range of motion deficits and posterior shoulder tightness in throwers with pathologic internal impingement.", "content": "Glenohumeral range of motion deficits and posterior shoulder tightness in throwers with pathologic internal impingement. Alterations in glenohumeral range of motion, including increased posterior shoulder tightness and glenohumeral internal rotation deficit that exceeds the accompanying external rotation gain, are suggested contributors to throwing-related shoulder injuries such as pathologic internal impingement. Yet these contributors have not been identified in throwers with internal impingement. Throwers with pathologic internal impingement will exhibit significantly increased posterior shoulder tightness and glenohumeral internal rotation deficit without significantly increased external rotation gain. Case control study; Level of evidence, 3. Eleven throwing athletes with pathologic internal impingement diagnosed using both clinical examination and a magnetic resonance arthrogram were demographically matched with 11 control throwers who had no history of upper extremity injury. Passive glenohumeral internal and external rotation were measured bilaterally with standard goniometry at 90 degrees of humeral abduction and elbow flexion. Bilateral differences in glenohumeral range of motion were used to calculate glenohumeral internal rotation deficit and external rotation gain. Posterior shoulder tightness was quantified as the bilateral difference in passive shoulder horizontal adduction with the scapula retracted and the shoulder at 90 degrees of elevation. Comparisons were made between groups with dependent t tests (P < .05). The throwing athletes with internal impingement demonstrated significantly greater glenohumeral internal rotation deficit (P = .03) and posterior shoulder tightness (P = .03) compared with the control subjects. No significant differences were observed in external rotation gain between groups (P = .16). These findings could indicate that a tightening of the posterior elements of the shoulder (capsule, rotator cuff) may contribute to impingement. The results suggest that management should include stretching to restore flexibility to the posterior shoulder."}
{"id": "16260470", "title": "Repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears in professional baseball players.", "content": "Repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears in professional baseball players. Despite the relative frequency of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears seen in baseball players, full-thickness rotator cuff tears in baseball players are uncommon. Return to competitive baseball is difficult after surgical treatment of a full-thickness rotator cuff tear. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. We evaluated the results of 16 professional baseball players after a mini-open repair of a full-thickness rotator cuff tear. Twelve patients were pitchers with injury to their dominant shoulders. Four patients were position players; 2 had injuries involving their dominant shoulders, and 2 had injuries to their nondominant shoulders. At a mean follow-up of 66.6 months for the pitchers, only 1 player (8%) was able to return to a high competitive level of baseball with no significant shoulder dysfunction after mini-open repair of a full-thickness rotator cuff tear. Of the 2 position players with mini-open repairs of the full-thickness rotator cuff tear of their dominant shoulders, 1 was able to return to professional baseball. Of the 2 position players with mini-open repairs of the full-thickness rotator cuff tear of their nondominant shoulders, both were able to return to professional baseball at the same or higher level. It is very difficult for a professional baseball pitcher to return to a competitive level of pitching after a full-thickness rotator cuff repair with a mini-open approach."}
{"id": "16260468", "title": "Patterns of vascular and anatomical response after rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Patterns of vascular and anatomical response after rotator cuff repair. It has been assumed that a robust vascular response at the tendon to bone interface during rotator cuff repairs is an integral part to the healing process. There are few studies that have explored this in an in-vivo prospective fashion. To prospectively characterize vascular and anatomical patterns in repaired rotator cuff tendons using Power Doppler sonography in a double-blinded fashion. Case control study; Level of evidence, 3. Fifty patients undergoing rotator cuff repair were enrolled: 28 mini-open, 14 open, and 8 arthroscopic repairs; 20 patients were controls. Patients underwent Power Doppler sonography at 6 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months postoperatively. Power Doppler sonography analysis examined 6 areas of the rotator cuff repair: discretely marginated intrasubstance, partial-thickness defects, full-thickness defects, focal thinning of repair, presence of bursal or joint fluid, and location of anchors. A subjective scoring system assessed blood flow in each region. There was a predictable, significant decrease in vascular scores after rotator cuff repair over time. The mean vascular score was 11.6 at 6 weeks, 8.3 at 3 months, 7.0 at 6 months, and 2.4 for controls. There was a significant difference (P < .05) in vascular recruitment scores between each time period, with the most robust flow at the peritendinous region. The lowest vascular score was at the anchor site or cancellous trough. Forty-eight percent of the patients had a rotator cuff repair defect postoperatively. These findings did not correlate with functional assessment and outcome at 6 months. There was no significant difference in vascular scores between the defect and no-defect groups. Mean University of California, Los Angeles; L'Insalata; and American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores at 6 months were 28.6, 86.3, and 81.5, respectively. Thirty-three percent of asymptomatic controls had a rotator cuff tear that averaged 7.6 x 7.1 mm. The robust vascular response dropped with time, which is not seen in asymptomatic shoulders. Nearly half of the patients demonstrated persistent rotator cuff defects after rotator cuff repair that did not correlate with functional outcome and physical findings at 6 months."}
{"id": "16260463", "title": "Allograft reconstruction for massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Allograft reconstruction for massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears. There is currently no widely accepted treatment for massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears. Allograft reconstruction to span the remaining defect in massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears will lead to increased functional results and will demonstrate healing of the allograft on follow-up magnetic resonance imaging studies. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Between 1989 and 2003, 32 patients underwent allograft reconstruction of massive rotator cuff tears. University of California, Los Angeles shoulder scores were compared preoperatively and postoperatively and analyzed using paired Student t tests. In addition, 15 patients underwent postoperative magnetic resonance imaging to evaluate the structural integrity of the allograft reconstruction at the greater tuberosity insertion. Of 32 patients, 28 were available for review at a mean follow-up of 31.3 months; 23 of the 28 patients were satisfied with their outcome. There was 1 postoperative infection and 1 acute allograft rejection. The mean University of California, Los Angeles score increased from 12.1 preoperatively to 26.1 postoperatively (P < .001). All 15 patients evaluated with postoperative magnetic resonance imaging arthrograms demonstrated complete radiographic failure of the allograft rotator cuff reconstruction. Despite radiographic failure, the mean University of California, Los Angeles score increased from 13.2 preoperatively to 28.3 postoperatively in this subset of patients. The functional results of this reconstruction method are similar to those reported for debridement and subacromial decompression alone and are satisfactory, despite magnetic resonance imaging arthrogram evaluation demonstrating failure of the structural integrity of the allograft. Allograft reconstruction carries increased risk of infection and rejection and is technically more difficult than other less expensive treatment options with similar functional results. Therefore, we do not recommend allograft reconstruction of massive and otherwise irreparable rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "16252125", "title": "Reconstruction of massive rotator cuff lesions with a synthetic interposition graft: a prospective study of 41 patients.", "content": "Reconstruction of massive rotator cuff lesions with a synthetic interposition graft: a prospective study of 41 patients. In the present prospective study, we report about our experience with massive rotator cuff tears treated by means of a non-resorbable transosseously fixated patch combined with subacromial decompression. Forty-one patients were followed clinically and radiographically for a mean duration of 43 months. Their mean preoperative Constant and Murley score improved (P<0.001) from 25.7 preoperatively to 72.1 postoperatively. Substantial pain relief and improvement in the performance of activities of daily living were obtained. Anatomically, the repair resulted in a mean acromiohumeral interval of 8.6 mm. At the latest follow-up, three patients presented with a new tear between the inserted mesh and the supraspinatus musculotendinous unit. Reoperations were not performed. For short-term periods, restoring a massive rotator cuff tendon defect with synthetic grafts combined with subacromial decompression can give significant pain relief and improvement of range of motion and strength with few complications."}
{"id": "16242971", "title": "Distal femoral intercondylar notch dimensions and their relationship to composition and metabolism of the canine anterior cruciate ligament.", "content": "Distal femoral intercondylar notch dimensions and their relationship to composition and metabolism of the canine anterior cruciate ligament. To determine the relationship between the dimensions of the distal femoral intercondylar notch (ICN) and the composition and metabolism of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) in three dog breeds with different relevant risks to ligament rupture and subsequent osteoarthritis (OA). ICN measurements were obtained from the femurs of Golden Retrievers (high risk), Labrador Retrievers (high risk) and Greyhounds (low risk). Femoral condyle width and height, ICN height and width indices, and notch shape index were measured using Vernier callipers in all dogs. Intact ACLs were obtained from the same dog breeds for a study of the impinged areas and were analysed for collagen content, collagen cross-links, and sulphated glycosaminoglycan (GAG) content, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 and the tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs)-1 and -2. Femoral condyle width and height and ICN width indices were significantly greater in the low risk compared to the high risk breeds (P<0.01 for all parameters). In contrast, the pro (P=0.003) and active (P=0.007) forms of MMP-2 and sulphated GAGs (P=0.0002) were significantly greater in the impinged areas of the ACLs of the rupture predisposed breeds. Impingement by the ICN on the ACLs of the high risk breeds may result in increased collagen remodelling and increased sulphated GAG deposition, causing reduced structural integrity of the ligament. Altered ACL composition may predispose the ligament to increased laxity leading to joint degeneration and OA. This may have a comparative implication for pathogenesis of ACL rupture in humans."}
{"id": "16219944", "title": "An evaluation of the provocative tests for superior labral anterior posterior lesions.", "content": "An evaluation of the provocative tests for superior labral anterior posterior lesions. Although our understanding of superior labral anterior posterior lesions has grown, the physical diagnosis remains imperfect. Cohort study (diagnostic); Level of evidence, 2. To determine the most effective provocative maneuver with which to diagnose superior labral anterior posterior lesions. A series of 132 consecutive patients scheduled to undergo diagnostic shoulder arthroscopy were examined preoperatively over a 6-month period, and the final diagnosis in each case was made arthroscopically. The following assessments were included: active compression (O'Brien), anterior slide, pain provocation, crank, Jobe relocation, Hawkins, Neer, Speed, and Yergason tests. The most sensitive diagnostic tools for type II superior labral lesions were the active compression, Hawkins, Speed, Neer, and Jobe relocation tests. When type I and type II lesions were combined, the results were similar. However, none of the sensitive tests were specific for either type I or type II lesions. The authors' results contradict the current literature regarding provocative testing for both stable and unstable superior labral lesions. There is no single maneuver that can accurately diagnose superior labral anterior posterior lesions; arthroscopy remains the standard by which to diagnose such lesions."}
{"id": "16219939", "title": "Are pain location and physical examinations useful in locating a tear site of the rotator cuff?", "content": "Are pain location and physical examinations useful in locating a tear site of the rotator cuff? Pain is the most common symptom of patients with rotator cuff tendinopathy, but little is known about the relationship between the site of pain and the site of cuff pathologic lesions. Also, accuracies of physical examinations used to locate a tear by assessing the muscle strength seem to be affected by the threshold for muscle weakness, but no studies have been reported regarding the efficacies of physical examinations in reference to their threshold. Pain location is useful in locating a tear site. Efficacies of physical examinations to evaluate the function of the cuff muscles depend on the threshold for muscle weakness. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. The authors retrospectively reviewed the clinical charts of 160 shoulders of 149 patients (mean age, 53 years) with either rotator cuff tears (140 shoulders) or cuff tendinitis (20 shoulders). The location of pain was recorded on a standardized form with 6 different areas. The diagnostic accuracies of the following tests were assessed with various thresholds for muscle weakness: supraspinatus test, the external rotation strength test, and the lift-off test. Lateral and anterior portions of the shoulder were the most common sites of pain regardless of existence of tear or tear location. The supraspinatus test was most accurate when it was assessed to have positive results with the muscle strength less than manual muscle testing grade 5, whereas the lift-off test was most accurate with a threshold less than grade 3. The external rotation strength test was most accurate with a threshold of less than grade 4+. The authors conclude that pain location is not useful in locating the site of a tear, whereas the physical examinations aiming to locate the tear site are clinically useful when assessed to have positive results with appropriate threshold for muscle weakness."}
{"id": "16170042", "title": "The transverse humeral ligament: a separate anatomical structure or a continuation of the osseous attachment of the rotator cuff?", "content": "The transverse humeral ligament: a separate anatomical structure or a continuation of the osseous attachment of the rotator cuff? No study to date has isolated the anatomical nature of the transverse humeral ligament and its relationship to the biceps tendon and the anterosuperior portion of the rotator cuff. There is no separate identifiable transverse humeral ligament, but rather the fibers covering the intertubercular groove are composed of a sling formed by fibers from the subscapularis and supraspinatus tendons. Descriptive laboratory study. A total of 14 shoulder examinations were performed on 7 matched pairs of fresh-frozen cadaveric shoulders. Magnetic resonance imaging scans were performed, followed by gross and microscopic anatomical dissection. In the location of the transverse humeral ligament, magnetic resonance imaging and gross dissection revealed the continuation of superficial fibers of the subscapularis tendon from the tendon body across the intertubercular groove to attach to the greater tuberosity, whereas deeper fibers of the subscapularis tendon inserted on the lesser tuberosity. Longitudinal fibers of the supraspinatus tendon and the coracohumeral ligament were also noted to travel the length of the groove, deep to the other interdigitating fibers but superficial to the biceps tendon. Histologic studies confirmed these gross dissection patterns of fiber attachment and also revealed the absence of elastin fibers, which are more commonly seen in ligamentous structures and are typically absent from tendinous structures. There is no identifiable transverse humeral ligament, but rather the fibers covering the intertubercular groove are composed of a sling formed mainly by the fibers of the subscapularis tendon, with contributions from the supraspinatus tendon and the coracohumeral ligament. According to our findings, dislocations of the long head of the biceps must disrupt at least the deep fibers of the annular sling created mainly by the subscapularis tendon insertion. This finding provides anatomical support for the findings of a positive biceps tendon subluxation or dislocation and subscapularis tear during glenohumeral arthroscopy with a normal-appearing subscapularis during open surgery or subacromial arthroscopy."}
{"id": "16163559", "title": "The effect of isolated labrum resection on shoulder stability.", "content": "The effect of isolated labrum resection on shoulder stability. The present study was initiated to determine whether glenohumeral instability and dislocation can result from isolated lesions of the glenoid labrum in an arthroscopic cadaver model. Adjacent combinations of four zones of the labrum (superior, anterosuperior, anteroinferior and inferior) were sequentially removed with a motorised shaver, taking great care to leave the capsule intact in 24 cadaver shoulders. Stability was tested before and after inserting the scope and after each resection step. Inferior stability was examined by performing an inferior drawer test. Anterior stability was evaluated with an anteroposterior drawer test in 0 degrees of abduction and with a load-and-shift test in external rotation and 90 degrees abduction. Labral resection of all four zones maximally resulted in a grade 1 inferior instability (<10 mm inferior translation). When two adjacent labral zones were resected, a grade 2 anterior drawer (>10 mm anterior but no medial translation) was seen in 17% of the specimens. This was seen in one more specimen after the addition of a third zone. There were no differences in the stability of the load-and-shift test after any amount of labral resection. Total labral debridement increased inferior and anterior translation, but did not allow the humeral head to dislocate. The degree of stability in the cocked-arm position, which is the most prone to dislocation, is not altered. In patients, isolated labral tears, that is, without evidence of capsuloligamentous damage, can probably be safely debrided without risking glenohumeral instability to the point of dislocation. Nevertheless, anterior translation may significantly increase when two or more zones are resected."}
{"id": "16151824", "title": "Incidence of rotator cuff tears in shoulder dislocations and results of therapy in older patients.", "content": "Incidence of rotator cuff tears in shoulder dislocations and results of therapy in older patients. In older patients we documented the incidence of additional injuries in shoulder dislocations in a non-randomised, prospective study and compared the results of conservative and of operative therapy of rotator cuff tears. Between 1993 and 1999 a total of 87 patients were prospectively enrolled. In the case of documented tears of the rotator cuff in combination with symptoms persisting after conservative therapy patients were free to decide between surgical and conservative treatment. Patients were monitored for function, subjective stability, and satisfaction over a minimum follow-up period of 1 year. In 54% of the patients enrolled a cuff tear was documented; the frequency increased with advancing age to 100% in patients over the age of 70. Surgical treatment of the cuff tears resulted in better function and satisfaction. There were three recurrences in the conservative treatment group, while no recurrences were documented in surgically treated patients. The significant benefit of cuff repair was confirmed by regression analysis. In this selected patient group, we believe surgical repair of the symptomatic rotator cuff tear should be discussed with the patient."}
{"id": "16143872", "title": "Arthroscopic single-stranded semitendinosus tendon- versus PDS-augmentation of reinserted acute femoral anterior cruciate ligament tears: 7 year follow-up study.", "content": "Arthroscopic single-stranded semitendinosus tendon- versus PDS-augmentation of reinserted acute femoral anterior cruciate ligament tears: 7 year follow-up study. This study reviews the long-term results of acute complete femoral tears or combined femoral (2/3 of the ligament diameter) /interstitial tears of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) that were reinserted. Out of 27 patients, 11 were treated with reinsertion plus augmentation with single-stranded semitendinosus tendon, 16 patients had a reinsertion and augmentation with a double-stranded PDS-band. Operation was carried out 10 (2-42) days after trauma. A brace was applied for 12 weeks, full weight bearing was allowed after 6 weeks according to our standard rehabilitation protocol. Twenty two patients (81%) could be reevaluated after a mean follow-up time of 7 years 1 month (range 3 years 8 months -11 years 5 months). No statistically significant difference was found between both techniques concerning patient's satisfaction and subjective evaluation of knee function, OAK-scores (semitendinosus-augmentation: 96 point, SD 2.0 PDS-augmentation: 94 points, SD 5.1) and IKDC-scores. Only in the PDS-augmentation group a statistically significant decrease was found in the level of activity in sports (P=0.046). At follow-up, radiological evaluation of the anterior drawer test was performed. In the group of patients who had undergone semitendinosus augmentation (n=9), anterior displacement of the tibia (determined radiologically using the TELOS-device) of 0-2 mm was found in five patients, displacement of 3-5 mm was seen in three cases and displacement of 6-10 mm in one patient (average 2.7 mm). Patients treated with PDS-augmentation (n=13) showed anterior tibial displacement of 0-2 mm in five cases, 3-5 mm in five cases, and 6-10 mm in two knees (average 3.6 mm). One patient of this group underwent ACL-reconstruction 6 years after reinsertion because of recurrent instability. At follow up, flexion was limited to less than 135 degrees in three patients (12.5%). One patient who had undergone semitendinosus augmentation and three patients from the PDS-augmentation group developed a cyclops syndrome and intraarticular adhesions that were treated arthroscopically 6 to 18 month after reinsertion surgery. A tendency towards a higher rate of limitation in range of motion was found for the PDS augmentation group. The reinsertion of a femoral torn ACL plus augmentation with a single strand of semitendinosus tendon or a PDS-band leads to acceptable results, an aggressive rehabilitation protocol may help to decrease the rate of limitation of flexion."}
{"id": "16133443", "title": "Intra-articular volume assessment in glenohumeral instability.", "content": "Intra-articular volume assessment in glenohumeral instability. It is commonly claimed that instability of the shoulder is associated with an enlarged joint volume. The purpose of our study was to assess the intra-articular volume in acute and chronic glenohumeral dislocation. Sixty-seven patients were examined by intra-articular infusion of saline solution. Three groups could be formed. Group 1 (n = 51) consisted of patients with first time traumatic dislocation, group 2 (n = 8) of cases with recurrent post-traumatic dislocation. The patients of group 3 (n = 8) suffered from impingement syndrome and served as the control group. The joint volume was correlated to the body surface area (BSA). We found a strong correlation between height, sex and intra-articular joint volume. There was no statistically significant difference in joint volume correlated to BSA between the three groups. There is no statistically significant difference in joint volume correlated to BSA in patients with traumatic anterior instability, chronic instability and individuals without glenohumeral instability."}
{"id": "16091920", "title": "Is intraarticular sodium hyaluronate injection an alternative treatment in patients with adhesive capsulitis?", "content": "Is intraarticular sodium hyaluronate injection an alternative treatment in patients with adhesive capsulitis? The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of sodium hyaluronate (SH) injection with the most common treatment methods, intraarticular steroid injection and physical therapy modalities in patients with adhesive capsulitis (AC). A total of 95 shoulders of 90 patients were included in the study and were randomized in four groups. The patients were treated with SH injection (group 1), triamsinolone acetonide (group 2) or physical therapy modalities (group 3). Group 4 patients were served as controls. Pain severity, passive ranges of motion and functional considerations were measured before, and 15 days and 3 months after the treatments. In all treatment groups, there were significant improvements at both the 15th day and third month in all parameters (for each, p<0.001). The passive abduction values on the 15th day was found significantly higher in group 3 when compared with group 1 and controls (for each, p<0.001). At the third month, the passive abduction values of the groups 2 and 3 were improved when compared with the control group (p<0.001). Constant score was higher in group 3 on 15th day when compared with group 1. At the third month, all treatment groups were improved significantly compared with control group (p<0.001). We provided the best results in physical therapy modalities applied group for AC treatment. However, we think that SH injection may be administered as an alternative treatment method."}
{"id": "16047149", "title": "Variants of the superior labrum and labro-bicipital complex: a comparative study of shoulder specimens using MR arthrography, multi-slice CT arthrography and anatomical dissection.", "content": "Variants of the superior labrum and labro-bicipital complex: a comparative study of shoulder specimens using MR arthrography, multi-slice CT arthrography and anatomical dissection. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the anatomical variability of the superior labrum and to compare the value of MR arthrography and multi-slice CT arthrography in the diagnosis of variants of the labro-bicipital complex. Forty-three human shoulder specimens (age range and mean age at death, 61-89 years and 78.3 years) were examined with the use of MR arthrography and multi-slice CT arthrography prior to joint exploration and macroscopic inspection of the superior labrum and labro-bicipital complex. Two radiologists evaluated MR and CT arthrograms, and the results were compared with macroscopic assessments. Anatomical dissection of all shoulder specimens revealed a sublabral recess in 32/43 (74%) cases. The attachment of the superior labrum was categorised as type 1 in ten (23%) cases, as type 2 in eight (19%), as type 3 in ten (23%), and as type 4 in 14 (33%) cases. One superior labrum showed detachment consistent with a superior labral anteroposterior (SLAP) type 3 lesion. On MR arthrography and CT arthrography the attachment of the superior labrum was categorised in concordance with macroscopic assessments in 79% and 84% of cases, respectively. The anteroposterior extension of sublabral recesses was accurately determined with MR and CT arthrography in 59% and 81% of cases, respectively. The attachment of the superior labrum shows considerable variability. Thus, exact depiction of variants is essential in order to avoid the false positive diagnosis of a superior labral tear (SLAP or Andrews lesion). Both, MR arthrography and multi-slice CT arthrography were effective in the detection and classification of sublabral recesses."}
{"id": "15978598", "title": "Glenohumeral elevation-dependent influence of anterior glenohumeral capsular lesions on passive axial humeral rotation.", "content": "Glenohumeral elevation-dependent influence of anterior glenohumeral capsular lesions on passive axial humeral rotation. The purpose of this study was to assess the effect of standardized anterior glenohumeral capsular lesions on axial humeral rotation in a full arc of glenohumeral elevation. Using a testing apparatus, the range of internal and external humeral rotation was assessed in an arc of glenohumeral elevation in the scapular plane with steps of 15 degrees in six isolated shoulder joint specimens. Cutting of the glenohumeral joint capsule 1 cm laterally from, and parallel to the glenoid rim was performed in seven steps of 1 cm till the anterior capsule was cut. Capsular lesions were made in three ways: from inferior, from superior and from the middle of the capsule. Anterior capsular lesions resulted in significant increase of external humeral rotation. This occurred particularly at 15-60 degrees glenohumeral elevation. Lesions of the inferior part of the capsule mainly increased external rotation at 30-60 degrees glenohumeral elevation, lesions of the superior part mainly in lower elevation angles and lesions of the middle more gradually in the range till 60 degrees of glenohumeral elevation. Cutting of the anterior glenohumeral capsule barely increased passive axial humeral rotation at elevation angles over 60 degrees. Above 60 degrees glenohumeral elevation, tightening of the inferior posterior glenohumeral joint capsule prevented both internal and, increasingly, external humeral rotation. From these observations it is concluded that increased external rotation correlates with progressive anterior capsular lesions, mainly below 60 degrees glenohumeral elevation. To assess anterior glenohumeral capsular lesions in patients, axial humeral rotation tests should probably not exceed 60 degrees glenohumeral elevation, i.e. 90 degrees thoracohumeral elevation."}
{"id": "15877219", "title": "Eccentric training in chronic painful impingement syndrome of the shoulder: results of a pilot study.", "content": "Eccentric training in chronic painful impingement syndrome of the shoulder: results of a pilot study. Treatment with painful eccentric muscle training has been demonstrated to give good clinical results in patients with chronic Achilles tendinosis. The pain mechanisms in chronic painful shoulder impingement syndrome have not been scientifically clarified, but the histological changes found in the supraspinatus tendon have similarities with the findings in Achilles tendinosis. In this pilot study, nine patients (five females and four males, mean age 54 years) with a long duration of shoulder pain (mean 41 months), diagnosed as having shoulder impingement syndrome and on the waiting list for surgical treatment (mean 13 months), were included. Patients with arthrosis in the acromio-clavicular joint or with large calcifications causing mechanical impingement during horizontal shoulder abduction were not included. We prospectively studied the effects of a specially designed painful eccentric training programme for the supraspintus and deltoideus muscles (3 x 15 reps, 2 times/day, 7 days/week, for 12 weeks). The patients evaluated the amount of shoulder pain during horizontal shoulder activity on a visual analogue scale (VAS), and satisfaction with treatment. Constant score was assessed. After 12 weeks of treatment, five patients were satisfied with treatment, their mean VAS had decreased (62-18, P<0.05), and their mean Constant score had increased (65-80, P<0.05). At 52-week follow-up, the same five patients were still satisfied (had withdrawn from the waiting list for surgery), and their mean VAS and Constant score were 31 and 81, respectively. Among the satisfied patients, two had a partial suprasinatus tendon rupture, and three had a Type 3 shaped acromion. In conclusion, the material in this study is small and the follow-up is short, but it seems that although there is a long duration of pain, together with bone and tendon abnormalities, painful eccentric supraspinatus and deltoideus training might be effective. The findings motivate further studies."}
{"id": "15864548", "title": "Open Bankart repair with suture anchors for traumatic recurrent anterior shoulder instability: comparison of results between small and large Bankart lesions.", "content": "Open Bankart repair with suture anchors for traumatic recurrent anterior shoulder instability: comparison of results between small and large Bankart lesions. This retrospective study was to demonstrate the clinical outcome of open Bankart repair with suture anchors for recurrent anterior shoulder instability, and to compare surgical results of small (<3 clock units) and large (>3 clock units) Bankart lesions. With an average follow-up of 55.6 months (2-8 years), there were 82 patients (60 right, 22 left shoulders) with the mean age of 27 years accepting open Bankart repair with suture anchors and capsular shift procedure by the same team. According to surgical findings, these patients were grouped into small (<3 clock units) and large (>3 clock units) Bankart lesions. Subjective outcomes were recorded according to the Bankart scoring system of Rowe. Rowe scores averaged 85.9+/-12.9 (range 25-100). The patients, 92-7 %, had objectively excellent or good results. Twenty nine patients (35.4%) had small Bankart lesions and 53 patients had large Bankart lesions. The Rowe scores in small Bankart lesions were better than that in large Bankart lesions (93.5+/-6.8 vs. 81.8+/-13.6, Wilcoxon rank sum test, P<0.001). Mean scores of stability (Wilcoxon rank sum test, P=0.043), motion (Wilcoxon rank sum test, P=0.037), and function (Wilcoxon rank sum test, P<0.001) in small lesions also had superior outcomes than in large lesions. Four patients (4.9%) got fair results and two (2.4%) patients got poor results at the end of follow-up. The average loss of external rotation is 10 degrees . Open Bankart repair with the aid of suture anchors still got satisfactory results in the treatment of traumatic recurrent anterior instability of the shoulder. The size of the Bankart lesion was a factor affecting surgical outcome. Small Bankart lesions usually got better results than large Bankart lesions."}
{"id": "16536210", "title": "Posterior capsulorrhaphy for treatment of recurrent posterior glenohumeral instability.", "content": "Posterior capsulorrhaphy for treatment of recurrent posterior glenohumeral instability. The surgical treatment of recurrent posterior shoulder instability via a posterior approach has had a variable degree of success reported in the literature with recurrence rates ranging between 8% and 45%. The purpose of this study was to review the results of posterior capsulorrhaphy in a consecutive series of patients with recurrent posterior instability. Seventeen consecutive patients underwent operative management for posterior glenohumeral instability. The dominant shoulder was involved in ten patients. All patients were male with an average age of 28.1 years (range: 16 to 54 years). Ten patients had sustained a specific injury which precipitated the instability. Six patients reported dislocations requiring formal closed reduction maneuvers; the remainder described episodes of recurrent subluxation with spontaneous reduction. All patients underwent a posterior capsulorrhaphy using an infraspinatus splitting approach. Eight shoulders required repair of a posterior capsulolabral detachment. In addition, one patient required augmentation with a posterior bone block for significant glenoid rim deficiency. Outcome was assessed by personal interview, clinical assessment, and standardized radiographs. At an average follow-up of 3.9 years (range: 1.8 to 10.8 years) patients estimated their overall shoulder function to be 81% of the contralateral unaffected shoulder. The subjective result was excellent for eight patients, good for five patients, fair in two patients, and poor in two patients. One of the poor outcomes was in a patient with glenohumeral degenerative changes at the index procedure which progressed and eventually required a total shoulder arthroplasty. The other poor result was in a patient found to have a full-thickness rotator cuff tear 10.6 years after the index procedure. Two patients (12%) had recurrence of their instability. Both of these patients sustained a significant re-injury which precipitated their symptoms. Five patients complained of occasional night pain at the time of their last follow-up examination. Only one patient (who was re-injured) had to change professions as a result of shoulder symptoms. Posterior capsulorrhaphy for treatment of isolated posterior glenohumeral instability yields satisfactory clinical results. Recurrent instability in this series was associated with a specific re-injury and did not appear to increase with longer follow-up."}
{"id": "16459867", "title": "Rotator cuff impingement due to enchondroma of the acromion.", "content": "Rotator cuff impingement due to enchondroma of the acromion. We report the case of a patient with a long standing clinical history of subacromial impingement, in which plain radiographs and CT-scan revealed a well-circumscribed lucent lesion expanding the undersurface of the acromion. MRI showed the subacromial fat to be completely obliterated and the infraspinatus tendon deformed due to compression by a mass localised at the acromion. The acromial lesion was curetted, and histopathologic analysis was consistent with the diagnosis of enchondroma. Tumours located in the coracoacromial arch have been very rarely reported as a cause of subacromial impingement. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first description of subacromial impingement secondary to acromial enchondroma."}
{"id": "16459855", "title": "Treatment of irreparable rotator cuff tears by latissimus dorsi muscle transfer.", "content": "Treatment of irreparable rotator cuff tears by latissimus dorsi muscle transfer. In this retrospective study, a latissimus dorsi transfer as first described by Gerber in 1988 was performed in 12 patients with massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears. Their average age was 59 years and the preliminary results are reported here after an average follow-up of 39 months. In 50% of the patients there was no pain and 41% had mild to moderate pain at follow-up. Functional Constant scoring was excellent in 42%, good in 8%, moderate in 42% and poor in 8%. Active range of motion in the shoulder improved significantly in external rotation and abduction. Abduction force as measured with Atlantech and Cybex systems showed weak results. In two patients these tests could not be performed due to lack of force, in 9 patients abduction force was much weaker than on the contralateral side and in one patient the operated arm was stronger than the other side. We conclude that in most patients good pain relief and functional improvement can be achieved after latissimus dorsi transfer for irreparable rotator cuff tear. A good active range of motion can be expected but a lack of force persists. However, it remains difficult to conclude for which patients this surgery can be predictably successful."}
{"id": "16459854", "title": "Outcome of open rotator cuff repair. An analysis of risk factors.", "content": "Outcome of open rotator cuff repair. An analysis of risk factors. The aim of this study was to evaluate the long-term functional outcome of full thickness rotator cuff tears treated by open repair and acromioplasty and to determine various factors affecting the outcome. This is a prospective clinical study on 42 patients who underwent full thickness rotator-cuff repair by a single surgeon between 2000 and 2003. The mean follow-up was 26 months. In patients with massive rotator cuff tear (n = 15), increase in the mean postoperative Constant score was significantly less compared to patients with small and moderate tears (p < 0.01). In patients older than sixty years, the improvement in postoperative Constant score was significantly less compared to the rest of the patients (p < 0.001). However, the postoperative Constant score significantly improved from the preoperative score in all patient groups (p < 0.0001). There was a significant negative correlation with size of cuff tear, age of the patient and Constant-Murley score (p < 0.05). Body mass index, smoking, gender, and the duration of symptoms did not have a significant effect on either Constant-Murley score or visual analogue score. We conclude that older patients and those with massive rotator cuff tear could benefit from surgical intervention, although not as much as younger patients and those with small/moderate size cuff tears."}
{"id": "16450690", "title": "Persistent shoulder pain: epidemiology, pathophysiology, and diagnosis.", "content": "Persistent shoulder pain: epidemiology, pathophysiology, and diagnosis. Persistent shoulder pain is a very common condition that often has a multifactorial underlying pathology and is associated with high societal cost and patient burden. In 2000, the direct costs for the treatment of shoulder dysfunction in the United States totaled $7 billion. Persistent shoulder pain can result from bursitis, tendinitis, rotator cuff tear, adhesive capsulitis, impingement syndrome, avascular necrosis, glenohumeral osteoarthritis (OA), and other causes of degenerative joint disease or from traumatic injury, either in combination or as a separate entity. Rotator cuff disorders, adhesive capsulitis, and glenohumeral OA are all common causes of persistent shoulder pain, accounting for about 10%, 6%, and 2% to 5%, respectively, of all shoulder pain. All 3 conditions have complex etiologies, but they can be diagnosed in the majority of patients on the basis of medical history, focused physical examination, and plain film radiographs. This brief review and the following articles in this supplement focus on persistent shoulder pain associated with rotator cuff disorders, adhesive capsulitis, and glenohumeral OA."}
{"id": "16440960", "title": "Incidence of SLAP lesions in a military population.", "content": "Incidence of SLAP lesions in a military population. SLAP (superior labrum anterior and posterior) lesions are a recognised cause of shoulder pain and instability. They can occur following a direct blow, biceps traction and compression injuries, and are commonly seen in overhead athletes. Military personnel are physically active and often subjected to trauma. We assessed the incidence of SLAP lesions within a military population presenting with shoulder symptoms. A retrospective review, of all shoulder arthroscopies performed by a single surgeon between June 2003 and December 2004 at a district general hospital serving both a military and civilian population, was undertaken. The presentation and incidence of SLAP lesions were recorded for both military and civilian patients. One hundred and seventy eight arthroscopies were performed on 70 (39.3%) military and 108 (60.7%) civilian patients. The average age was 42.3 (range 17-75), 50 females and 128 males were included. Indications for arthroscopy included pain (75.3%), instability (15.7%), pain and instability (7.9%), or \"other symptoms\" (1.1%). 39 SLAP lesions (22%) were found and grouped according to the Snyder classification--20.5% type 1, 69.3% type 2, 5.1% type 3, 5.1% type 4. Patients with a history of trauma or symptoms of instability were more likely to have a SLAP lesion (p<0.0001). The incidence of SLAP lesions in the military patients was 38.6% compared to 11.1% in civilian patients (p<0.0001). After allowing for the increased incidence of trauma and instability in the military, SLAP lesions were still more common in the military patients (p<0.001). There is a higher than average incidence of SLAP lesions in military patients compared to civilian patients. They tend to present with a history of trauma, as well as symptoms of pain and instability. Given the high incidence in military personnel, this diagnosis should be considered in military patients presenting with shoulder symptoms, and there should be a low threshold for shoulder arthroscopy."}
{"id": "16437046", "title": "Standard sonography and arthrosonography in the study of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Standard sonography and arthrosonography in the study of rotator cuff tears. The aim of this study was to evaluate the sensitivity of ultrasonography, integrating standard ultrasound and arthrosonography after injecting a saline solution into the glenohumeral cavity in cases of suspected rotator cuff tears. We prospectively examined 40 patients awaiting shoulder arthroscopy for suspected or diagnosed tears of the rotator cuff. A radiologist, unaware of the pre-operative diagnosis, performed an ultrasound scan on all the patients before and after the injection of saline solution into the glenohumeral cavity. The parameters considered were presence or absence of a rotator cuff injury; type of injury according to Snyder and its extent along the longitudinal and transverse planes; presence or absence of effusion into the articular cavity; subacromial/subdeltoid bursal distension. All the patients underwent arthroscopy either the same day or the day after the ultrasound examination. Standard sonography showed 26 complete rotator cuff tears (type C according to Snyder), 2 partial tears (type B according to Snyder) and 12 intact rotator cuffs. Arthrosonography detected 31 complete rotator cuff tears (type C according to Snyder), 1 partial tear (type B according to Snyder) and 8 intact rotator cuffs.Arthroscopy identified 32 complete rotator cuff tears (type C according to Snyder), 1 partial tear (type B according to Snyder) and 8 intact rotator cuffs. Analysis of the results shows that, taking arthroscopy as the gold standard, the sensitivity of normal sonography is 81.2%, whereas that of arthrosonography is 96.8% (p < 0.05). On the basis of the data obtained in this study, standard sonography, integrated with the injection of a saline solution into the glenohumeral cavity, considerably increases the diagnostic sensitivity for rotator cuff tears. The authors suggest that arthrosonography can be used in the event of suspected rotator cuff tears, when MRI is contraindicated."}
{"id": "16422233", "title": "Diagnosis, classification and treatment of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Diagnosis, classification and treatment of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. Partial-thickness rotator cuff tears are a challenge for shoulder surgeons. There is still no standard treatment protocol. The recent introduction of new arthroscopic techniques and a better grasp of pathogenic mechanisms along with a greater functional demand from patients, have led to the need for a thorough analysis of the problem. This paper analyses the literature in order to simplify the approach to treating partial-thickness rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "16392611", "title": "Ultrasonography of the rotator cuff: a comparison with arthroscopy in one-hundred-and-ninety consecutive cases.", "content": "Ultrasonography of the rotator cuff: a comparison with arthroscopy in one-hundred-and-ninety consecutive cases. To evaluate the accuracy of high-resolution ultrasonography compared to arthroscopy in the detection of rotator cuff tears. Preoperative ultrasonography (US) with a 10-MHz commercially available linear-array transducer and a standardized study protocol was performed in 190 consecutive shoulders in 185 patients with a history of shoulder pain for more than 3 months. The findings at US were classified into intact cuff, partial-thickness, and full-thickness rotator cuff tears, and correlated with findings at shoulder arthroscopy. US correctly depicted 118 of 124 rotator cuff tears with sensitivity 95%, specificity 94%, PPV 97%, NPV 91% and accuracy 95%, all 94 full-thickness tears (sensitivity 100%, specificity 91%, PPV 91%, NPV 100%, and accuracy 95%), 24 of 30 partial-thickness tears (sensitivity 80%, specificity 98%, PPV 86%, NPV 96%, and accuracy 95%). US is a highly accurate diagnostic method for detecting full-thickness rotator cuff tears, but is less sensitive in detecting partial-thickness rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "16376230", "title": "Use of preoperative magnetic resonance imaging to predict rotator cuff tear pattern and method of repair.", "content": "Use of preoperative magnetic resonance imaging to predict rotator cuff tear pattern and method of repair. To determine the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) criteria for predicting rotator cuff tear pattern and method of repair. Retrospective MRI/arthroscopy correlation. Sixty-six preoperative MRI scans were evaluated. The maximum medial to lateral length (L) of the tear was measured on T2-weighted coronal cuts. The maximum anterior to posterior width (W) was measured on T2-weighted sagittal cuts. The cases were divided into 3 groups: group 1, short-wide tears, L < or = W, L < 2 cm; group 2, long-narrow tears, L > W, W < 2 cm; and group 3, long-wide tears, L > or = 2 cm, W > or = 2 cm. Of the 66 MRI scans, 55 were adequate for standardized measurement. Group 1, 16 cases: 15 were found at arthroscopy to be crescent-shaped tears repaired end-to-bone; 1 was repaired with interval slides. Group 2, 22 cases: all 22 were repaired side-to-side/margin convergence. Group 3, 17 cases: 12 required interval slides, 1 partial repair was performed, and 4 were repaired side-to-side/margin convergence. Tear pattern and method of repair can be predicted on high-quality MRI scan. Group 1, L < or = W and L < 2 cm, predicts a crescent-shaped tear and end-to-bone repair (positive predictive value, 93.8%). Group 2, L > W and W < 2 cm, predicts a longitudinal tear and side-to-side/margin convergence repair (positive predictive value 100%). Group 3, L > or = 2 cm and W > or = 2 cm, predicts a massive contracted tear and that primary end-to-bone or side-to-side repairs are usually not possible and that interval slides or partial repair may be necessary (positive predictive value, 76.5%). The overall diagnostic model based on usable MRI scans significantly predicted arthroscopic findings (P < .001 for chi-square test). Level III, development of diagnostic criteria with universally applied reference (nonconsecutive patients)."}
{"id": "16376229", "title": "Arthroscopic repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears using bioabsorbable tacks.", "content": "Arthroscopic repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears using bioabsorbable tacks. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical results of bioabsorbable tacks (Suretac; Smith & Nephew Endoscopy, Mansfield, MA) for the arthroscopic repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Prospective case series. A prospective clinical review was performed on 53 patients (38 men, 15 women) with full-thickness rotator cuff tears repaired arthroscopically using bioabsorbable tacks. Minimum follow-up was 24 months and patients were evaluated using preoperative and postoperative American Shoulder and Elbow Society (ASES) scores and Short-Form 36 Health Surveys (SF-36). A Constant and Murley score was performed at a minimum of 2 years postoperatively. The average patient age was 51 years (range, 23 to 74 years) and the average time for review was 29 months (range, 24 to 60 months). The average size of rotator cuff tears measured 2.5 cm (range, 1 to 5 cm) and an average of 2 Suretacs (range, 1 to 4) were used for the repair. Ten patients had tears larger than 3 cm and 5 patients had tears that measured 5 cm or larger. The average total score according to the ASES shoulder index improved from 33 to 85 points. The average score for pain improved from 6.9 to 1.3 points. The score for function improved from 11 to 25 points. These results were statistically significant (P < 0.01). There was a significant improvement in all components of the SF-36 survey. The average postoperative Constant score was 87 with the pain component measuring 12 points, range of movement 38 points, and power 21 points. Arthroscopic repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears using bioabsorbable tacks produces satisfactory outcomes with regard to objective orthopaedic criteria as well as overall patient satisfaction in terms of pain relief and function. Arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs are technically demanding procedures. The use of tacks facilitates this procedure without any apparent deterioration in clinical results. Level IV, case series."}
{"id": "16376228", "title": "Arthroscopic versus mini-open rotator cuff repair: a comparison of clinical outcome.", "content": "Arthroscopic versus mini-open rotator cuff repair: a comparison of clinical outcome. To compare the outcome of patients who underwent rotator cuff repair using all arthroscopic or mini-open repair techniques. Retrospective comparative study. We retrospectively reviewed 54 patients who underwent either mini-open or arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. Twenty-six patients underwent mini-open repair and 28 patients had arthroscopic repair. Follow-up averaged 33 months (range, 18 to 48 months) for the mini-open group and 19 months (range, 13 to 26 months) for the arthroscopic group. The patient groups were similar with regard to age, activity level, mechanisms of injury, associated findings at surgery, and tear size measured in square centimeters. The outcome for the 2 groups was evaluated using a modified American Shoulder and Elbow Society (ASES) score. Statistical analysis was performed using Pearson correlations and the Student t test. The tear size averaged 2.7 cm2 for the mini-open group and 2.0 cm2 for the arthroscopic group (P = .754). All patients showed significant improvement in their scores for pain, satisfaction, and function at the time of follow-up. The average preoperative and postoperative scores for the mini-open group were as follows: pain 17 and 27 (30 possible points), satisfaction 3 and 9 (10 possible points), function 32 and 53 (60 possible points), and total 52 and 89 (100 possible points) (P < .05). For patients who underwent arthroscopic repair, average preoperative and postoperative scores were as follows: pain 12 and 26, satisfaction 2 and 9, function 28 and 51, and total, 42 and 86 (P < .05). Improvement in scores within each group was significant, but the difference in total scores between the 2 techniques was not statistically significant. This study confirms that short-term results for arthroscopic and mini-open rotator cuff repair are similar and supports continued use of arthroscopic repair techniques. Level III, retrospective comparative study."}
{"id": "16369368", "title": "Outcome predictors in nonoperative management of newly diagnosed subacromial impingement syndrome: a longitudinal study.", "content": "Outcome predictors in nonoperative management of newly diagnosed subacromial impingement syndrome: a longitudinal study. This prospective investigation is designed to determine the prognostic factors associated with the response to conservative therapy of subacromial impingement syndrome. We treated 102 patients with subacromial impingement syndrome, diagnosed by physical examination and a subacromial lidocaine injection test, with a standardized conservative protocol. We followed the patients for a period of 12 months. Outcome was evaluated with Constant score and effects of 8 variables: Age, sex, pretreatment symptom duration, dominant shoulder, initial Constant score, active range of motion, acromion morphology, and acromial spur on patient outcomes were evaluated with univariate and multivariate analyses. Among 89 patients (44 men; mean age, 56.4 years) who finished the study, the mean difference between initial and final scores was 15.9 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 13.9-17.8). Three variables, the initial Constant score (b = .52, 95% CI: .28-.76), the duration of disease before treatment (b = -4.4, 95% CI: from -7.2 to -1.6), and acromial morphology (b = -5.3, 95% CI: from -9.8 to -.8) were found to be independent predictors of outcome (model R2 = .68). Patients with more severe disease, a long duration of symptoms, and type II or III acromion may require more invasive therapeutic options as the first intervention."}
{"id": "16363761", "title": "Asymptomatic uterine rupture of a cornual pregnancy in the third trimester: a case report.", "content": "Asymptomatic uterine rupture of a cornual pregnancy in the third trimester: a case report. Reports of cornual pregnancy persisting until fetal viability and of ultrasound diagnosis of asymptomatic uterine rupture are rare. A 24-year-old woman, gravida 6, para 5, presented for initial ultrasound evaluation at 28 5/7 weeks' gestation after registering late for prenatal care. Her history included 2 prior cesarean deliveries. Obstetric ultrasound evaluation revealed a clinically silent uterine rupture with a live fetus. The site of rupture was suspected to be the prior uterine scar. After completion of a course of antenatal corticosteroids, the patient underwent exploratory laparotomy, abdominal delivery of a live, male neonate, hysterectomy and appendectomy. The patient experienced an unremarkable postoperative course and was discharged on postoperative day 4. The infant was discharged on hospital day 83 with chronic lung disease, stage 1 retinopathy of prematurity, atrial septal defect and a right clubfoot; there were no additional findings at the 4-month follow-up. Pathologic examination demonstrated cornual implantation with subsequent uterine rupture. This case demonstrates the importance of maintaining a suspicion for ectopic pregnancy at advanced gestational ages and for uterine rupture even in the absence of symptoms. The case also illustrates that fetal survival can occur in cornual pregnancy."}
{"id": "16356983", "title": "Frozen shoulder.", "content": "Frozen shoulder."}
{"id": "16354329", "title": "T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia: a single-institution experience.", "content": "T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia: a single-institution experience. T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia is an uncommon, aggressive, mature T-cell leukemia characterized by proliferation of T-cell lymphocytes. The recent availability of modern immunophenotypic and molecular tools has allowed a better distinction of this disorder from its B-cell counterpart and other mature T-cell leukemias. The clinical, pathologic, and cytogenetic features of 57 patients with T-PLL who were evaluated at the Department of Leukemia, M. D. Anderson Cancer Center (MDACC) from 1986 to 2004 were examined. The most common cytogenetic abnormality was inv(14)(q11;q32), which was present in 7 patients. In all 7 patients, this abnormality was associated with other chromosomal aberrations. Patients treated with alemtuzumab at MDACC had a significantly better response rate (P = 0.02) and survival rate (P = 0.002). There were no significant differences in survival based on Tcl-1 expression or different patterns of CD4 and CD8 expression. Treatment with alemtuzumab results in higher response rates and a better survival rate in patients with T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia."}
{"id": "16342083", "title": "Preliminary results of integrated therapy for patients with knee osteoarthritis.", "content": "Preliminary results of integrated therapy for patients with knee osteoarthritis. To investigate the effects of integrated therapy on the functional status of patients with knee osteoarthritis (OA). A total of 140 subjects with bilateral knee OA (Altman grade II) were randomized sequentially into 4 groups (groups I-IV). Group I received isokinetic exercises; group II received isokinetic exercise and pulse ultrasound for periarticular soft tissue pain; group III received isokinetic exercise, pulse ultrasound, and intraarticular hyaluronan therapy; and group IV acted as the control group. The therapeutic effects of the interventions were evaluated by changes in Lequesne's index, knee range of motion, peak muscle torques of knee flexion and extension, and ambulation speed after 8 weeks of treatment and at followup 1 year later. In addition, changes in visual analog scale pain and rates of attrition in each group were also recorded. Patients in groups I-III exhibited increased muscle peak torques and significantly reduced pain and disability after treatment and at followup. Groups II and III showed significant improvements in range of motion and ambulation speed after treatment. Group III also showed the greatest increase in walking speed and decrease in disability after treatment and at followup. Both group II and group III had significant gains in muscular strength after treatment and at followup; group III showed the greatest gains. An integrated therapy deals with the extra- and intraarticular progressive pathologic changes, and kinesiologic management of OA is suggested for the management of knee OA."}
{"id": "16337532", "title": "Volume changes of supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles after supraspinatus tendon repair: a magnetic resonance imaging study.", "content": "Volume changes of supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles after supraspinatus tendon repair: a magnetic resonance imaging study. Muscle volume was measured, by use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), as a direct indicator of functional recovery of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles after supraspinatus tendon repair, because atrophy of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles was observed in all patients with a torn supraspinatus tendon. Seventy-three patients who had a cuff tear limited only to the supraspinatus tendon were included in this study. The University of California, Los Angeles score improved significantly after surgery. MRI was carried out before surgery and 6, 12, and 24 months postoperatively in all patients. Muscle volume of the supraspinatus was assessed on images of the oblique coronal plane, and that of the infraspinatus was assessed on images of the axial plane. The width of the supraspinatus muscle did not recover until 6 months postoperatively. Direct measurement of the infraspinatus muscle volume by use of MRI can be a good indicator when evaluating whether the repaired rotator cuffs are actually functioning."}
{"id": "16337530", "title": "The dimensions of the rotator interval.", "content": "The dimensions of the rotator interval. The purpose of this study was to define the anatomy and dimensions of the rotator interval (RI). Thirty-two fresh-frozen cadaveric shoulders were thawed, all external musculature was removed, and coracoid osteotomy was performed to visualize the rotator cuff and RI. The 3 sides of the RI (triangle) were measured in dynamic glenohumeral positions (neutral and 45 degrees external and internal rotation). An arthroscopic posterior portal, without fluid distention, was used to visualize the RI, defects, and glenohumeral pathology. The RI was sectioned, and histologic analysis and thickness measurements were performed. The mean area of the RI was 414.46 mm(2) (95% confidence interval, 362.66-466.22 mm(2)), measured in neutral position. No statistically significant differences were measured between paired right and left shoulders; however, male specimens had a significantly larger base and area than the female specimens. The dimensions of the RI changed with glenohumeral motion. The RI is definable and dynamic with glenohumeral motion. The RI closes down with internal rotation and is opened up with external rotation. This change in the interval supports the idea that, if the arm is held in internal rotation during imbrication of the capsule, overtightening and a resulting loss of external rotation can occur."}
{"id": "16337525", "title": "Acromial spur: relationship to aging and morphologic changes in the rotator cuff.", "content": "Acromial spur: relationship to aging and morphologic changes in the rotator cuff. This study's objective is to elucidate the relationship between acromial spur formation and rotator cuff pathology or aging. The subjects comprised 1029 shoulders in control, cadaveric, and operative groups. A radiograph in the supraspinatus outlet view was taken in all subjects. The lengths of the incident spurs were measured and classified into 3 sizes (small, <5 mm; medium, <10 mm; and large, > or =10 mm). The rotator cuff was macroscopically classified as normal or as having bursal-side fraying, joint-side tear, intratendinous tear, bursal-side tear, complete tear limited to the supraspinatus tendon, or massive tear. In the control group, the overall incidence of spurs and spur size increased with advancing age (P < .001), but the majority of spurs were small (<5 mm). In the cadaveric group, the overall incidence did not correlate with advancing age (P > .05). However, spur size increased with age in subjects aged 50 years or older (P < .001). The incidence of spurs in rotator cuffs with bursal-side tears was highest and was significantly higher than that in normal cuffs and cuffs with bursal-side fraying and intratendinous tears. We observed 40% of medium spurs and 69% of large spurs in cases with bursal-side tears, complete tears limited to the supraspinatus tendon, and massive tears. In the operative group, the overall incidence correlated to advancing age (P < .001), reaching 80% or more in subjects aged 30 years or older. In addition, the size of spurs was larger than that in the other 2 groups in all age groups with few exceptions (P < .05). Small spurs were associated with advancing age. Morphologic change to the bursal side of the rotator cuff may enhance spur growth. The presence of a small spur has no diagnostic value for rotator cuff tears. Spurs measuring 5 mm or more, however, are of diagnostic value because of their high rate of association with bursal-side tear, complete tears limited to the supraspinatus tendon, or massive tears."}
{"id": "16337524", "title": "Outcome of glenoid neck fractures.", "content": "Outcome of glenoid neck fractures. The aim of this study was to analyze the outcome of extraarticular glenoid neck fractures with respect to glenoid neck malunion and rotator cuff injury. These fractures are often considered to have a favorable outcome if treated conservatively. More recent studies reveal that the outcome is not uniformly good, but the cause of poor outcomes has not been investigated. Our study identified 9 patients who had sustained a glenoid neck fracture of the scapula within the last 10 years and who were treated conservatively with immobilization and then early active motion. Their functional and anatomic outcomes were analyzed by clinical examination and validated scoring systems, including the Oxford questionnaire and Constant score. Plain radiography and magnetic resonance imaging were correlated to outcome. None of the 9 patients were pain-free, and some had poor Oxford and Constant scores. Pain was associated with glenoid neck malunion and evidence of subacromial bursitis or rotator cuff tendinopathy (or both)."}
{"id": "16337522", "title": "Quantifying shoulder rotation weakness in patients with shoulder impingement.", "content": "Quantifying shoulder rotation weakness in patients with shoulder impingement. The purpose of this study was to determine whether strength deficits could be detected in individuals with and without shoulder impingement, all of whom had normal shoulder strength bilaterally according to grading of manual muscle testing. Strength of the internal rotators and external rotators was tested isokinetically at 60 degrees /s and 180 degrees /s, as well as manually with a handheld dynamometer (HHD) in 17 patients and 22 control subjects. Testing was performed with the shoulder positioned in the scapular plane and in 90 degrees of shoulder abduction with 90 degrees of elbow flexion (90-90). The peak torque was determined for each movement. The strength deficit between the involved and uninvolved arms (patients) and the dominant and nondominant arms (control subjects) was calculated for each subject. Comparisons were made for the scapular-plane and 90-90 positions between isokinetic and HHD testing. Despite a normal muscle grade, patients had marked weakness (28% deficit, P < .01) in external rotators at the 90-90 position tested with the HHD. In contrast, external rotator weakness was not evident with isokinetic testing at the 90-90 position (60 degrees /s and 180 degrees /s, 0% deficit, P = .99). In control subjects, greater internal rotator strength in the dominant compared with the nondominant arm was evident with the HHD at the 90-90 position (11%, P < .01) and in the scapular plane (7%, P < .05). Using an HHD while performing manual muscle testing can quantify shoulder strength deficits that may not be apparent with isokinetic testing. By using an HHD during shoulder testing, clinicians can identify weakness that may have been presumed normal."}
{"id": "16337521", "title": "The correlation of the Buford complex and SLAP lesions.", "content": "The correlation of the Buford complex and SLAP lesions. The Buford complex has previously been thought to be a normal anatomic variant with minimal clinical significance. The purpose of this study was to determine a potential correlation of an arthroscopic finding of a Buford complex and superior labrum anterior-posterior (SLAP) lesions in patients. Two hundred fifty consecutive shoulder arthroscopies performed at one institution were reviewed retrospectively. Operative reports and arthroscopic pictures were carefully inspected, with particular attention paid to descriptions of labral variations and pathology. Two hundred thirty-five reports met criteria for study inclusion. Of the 235 cases, 6 had a Buford complex (2.5%), displaying a cordlike middle glenohumeral ligament and absent anterior-superior labral tissue. Of these 6 patients, 5 had a corresponding SLAP lesion (83.3%). Of the remaining 229 patients 40 had SLAP lesions (17.5%). The significant difference between these groups (P < .003) indicates that there is a correlation of patients with Buford complexes and SLAP lesions."}
{"id": "16325080", "title": "Functional and structural outcome after arthroscopic full-thickness rotator cuff repair: single-row versus dual-row fixation.", "content": "Functional and structural outcome after arthroscopic full-thickness rotator cuff repair: single-row versus dual-row fixation. The purpose of this study was to compare the functional as well as the structural outcomes of single-row and dual-row fixation after arthroscopic full-thickness rotator cuff repair. Retrospective cohort study. A consecutive series of 80 shoulders in 78 patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears was evaluated using the rating scale of the University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) and the shoulder index of the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) at an average of 35 months (range, 24 to 60 months) after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. Thirty-nine shoulders were repaired using the single-row technique and 41 shoulders using the dual-row technique. Postoperative cuff integrity was determined through magnetic resonance imaging and was classified into 5 categories: type I, sufficient thickness with homogenously low intensity; type II, sufficient thickness with partial high intensity; type III, insufficient thickness without discontinuity; type IV, presence of a minor discontinuity; type V, presence of a major discontinuity. The average UCLA score improved significantly to 32.4 in the single-row and to 33.1 in the dual-row group. The ASES shoulder index improved significantly to 93.0 in the single-row group and to 94.6 in the dual-row group. However, there was no statistical difference between the groups in the postoperative scores. Postoperative MRI revealed 11 type I, 6 type II, 12 type III, 4 type IV, and 6 type V in the single-row group, and 22 type I, 8 type II, 7 type III, 4 type IV, and no type V in the dual-row group. A statistical difference was observed between the groups (P < .01). Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair yielded successful functional outcomes without significant difference between single and dual-row fixation techniques. However, dual-row repairs excelled in structural outcome over the single-row technique. Level III."}
{"id": "16325077", "title": "Arthroscopic treatment of anterior shoulder instability using knotless suture anchors.", "content": "Arthroscopic treatment of anterior shoulder instability using knotless suture anchors. In this study, we evaluated the results of arthroscopic stabilization of the shoulder using knotless anchors and the lesions associated with anterior-inferior labrum avulsion. Retrospective clinical study. Twenty consecutive patients affected with anterior unidirectional post-traumatic shoulder instability were treated with arthroscopic reconstruction using knotless anchors. During the surgical procedure, associated lesions such as superior labrum anterior posterior (SLAP) (15%) and rotator interval (15%) were repaired. The patients were evaluated at a mean follow-up of 43 months. Eighty percent of patients resumed sports activity without any limitation and 90% of patients were satisfied with the results of surgery. One patient (5%) had a recurrent dislocation; this patient resumed a contact sport activity despite medical advice. One patient (5%) related signs of shoulder insecurity at the extreme degree of abduction and external rotation; this patient had resumed sports activity with a moderate limitation and was the only patient who was not completely satisfied with the results of surgery. No significant difference was observed between the operated and the contralateral shoulder according to the Rowe and Constant scores. The mean loss of external rotation was 3 degrees . We did not have any cases of anchor loosening, nor did we find signs of shoulder degenerative osteoarthritis on the radiographs. The knotless anchor seems to be a viable alternative for arthroscopic labrum repair, allowing a good capsular shift. Arthroscopic management of shoulder instability allows us to diagnose and treat associated lesions, thus improving the success rate of this type of surgery. Level IV, case series."}
{"id": "16322622", "title": "Recurrent anterior shoulder dislocation caused by a midsubstance complete capsular tear.", "content": "Recurrent anterior shoulder dislocation caused by a midsubstance complete capsular tear. A midsubstance complete capsular tear is one of the well-known causes of anterior glenohumeral instability. However, its prevalence and clinical picture have not been well elucidated. The purpose of this study was to examine the prevalence of isolated complete capsular tears and to assess the clinical features as well as the results of surgical treatment of recurrent anterior glenohumeral instability caused by such tears. Three hundred and three shoulders underwent surgery to treat recurrent anterior glenohumeral instability at our institution during a five-year period. Twelve (4.0%) of these shoulders had an isolated complete capsular tear as the main pathological condition. Those twelve patients (nine male and three female) were the subjects of the present study. The average age at the time of the operation was twenty-five years. Patient age; the cause of the initial dislocation; the position of the arm at the initial dislocation; and the findings of the preoperative physical examination, of computed tomographic arthrography, and at surgery were assessed. Eleven patients underwent arthroscopic capsular repair, and one was treated with an open capsular repair. The twelve patients either did not have a Hill-Sachs lesion or had a chondral indentation-type of Hill-Sachs lesion. When assessed with arthrography, the Hill-Sachs lesions were small compared with those in shoulders with an isolated Bankart lesion and, interestingly, they were quite similar in size to those seen with humeral avulsion of the inferior glenohumeral ligament. The average Rowe score for the twelve patients improved from 30.4 points preoperatively to 90.4 points at an average of thirty-one months postoperatively. The prevalence of isolated complete capsular tears causing recurrent glenohumeral instability was 4.0% (twelve of 303). These tears were associated with either a small or no Hill-Sachs lesion. We believe that a complete capsular tear should be recognized as one of the essential lesions causing recurrent anterior shoulder dislocation. Arthroscopic examination and repair can provide effective treatment."}
{"id": "16322616", "title": "Changes in rotator cuff muscle volume, fat content, and passive mechanics after chronic detachment in a canine model.", "content": "Changes in rotator cuff muscle volume, fat content, and passive mechanics after chronic detachment in a canine model. Long-standing tears of the rotator cuff can lead to substantial and perhaps irreversible changes in the affected rotator cuff muscles. We developed a chronic rotator cuff tear in a canine model to investigate and quantify the time-related changes in passive mechanics, volume, and fat of the infraspinatus muscle. We hypothesized that infraspinatus muscle stiffness would increase, volume would decrease, and fat content would increase at twelve weeks following tendon detachment. The right infraspinatus tendon of eight adult mongrel dogs were surgically detached from the proximal part of the humerus. The uninvolved left shoulder served as a control. Muscle volume changes were quantified with use of magnetic resonance imaging. At twelve weeks, the passive mechanical properties of the chronically detached and control muscles were determined intraoperatively with use of a custom-designed device. Intramuscular fat was evaluated histologically at the time that the animals were killed. After twelve weeks of detachment, the stiffness was significantly increased in the detached infraspinatus muscles relative to that in the controls (p < 0.0001). Magnetic resonance image analysis demonstrated that the detached muscle volumes decreased by an average of 32% in the first six weeks and remained constant thereafter. Intramuscular fat increased significantly in the detached muscles and to a greater extent in the lateral regions (p < 0.05). The chronically detached muscle is not merely a smaller version of the original muscle but, rather, a different muscle. The detached muscle becomes stiffer, and the passive loads required to repair it can become excessive. A significant reduction in muscle volume occurs within days to weeks following tendon detachment (p < 0.0001). The nonuniformity of changes in muscle fat suggests that fat content should be used cautiously as an indicator of muscle quality."}
{"id": "16315115", "title": "Imaging of the overhead throwing athlete.", "content": "Imaging of the overhead throwing athlete. Knowledge of overhead throwing biomechanics is crucial to understand specific injuries encountered in throwing athletes on diagnostic imaging. Most specific injuries of overhead throwing athletes occur at the shoulder and elbow. Throwing athletes are susceptible to rotator cuff tears from tensile overload and external and internal impingement. The labrum is also commonly degenerated or torn secondary to overuse syndrome, internal impingement, and microtrauma. The elbow is typically injured secondary to excessive valgus forces during throwing. The ulnar collateral ligament, ulnar nerve, and common flexor tendon origin are all at increased risk of injury. Capitellar osteochondral injuries and loose intra-articular bodies are also frequent. Knowledge of injury pathophysiology is crucial to understanding the treatment rationale in throwing athletes."}
{"id": "16303992", "title": "Width of high signal and extension posterior to biceps tendon as signs of superior labrum anterior to posterior tears on MRI and MR arthrography.", "content": "Width of high signal and extension posterior to biceps tendon as signs of superior labrum anterior to posterior tears on MRI and MR arthrography. The purpose of our study was to determine the accuracy of two signs for superior labrum anterior to posterior (SLAP) tears: increased width of high signal between the superior labrum and glenoid, and high signal posterior to the biceps tendon. Forty-one patients with SLAP tears and 40 patients without a tear at surgery who had undergone MRI or MR arthrography were retrospectively evaluated. The MR studies were combined and interpreted in a blinded manner. The reviewers measured the width of high signal that extended to the articular surface on oblique coronal images and determined whether the high signal extended posterior to the biceps. A Student's t test was used to determine statistical significance between the means of the signal width. High-signal width was greater in patients with a SLAP tear than in the control group on both MRI and MR arthrography (both p = 0.003). The sensitivity and specificity of at least 2.0 mm on MRI are 39% (11/28) and 89% (24/27) and at least 2.5 mm on MR arthrography are 46% (6/13) and 85% (11/13). The sensitivity and specificity of high signal posterior to the biceps are 54% (15/28) and 74% (20/27) on MRI and 69% (9/13) and 54% (7/13) on MR arthrography. Increased width of high signal has a moderate specificity but a poor positive predictive value for distinguishing a SLAP tear from a normal recess. In addition, labral signal posterior to the biceps tendon is not rare in patients with no SLAP tear."}
{"id": "16296651", "title": "Casebook: shoulder pain.", "content": "Casebook: shoulder pain."}
{"id": "16292242", "title": "Radiographic and MRI findings in ochronosis.", "content": "Radiographic and MRI findings in ochronosis. Ochronotic arthropathy is the articular manifestation of alkaptonuria, a rare hereditary metabolic disease that leads to the deposition of homogentisic acid particularly in the joints where it causes articular degeneration and inflammation. We studied the radiological patterns of the disorder using both traditional X-rays both MRI and comparing the results obtained with the two techniques. The study included five patients (4 males, 1 female, mean age 51 years); we studied the most frequently affected sites, the knee, the shoulder and the spine. As regards the conventional study we used a radiographic score which considered the state of the articular space and the presence of calcifications. MRI of the peripheral joints was performed on the most symptomatic site or, if asymptomatic, on the most severely affected site as established by radiography; in all cases T1- and T2-weighted sequences in the axial, sagittal and coronal planes were acquired. Both the X-ray and MRI study revealed the typical alterations of ochronosis in the cases with a known diagnosis: articular space narrowing up to osseous ankylosis, calcifications, osteophytosis, reactive sclerosis of the articular surfaces; MRI was however more accurate in identifying the alterations and revealing lesions not visible at conventional radiology, such as ligament lesions. In the case of newly diagnosed ochronotic arthropathy MRI proved valuable for its ability to detect alterations that are poorly appreciable at conventional radiology. Modern diagnostic imaging, above all MRI, allowed us to identify the peculiar characteristic features of ochronosis and is fundamental both for the diagnosis and for differentiating ochronosis from other articular disorders."}
{"id": "16288305", "title": "Human recombinant erythropoietin (rEpo) has no effect on tumour growth or angiogenesis.", "content": "Human recombinant erythropoietin (rEpo) has no effect on tumour growth or angiogenesis. Tumour hypoxia has been shown to increase mutation rate, angiogenesis, and metastatic potential, and decrease response to conventional therapeutics. Improved tumour oxygenation should translate into increased treatment response. Exogenous recombinant erythropoietin (rEpo) has been recently shown to increase tumour oxygenation in a mammary carcinoma model. The mechanism of this action is not yet understood completely. The presence of Epo and its receptor (EpoR) have been demonstrated on several normal and neoplastic tissues, including blood vessels and various solid tumours. In addition, rEpo has been shown in two recent prospective, randomized clinical trials to negatively impact treatment outcome. In this study, we attempt to characterize the direct effects of rEpo on tumour growth and angiogenesis in two separate rodent carcinomas. The effect of rEpo on R3230 rat mammary adenocarcinomas, CT-26 mouse colon carcinomas, HCT-116 human colon carcinomas, and FaDu human head and neck tumours, all of which express EpoR, was examined. There were no differences in tumour growth or proliferation (measured by Ki-67) between placebo-treated and rEpo-treated tumours. In the mammary window chamber, vascular length density (VLD) measurements in serial images of both placebo-treated and Epo-treated rats revealed no difference in angiogenesis between the Epo-treated tumours and placebo-treated tumours at any time point. These experiments are important because they suggest that the recent clinical detriment seen with the use of Epo is not due to its tumour growth effects or angiogenesis. These studies also suggest that further preclinical studies need to examine rEpo's direct tumour effects in efforts to improve the therapeutic benefits of Epo in solid tumour patients."}
{"id": "16287018", "title": "Muscle transfer for shoulder reconstruction in obstetrical brachial plexus lesions.", "content": "Muscle transfer for shoulder reconstruction in obstetrical brachial plexus lesions. A prospective study was performed on a group of 32 consecutive obstetrical brachial plexus lesions (OBPL). Seventeen were girls and 15 were boys with an age ranging between 2.3 years to 7 years (mean 3.5 years). Patients were treated operatively for a functionally disturbing unilateral internal rotation contracture of the shoulder with a good deltoid function (grade IotaIota or greater) and no significant active external rotation. The Hoffer technique of muscle transfer in the form of transferring the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles to the rotator cuff posteriorly through a transaxillary approach with or without subscapularis muscle release was used in all cases. Preoperatively the patients were assessed clinically according to the modified Gilbert shoulder grading system. All patients were of grade 1 and 2. Eighteen patients had a lesion of the superior trunk of the brachial plexus (C5 and C6 roots) and ten patients had various degrees of involvement of the entire plexus while in four patients previous microsurgery reconstruction was performed. All patients improved to grade 4 and 5. The follow-up period ranged from 1.5 to 3.5 years (mean 2.3 years). There were no significant complications except for recurrence of minimal internal rotation in six patients that required no further surgery. Our results suggest that the Hoffer technique for shoulder reconstruction in OBPL is a reliable and safe technique."}
{"id": "16284137", "title": "Rotator cuff tears: clinical, radiographic, and US findings.", "content": "Rotator cuff tears: clinical, radiographic, and US findings. Rotator cuff tears are a common cause of shoulder pain. Clinical and radiographic findings can suggest the presence of a rotator cuff tear. The most sensitive clinical findings are impingement and the \"arc of pain\" sign. Radiographic findings are usually normal in the acute setting, although the \"active abduction\" view may show decreased acromiohumeral distance. In more chronic cases, an outlet view may show decreased opacity and decreased size of the supraspinatus muscle due to atrophy. In late cases, the humeral head may become subluxated superiorly, and secondary degenerative arthritis of the glenohumeral joint may ensue. Ultrasonography (US), with over 90% sensitivity and specificity, can help confirm the diagnosis in clinically or radiographically equivocal cases. US can also reveal the presence of other abnormalities that may mimic rotator cuff tear at clinical examination, including tendinosis, calcific tendinitis, subacromial subdeltoid bursitis, greater tuberosity fracture, and adhesive capsulitis."}
{"id": "16282408", "title": "Shoulder pain: diagnosis and management in primary care.", "content": "Shoulder pain: diagnosis and management in primary care."}
{"id": "16275573", "title": "Imaging of the acetabular labrum.", "content": "Imaging of the acetabular labrum. The acetabular labrum is a critical structure within the hip joint. It is a significant cause of pain, and it plays an integral role in the development of osteoarthritis. This article reviews the normal anatomy, imaging techniques, and normal MR appearance of the labrum. The clinical presentation of labral tears and their association with developmental dysplasia and femoroacetabular impingement are discussed. The controversy regarding the presence or absence of a sublabral sulcus also is addressed."}
{"id": "16262574", "title": "Low-power laser treatment for shoulder pain.", "content": "Low-power laser treatment for shoulder pain. The objective of this study is to investigate the effect of low-power gallium-arsenide laser treatment on the patients with shoulder pain. Low-energy laser therapy has recently been popularized in the treatment of various rheumatologic, neurologic, and musculoskeletal disorders such as osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, fibromyalgia, carpal tunnel syndrome, rotator cuff tendinitis, and chronic back pain syndromes. A total of 40 patients who applied to our clinic with shoulder pain and complied with the selection criteria were included in the study. The patients were randomly assigned into Group I (n = 20, laser treatment) and Group II (n = 20, control). In Group I, patients were given laser treatment and an exercise protocol for 10 sessions during a period of 2 weeks. Laser was applied over tuberculum majus and minus, bicipital groove, and anterior and posterior faces of the capsule, regardless of the existence of sensitivity, for 1 min at each location at each session with a frequency of 2000 Hz using a GaAs diode laser instrument (Roland Serie Elettronica Pagani, wavelength 904 nm, frequency range of 5-7000 Hz, and maximum peak power of 27 W, 50 W, or 27 x 4 W). In Group II, placebo laser and the same exercise protocol was given for the same period. Patients were evaluated according to the parameters of pain, palpation sensitivity, algometric sensitivity, and shoulder joint range of motion before and after treatment. Analysis of measurement results within each group showed a significant posttreatment improvement for some active and passive movements in both groups, and also for algometric sensitivity in Group I (p < 0.05-0.01). Posttreatment palpation sensitivity values showed improvement in 17 patients (85%) for Group I and six patients (30%) for Group II. Comparison between two groups showed superior results (p < 0.01 and p < 0.001) in Group I for the parameters of passive extension and palpation sensitivity but no significant difference for other parameters. The results of our study have shown better results in palpation sensitivity and passive extension, but no significant improvement in pain, active range, and algometric sensitivity in laser treatment group compared to the control group in the patients with shoulder pain."}
{"id": "16253043", "title": "Scapular muscle tests in subjects with shoulder pain and functional loss: reliability and construct validity.", "content": "Scapular muscle tests in subjects with shoulder pain and functional loss: reliability and construct validity. Scapular muscle performance evaluated with a handheld dynamometer (HHD) has been investigated only in people without shoulder dysfunction for test-retest reliability of data obtained with a single scapular muscle test. The purpose of this study was to assess the reliability, error, and validity of data obtained with an HHD for 4 scapular muscle tests in subjects with shoulder pain and functional loss. Subjects (N=40) with shoulder pain and functional loss were tested by measuring the kilograms applied with an HHD during 3 trials for muscle tests for the lower trapezius, upper trapezius, middle trapezius, and serratus anterior muscles. Concurrently, surface electromyography (sEMG) data were collected for the 4 muscles. The same procedures were performed 24 to 72 hours after the initial testing by the same tester. Muscle tests were performed 3 times, and the results were averaged for data analysis. Intraclass correlation coefficients for intratester reliability of measurements of isometric force obtained using an HHD ranged from .89 to .96. The standard error of the measure (90% confidence interval [CI]) ranged from 1.3 to 2.7 kg; the minimal detectable change (90% CI) ranged from 1.8 to 3.6 kg. Construct validity assessment, done by comparing the amounts of isometric muscle activity (sEMG) for each muscle across the 4 muscle tests, revealed that the muscle activity of the upper trapezius and lower trapezius muscles was highest during their respective tests. Conversely, the isometric muscle activity of the middle trapezius and serratus anterior muscles was not highest during their respective tests. In people with shoulder pain and functional loss, the intrarater reliability and error over 1 to 3 days were established using an HHD for measurement of isometric force for the assessment of scapular muscle performance. Error values can be used to make decisions regarding individual patients. Construct validity was established for the lower and upper trapezius muscle tests; therefore, these tests are advocated for use. However, construct validity was not demonstrated for the serratus anterior and middle trapezius muscle tests as performed in this study. Further investigation of these muscle tests is warranted."}
{"id": "16249601", "title": "Coracoid tip position on frontal radiographs of the shoulder: a predictor of common shoulder pathologies?", "content": "Coracoid tip position on frontal radiographs of the shoulder: a predictor of common shoulder pathologies? The coracoacromial arch is a static anterior-superior stabilizer of the humeral head. Thus coracoacromial arch inclination, which varies depending on coracoid tip position, may be related to shoulder pathologies. Therefore, we retrospectively analysed coracoid tip positions in the true anterior posterior view of different shoulder pathologies: reference shoulders (n=27), shoulders with rotator cuff tear (supraspinatus tear n=29; subscapularis tear n=21) and shoulders with anterior glenohumeral instability (traumatic n=17; atraumatic n=14). In supraspinatus tear shoulders, the coracoid tip projected onto inferior glenoid half in 86% of cases (type I coracoid), extending more inferiorly compared with reference group (p=0.0002) or subscapularis tear shoulders (p<0.0001). In contrast, 78% of cases with subscapularis tear show the coracoid tip projected onto the superior glenoid half (type II coracoid). Atraumatic glenohumeral instabilities had a more superior coracoid tip position than traumatic instabilities (p=0.04), but no differences were observed on basis of coracoid type or in comparison with normal controls. We conclude that coracoid tip position is highly variable. Since type I coracoids are predominant in shoulders with supraspinatus tears and type II coracoids in shoulders with subscapularis tears, coracoid tip position may thus provide a simple diagnostic complement for a probable site of rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "16226652", "title": "The belly-off sign: a new clinical diagnostic sign for subscapularis lesions.", "content": "The belly-off sign: a new clinical diagnostic sign for subscapularis lesions. We describe a new clinical sign for subscapularis lesions that we call the belly-off sign and compare its diagnostic value with standard subscapularis tests (the lift-off test, internal rotation lag sign, and belly-press test/Napoleon sign) in cases of different types of subscapularis lesions. The belly-off sign represents the inability of the patient to maintain the palm of the hand attached to the abdomen with the arm passively brought into flexion and internal rotation. Case series. This descriptive and explorative study included 60 patients (mean age, 55.3 years) with clinical, surgical, and/or magnetic resonance imaging-confirmed evidence of isolated or combined lesions of the subscapularis musculotendinous unit. In all patients, a complete physical shoulder examination was performed and the results were compared with the intraoperative and magnetic resonance imaging findings. The belly-off sign appeared to be more reliable than any other diagnostic test or sign in detecting isolated partial tears of the subscapularis tendon (group I), combined partial subscapularis and complete supraspinatus tendon tears (group II), and postoperative subscapularis insufficiency with mild atrophy of the upper aspect of the subscapularis muscle (group VII). In cases of complete/near complete subscapularis tears with or without supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendon tears (groups IV, V, and VI), the belly-off sign appeared to be as reliable as the belly-press test, internal rotation lag sign, and lift-off test. For assessing partial subscapularis tendon tears and insufficient external rotators (group III), the belly-off sign was less reliable than any other diagnostic test or sign. The belly-off sign represents a promising new clinical diagnostic sign for subscapularis lesions. In particular, subtle lesions of the upper subscapularis tendon and postoperative subscapularis insufficiencies can be detected by the belly-off sign in cases of intact external rotators. In cases of an advanced lack of external rotators, the belly-off sign becomes negative and loses its diagnostic value. We therefore conclude that the belly-off sign is attributable to an unbalanced transverse force couple with overwhelming of the external rotators of the shoulder. Level IV, case series with no, or historical, control group."}
{"id": "16226651", "title": "Relation between narrowed coracohumeral distance and subscapularis tears.", "content": "Relation between narrowed coracohumeral distance and subscapularis tears. To determine whether coracohumeral distance was significantly narrowed in the presence of a torn subscapularis. Retrospective cohort study. The coracohumeral distance of a consecutive series of patients (n = 35, 36 shoulders) requiring an arthroscopic repair of the subscapularis was compared with a control group (n = 35). The control group consisted of patients who underwent shoulder arthroscopy but who did not have any rotator cuff, subscapularis, or subcoracoid pathology. The coracohumeral distance was measured from the tip of the coracoid to the cortex of the proximal humerus on an axial cut of preoperative magnetic resonance imaging. A Student t test was used to determine the statistical differences between the 2 groups. The average coracohumeral distance in the subscapularis group was 5.0 +/- 1.7 mm and the average coracohumeral distance in the control group was 10.0 +/- 1.3 mm. Statistical analysis, using the Student t test, showed that the coracohumeral distance was significantly narrowed in the group of patients with a torn subscapularis. These results show a significant relationship between a narrowed coracohumeral distance and subscapularis pathology. Level III, retrospective cohort study."}
{"id": "16225693", "title": "Acupuncture and rehabilitation of the painful shoulder: study protocol of an ongoing multicentre randomised controlled clinical trial [ISRCTN28687220].", "content": "Acupuncture and rehabilitation of the painful shoulder: study protocol of an ongoing multicentre randomised controlled clinical trial [ISRCTN28687220]. Although the painful shoulder is one of the most common dysfunctions of the locomotor apparatus, and is frequently treated both at primary healthcare centres and by specialists, little evidence has been reported to support or refute the effectiveness of the treatments most commonly applied. According to the bibliography reviewed, physiotherapy, which is the most common action taken to alleviate this problem, has not yet been proven to be effective, because of the small size of sample groups and the lack of methodological rigor in the papers published on the subject. No reviews have been made to assess the effectiveness of acupuncture in treating this complaint, but in recent years controlled randomised studies have been made and these demonstrate an increasing use of acupuncture to treat pathologies of the soft tissues of the shoulder. In this study, we seek to evaluate the effectiveness of physiotherapy applied jointly with acupuncture, compared with physiotherapy applied with a TENS-placebo, in the treatment of painful shoulder caused by subacromial syndrome (rotator cuff tendinitis and subacromial bursitis). Randomised controlled multicentre study with blind evaluation by an independent observer and blind, independent analysis. A study will be made of 465 patients referred to the rehabilitation services at participating healthcare centres, belonging to the regional public health systems of Andalusia and Murcia, these patients presenting symptoms of painful shoulder and a diagnosis of subacromial syndrome (rotator cuff tendinitis and subacromial bursitis). The patients will be randomised into two groups: 1) experimental (acupuncture + physiotherapy); 2) control (TENS-placebo + physiotherapy); the administration of rescue medication will also be allowed. The treatment period will have a duration of three weeks. The main result variable will be the change produced on Constant's Shoulder Function Assessment (SFA) Scale; as secondary variables, we will record the changes in diurnal pain intensity on a visual analogue scale (VAS), nocturnal pain intensity on the VAS, doses of non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) taken during the study period, credibility scale for the treatment, degree of improvement perceived by the patient and degree of improvement perceived by the evaluator. A follow up examination will be made at 3, 6 and 12 months after the study period has ended. Two types of population will be considered for analysis: per protocol and per intention to treat. The discussion will take into account the limitations of the study, together with considerations such as the choice of a simple, safe method to treat this shoulder complaint, the choice of the control group, and the blinding of the patients, evaluators and those responsible for carrying out the final analysis."}
{"id": "16211385", "title": "Degeneration in dysplastic hips. A computer tomography study.", "content": "Degeneration in dysplastic hips. A computer tomography study. Hip dysplasia is considered pre-osteoarthritic, causing degeneration in young individuals. To determine the pattern of degenerative change in moderate to severely dysplastic hips in young patients. One hundred and ninety-three consecutively-referred younger patients with hip pain believed to be caused by hip dysplasia constituted the study cohort. The average age was 35.5 years (range, 15-61 years). They were examined by close-cut transverse pelvic and knee computed tomography and antero-posterior radiographs (CT). We identified 197 hips with moderate to severe dysplasia, and 78 hips with normal morphology in the study cohort, whilst 111 hip joints were borderline dysplastic according to preset definitions. Comparative analyses of anatomy and distribution of degeneration between dysplastic and normal hips in the study cohort were performed. In dysplastic hips the anterior acetabular sector angle was significantly and inversely associated to femoral anteversion (p < 0.001). The center-edge (CE) angle, the acetabular angle (AA), and the acetabular depth ratio (ADR) were significantly interrelated (p < 0.001; correlation coefficients ranging from -0.8 to 0.7). Fifty-one hips were subluxated (24R/27L). There were no cases of complete dislocation. The formation of subchondral cysts or osteophytes in dysplastic hips was significantly associated with reduced minimum joint space width (p ranging from 0.005 to 0.02). However, in 67 hips with acetabular cysts, only 6 hips had minimum joint space widths = 2.0 mm (8.9%) in the coronal plane. In 96 cases with acetabular cysts found in the sagittal plane, 43 cases had minimum joint space widths = 2.0 mm (44.7%). Bony rim detachment at the site of labral insertion was recorded in 30 hips. Twenty-three of these were dysplastic (p = 0.01). Degeneration was most often found in the anterolateral part of the dysplastic hip joints. Most cysts were located above the transition zone between the bony and the fibrocartilaginous acetabulum, and we found a significantly- increased number of cases with avulsed bony fragments at the antero-lateral labral insertion in dysplastic hips compared to normal hips. It seems likely that the early degenerative process in dysplastic hips originates at the watershed zone between the acetabular labrum and the acetabular cartilage in response to subluxation and femoroacetabular impingement."}
{"id": "16210463", "title": "Correlation between clinical diagnosis and arthroscopic findings of the shoulder.", "content": "Correlation between clinical diagnosis and arthroscopic findings of the shoulder. To assess the accuracy of clinical examination by non-specialist orthopaedic surgeons of patients presenting to a diagnostic and treatment centre (DTC) for arthroscopic shoulder surgery. A retrospective review of notes of 130 consecutive shoulder arthroscopies performed at a DTC over a 10 month period. Preoperative clinical diagnosis was compared with operative arthroscopic findings. Additional information from preoperative imaging was compared with clinical examination and arthroscopic findings. Preoperative clinical examinations and consent were undertaken by clinical fellows, (SpR level) and non-upper limb consultant orthopaedic surgeons. Consultants specialising in upper limb surgery performed the operations. Six main groups were identified on the basis of clinical examination: impingement 76 cases (58%), instability 22 cases (17%), frozen shoulder 11 cases (8%), rotator cuff tear four cases (3%), non-specific pain eight cases (6%), and normal clinical examination nine cases (7%). Impingement and instability diagnosed clinically strongly correlated with the arthroscopic findings. Clinical diagnosis of frozen shoulder and rotator cuff tears had a weaker correlation with the arthroscopic findings. Of the nine cases of normal clinical examination, abnormality was found at arthroscopy in all cases. There have been very few studies comparing clinical examination of the shoulder with arthroscopic findings. This study emphasises the importance of good clinical examination skills in diagnosing common shoulder abnormalities. The addition of imaging, particularly ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging further increases the likelihood of an accurate diagnosis. Shoulder examination should be taught with as much emphasis at both undergraduate and postgraduate level as other orthopaedic clinical examinations."}
{"id": "16210159", "title": "Augmentation of intraarticular calcaneal fractures with injectable calcium phosphate cement: densitometry, histology, and functional outcome of 18 patients.", "content": "Augmentation of intraarticular calcaneal fractures with injectable calcium phosphate cement: densitometry, histology, and functional outcome of 18 patients. Eighteen patients with intraarticular calcaneal fractures treated with open reduction and internal fixation and augmentation with an injectable carbonated apatite cement. Functional follow-up studies using the Zwipp Foot Score and densitometry were performed at 6-month intervals postoperatively. Histological samples of biopsies obtained at the time of hardware removal (6 months postoperatively) were also analyzed. The use of bone cement led to intermediate-term functional outcomes that were no better than those reported with conventional surgical procedures using bone graft. Patients demonstrated postoperative difficulties similar to those seen in other studies of this fracture, including pain, subtalar motion restrictions, peroneal impingement, and difficulties on uneven terrain and with toe- and heel-walking. However, compared to patients treated surgically without injectable carbonated apatite cement, full weight bearing on the affected extremity was regained at an average 4 weeks postoperatively. In addition, autogenous bone graft was not required to fill the osseous defect using this technique, minimizing morbidity and discomfort. During the present observation period of 3 years, only a slight decrease in the density of the peripheral zones of the cement block was observed. Histological examination revealed fibrous bone formation resulting from remodelling processes. Complete resorption and remodeling of the bone cement were not complete at 3 years. One patient developed a postoperative wound infection. Another displayed cement loosening secondary to failure of bony ingrowth."}
{"id": "16200386", "title": "Posterior-inferior glenoid rim shapes by MR imaging.", "content": "Posterior-inferior glenoid rim shapes by MR imaging. Our purpose was to try to apply a CT classification of glenoid rim shapes to MR images and to determine the reliability of the subsequent MR classification by testing observer variability. Shoulder MR imaging exams of 54 consecutive patients were reviewed retrospectively by two musculoskeletal radiologists independently. Posterior-inferior glenoid rim shape was categorized, based on reported CT criteria, as triangle, \"lazy-J\" or \"delta\" using the most caudal MR section that unequivocally showed articular cartilage. The same studies were reviewed again one month later to test interobserver and intraobserver variability. Final determination of glenoid rim type was made by consensus. There were 31 males and 23 females with an average age of 42 years, range 14-75 years. Forty-one patients were referred for evaluation of nonspecific shoulder pain, 9 for suspected rotator cuff tear and 4 for instability. The most common shape was \"lazy-J\" with 32 patients (59%) having this type. The least common was delta shape, with 7 patients (13%) having this form. Fifteen patients (28%) had a normal triangle shape. There was significant interobserver variability in determining the shape of the glenoid rim with 17/54 (31%) discordant readings. For the \"lazy-J\" shape, the kappa value was .02, for the \"delta\" type, kappa value was .60 and for the triangle shape, kappa was .32. Intraobserver variability was 35% for radiologist A and 28% for radiologist B. Kappa values for intraobserver variability ranged from .53 to .85. Four patients had posterior instability, 3 were judged to have normal triangular inferior glenoid rims and 1 a \"lazy J\" type by Radiologist A. Radiologist B judged 2 of the instability patients as normal triangular and 2 as \"lazy J\". A CT classification of posterior-inferior glenoid rim shapes can be applied using MR imaging, however, there is significant observer variability that limits the applicability of this classification scheme with MR imaging."}
{"id": "16195065", "title": "Diagnostic ultrasound of the shoulder--a method for experts only? Results from an orthopedic surgeon with relative inexpensive compared to operative findings.", "content": "Diagnostic ultrasound of the shoulder--a method for experts only? Results from an orthopedic surgeon with relative inexpensive compared to operative findings. Diagnostic ultrasound examination of the shoulder is generally considered to require long experience. We examined the results of an orthopedic surgeon with little experience of ultrasound. A relatively inexperienced examiner performed preoperative ultrasound scanning of 79 patients with symptoms from the rotator cuff and/or the long head of the biceps muscle. Tears of the rotator cuff and rupture or dislocation of the long head of the biceps muscle were the positive findings of interest. Results were compared to operative findings. In 66 of 79 shoulders, ultrasonographic rotator cuff findings were confirmed at surgery (accuracy 84%). 20 of 26 full-thickness tears were diagnosed correctly. 6 of 7 partial-thickness tears were overlooked. Ultrasound was false positive in 1 case. For the long head of the biceps muscle, all 8 cases of dislocation or rupture of the tendon were diagnosed but differentiation between the two conditions was not possible in 2 cases. Our results may encourage orthopedic surgeons to start using ultrasound as a diagnostic technique for full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff and for pathology in the long head of the biceps muscle."}
{"id": "16194749", "title": "The coracoacromial ligament: morphology and study of acromial enthesopathy.", "content": "The coracoacromial ligament: morphology and study of acromial enthesopathy. The coracoacromial ligament (CAL), normally a superior restraint against humeral translation, is frequently involved in rotator cuff impingement pathology. However, surgical excision of the CAL is not always clinically successful. Little anatomic information exists about the morphology and function of this ligament. The CAL and glenohumeral joint in 56 cadaveric shoulders were examined in 31 cadavers. Nineteen dimensional parameters were obtained by direct measurement. In 16 shoulders, specific attention was directed at the anterior band of the CAL. Variation exists in the morphology of the CAL. The most common configuration of the CAL was two distinct ligamentous bands that could be classified anatomically as an anterolateral band (ALB) and posteromedial band (PMB). The ALB commonly extended to the posterolateral aspect of the acromion. Furthermore, it frequently extended anterolaterally to the acromion, ending in a coracoacromial falx. Spur formation had occurred in 10 of 16 shoulders evaluated and always appeared in the ALB. Spur formation in the ALB correlated with a focal CAL that was narrower, less divergent, shorter, and thicker than a diffuse CAL that did not have a spur. The mean angle of diversion between the ALB and PMB, when a spur was present, was 31 degrees compared with 45 degrees when no spur was present. CAL band thickness varied, with the ALB being thicker at the acromion than at the coracoid and the PMB being thicker at the coracoid than at the acromion. During arthroscopic subacromial decompression, failure to visualize the anterolateral corner of the acromion adequately may result in incomplete resection of the CAL, especially if the PMB is mistaken to be the entire ligament. Incomplete removal of the CAL may be a factor in clinical failures of arthroscopic subacromial decompression. The preferential location of spurs in the ALB suggests that it is a major load-bearing structure. Furthermore, the ALB is thicker at the acromion, suggesting increased strain. Our data suggest that a possible function of the CAL is to dampen stress on the acromion from muscle activity."}
{"id": "16194748", "title": "Apoptosis in the supraspinatus tendon with stage II subacromial impingement.", "content": "Apoptosis in the supraspinatus tendon with stage II subacromial impingement. The purpose of this study was to investigate the histopathology, including apoptosis, in the supraspinatus tendon with stage II subacromial impingement. Samples from the critical zone of the supraspinatus tendon were obtained from 5 patients with subacromial impingement syndrome and 10 autopsy cases without shoulder diseases as controls. Three-micrometer-thick sections were cut and stained with hematoxylin-eosin (H-E) for routine histologic examination. Apoptosis was detected by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick end labeling (TUNEL) method and single-stranded deoxyribonucleic acid (ssDNA) assay in which the frequency of the apoptotic cells was expressed by the apoptotic index. Control supraspinatus tendons showed normal morphology, whereas supraspinatus tendons from shoulders with impingement showed significant mucoid degeneration. Correspondingly, few apoptotic cells were observed in control tendons, whereas a large number of apoptotic cells were observed in the degenerative area of tendons from impingement shoulders. The apoptotic indices were significantly higher in the impingement shoulders (ssDNA, 18.84% +/- 1.75%; TUNEL, 24.92% +/- 2.79%) than in the control shoulders (ssDNA, 5.22% +/- 1.30%; TUNEL, 7.01% +/- 1.05%) (P = .04 for ssDNA and P = .017 for TUNEL). Mechanical impingement seems to cause tendon degeneration and apoptosis of the tendon cells in the supraspinatus tendon in stage II impingement."}
{"id": "16194747", "title": "Biomechanical analysis of isolated type II SLAP lesions and repair.", "content": "Biomechanical analysis of isolated type II SLAP lesions and repair. The effects of type II superior labrum anterior-posterior (SLAP) lesions on glenohumeral rotation and translation were studied in 6 cadaveric shoulders before and after repair. Glenohumeral translation with the application of 15 N and 20 N in the anterior, posterior, superior, and inferior directions was measured with the joint in 60 degrees of abduction and 90 degrees of external rotation. Data were recorded for intact shoulders, shoulders with arthroscopy portals, shoulders with arthroscopically created anterior type II SLAP lesions, shoulders with arthroscopically created anterior and posterior type II SLAP lesions, and shoulders that had undergone arthroscopic repair. With the creation of a SLAP lesion, significant increases in total range of motion (P = .028), external rotation (P < .0001), internal rotation (P < .01), anterior-posterior translation (P < .0001), and inferior translation (P < .01) were observed. After arthroscopic repair, total range of motion, internal rotation, external rotation, and translation significantly decreased, returning to expected values. These findings suggest that type II SLAP lesions cause significant glenohumeral instability, which can be effectively treated with current arthroscopic techniques."}
{"id": "16194746", "title": "Biomechanical relevance of glenoid component positioning in the reverse Delta III total shoulder prosthesis.", "content": "Biomechanical relevance of glenoid component positioning in the reverse Delta III total shoulder prosthesis. The presence of a notch at the inferior part of the scapular neck is a common radiographic finding in patients treated with a reverse Delta III shoulder prosthesis. It is thought that this notch is a result of mechanical contact between the polyethylene cup of the humeral implant and the inferior glenoid pole during adduction of the arm. This in vitro study assessed the effect of glenoid component positioning on glenohumeral range of motion in 8 shoulder specimens. Four different positions of the glenosphere were tested: glenosphere centered on the glenoid, leaving the inferior glenoid rim uncovered (configuration A); glenosphere flush with the inferior glenoid rim (configuration B); glenosphere extending beyond the inferior glenoid rim (configuration C); and glenosphere tilted downward 15 degrees (configuration D). The respective mean adduction and abduction angles in the scapular plane were -25 degrees and 67 degrees for configuration A, -14 degrees and 68 degrees for configuration B, -1 degrees and 81 degrees for configuration C, and -9 degrees and 75 degrees for configuration D. Placing the glenosphere distally (test configuration C) significantly improved adduction and abduction angles compared with all other test configurations (P < .001)."}
{"id": "16194739", "title": "Outcome of Copeland surface replacement shoulder arthroplasty.", "content": "Outcome of Copeland surface replacement shoulder arthroplasty. We report the outcome of humeral head surface replacement hemiarthroplasty performed at our institution using the Copeland prosthesis. We followed 56 shoulders (52 patients) for a mean of 34.2 months (range, 24-63 months). Two were lost to follow-up, and there were six deaths unrelated to the shoulder surgery. Preoperative diagnoses in the remainder were osteoarthritis (20), rheumatoid arthritis (26), rotator cuff tear arthropathy (1), and post-traumatic arthrosis (1). The mean age was 68 years. Constant scores for the whole group improved from a mean preoperative score of 16.4 (range, 8-36) to 54.0 (range, 20-83) at last follow-up (P < .05). Three cases underwent subsequent arthroscopic subacromial decompression for impingement symptoms. One case required revision for aseptic loosening to a stemmed implant. Contained, nonprogressive osteolysis was seen in 2 cases. One periprosthetic humeral neck fracture was managed successfully nonoperatively. These results are comparable to those obtained with a modern stemmed hemiarthroplasty and are similar to Copeland's own series."}
{"id": "16194738", "title": "Manipulation for frozen shoulder: long-term results.", "content": "Manipulation for frozen shoulder: long-term results. Although much has been published regarding shoulder manipulation under anesthesia for the treatment of frozen shoulder, there are no reported long-term results. In 25 patients (26 shoulders) in whom nonoperative treatment for idiopathic frozen shoulder had failed, we performed manipulation under anesthesia. All had had physical therapy for a mean of 6.2 months. Follow-up was by examination until the end of active treatment. Longer-term follow-up was obtained in 18 patients (19 shoulders) by questionnaire and averaged 15 years (range, 8.1 to 20.6 years). There were significant improvements in forward elevation from a mean of 104 degrees before manipulation (range, 70 degrees to 140 degrees ) to 168 degrees (range, 90 degrees to 180 degrees ) and in external rotation from 23 degrees (range, -5 degrees to 70 degrees ) to 67 degrees (range, 0 degrees to 90 degrees ). There were 16 shoulders with no pain or slight pain and 3 with occasional moderate or severe pain. There were no fractures, dislocations, or other complications. Of the 19 shoulders, 18 required no further surgery. At long-term follow-up, the mean Simple Shoulder Test score was 9.5 out of 12 and the mean American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score was 80 out of 100. Treatment of idiopathic frozen shoulder by manipulation under anesthesia leads to sustained improvement in shoulder motion and function at a mean of 15 years after the procedure."}
{"id": "16192321", "title": "Fatty atrophy of supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles: accuracy of US.", "content": "Fatty atrophy of supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles: accuracy of US. To prospectively evaluate the accuracy of ultrasonography (US) in depicting fatty atrophy of the supraspinatus (SSP) and infraspinatus (ISP) muscles, with magnetic resonance (MR) imaging as the reference standard. Institutional review board approval and informed consent were obtained. SSP and ISP muscles of 65 consecutive patients (27 women, 38 men; mean age, 53.1 years; range, 28-83 years) with possible rotator cuff tears were evaluated with US in two planes. Visibility of muscle contour, pennate pattern, the central tendon, and muscle echogenicity was assessed by two radiologists. On the basis of these findings, diagnosis of substantial fatty atrophy was made at US. Accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, proportion of over- and underestimations, and interobserver agreement in diagnosis of substantial (grade 2 or greater) muscle atrophy were determined. Fatty atrophy was graded at MR imaging as follows: score of 0 = no intramuscular fat, score of 1 = some fatty streaks, score of 2 = fat evident but less extensive than muscle, score of 3 = fat equal to muscle, and score of 4 = fat more extensive than muscle. For readers 1 and 2, the accuracy of US in depicting fatty atrophy of SSP muscle was 75% (49 of 65) and 72% (47 of 65), sensitivity was 89% (eight of nine) and 100% (nine of nine), and specificity was 73% (41 of 56) and 68% (38 of 56), respectively. For readers 1 and 2, the accuracy of US in depicting fatty atrophy of ISP muscle was 85% (55 of 65) and 80% (52 of 65), sensitivity was 58% (11 of 19) and 63% (12 of 19), and specificity was 96% (44 of 46) and 87% (40 of 46), respectively. Overestimation of SSP muscle atrophy was more common (23% [15 of 65] for reader 1 and 28% [18 of 65] for reader 2) than underestimation (2% [one of 65] for reader 1 and 0% [0 of 65] for reader 2). For readers 1 and 2, overestimation of ISP muscle atrophy was 3% (two of 65) and 9% (six of 65) and underestimation was 12% (eight of 65) and 9% (seven of 65), respectively. Interobserver agreement was moderate for SSP (kappa = 0.55) and substantial for ISP (kappa = 0.71) muscles. US is moderately accurate in the diagnosis of substantial fatty atrophy of the SSP or ISP muscle."}
{"id": "16187512", "title": "Management of a patient with an isolated greater tuberosity fracture and rotator cuff tear.", "content": "Management of a patient with an isolated greater tuberosity fracture and rotator cuff tear. Case report. Patients with hyperflexion/hyperabduction injury to the glenohumeral joint are at risk for isolated greater tuberosity fractures, which are often undiagnosed or misdiagnosed. In this case report, we describe the clinical decision-making process that led to the diagnosis of an isolated greater tuberosity fracture and subsequent rotator cuff tear. The patient was a 45-year-old male who sustained a shoulder injury as the result of a fall while skiing. After the initiation of physical therapy, he was diagnosed with an isolated greater tuberosity fracture. Little is known regarding the optimal management and overall prognosis of this type of fracture. Conservative nonoperative management and postoperative physical therapy management are discussed. With conservative nonoperative management, the patient was unable to regain high-level functional shoulder use. Suspicion of continued pathology of the greater tuberosity dictated further diagnostic imaging, which led to surgical intervention. Upon completion of postoperative rehabilitation, he was able to resume full recreational activities. It is recommended that sound clinical decision-making dictate the management and ongoing evaluation of traumatic shoulder injuries, especially when managing a patient with an injury for which optimal treatment and prognosis is not well established."}
{"id": "16187324", "title": "Clinical significance of suprascapular nerve mobilization.", "content": "Clinical significance of suprascapular nerve mobilization. The anatomy of the suprascapular nerve is important to surgeons when focal nerve lesions necessitate surgical repair. Recent experience with a patient who had a complete suprascapular nerve lesion in the retroclavicular region (combined with axillary and musculocutaneous nerve lesions) is presented to illustrate that successful direct nerve repair is possible despite resection of a neuroma. Specifically, we found that neurolysis and mobilization of the suprascapular nerve and release of the superior transverse scapular ligament provided the necessary nerve length to achieve direct nerve repair after the neuroma was removed. A combined supraclavicular and infraclavicular approach to the suprascapular nerve provided excellent visualization, especially in the retroclavicular region. Postoperatively, the patient recovered complete shoulder abduction and external rotation with the direct repair, an outcome uncommonly achieved with interpositional grafting. Based on our operative experience, we set out to quantify the length that the suprascapular nerve could be mobilized with neurolysis. Mobilization of the nerve and release of the superior transverse scapular ligament generated an average of 1.6 cm and 0.7 cm of extra nerve length respectively, totaling 2.3 cm of additional usable nerve length overall. The ability to expose the suprascapular nerve in the retroclavicular/infraclavicular region and to mobilize the suprascapular nerve for possible direct repair has not been previously emphasized and is clinically important. This surgical approach and technique permits direct nerve repair after resection of a focal neuroma in the retroclavicular or infraclavicular region, thus avoiding interpositional grafting, and improving outcomes."}
{"id": "16180006", "title": "Scapular bronchogenic cysts in children: case report and review of the literature.", "content": "Scapular bronchogenic cysts in children: case report and review of the literature. Cutaneous bronchogenic cysts (CBC) are rare solitary lesions which originate from primitive tracheobronchial tree. The periscapular location of these lesions is even a rare condition. The aim of this study is to evaluate this pathology after our case with literature review. An one-year-old girl was brought to our clinics with the complaint of a drainage at the back of her shoulder. In her physical examination, a hyperemic enduration with a sinus and purulent drainage was noted at the left scapular region. Ultrasonography revealed a lesion of 15x11 mm2 in size with a thick wall and a hypoechoic center. The lumen of the cyst was demonstrated with fistulography. Surgical excision of the lesion was performed and pathological examination revealed a cutaneous bronchogenic cyst. CBC have been reported in 64 cases in the literature. They are often found in the lower neck, sternum and shoulders. They arise due to abnormal bronchial budding during the embryological period. Only in 12 of these patients, including our case, the lesion was located in the periscapular area. Its treatment is surgical because of malignant transformation and infection. The recognition of this entity may help the surgeon for early diagnosis."}
{"id": "16179197", "title": "Functional activity characteristics of individuals with shoulder dysfunctions.", "content": "Functional activity characteristics of individuals with shoulder dysfunctions. Shoulder-related dysfunction affects individuals' ability to function independently and thus decreases quality of life. Functional task assessment is a key concern for a clinician in diagnostic assessment, outcome measurement, and planning of treatment programs. The purpose of this study was to test the reliability of the FASTRAK 3-dimensional (3-D) motion analysis and surface electromyography (sEMG) systems to analyze 3-D shoulder complex movements during functional tasks and compare motion patterns between subjects with and without shoulder dysfunctions (SDs).For the test, sEMG and 3-D motion analysis systems were used to characterize the functional tasks. Twenty-five asymptomatic male subjects and 21 male subjects with right shoulder disorders performed four functional tasks which involved arm reaching and raising activities with their dominant arms. Reliability was estimated by the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). Motion pattern was compared between two groups using mixed analysis of variances (ANOVAs). Shoulder complex kinematics and associated muscular activities during functional tasks were reliably quantified (ICC=0.83-0.99) from the means of three trials. Relative to the group without SDs, the group with SDs showed significant alteration in shoulder complex kinematics (3 degrees -40 degrees ) and associated muscular activities (3-10% maximum). Scapular tipping, scapular elevation, upper trapezius muscle function, and serratus anterior muscle function may have implications in the rehabilitation of patients with SDs."}
{"id": "16178986", "title": "Corticosteroid injections for painful shoulders.", "content": "Corticosteroid injections for painful shoulders. The painful shoulder is a common clinical entity with a broad array of possible causes. A caregiver for an affected patient needs to determine the aetiology for the pain, often relying primarily on the history and physical examination and supplemented with laboratory testing and imaging when needed. However, initial treatment decisions are often made before ordering these tests in situations not involving trauma. Most conditions affecting the shoulder are treated with conservative measures such as rest, physical therapy and analgesics. When such measures fail, local corticosteroid injections can be a valuable tool to help achieve symptom relief for a wide range of the most common conditions affecting the shoulder joint. This review aims to help the clinician distinguish among the commonly encountered causes of shoulder pain and guide therapy when the use of local corticosteroid injections is considered."}
{"id": "16177410", "title": "MRI of internal impingement of the shoulder.", "content": "MRI of internal impingement of the shoulder. Internal impingement is a condition that occurs in athletes in which the shoulder is put in extreme abduction and external rotation during overhead movements. During this motion, the posterior fibers of the supraspinatus tendon, anterior fibers of the infraspinatus tendon, or both can get impinged between the humeral head and the posterior glenoid. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the ability of MRI to show the findings of internal impingement of the shoulder. As opposed to our six patients with clinically and surgically diagnosed internal impingement, the control patients had isolated pathology in the rotator cuff, labrum, or humeral head. We found that the constellation of findings of undersurface tears of the supraspinatus or infraspinatus tendon and cystic changes in the posterior aspect of the humeral head associated with posterosuperior labral pathology is a consistent finding diagnostic of internal impingement."}
{"id": "16173985", "title": "Rate of return to work and driving following arthroscopic subacromial decompression.", "content": "Rate of return to work and driving following arthroscopic subacromial decompression. The aim of the present paper was to evaluate the return to work and return to driving of a cohort of patients undergoing arthroscopic subacromial decompressions +/- arthroscopic acromioclavicular joint excision. Arthroscopic subacromial decompressions +/- arthroscopic acromioclavicular joint excision were performed in 68 patients between February 2000 and November 2000. All patients had symptoms of subacromial impingement +/- acromioclavicular joint arthrosis for more than 6 months that had not settled with conservative treatment. All had positive local anaesthetic injection tests. All patients were followed up at 3 weeks and 3 months postoperatively. Their Constant-Murley score was measured preoperatively and at 3 weeks and 3 months postoperatively. Patients were asked to record when they had returned to work and when they had returned to driving. Only one non-manual worker did not return to work within 6 weeks. Eighty-five per cent of manual workers returned to manual work within 3 months. Fifty-one patients held driving licences. The average time to return to driving was 28.9 days. Average preoperative Constant-Murley scores were 47.5 (20-67). At 3 weeks postoperation average Constant-Murley scores were 66.8 (40-92), and at 3 months 76.5 (48-99)."}
{"id": "16172860", "title": "Imaging findings of femoroacetabular impingement syndrome.", "content": "Imaging findings of femoroacetabular impingement syndrome. Femoroacetabular impingement syndrome (FAI) is a pathologic entity which can lead to chronic symptoms of pain, reduced range of motion in flexion and internal rotation, and has been shown to correlate with degenerative arthritis of the hip. History, physical examination, and supportive radiographic findings such as evidence of articular cartilage damage, acetabular labral tearing, and early-onset degenerative changes can help physicians diagnose this entity. Several pathologic changes of the femur and acetabulum are known to predispose patients to develop FAI and recognition of these findings can ultimately lead to therapeutic interventions. The two basic mechanisms of impingement-cam impingement and pincer impingement-are based on the type of anatomic anomaly contributing to the impingement process. These changes can be found on conventional radiography, MR imaging, and CT examinations. However, the radiographic findings of this entity are not widely discussed and recognized by physicians. In this paper, we will introduce these risk factors, the proposed supportive imaging criteria, and the ultimate interventions that can help alleviate patients' symptoms."}
{"id": "16171647", "title": "Arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears associated with large bone cysts of the proximal humerus: compaction bone grafting technique.", "content": "Arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears associated with large bone cysts of the proximal humerus: compaction bone grafting technique. Large bone cysts associated with symptomatic rotator cuff tears may pose significant treatment problems. Bone loss associated with these cysts or with implant removal in cases of revision rotator cuff surgery may be so large that secure suture anchor fixation cannot be achieved with traditional techniques. This report describes how to arthroscopically bone graft these defects with a compaction technique that creates a densely packed bone bed into which suture anchors can be securely placed."}
{"id": "16171640", "title": "Nonarthroplasty treatment of glenohumeral cartilage lesions.", "content": "Nonarthroplasty treatment of glenohumeral cartilage lesions. Treatment of young, active persons with symptomatic cartilage lesions of the glenohumeral joint represents a significant challenge. Diagnosis of glenohumeral chondral defects is not always straightforward and effective treatment requires familiarity with a number of techniques. Low-demand individuals may accept palliative therapy in the form of arthroscopic debridement as a temporizing solution. However, younger, high-demand individuals require a careful, stepwise approach that includes reparative, restorative, and reconstructive strategies. Reparative strategies use marrow-stimulation techniques to induce formation of fibrocartilage. Restorative tactics attempt to replace damaged cartilage with hyaline or hyaline-like tissue using osteochondral or chondrocyte transplantation. Large lesions that are not candidates for reparative or restorative procedures can be approached using reconstruction methods such as biologic resurfacing. This review examines causes of chondral injury in the glenohumeral joint, discusses diagnostic strategies, and presents a practical framework including palliative, reparative, restorative, and reconstructive options with which one can formulate a treatment plan for these patients."}
{"id": "16171638", "title": "Arthroscopic surgery to treat intra-articular type snapping hip.", "content": "Arthroscopic surgery to treat intra-articular type snapping hip. To reveal the causes of the intra-articular type snapping hip and their frequency. Case series. We studied 2 hip joints of 2 male patients and 30 hip joints of 28 female patients with snapping hip syndrome, in which the accompanying pain was transiently relieved by intra-articular injection of local anesthetic. The mean age at diagnosis was 26 years. Plain radiography, hip arthrography, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and arthroscopy were performed in these patients and the findings were compared. Plain radiography findings showed no abnormality in 11 joints, hip osteoarthritis in 19 joints, and femoral head deformation caused by Perthes disease and synovial osteochondromatosis in 1 joint each. Excluding the case of synovial osteochondromatosis, 31 joints were examined by MRI, which failed to identify the cause of snapping hip in all cases. Hip arthrography revealed an intra-articular loose body in 2 joints with osteoarthritis. Arthroscopy revealed acetabular labral tears in all 11 joints with no abnormalities and 15 of 19 joints with osteoarthritis on plain radiography films, and incompatibility between acetabular labrum and deformed femoral head in 2 joints with osteoarthritis. In the case of femoral head deformation after Perthes disease, arthroscopy revealed detachment of the femoral head cartilage as a result of impingement of the acetabulum on the femoral head. Arthroscopic surgeries were conducted: partial limbectomy for acetabular labral tears, surgical removal of loose bodies, partial femoral head excision for incompatibility between acetabular labrum and deformed femoral head, and shaving or articular cartilage detachment. The surgeries resolved the snapping in all cases. Acetabular labral tear was the cause of 80% of cases of intra-articular type snapping hip. Incompatibility between the acetabular labrum and a deformed femoral head was found to be a cause of intra-articular type snapping hip. Level IV, case series."}
{"id": "16171636", "title": "An evaluation of the effects of the extent of capsular release and of postoperative therapy on the temporal outcomes of adhesive capsulitis.", "content": "An evaluation of the effects of the extent of capsular release and of postoperative therapy on the temporal outcomes of adhesive capsulitis. To evaluate effects of the extent of surgical release and of postoperative physiotherapy on the outcomes of this procedure. Case-controlled cohort study. Pain and range of motion scores were compared preoperatively, operatively, and at 1, 6, 12, 24, 52, and 104 weeks postoperatively, in 2 temporal cohorts of patients with adhesive capsulitis. The first cohort (n = 18) underwent a 155 degrees +/- 40 degrees (mean +/- SEM) standard anteroinferior arthroscopic capsule release of the shoulder (ACR-S) and rehabilitation. The second cohort (n = 22) underwent capsular release that was extended an additional 65 degrees +/- 65 degrees posteriorly, a portion of the intra-articular part of the subscapularis tendon was divided, and the patients had a modified earlier, supervised postoperative physical therapy program (ACR-M). In both cohorts, there was a significant reduction in pain 1 week after surgery, which was maintained at all time-points (P < .05). More gains in intraoperative range of forward flexion (121 degrees v 150 degrees), abduction (114 degrees v 146 degrees) and external rotation (55 degrees v 68 degrees) were obtained in the ACR-M cohort (P < .001). Six weeks after surgery, external and internal rotation regressed to preoperative levels in the ACR-S cohort; 2 of them required a re-release. This regression was not observed in the ACR-M cohort. There was no instability or weakness in lift-off power in either cohort. This is a level IV study of 2 nonrandomized cohorts where simultaneous changes in surgical technique and rehabilitation were introduced to the ACR-M cohort. Arthroscopic capsular release for adhesive capsulitis resulted in significant reductions in pain by 1 week in both cohorts. A more extensive capsular release with division of the intra-articular portion of subscapularis improved intraoperative motion. Gains in internal and external rotation were lost postoperatively in the ACR-S cohort, but were preserved when an extended surgical release and an early, supervised postoperative physical therapy program was initiated in the ACR-M cohort. Level IV."}
{"id": "16171635", "title": "Unstable isolated SLAP lesion: clinical presentation and outcome of arthroscopic fixation.", "content": "Unstable isolated SLAP lesion: clinical presentation and outcome of arthroscopic fixation. The purpose of this study was to describe the clinical presentation and sensitivity of testing of unstable isolated SLAP (superior labrum anterior posterior) lesions and to evaluate the efficacy of arthroscopic treatment. Case series. A retrospective review was made of 44 unstable SLAP lesions in 41 patients (40 male, 1 female) who did not have other pathologic shoulder findings. The mean follow-up period was 33 months (range, 25 to 67 months) and the mean age at the time of surgery was 24 years (range, 17 to 43 years). Twenty-six patients had an injury on the dominant shoulder and 3 had bilateral shoulder involvement. Arthroscopic fixation was performed with the use of a biodegradable tack (Suretac; Acufex, Mansfield, MA) in 14 cases, and with a screw-type metallic suture anchor (mini-Revo; Linvatec, Largo, FL) in 30 cases. Pain (100%) and clicking (57%) were the most common symptoms. The compression-rotation test was positive in 84% of the patients before surgery. The average UCLA score at the last follow-up was 32.3 points; 22 cases were graded excellent, 16 good, and 6 poor. Based on the postoperative performance data collected from 33 athletes, 25 of them (76%) were able to return to their athletic activities. Among them, throwing athletes showed statistically better performance than did nonthrowing athletes (P = .011). Pain, followed by clicking, was the most common symptom, and the most common sign was a positive compression rotation test. Arthroscopic treatment of unstable isolated SLAP lesions resulted in good or excellent UCLA scores in 86% of the patients. Throwing athletes showed more satisfactory results than nonthrowing athletes. Type IV, case series with no, or historical, control group."}
{"id": "16171634", "title": "A comparison of arthroscopic and open rotator cuff repair.", "content": "A comparison of arthroscopic and open rotator cuff repair. The purpose of this study was to compare the results of all-arthroscopic repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears including massive tear with those of open repair. Nonrandomized control study. We evaluated 100 consecutive patients (100 shoulders) who were treated for full-thickness rotator cuff tears either by all-arthroscopic (50 patients) or open repair (50 patients). The mean age was 57 years (range, 24 to 78 years). The mean follow-up period was 49 months (range, 25 to 83 months). Of all the patients, 7 had a small tear, 63 a medium tear, 17 a large tear, and 13 a massive tear; in the arthroscopic group, 5 had a small tear, 28 a medium tear, 9 a large tear, and 8 a massive tear. The results of the arthroscopic and open groups were compared using the shoulder rating scale of the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA) and the Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA). The 2 groups were statistically similar in terms of age, gender, trauma incidence, tear size, duration of symptoms, and preoperative shoulder scores. The UCLA and JOA scores improved significantly in both groups postoperatively. Outcomes and the postoperative UCLA and JOA scores were not significantly different between the 2 groups. The postoperative UCLA and JOA scores in patients with a large-to-massive tear were significantly lower than those with a small-to-medium tear, but outcomes were not statistically different between the arthroscopic and open groups depending on the tear size. The percentage of satisfactory results of arthroscopic and open repair for small-to-medium tears was 97.0% and 94.6%, respectively. Those of arthroscopic and open repair for large-to-massive tears was 82.4% and 76.9%, respectively. Arthroscopic repair of small-to-massive tears had outcomes equivalent to those of open repair. Outcomes in patients with large-to-massive tears were inferior to those in patients with small-to-medium tears, regardless of repair method. Level III, case-control study."}
{"id": "16171633", "title": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff debridement without decompression for the treatment of tendinosis.", "content": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff debridement without decompression for the treatment of tendinosis. The treatment of rotator cuff injury in the absence of a full-thickness tear has traditionally consisted of acromioplasty. However, this disorder may also be treated by arthroscopic rotator cuff debridement without acromioplasty. Our previous study of 79 shoulders so treated reported 87% good or excellent results at an average 53-month follow-up. The purpose of this article is to report the long-term, average 9.5-year follow-up of this cohort. Long-term follow-up of case series. We retrospectively reviewed the records of 62 shoulders in 60 patients who had undergone arthroscopic rotator cuff debridement for partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. Demographic criteria, residual pain, and the ability to return to recreational athletics were noted. The UCLA Shoulder Score and the Simple Shoulder Test scores were determined and statistical analysis performed. Using the UCLA Shoulder Score, there were 79% excellent or good results at an average 114 months of follow-up. Patients with Workers' Compensation claims had significantly worse results, with only 40% rated good or excellent. Of the 60 patients, 77% had no or only minimal pain, 57% were still able to perform recreational athletics without difficulty, and 20% could participate at a lower level of intensity. Arthroscopic debridement of rotator cuff injury in the absence of a full-thickness tear has good long-term results and minimizes additional surgical trauma. Level IV, case series."}
{"id": "16171632", "title": "Proinflammatory cytokines and metalloproteases are expressed in the subacromial bursa in patients with rotator cuff disease.", "content": "Proinflammatory cytokines and metalloproteases are expressed in the subacromial bursa in patients with rotator cuff disease. The pathophysiology of subacromial impingement syndrome is poorly understood. We investigated the expression of inflammatory cytokines, metalloproteases, and the cyclooxygenases in the subacromial bursa in control patients and in patients with rotator cuff tear. Basic science evaluation. Eighteen patients undergoing shoulder surgery had a subacromial bursa biopsy examination. Patients were divided into 2 groups. Group I (study group) had 10 patients with a full-thickness rotator cuff tear (RCT). Group II (control group) had 8 patients. Seven of 8 underwent shoulder arthroscopy with anterior capsular reconstruction for instability; 1 of 8 underwent open reduction internal fixation for acute proximal humerus fracture. None of the patients in group II had any history of symptoms or signs consistent with subacromial impingement. H&E and immunohistochemical antibody (MMP-1, MMP-9, IL-1, IL-6, TNF-alpha, COX-1, and COX-2) stained specimens were examined by 2 blinded observers using a histologic scale (grade 0 = no staining to grade 4 = intense staining). Histologic evidence of inflammation was present in all patients with RCT (group I). No or mild inflammation was noted in group II. The average staining grade for inflammatory cytokines (IL-1, IL-6, TNF-alpha) and proteinases (MMP-1 and MMP-9) was significantly more pronounced in the RCT group (P < .001). Cyclooxygenase enzymes (COX-1 and COX-2) were also increased in group II (P < .001). A high level of expression of inflammatory cytokines, proteinases, and cyclooxygenase enzymes, known to produce a catabolic environment, is present in the subacromial bursa of patients with rotator cuff tear. These findings support the role of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and corticosteroids in RCT treatment, and emphasize the importance of subacromial bursectomy to reduce inflammation in RCT surgery."}
{"id": "16157858", "title": "Isolated and combined tears of the subscapularis tendon.", "content": "Isolated and combined tears of the subscapularis tendon. Isolated and combined subscapularis tendon tears are rare and are described in the literature only in small numbers. The outcome of surgical intervention for isolated and combined subscapularis tendon tears may be influenced by the tear pattern of the anterior rotator cuff and the period of time between trauma and surgical procedure. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Between 1994 and 1999, 34 shoulders with isolated traumatic tears (16 shoulders) or subscapularis tendon rupture combined with a supraspinatus tendon tear were treated operatively. The average patient age was 51 years, and the mean follow-up period was 37 months. For statistical analyses, the Friedman and Mann-Whitney tests were used. In patients with isolated tears, the Constant score rose from an average of 43.9 to 88.7 points (P < .01), and in patients with combined tears, it rose from an average of 40.6 to 74.7 points (P <.01). Isolated tears improved 14 points more than combined tears (P <.05). The delay between trauma and surgical intervention was inversely proportional to the improvement in the Constant score. The Spearman coefficient of correlation was -0.97 in isolated tears and -0.89 in combined tears. Young patients with isolated traumatic tears of the subscapularis tendon and immediate repair have the best prognostic factors for treatment. Accuracy in the trauma history and the clinical and radiographic examination is demanded."}
{"id": "16157853", "title": "Contact area, contact pressure, and pressure patterns of the tendon-bone interface after rotator cuff repair.", "content": "Contact area, contact pressure, and pressure patterns of the tendon-bone interface after rotator cuff repair. The contact pressure and contact area at the tendon-bone interface after the most commonly used rotator cuff repair methods have not been investigated. There are no significant differences among the transosseous, the single-row suture anchor, and the double-row suture anchor techniques in terms of contact pressure, contact area, and pressure patterns at the tendon-bone interface. Controlled laboratory study. After creating a full-thickness supraspinatus tendon tear in 10 cadaveric shoulder specimens, we inserted pressure-sensitive film between the tendon stump and the bone, and we repaired the tear by (1) transosseous, (2) single-row suture anchor, and (3) double-row suture anchor techniques. The contact area of the double-row technique was 42% greater than that of the transosseous technique (P < .0001) and 60% greater than that of the single-row technique. The contact area of the transosseous technique was 31% greater than that of the single-row technique (P = .0015). The average pressures of the single-row and double-row techniques were 18% (P = .014) and 16% (P = .03) greater, respectively, than that of the transosseous technique, but there was no significant difference between the single-row and double-row techniques (P = .915). The double-row technique produced the greatest contact area and the second-highest contact pressure, whereas the single-row technique created the highest contact pressure and the least contact area. The transosseous technique produced the second-greatest contact area and the least contact pressure. The double-row suture anchor technique and the transosseous technique may provide a better environment for tendon healing."}
{"id": "16157850", "title": "Intra-articular repair of an isolated partial articular-surface tear of the subscapularis tendon.", "content": "Intra-articular repair of an isolated partial articular-surface tear of the subscapularis tendon. Partial-thickness tear of the subscapularis tendon in the articular surface is common. Intra-articular repair of a partial articular-surface tear of the subscapularis tendon will provide a successful outcome. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. A total of 29 shoulders with an isolated partial articular-surface tear of the subscapularis tendon without another rotator cuff lesion were treated with arthroscopic intra-articular repair using suture anchors. Biceps tenodesis was performed in 16 patients. Outcomes were prospectively evaluated at a mean of 27 months (range, 19-41 months) using 3 objective (University of California at Los Angeles, American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons Shoulder Index, Simple Shoulder Test) and 2 subjective (pain and function visual analog scales) measurements. There were 21 men and 8 women, with a mean age of 54 years (range, 41-65 years). Tear widths were small (<1 cm) in 16 shoulders and large (>1 cm) in 13 shoulders. Twenty-six shoulders had articular cartilage erosion on the adjacent humeral head. Lesions of the biceps tendon were noted in 25 patients (partial tear in 15 shoulders; subluxation in 13 shoulders). Shoulder pain scores improved after surgery (5.0 +/- 2.7 to 0.3 +/- 0.7, P < .05). According to American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons Shoulder Index scores, 18 were excellent; 10, good; and 1, fair. Internal rotation strength deficit improved from 32% to 4%. Twenty-six patients returned to more than 90% of previous activity. There were no surgical complications; tear size and biceps tenodesis did not affect outcome (P > .05). Arthroscopic intra-articular repair of a partial articular-surface tear of the subscapularis tendon is an effective procedure that spares the intact tendon attachment in the bursal surface. Short-term outcomes were reliable by both objective and subjective measurements."}
{"id": "16156467", "title": "Histological and ultrastructural changes in the undersurface of the acromion with subacromial impingement.", "content": "Histological and ultrastructural changes in the undersurface of the acromion with subacromial impingement. We examined histological changes in the undersurface of the acromion in patients with symptoms of subacromial impingement, in order to clarify whether or not these changes are the main cause of rotator cuff tear. We studied 39 shoulders. The undersurface of the acromion and the coracoacromial ligament were examined by light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. The distinct four-layer structure seen in the undersurface of the acromion of normal subjects was not found in any of our patients. In patients with full-thickness cuff tear, the extent of the tear had a greater association with the degree of degeneration in the undersurface of the acromion than age or the duration of illness. There was little association between structural changes in the coracoacromial ligament and the extent of or the presence of full-thickness cuff tear, or the duration of illness, but there was a strong association with patient age. The histological changes in the undersurface of the acromion in patients without cuff tear were merely minute changes compared to those in patients with full-thickness cuff tear. We conclude that the advanced degenerative changes in the undersurface of the acromion result from full-thickness cuff tear."}
{"id": "16156339", "title": "Common overuse tendon problems: A review and recommendations for treatment.", "content": "Common overuse tendon problems: A review and recommendations for treatment. There is a common misconception that symptomatic tendon injuries are inflammatory; because of this, these injuries often are mislabeled as \"tendonitis.\"' Acute inflammatory tendinopathies exist, but most patients seen in primary care will have chronic symptoms suggesting a degenerative condition that should be labeled as \"tendinosus\" or \"tendinopathy.\" Accurate diagnosis requires physicians to recognize the historical features, anatomy, and useful physical examination maneuvers for these common tendon problems. The natural history is gradually increasing load-related localized pain coinciding with increased activity. The most common overuse tendinopathies involve the rotator cuff, medial and lateral elbow epicondyles, patellar tendon, and Achilles tendon. Examination should include thorough inspection to assess for swelling, asymmetry, and erythema of involved tendons; range-of-motion testing; palpation for tenderness; and examination maneuvers that simulate tendon loading and reproduce pain. Plain radiography, ultrasonography, and magnetic resonance imaging can be helpful if the diagnosis remains unclear. Most patients with overuse tendinopathies (about 80 percent) fully recover within three to six months, and outpatient treatment should consist of relative rest of the affected area, icing, and eccentric strengthening exercises. Although topical and systemic nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are effective for acute pain relief, these cannot be recommended in favor of other analgesics. Injected corticosteroids also can relieve pain, but these drugs should be used with caution. Ultrasonography, shock wave therapy, orthotics, massage, and technique modification are treatment options, but few data exist to support their use at this time. Surgery is an effective treatment that should be reserved for patients who have failed conservative therapy."}
{"id": "16148361", "title": "Subscapularis tendon tears.", "content": "Subscapularis tendon tears. Pathology of the subscapularis tendon is both infrequently identified and not commonly considered as a major source of shoulder pain and dysfunction. Subscapularis tendon pathology can present as isolated tears; partial-thickness tears; anterosuperior tears, also involving the supraspinatus tendon; complete rotator cuff avulsion; and rotator interval lesions, in which instability of the long head of the biceps tendon may dominate the clinical presentation. Although an accurate physical examination is paramount, modalities such as arthroscopy, magnetic resonance imaging, and ultrasound have advanced knowledge of the spectrum of abnormalities involving the subscapularis tendon. Nonsurgical management may be effective for most partial tears. Surgically, open repair is more frequent than use of arthroscopic techniques. Tears of the subscapularis tendon portend a different prognosis than do supraspinatus tendon tears, especially when the injury is acute and diagnosis is delayed."}
{"id": "16148146", "title": "An immune response directed to proteinase and adhesin functional epitopes protects against Porphyromonas gingivalis-induced periodontal bone loss.", "content": "An immune response directed to proteinase and adhesin functional epitopes protects against Porphyromonas gingivalis-induced periodontal bone loss. Porphyromonas gingivalis, a pathogen associated with periodontitis, bound to fibrinogen, fibronectin, hemoglobin, and collagen type V with a similar profile to that of its major virulence factor, the cell surface RgpA-Kgp proteinase-adhesin complex. Using peptide-specific, purified Abs in competitive inhibition ELISAs and epitope mapping assays, we have identified potential adhesin binding motifs (ABMs) of the RgpA-Kgp complex responsible for binding to host proteins. The RgpA-Kgp complex and synthetic ABM and proteinase active site peptides conjugated to diphtheria toxoid, when used as vaccines, protected against P. gingivalis-induced periodontal bone loss in the murine periodontitis model. The most efficacious peptide and protein vaccines were found to induce a high-titer IgG1 Ab response. Furthermore, mice protected in the lesion and periodontitis models had a predominant P. gingivalis-specific IL-4 response, whereas mice with disease had a predominant IFN-gamma response. The peptide-specific Abs directed to the ABM2 sequence (EGLATATTFEEDGVA) protected against periodontal bone loss and inhibited binding of the RgpA-Kgp complex to fibrinogen, fibronectin, and collagen type V. Furthermore, the peptide-specific Abs directed to the ABM3 sequence (GTPNPNPNPNPNPNPGT) protected against periodontal bone loss and inhibited binding to hemoglobin. However, the most protective Abs were those directed to the active sites of the RgpA and Kgp proteinases. The results suggest that when the RgpA-Kgp complex, or functional binding motif or active site peptides are used as a vaccine, they induce a Th2 response that blocks function of the RgpA-Kgp complex and protects against periodontal bone loss."}
{"id": "16145533", "title": "External rotation as a result of suprascapular nerve neurotization in obstetric brachial plexus lesions.", "content": "External rotation as a result of suprascapular nerve neurotization in obstetric brachial plexus lesions. Obstetric brachial plexus lesions may cause lifelong limitations of upper limb function. Nerve repair is widely advocated in infants who do not show spontaneous recovery. Typically, the suprascapular nerve (SSN) is involved in the lesion. Neurotization of the SSN routinely is performed, aiming at reinnervation of the infraspinatus muscle to restore external rotation. The results after SSN neurotization have not, as yet, been studied in detail; therefore, this study was undertaken. Of special interest was the comparison of two commonly applied SSN neurotization procedures: nerve grafting from C5 versus nerve transfer of the accessory nerve. Infants with obstetric brachial plexus lesions after nerve grafting of C5 to the SSN (n = 65) or nerve transfer of the accessory nerve to the SSN (n = 21) were selected for retrospective analysis after a mean follow-up period of 3 years. Outcome was expressed in degrees of true glenohumeral external rotation. This was defined as the angle between the position of the 90 degrees (actively or passively) flexed elbow resting against the abdomen and the position of the flexed elbow after external rotation with the upper arm held in adduction by the investigator. This movement can be executed only by infraspinatus muscle contraction. In addition, functional external rotation was evaluated by testing the ability to reach the mouth and the back of the head. Only 17 (20%) of the 86 patients reached more than 20 degrees of external rotation, whereas 35 (41%) were unable to perform true external rotation. There was no statistically significant difference between nerve grafting from C5 and extraplexal nerve transfer using the accessory nerve. Functional scores showed that 88% can reach the mouth and that 75% can reach the head. The restoration of a fair range of true glenohumeral external rotation after neurotization of the SSN in infants with obstetric brachial plexus lesions, whether by grafting from C5 or by nerve transfer of the accessory nerve, is disappointingly low. However, it seems that compensatory techniques contribute to effectuate a considerable range of movement."}
{"id": "16140812", "title": "Variation in orthopaedic surgeons' perceptions about the indications for rotator cuff surgery.", "content": "Variation in orthopaedic surgeons' perceptions about the indications for rotator cuff surgery. Epidemiologic studies have demonstrated substantial variations in per capita rates of many surgical procedures, including rotator cuff repair. The purpose of the current study was to characterize orthopaedic surgeons' attitudes concerning medical decision-making about rotator cuff surgery and to investigate the associations between these beliefs and reported surgical volumes. A survey was mailed to randomly selected orthopaedic surgeons listed in the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons directory. Only individuals who had treated patients for a rotator cuff tear, or had referred patients for such treatment, within the previous year were asked to complete the two-page survey. The survey comprised fifteen questions regarding clinical opinion, including four regarding hypothetical cases. Clinical agreement was defined as >80% of the respondents answering similarly. Of the 1100 surveys that were mailed, 539 were returned (a response rate of 49%). Of the 539 respondents, 316 (58.6%) had treated or referred patients with a rotator cuff tear in the previous year. There was a significant negative correlation between the surgeon's estimation of the failure rate of cuff repairs in the United States and that surgeon's procedure volume (r = -0.21, p = 0.0003), indicating that surgeons with a lower procedure volume are more pessimistic about the results of surgery than are those with a higher procedure volume. Arthroscopic, mini-open, and open cuff repairs were preferred by 14.5%, 46.2%, and 36.6% of the respondents, respectively. Surgeons who performed a higher volume of procedures were less likely to perform open surgery (p < 0.0001). There was clinical agreement regarding only four of the nine clinical questions and none of the four questions about the hypothetical vignettes. We found significant variation in surgical decision-making and a lack of clinical agreement among orthopaedic surgeons about rotator cuff surgery. There was a positive correlation between the volume of procedures performed by the surgeon and the surgeon's perception of outcome, with surgeons who had a higher procedure volume being more enthusiastic about rotator cuff surgery than those who had a lower procedure volume."}
{"id": "16140806", "title": "Radiographic and computed tomography analysis of cemented pegged polyethylene glenoid components in total shoulder replacement.", "content": "Radiographic and computed tomography analysis of cemented pegged polyethylene glenoid components in total shoulder replacement. Glenoid loosening continues to be the primary reason for failure of total shoulder arthroplasty. The purpose of this study was to evaluate, with use of a sensitive and reproducible imaging method, the radiographic and clinical results of total shoulder replacement with a pegged, cemented polyethylene glenoid implant. Forty-three patients (forty-seven shoulders) underwent a total shoulder replacement with a cemented polyethylene glenoid component with four threaded pegs. The patients were examined clinically, with fluoroscopically guided radiographs, and with computed tomography at an average of forty months. In addition to conventional scoring of radiographic lucency, an 18-point scoring system was used to quantify cement-peg lucencies in six zones of the back surface of the glenoid component as seen on computed tomography scans. On the average, the absolute Constant score improved from 39 points preoperatively to 70 points at the time of follow-up (p = 0.0001) and the pain score improved from 5 to 13 points (p = 0.001). The mean active anterior elevation improved by 34 degrees (p = 0.001) and the mean abduction, by 46 degrees (p = 0.006). Two patients had symptomatic glenoid loosening requiring revision. Twenty-one of the forty-seven shoulders had radiographic lucency around the glenoid pegs, and nine had progression of the lucency by at least two grades. Computed tomography detected lucencies, primarily at the bone-cement interface, in thirty-six shoulders. The scores for the lucencies seen on the computed tomography scans were associated with the radiographic lucency scores (p < 0.001), pain scores (p = 0.04), and abduction strength (p = 0.02). Computed tomography was more sensitive than radiography with regard to identifying the number of pegs associated with lucency and the size of the lucencies. The overall reproducibility of the scoring based on the computed tomography was higher than that of the radiographic scoring. Computed tomography provided a more sensitive and reproducible tool for the assessment of loosening of pegged glenoid components than did fluoroscopically guided conventional radiography. Further improvement in implant design and fixation technique appears to be necessary for long-term success of cemented glenoid components."}
{"id": "16139179", "title": "Glutamate and prostaglandin E2 in the trapezius muscle of female subjects with chronic muscle pain and controls determined by microdialysis.", "content": "Glutamate and prostaglandin E2 in the trapezius muscle of female subjects with chronic muscle pain and controls determined by microdialysis. Much is still unknown concerning the mechanisms underlying the development of chronic muscle pain. The presence and magnitude of inflammatory substances and neurotransmitters in chronic painful conditions is not clear. The aims of the present study were to determine, with the use of microdialysis, the interstitial concentrations and the equilibration times for PGE2 and glutamate in the trapezius muscles of nine female subjects with chronic muscle pain, and nine pain-free age-matched controls. A microdialysis probe was implanted in the upper part of the trapezius muscle and perfused with Ringer-acetate solution at a flow rate of 0.3 microL/min. Samples were obtained every 30 min, during a 4-h rest period. At equilibration, the mean concentrations (+/-SE) of PGE2 were 0.71 (+/-0.11) ng/mL for the pain-group and 0.97 (+/-0.35) ng/mL for the controls. For glutamate the mean concentrations for the pain-group were 66.3 (+/-13.3) micromol/L and 60.6 (+/-22.9) micromol/L for the controls. For the pain group and the control group, respectively, equilibration for PGE2 was reached at 180 and 150 min, and for glutamate at 150 and 120 min. The present study showed no differences between groups in the concentrations of PGE2 and glutamate in the trapezius muscle. Further, it revealed that when using the slow-flow method, a period of at least 2.0-2.5 h is needed, after probe insertion, to reach steady state for glutamate and PGE2."}
{"id": "16136598", "title": "Mature T-cell leukemias.", "content": "Mature T-cell leukemias. Mature T-cell and NK-cell leukemias are a group of relatively uncommon neoplasms derived from mature or postthymic T-cells accounting for a relatively small percentage of lymphoid malignancies. The recent availability of modern immunophenotypic and molecular tools has allowed a better distinction of these disorders from their B-cell counterparts. Similarly, identification of recurrent cytogenetic abnormalities, as well as plausible mechanisms through which these molecular events influence cellular signaling pathways, have created further insight into the pathogenesis of these disorders. Furthermore, the availability of new agents such as alemtuzumab has generated significant interest in devising specific therapeutic strategies for these malignancies. Herein, we review the clinical and pathological features of mature T-cell leukemias."}
{"id": "16133478", "title": "Arthroscopic diagnosis and treatment of an acetabular labrum bucket handle tear: a case report.", "content": "Arthroscopic diagnosis and treatment of an acetabular labrum bucket handle tear: a case report. The acetabular labrum is a fibrocartilaginous structure attached to the acetabular rim. It increases the surface area of acetabulum and stabilizes joint. Acetabular labral tears are an important cause of intractable hip pain in adults. We report a cause of an acetabular bucket handle tear of the right hip, caused by femoroacetabular impingement that was diagnosed and treated successfully with hip arthroscopy."}
{"id": "16131896", "title": "Does a Monteggia variant lesion result in a poor functional outcome?: A retrospective study.", "content": "Does a Monteggia variant lesion result in a poor functional outcome?: A retrospective study. We retrospectively reviewed the clinical and functional outcomes after operative fixation of ipsilateral fractures of the proximal ulna, radial head or neck, and radial head dislocation (Monteggia variant). Twenty of 25 patients who sustained this injury returned for followup at a mean of 2.3 years and were evaluated by an independent examiner. Radiographically, 17 of 20 fractures united after the index surgery. The three patients who had nonunions develop had Bado Type 2 fracture patterns. The fractures of two patients united after revision internal fixation, and bone grafting. Seven patients had heterotopic ossification develop and 14 of 20 patients had arthritic changes develop. The mean Broberg and Morrey score was 79.1 (range, 32.5-100) and the mean disability of the arm, shoulder and hand score was 64.1 (worse outcome than the general population). Eight of 20 patients required revision surgery (three for recurrent instability, three for nonunion of the ulna, one for radial head excision and hardware removal, and one for hardware removal alone). Nine of 20 patients had fair or poor outcomes according to the Broberg and Morrey scale. Physicians should counsel patients that functional impairment is common after these complex high-energy injuries. Prognostic study, Level IV (case series). See the Guideline for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "16127127", "title": "Partial-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Partial-thickness rotator cuff tears. Partial-thickness tears of the rotator cuff have been diagnosed with increased frequency because of a heightened awareness of the condition by clinicians and improved diagnostic methods. Research into the causes, natural history, and optimal treatment of this condition lags behind that of full-thickness tears. However, despite the limitations in the existing literature, there has emerged a consensus among shoulder experts that partial-thickness rotator cuff tears should be aggressively treated in the active athlete because of the unfavorable natural history of these lesions and success of accepted surgical algorithms. This review will provide an overview of the theories regarding the origins of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears, discuss the relative accuracy of accepted diagnostic techniques, and summarize the indications and methods of operative repair with an emphasis on the results of various treatment approaches."}
{"id": "16121388", "title": "Significance of the latissimus dorsi for shoulder instability. II. Its influence on dislocation behavior in a sequential cutting protocol of the glenohumeral capsule.", "content": "Significance of the latissimus dorsi for shoulder instability. II. Its influence on dislocation behavior in a sequential cutting protocol of the glenohumeral capsule. In a cadaveric instability model that leaves all muscles intact initially, the latissimus dorsi seemed to play a role when complete section of the glenohumeral capsuloligamentous structures did not result in a locked anteroinferior dislocation. The present study was carried out to determine whether the latissimus dorsi does truly affect dislocation in a modified cutting protocol, and to find an anatomic explanation for this apparent behavior. This article (Part II) details the results of a sequential cutting study and relates these results with the anatomic findings of Part I. In 75 shoulders, the influence of the latissimus dorsi on dislocation behavior in the apprehension position after section of all capsuloligamentous structures was examined. After cutting all capsuloligamentous structures, either on the glenoid or on the humeral side, the tendon of either the latissimus dorsi or the subscapularis was cut. Capsular lesions on the glenoid side (20 shoulders) resulted in a locked dislocation in 16 specimens. In the other four shoulders, there was a metastable dislocation after cutting the entire capsule, which did not change after cutting either tendon. With lesions on the humeral side (55 shoulders), three possibilities arose: metastable (17 shoulders), locked anterior (9 shoulders) or locked anteroinferior (29 shoulders) dislocation. This difference in dislocation behavior was related to the variability of the tendon-cartilage distance (TCD) and the type of scapular connection of the latissimus dorsi. A locked anteroinferior dislocation was always observed when the TCD was more than 20 mm, regardless of the type of scapular connection. With a TCD < 20 mm, a metastable dislocation was the result when there was a type 1 scapular connection and a locked anterior dislocation was seen when there was a type 2 scapular connection. The tendon of the latissimus dorsi can restrain the humeral head from dropping inferiorly or can lead to a spontaneous reduction of a dislocation, depending on its anatomy. This effect can only take place in the infrequent situation of humeral avulsion of the glenohumeral ligaments. This may be an explanation for the relative paucity of these lesions in clinical instability series."}
{"id": "16120937", "title": "Diffuse FDG shoulder uptake on PET is associated with clinical findings of osteoarthritis.", "content": "Diffuse FDG shoulder uptake on PET is associated with clinical findings of osteoarthritis. Our objective was to examine the degree and pattern of (18)F-FDG uptake within the shoulder as a potential marker of joint inflammation or injury. Twenty-four patients undergoing (18)F-FDG PET for clinical oncologic assessment completed questionnaires regarding history of shoulder disease, trauma, pain, and/or functional impairment. Thorough physical examination of the shoulder was performed. A clinical diagnosis of specific shoulder derangement or normal was established for each patient. PET scans were evaluated blindly by a nuclear medicine physician and a musculoskeletal radiologist qualitatively for location, distribution, and intensity of shoulder uptake. Standardized uptake values (SUV) were measured. Twenty-one patients had shoulder PET findings. Fourteen had clinical findings consistent with a specific diagnosis in the PET-positive shoulder. The remaining seven PET-positive patients were clinically normal. Three recognizable patterns of uptake were appreciable. Eight of 10 patients with diffuse uptake had findings of osteoarthritis (n = 7) or bursitis (n = 1). Two of four patients with focal greater tuberosity uptake had findings of rotator cuff injury. Two of four patients with focal glenoid uptake had findings of frozen shoulder. SUV showed a positive correlation with subject age (p < 0.01), but no association with clinical findings was identified. The pattern of FDG uptake within the shoulder may point to specific clinical entities. While focal uptake is less reliably related to clinical findings, diffuse uptake is associated with signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis or bursitis."}
{"id": "16119411", "title": "Hand dominance and side of stroke affect rehabilitation in chronic stroke.", "content": "Hand dominance and side of stroke affect rehabilitation in chronic stroke. To examine the difference between upper extremity deficits in subjects with left versus right hemispheric lesions at baseline and after bilateral arm training. A one-way ANOVA was used to detect group differences and a least square means analysis used to determine significance in pre-to-post scores for each group. Testing was in the Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Science Department Research Laboratory, University of Maryland, Baltimore. Training was at the Senior Exercise Rehabilitation Center in the Veterans Administration Hospital, Baltimore. Twenty-two (11 left hemispheric lesion, 11 right hemispheric lesion) right-handed subjects with chronic stroke. A six-week nonprogressive repetitive bilateral arm training with rhythmic auditory cueing (BATRAC). Fugl-Meyer Upper Extremity Test, Wolf Motor Arm Test, University of Maryland Arm Questionnaire for Stroke (UMAQS), isometric strength and active and passive range of motion for both sides. No statistical differences were seen at baseline between groups in this sample. Both groups demonstrated improvement after BATRAC in Fugl-Meyer Upper Extremity Test (change scores of those with left lesions = 5.5; right lesions = 3.6) and UMAQS (change scores of those with left lesions = 5 and right lesions = 2.9). Additionally, patients with left hemispheric lesions but not right lesions made improvements in the Wolf Motor Arm Test (time and weight), in strength measures of paretic elbow flexion, shoulder extension, shoulder abduction and nonparetic wrist flexion, wrist extension and shoulder abduction. There were no baseline motor function differences between those with left and right hemispheric lesions in this sample. There was a clear training response advantage for patients with left hemispheric lesions after completing six weeks of bilateral arm training. As a result, treatment approaches for upper extremity hemiparesis may need to be more specifically selected based on side of stroke."}
{"id": "16119403", "title": "Test-retest reliability of myofascial trigger point detection in patients with rotator cuff tendonitis.", "content": "Test-retest reliability of myofascial trigger point detection in patients with rotator cuff tendonitis. To investigate the test-retest reliability of the following clinical diagnostic characteristics of myofascial trigger points: taut band, spot tenderness, jump sign, pain recognition, referred pain and local twitch responses (LTRs). Test-retest reliability study. This study was undertaken in an outpatient physiotherapy department. Fifty-eight patients (31 males and 27 females) with rotator cuff tendonitis were recruited into this study. Rotator cuff muscles were assessed by an expert for the presence or absence of the main clinical diagnostic characteristics of trigger point assessment. The process was then repeated three days later by the same expert. Outcomes included the presence or absence of: a taut band, spot tenderness, jump sign, pain recognition, referred pain and LTRs. Kappa values between testing situations for the taut band, spot tenderness, jump sign and pain recognition were 1. Kappa scores for referred pain ranged between 0.79 and 0.88 and for the local twitch response between 0.75 and 1 depending on the muscles under investigation. The presence or absence of the taut band, spot tenderness, jump sign and pain recognition was highly reliable between sessions. Referred pain and local twitch response reliability varied depending on the muscle being studied."}
{"id": "16118295", "title": "Measurement of scapula upward rotation: a reliable clinical procedure.", "content": "Measurement of scapula upward rotation: a reliable clinical procedure. It is important to deal with the scapula when developing rehabilitation strategies for the shoulder complex. This requires clinical measurement tools that are readily available and easy to apply and which provide a reliable evaluation of scapula motion. To determine the reliability of the Plurimeter-V gravity inclinometer for the measurement of scapular upward rotation positions during humeral elevation in coronal abduction in a group of patients with shoulder pathology. Twenty six patients were assessed in two repeat tests within a single testing session. Patients exhibiting a wide spectrum of shoulder pathology were selected. The angle of scapular upward rotation was measured during total shoulder abduction. The measurement protocol was performed twice during a single testing session by a single tester. Results of the two tests were compared and the reliability assessed by intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs). There was no significant difference in the scapula measurements taken during the two tests at each testing position. Overall, there was very good intrarater reliability (ICC = 0.88). The ICC ranged from 0.81 (at 135 degrees) to 0.94 (at both resting and end of total shoulder abduction range). The Plurimeter-V gravity inclinometer can be used effectively and reliably for measuring upward rotation of the scapula in all ranges of shoulder abduction in the coronal plane."}
{"id": "16112350", "title": "Lymphangioma circumscriptum: treatment with hypertonic saline sclerotherapy.", "content": "Lymphangioma circumscriptum: treatment with hypertonic saline sclerotherapy. A 38-year-old woman came for treatment of multiple clear vesicles and hemorrhagic papules on the posterior aspect of the right shoulder and the right axillary vault of 5 years' duration. These lesions would spontaneously manifest as clear or blood-filled vesicles (or both) and appear to be exacerbated by physical contact from certain articles of clothing. A biopsy was done and the results revealed lymphangioma circumscriptum. The purpose of this case study was to evaluate a new form of treatment of lymphangioma circumscriptum with the use of 23.4% hypertonic saline sclerotherapy. The patient's lymphangioma circumscriptum significantly resolved with minimal side effects, such as mild hyperpigmentation. Decreased sensitivity was noted and no further treatment was indicated. This case showed that hypertonic saline 23.4% solution can be effective in treating the appearance of vesicles containing clear fluid or lymph and those containing red blood cells in superficial lymphangiomas and that this treatment can be considered for long-term management of lymphangioma circumscriptum."}
{"id": "16098645", "title": "Angular position, range of motion and velocity of arm elevation: a study of consistency of performance.", "content": "Angular position, range of motion and velocity of arm elevation: a study of consistency of performance. To define the normal range, velocity and consistency of the movement of active arm elevation with humerus in neutral or in external rotation using a simplified kinematic model. Nine normal volunteers and the non-involved side of twenty five patients with unilateral shoulder lesion participated. A 3D optoelectronic tracking system was used to register the movement of raising the arm from the normal upright position to maximal elevation in a repetitive way. Peak humeral position, range of movement, velocity of motion and consistency of cycles were analyzed. Descriptive statistics, correlation between variables and with sex, age and side are presented, including differences between performances of movement done in neutral or external rotation. Data of the six variables were: maximal abduction 142 degrees [137.4-147.0], range of motion 118.1 degrees [112-124], maximal velocity 238 degrees/s [209-265]; mean velocity 113 degrees/s [96-130]; coefficient of variation of maximal angular abduction was 2.2% [1.7-2.7]; coefficient of variation of maximal velocity 8.6% [7.3-9.9]. No significant differences were observed either on side, sex or between the shoulder of normal volunteers or that of the patients with opposite shoulder lesions. Participants older than 45 years old showed only a significant slightly lower average velocity. The study confirms the weak association between dependent (biomechanical) and independent variables. As it is described here, analysis of arm elevation has not been previously studied and shows that has a good consistency in angular position, velocity and repeatability of motion in normal conditions which permits a picture of the overall performance of the shoulder."}
{"id": "16097550", "title": "The biceps tendon footprint.", "content": "The biceps tendon footprint. By arthroscopy, we observed a phenomenon that, according to our knowledge not previously described, we call the \"biceps tendon footprint\" (BTF)--an area of chondromalacia beside the bicipital groove. We studied 118 shoulder arthroscopies prospectively. We documented whether a BTF could be observed and what the main pathology associated with it was. We used 3 grades of cartilage wear to describe BTF, and we analyzed pathological changes in associated structures (subscapularis, biceps tendon and humeral head). We found a BTF in 16% of the cases. Associated diagnoses were cuff tears and instabilities, most often multidirectional. We observed all 3 grades of cartilage wear, grade 3 being the commonest. Biceps synovitis occurred more often in the BTF group. BTF is not a rare phenomenon. Maltraction of the intraarticular biceps tendon in MDI and cuff tears in addition with biceps synovitis appear to cause BTF."}
{"id": "16093533", "title": "Arthroscopic transtendon repair of partial-thickness articular-side tears of the rotator cuff: anatomical and clinical study.", "content": "Arthroscopic transtendon repair of partial-thickness articular-side tears of the rotator cuff: anatomical and clinical study. The precise results of arthroscopic transtendon repair of partial-thickness articular-side tears of the rotator cuff remain to be reported. Arthroscopic transtendon repair is useful in patients with Ellman grade 3 (>6 mm) partial-thickness articular-side tears of the supraspinatus tendon. Descriptive laboratory study and case series; Level of evidence, 4. In 43 cadaveric shoulders (mean age, 80 years; range, 50-97 years), the authors measured the width of the supraspinatus insertion (medial-to-lateral direction) and the distance between the articular cartilage edge and the tendon insertion at a site 10 mm lateral to the anterior margin of the greater tuberosity. A clinical study group of 17 patients (mean age, 42 years; range, 17-51 years) was observed for a mean follow-up of 39 months (range, 25-57 months). University of California at Los Angeles and Japanese Orthopaedic Association shoulder scores and postoperative overhead athletic activities were evaluated. The mean width of the supraspinatus insertion was 9.6 mm (SD, 1.6 mm; range, 7-13 mm; 95% confidence interval, 9.1-10.1 mm; 95% prediction interval, 6.4-12.8 mm). The mean distance between the articular cartilage edge and the tendon insertion was 0.3 mm (range, 0-2 mm). After the procedure, the mean University of California at Los Angeles and Japanese Orthopaedic Association scores significantly improved from 17.3 and 68.4 points to 32.9 and 94.8 points, respectively (P < .01). Rated on the Japanese Orthopaedic Association scale, results were excellent in 14, good in 2, and fair in 1 patient; there were no poor results. Of 6 overhead-throwing athletes, 2 returned to their previous sports at the same level, 3 returned at a lower level, and 1 was unable to return. Arthroscopic transtendon repair is a safe, reliable procedure in patients with grade 3 partial-thickness articular-side tears. In the majority of patients, partial tears of more than 6 mm of the supraspinatus tendon thickness involved more than 50% of the entire tendon thickness."}
{"id": "16093532", "title": "Tendon-bone interface motion in transosseous suture and suture anchor rotator cuff repair techniques.", "content": "Tendon-bone interface motion in transosseous suture and suture anchor rotator cuff repair techniques. Although many studies involving rotator cuff repair fixation have focused on ultimate fixation strength and ability to restore the tendon's native footprint, no studies have characterized the stability of the repair with regard to motion between the tendon and repair site footprint. Suture anchor fixation for rotator cuff repair has greater interface motion between tendon and bone than does transosseous suture fixation. Controlled laboratory study. Twelve fresh-frozen human cadaveric shoulders were tested in a custom device to position the shoulder in internal and external rotations with simulated supraspinatus muscle loading. Tendon motion relative to the insertional footprint on the greater tuberosity was determined optically using a digital camera rigidly connected to the humerus, with the humerus positioned at 60 degrees of internal rotation and 60 degrees of external rotation. Testing was performed for the intact tendon, a complete supraspinatus tear, a suture anchor repair, and a transosseous tunnel repair. Difference in tendon-bone interface motion when compared with the intact tendon was 7.14 +/- 3.72 mm for the torn rotator cuff condition, 2.35 +/- 1.26 mm for the suture anchor repair, and 0.02 +/- 1.18 mm for the transosseous suture repair. The transosseous suture repair demonstrated significantly less motion when compared with the torn rotator cuff and suture anchor repair conditions (P < .05). Transosseous suture repair compared with suture anchor repair demonstrated superior tendon fixation with reduced motion at the tendon-to-tuberosity interface. Development of new fixation techniques for arthroscopic and open rotator cuff repairs should attempt to minimize interface motion of the tendon relative to the tuberosity."}
{"id": "16089092", "title": "Treatment of anterior femoroacetabular impingement with combined hip arthroscopy and limited anterior decompression.", "content": "Treatment of anterior femoroacetabular impingement with combined hip arthroscopy and limited anterior decompression. Anterior femoroacetabular impingement results from abnormal abutment of the anterolateral femoral head-neck junction with the anterior acetabular-labral complex resulting in pain and progressive hip dysfunction. This under-recognized problem could be the manifestation of acetabular or proximal femoral deformity, and when left untreated leads to the development of osteoarthritis of the hip. Conservative treatment is usually unsuccessful and the optimal surgical treatment for these disorders needs to be determined. We present our technique for treating femoral (cam) impingement which combines hip arthroscopy and a limited open anterior head-neck osteoplasty as a less invasive and more conservative surgical approach, which still adequately addresses the anatomy and pathophysiology of this disease."}
{"id": "16085619", "title": "Rotator cuff repair in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.", "content": "Rotator cuff repair in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Currently, there is very little information available regarding the results of rotator cuff repair in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Therefore, we reviewed our experience to determine the results, the risk factors for an unsatisfactory outcome, and the rates of failure of this procedure. We retrospectively reviewed the records of all patients with rheumatoid arthritis who had undergone repair of a rotator cuff tear at our institution from 1988 to 2002. Twenty-three shoulders in twenty-one patients were identified. The median duration of follow-up for the twenty shoulders that did not require revision surgery was 9.7 years. Nine shoulders had a partial-thickness tear, and fourteen had a full-thickness tear. The shoulders were assessed with regard to pain, functional outcome, and overall patient satisfaction. Patients with both partial and full-thickness rotator cuff tears had significant improvements in terms of overall pain (p < 0.05) and satisfaction (p < 0.05). Patients who had undergone repair of a partial-thickness tear had improved active elevation (from 155 degrees to 180 degrees; p = 0.03), whereas patients who had undergone repair of a full-thickness tear did not have improved elevation. Six of the fourteen shoulders with a full-thickness tear had an unsatisfactory result, whereas only two of the nine shoulders with a partial-thickness tear had an unsatisfactory result. Rotator cuff repair in patients with rheumatoid arthritis can be challenging. However, durable pain relief and patient satisfaction can be achieved. Functional gains should not be expected in patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears. Repair of the rotator cuff in patients with rheumatoid arthritis can be undertaken when nonoperative measures for pain relief have failed."}
{"id": "16085613", "title": "Subscapularis muscle function and structure after total shoulder replacement with lesser tuberosity osteotomy and repair.", "content": "Subscapularis muscle function and structure after total shoulder replacement with lesser tuberosity osteotomy and repair. Recent studies have suggested that tenotomy and repair of the subscapularis tendon carried out for anterior approaches to the shoulder can be followed by failure of the tendon repair and by changes resulting in permanent loss of subscapularis function. We hypothesized that release of the subscapularis with use of a superficial osteotomy of the lesser tuberosity followed by repair of the two opposing bone surfaces would lead to consistent bone-to-bone healing, which would be possible to monitor radiographically, and would lead to satisfactory clinical and structural outcomes. Thirty-nine shoulders in thirty-six consecutive patients who, at an average age of fifty-seven years, had undergone total shoulder replacement through an anterior approach involving an osteotomy of the lesser tuberosity were evaluated at an average of thirty-nine months. Assessment included a standardized interview and physical examination, scoring according to the system described by Constant and Murley, and imaging with conventional radiography and computed tomography to assess healing of the osteotomy site and changes in the subscapularis. The osteotomized tuberosity fragment healed in an anatomical position in all shoulders, and no cuff tendon ruptures were observed. At the time of follow-up, thirty-three (89%) of thirty-seven shoulders evaluated with a belly-press test had a negative result and twenty-seven (75%) of thirty-six shoulders evaluated with a lift-off test had an unequivocally normal result. Fatty infiltration of the subscapularis muscle increased after the operation (p < 0.0001) and was at least stage two in eleven (32%) of thirty-four shoulders. The fatty infiltration had progressed by one stage in eight (24%) of the thirty-four shoulders, by two stages in five shoulders (15%), and by three stages in two shoulders (6%). Osteotomy of the lesser tuberosity provides an easy anterior approach for total shoulder replacement and is followed by consistent bone-to-bone healing, which can be monitored, and good subscapularis function. In the presence of documented anatomical healing of the osteotomy site, postoperative fatty infiltration of the subscapularis muscle remains unexplained and needs to be investigated further as it is associated with a poorer clinical outcome."}
{"id": "16085607", "title": "The Reverse Shoulder Prosthesis for glenohumeral arthritis associated with severe rotator cuff deficiency. A minimum two-year follow-up study of sixty patients.", "content": "The Reverse Shoulder Prosthesis for glenohumeral arthritis associated with severe rotator cuff deficiency. A minimum two-year follow-up study of sixty patients. Patients who have pain and dysfunction from glenohumeral arthritis associated with severe rotator cuff deficiency have few treatment options. The goal of this study was to retrospectively evaluate the short-term results of arthroplasty with use of the Reverse Shoulder Prosthesis in the management of this problem. We report the results for sixty patients (sixty shoulders) with a rotator cuff deficiency and glenohumeral arthritis who were followed for a minimum of two years. Thirty-five patients had no previous shoulder surgery, whereas twenty-three had had either an open or arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, one had had a subacromial decompression, and one had had a biceps tendon repair. All patients were assessed preoperatively and postoperatively with the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scoring system for pain and function and with visual analog scales for pain and function. They were also asked to rate their satisfaction with the outcome. The shoulder range of motion was measured preoperatively and postoperatively. The average age of the patients was seventy-one years. The average duration of follow-up was thirty-three months. All measures improved significantly (p < 0.0001). The mean total score on the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons system improved from 34.3 to 68.2; the mean function score, from 16.1 to 29.4; and the mean pain score, from 18.2 to 38.7. The score for function on the visual analog scale improved from 2.7 to 6.0, and the score for pain on the visual analog scale improved from 6.3 to 2.2. Forward flexion increased from 55.0 degrees to 105.1 degrees, and abduction increased from 41.4 degrees to 101.8 degrees. Forty-one of the sixty patients rated the outcome as good or excellent; sixteen were satisfied, and three were dissatisfied. There were a total of thirteen complications in ten patients (17%). Seven patients (12%) had eight failures, requiring revision surgery to another Reverse Shoulder Prosthesis in five patients (one shoulder had two revisions) and revision to a hemiarthroplasty in two patients because of deep infection. The data from this study suggest that arthroplasty with the Reverse Shoulder Prosthesis may be a viable treatment for patients with glenohumeral arthritis and a massive rotator cuff tear. However, future studies will be necessary to determine the longevity of the implant and whether it will provide continued improvement in function."}
{"id": "16060555", "title": "Os acromiale: evaluation and treatment.", "content": "Os acromiale: evaluation and treatment. Os acromiale is a developmental aberration in which the distal acromion fails to fuse. This aberration is often discovered incidentally but may present with a clinical picture similar to that of subacromial impingement syndrome. Treatment for symptomatic os acromiale is initially nonoperative-activity modification, physical therapy, corticosteroid injection, use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medication. Nonoperative management of clinically significant, radiographically confirmed os acromiale should be pursued for at least 6 months before consideration of surgical intervention. Subacromial decompression is often necessary to address symptoms of impingement. Excision of the os fragment may provide definitive treatment for smaller fragments (<3 cm). Removal of larger fragments remains controversial and should be approached with caution. Surgical fixation of larger fragments with or without supplemental autograft in conjunction with a structured postoperative program of physical therapy can reliably provide relief for symptomatic os acromiale."}
{"id": "16055296", "title": "Delayed repair of tendon to bone injuries leads to decreased biomechanical properties and bone loss.", "content": "Delayed repair of tendon to bone injuries leads to decreased biomechanical properties and bone loss. Repair of the torn rotator cuff tendon is a common procedure performed in the shoulder. In the clinical setting, a significant delay between rotator cuff tear and subsequent repair often exists. The purpose of this study was to investigate the biomechanical properties and bone density of the tendon to bone repair site after acute and delayed repair. The supraspinatus tendons in bilateral shoulders of 60 rats were transected from the bone. In the acute group, the tendons were immediately repaired with suture. In the delayed group, the tendons were allowed to retract and repaired in a second procedure after a 3-week delay. Cross sectional area and biomechanical properties were evaluated. Bone density of the humeral head was assessed using peripheral quantitative computed tomography. Histologic sections were obtained and examined. At 10 days the repair tissue displayed vascular and fibroblast proliferation accompanied by predominantly mononuclear infiltrate. At 28 days the inflammatory process gradually decreased. No significant histologic differences were noted between the acute and delayed repair specimens. Cross-sectional area was higher in the delayed group at the early time points (44% at 10 days and 31% at 28 days). Viscoelastic properties were greater in the acute group at the early time points and significantly less at the latest time point, compared to the delayed group. Bone density was markedly decreased (8% and 12%, 28 and 56 days respectively) in the delay group. Inferior rotator cuff healing was demonstrated when there was a delay between injury and repair. Viscoelastic properties of the acute repairs were increased compared to the delayed group at 10 days, indicating tendon stiffening during the 3-week delay before repair. Viscoelastic properties of the acute repairs were decreased compared to the delayed group at 56 days indicating deterioration of properties over time in the delayed group. The deterioration in properties in the delayed group coincide with bone density decreases in the greater tuberosity. These results indicate that bone loss may a significant factor in poor healing."}
{"id": "16053452", "title": "Sore shoulder in physical practice.", "content": "Sore shoulder in physical practice. Sore shoulder or shoulder region is frequently encountered in general population. According to reference data prevalence ranges between 15 and 20% in 40-45 age group. A weak bone support enables extensive excursions of this joint and simultaneously reduces its stability. We analyzed successfulness of sore shoulder treatment in a sample of 1115 patients treated in the Center for physical medicine and rehabilitation between 1996 and 2004. All the patients reported to the Center either in acute phase or in the phase of chronic state exacerbation, with limited function that was graded on the scale 0 to 5. Type and kind of sore shoulder cause was determined by clinical examination and, where needed, by X-ray. Of the total number of cases, 33 patients did not report for follow up examination, 166 patients were forwarded to other physical therapy centers for treatment so the final analysis included 916 patients (82%) whose treatment success was evaluated on the scale 0 to 5. In 659 (58%) patients the inflammation of musculus biceps long tendon was identified as a cause of sore shoulder. The least frequent cause was the blow syndrome (impingement)--20 (2%). In 666 patients (73%) the problem was resolved by local instillation of depo corticosteroids (Betamethason 7 mg) so the physical treatment was not required."}
{"id": "16048139", "title": "Effect of fore-aft seat position on shoulder demands during wheelchair propulsion: part 1. A kinetic analysis.", "content": "Effect of fore-aft seat position on shoulder demands during wheelchair propulsion: part 1. A kinetic analysis. The highly repetitive and weight-bearing nature of wheelchair (WC) propulsion has been associated with shoulder pain among persons with spinal cord injury (SCI). Manipulation of WC seat position is believed to reduce the overall demand of WC propulsion. The objective of this investigation was to document the effect of fore-aft seat position on shoulder joint kinetics. Thirteen men with complete motor paraplegia propelled a test WC in 2 fore-aft seat positions during free, fast, and graded conditions. The seat-anterior position aligned the glenohumeral joint with the wheel axle and the seat-posterior position moved the glenohumeral joint 8 cm posteriorly. The right wheel of the test chair was instrumented to measure forces applied to the pushrim. An inverse dynamics algorithm was applied to calculate shoulder joint forces, external moments, and powers. For all test conditions, the superior component of the shoulder joint resultant force was significantly lower in the seat-posterior position. During graded propulsion, the posterior component of the shoulder joint force was significantly higher with the seat posterior. Peak shoulder joint moments and power were similar during free and fast propulsion. During graded propulsion, the seat-posterior position displayed increased internal rotation moment, decreased sagittal plane power absorption, and increased transverse plane power generation. This investigation provides objective support that a posterior seat position reduces the superior component of the shoulder joint resultant force. Consequently, this intervention potentially diminishes the risk for impingement of subacromial structures."}
{"id": "16047388", "title": "Dynamic ultrasonography of rotator cuff muscles.", "content": "Dynamic ultrasonography of rotator cuff muscles. To confirm the neuromuscular integrity of the rotator cuff and to investigate the effect of different contraction patterns on shoulder function, we sonographically analyzed dynamic contraction patterns of this muscle group. Fifty supra- and 50 infraspinatus muscle contraction patterns of patients with different shoulder pathologies examined with a 7.5-MHz transducer were recorded and saved as video files. Both data sets were analyzed by 3 independent observers who then assigned a grade to each contraction pattern: normal, slightly disturbed, severely disturbed, or no contraction. Intra- and inter-observer variations were calculated. In 43 patients with isolated supraspinatus tears, the clinical relation to shoulder function as measured with the Constant score was evaluated. In the 100 cases tested, the intraclass correlations for the 3 observers were 0.82, 0.88, and 0.88. The inter-observer reliability was 0.74. No pair of first and second readings for either the supraspinatus or infraspinatus muscle differed by more than 1 grade. In patients with a supraspinatus tear, the contraction type of the supraspinatus correlated significantly with the Constant score (p=0.02). When dynamic ultrasonography is used to assess the contraction patterns of the supra- and infraspinatus muscles, good intra- and inter-observer reliability is attained. Because a better contraction type correlates significantly with better shoulder function, this new diagnostic criterion may improve decision-making in the treatment of shoulder diseases."}
{"id": "16043922", "title": "Heterotopic ossification related to toxic epidermal necrolysis in a patient with Beh\u00e7et's disease.", "content": "Heterotopic ossification related to toxic epidermal necrolysis in a patient with Beh\u00e7et's disease. We describe a 44-year-old woman with an 18-year-history of Beh\u00e7et's disease (BD) in whom heterotopic ossification (HO) developed as a complication of toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN). The patient presented with high fever, a progressive erythematous rash including target-like lesions, flaccid blister formations, and severe detachment. The patient was diagnosed with TEN, and methylprednisolone therapy was started. In the 2nd month of her hospital course, painful limitation developed in both her elbow and shoulder joints. Laboratory and radiographic findings confirmed HO of these areas. BD associated with TEN and HO is a previously unreported entity. In such a condition, determination of underlying genetic abnormality is important. Additionally, HO should be considered as a potential cause of the symptoms related to the joints."}
{"id": "16041500", "title": "Deceleration affects anticipatory and reactive components of triggered postural responses.", "content": "Deceleration affects anticipatory and reactive components of triggered postural responses. Understanding the physiological and psychological factors that contribute to healthy and pathological balance control in man has been made difficult by the confounding effects of the perturbations used to test balance reactions. The present study examined how postural responses were influenced by the acceleration-deceleration interval of an unexpected horizontal translation. Twelve adult males maintained balance during unexpected forward and backward surface translations with two different acceleration-deceleration intervals and presentation orders (serial or random). \"SHORT\" perturbations consisted of an initial acceleration (peak acceleration 1.3 m s(-2); duration 300 ms) followed 100 ms later by a deceleration. \"LONG\" perturbations had the same acceleration as SHORT perturbations, followed by a 2-s interval of constant velocity before deceleration. Surface and intra-muscular electromyography (EMG) from the leg, trunk, and shoulder muscles were recorded along with motion and force plate data. LONG perturbations induced larger trunk displacements compared to SHORT perturbations when presented randomly and larger EMG responses in proximal and distal muscles during later (500-800 ms) response intervals. During SHORT perturbations, activity in some antagonist muscles was found to be associated with deceleration and not the initial acceleration of the support surface. When predictable, SHORT perturbations facilitated the use of anticipatory mechanisms to attenuate early (100-400 ms) EMG response amplitudes, ankle torque change and trunk displacement. In contrast, LONG perturbations, without an early deceleration effect, did not facilitate anticipatory changes when presented in a predictable order. Therefore, perturbations with a short acceleration-deceleration interval can influence triggered postural responses through reactive effects and, when predictable with repeated exposure, through anticipatory mechanisms."}
{"id": "16038854", "title": "Reliability of palpation of humeral head position in asymptomatic shoulders.", "content": "Reliability of palpation of humeral head position in asymptomatic shoulders. The purpose of this study was to determine if, within a normal population: (1) palpation of the humeral head, relative to the acromion, in three static positions, was a reliable technique (2) there was a difference in humeral head position between the dominant and non-dominant shoulders in the three positions (3) there was a difference in humeral head position relative to the acromion between the arm at side (AS), the 90 degrees abduction/external rotation (AER) and 90 degrees abduction/internal rotation (AIR) positions. This test-retest study recorded palpation landmarks using a standardized protocol. Intra-tester reliability was above 0.8 for both AS and AER and all other ICCs were below 0.6. There was no systematic difference between dominant and non-dominant sides in any of the three positions (AS P=0.408, AER P=0.448, AIR P=0.233). There was a significant difference in measurements between each position (P<0.001). It can be concluded that, palpation of humeral head position in relation to the acromion is a reliable technique in the AS position. These normative data provide a baseline that can be used for future comparison if differences are found to exist in subgroups with pathological shoulder conditions where larger glenohumeral translations are thought to exist."}
{"id": "16037507", "title": "Comparison of fat-suppressed T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequence and modified STIR sequence in the evaluation of the rotator cuff tendon.", "content": "Comparison of fat-suppressed T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequence and modified STIR sequence in the evaluation of the rotator cuff tendon. This study was performed to determine whether a modified version of the classic STIR sequence provides similar information about the integrity of the rotator cuff tendon as the commonly used fat-suppressed T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequence. Sixty-one consecutive MRI examinations of the shoulder in 57 patients were performed using a coronal oblique T1-weighted spin-echo sequence, a modified version of the STIR sequence, and a fat-suppressed T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequence. Three reviewers independently assessed the rotator cuff tendon using the coronal oblique modified inversion recovery sequence and T1-weighted spin-echo sequence. After a minimum of 4 weeks, reviewers assessed the rotator cuff tendon using the fat-suppressed T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequence and T1-weighted spin-echo sequence. The kappa statistic was used to measure the degree of concordance between interpretations when each sequence was used independently. The conditional probability that a full- and a partial-thickness tear would be diagnosed on both sequences was calculated. Image quality was assessed in a side-by-side comparison. The overall weighted kappa score was 0.82, which indicates excellent concordance between the two sequences. If a full-thickness tear of the rotator cuff tendon was found on the fat-suppressed T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequence, there was a 94.1% probability that the same conclusion would be reached using the modified inversion recovery sequence. If a partial-thickness tear was found on the fat-suppressed T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequence, there was an 80.3% probability that the same conclusion would be reached with the modified inversion recovery sequence. Fat suppression in the modified inversion recovery sequence was superior to that in the T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequence in 26-39% of the examinations. The modified inversion recovery sequence and fat-suppressed T2-weighted fast spin-echo sequence provide similar information about the integrity of the rotator cuff tendon."}
{"id": "16037506", "title": "Contracture of the deltoid muscle: sonographic evaluation with MRI correlation.", "content": "Contracture of the deltoid muscle: sonographic evaluation with MRI correlation. This article evaluates the sonographic features of deltoid contracture (DC) with MRI correlation. Two reviewers evaluated the imaging features in 22 painful shoulders of 20 patients with a sonographic diagnosis of DC and a subsequent confirming MRI study. The sonographic and MRI findings with regard to the lesion extent (assessed by a 3-point scale: 1 = less than or equal to one third of the longitudinal deltoid length involved, 2 = greater than one third and less than or equal to two thirds involved, and 3 = greater than two thirds involved), transverse lesion morphologic appearance, and maximal transverse diameter measured were compared with kappa statistics and Wilcoxon's signed rank test, respectively. Compared with MRI, there were two false-positive diagnoses of DC on sonography. Among the 20 true-positive diagnoses, sonography showed good agreement with MRI in assessing the lesion extent (kappa = 0.796, p < 0.001). Three sonographic lesion morphologic patterns for hyperechoic lesions (I = with multiple < 8-mm hypoechoic spots, II = heteroechoic lesions with predominant 8-15-mm hypointense areas, and III = > 15-mm calcified nodules, respectively) showed excellent agreement with three MRI lesion patterns (I = multiple < 8-mm hypointense spots, II = predominant 8-15-mm hypointense areas, and III = > 15-mm hypointense nodules, respectively) (kappa = 0.921, p < 0.001). However, the maximum lesion diameters appeared significantly larger on sonography than on MRI (2.8 +/- 0.6 cm vs 2.0 +/- 0.8 cm, mean +/- SD; p < 0.001), which was plausibly ascribed to the better sonographic delineation of hyperechoic immature fibrotic tissues. Sonography is helpful for evaluating DC and correlates well with MRI."}
{"id": "16035699", "title": "Suprascapular neuropathy in volleyball players.", "content": "Suprascapular neuropathy in volleyball players. Entrapment neuropathy of the suprascapular nerve (SNE), although a recognised clinical entity, is a relatively rare cause of shoulder pain and subjective weakness in the athlete involved in overhead sports like volleyball and badminton. This study deals with the presentation and management of four unusual cases of suprascapular nerve entrapment in volleyball players. Four male volleyball players presented to our department with intractable shoulder pain and subjective sensation of shoulder weakness. They all had visible wasting of both supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles, together with weakness of abduction and external rotation of the arm. They all responded temporarily to a diagnostic injection of local anaesthetic. MR imaging was useful in diagnosing space occupying lesions in three cases and the presence of a hypertrophic suprascapular ligament in one case. Due to failure of non- operative treatment, which included activity modification, rest, analgesics and rehabilitation programme over 6 months, surgery was then required to decompress the suprascapular nerve. All patients were symptom free at 6 months postoperatively and after an intensive rehabilitation programme, they were able to return to their normal level of activity including sport."}
{"id": "16028034", "title": "Novel muscle patterns for reaching after cervical spinal cord injury: a case for motor redundancy.", "content": "Novel muscle patterns for reaching after cervical spinal cord injury: a case for motor redundancy. A fundamental issue in the neuromotor control of arm movements is whether the nervous system can use distinctly different muscle activity patterns to obtain similar kinematic outcomes. Although computer simulations have demonstrated several possible mechanical and torque solutions, there is little empirical evidence that the nervous system actually employs fundamentally different muscle patterns for the same movement, such as activating a muscle one time and not the next, or switching from a flexor to an extensor. Under typical conditions, subjects choose the same muscles for any given movement, which suggests that in order to see the capacity of the nervous system to make a different choice of muscles, the nervous system must be pushed beyond the normal circumstances. The purpose of this study, then, was to examine an atypical condition, reaching of cervical spinal cord injured (SCI) subjects who have a reduced repertoire of available distal arm muscles but otherwise a normal nervous system above the level of lesion. Electromyography and kinematics of the shoulder and elbow were examined in the SCI subjects performing a center-out task and then compared to neurologically normal control subjects. The findings showed that the SCI-injured subjects produced reaches with typical global kinematic features, such as straight finger paths, bell-shaped velocities, and joint excursions similar to control subjects. The SCI subjects, however, activated only the shoulder agonist muscle for all directions, unlike the control pattern that involved a reciprocal pattern at each joint (shoulder, elbow, and wrist). Nonetheless, the SCI subjects could activate their shoulder antagonist muscles, elbow flexors, and wrist extensor (extensor carpi radialis) for isometric tasks, but did not activate them during the reaching movements. These results demonstrate that for reaching movements, the SCI subjects used a strikingly different pattern of intact muscle activities than control subjects. Hence, the findings imply that the nervous system is capable of choosing either the control pattern or the SCI pattern. We would speculate that control subjects do not select the SCI pattern because the different choice of muscles results in kinematic features (reduced fingertip speed, multiple shoulder accelerations) other than the global features that are somehow less advantageous or efficient."}
{"id": "16023009", "title": "Inhomogeneous mechanical behavior of the human supraspinatus tendon under uniaxial loading.", "content": "Inhomogeneous mechanical behavior of the human supraspinatus tendon under uniaxial loading. Disorders of the rotator cuff, particularly tears of the rotator cuff tendons, cause significant shoulder disability. Among numerous factors thought to be responsible for the initiation and progression of supraspinatus tears are those related to the tendon's biomechanical properties. We hypothesized that in supraspinatus tendons subjected to tensile loading a strain gradient (difference) exists between the articular and bursal tendon surfaces, that regional strain differences exist on each of these two tendon surfaces, and that tendon surface strains vary with glenohumeral abduction. To test these hypotheses, the intrinsic inhomogeneous deformational characteristics of the articular and bursal surfaces of eight intact human cadaveric supraspinatus tendons were studied at three glenohumeral abduction angles using a novel multiple strain measuring system which simultaneously recorded surface marker displacements on two opposing soft tissue surfaces. Under applied tensile loads, the articular surface exhibited greater strain at 22 degrees (7.4+/-2.6% vs. 1.3+/-0.7%, p=0.0002) and 63 degrees (6.4+/-1.6% vs. 2.7+/-1.2%, p=0.0001) whereas the bursal surface exhibited greater strain at 90 degrees (7.6+/-2.8% vs. 4.9+/-0.4%, p=0.013). At all abduction angles, insertion strains were higher than those of the mid-tendon and tendon-muscle junction regions. The existence of inhomogeneous surface strains in the intact supraspinatus tendon demonstrates that intratendinous shear occurs within the tendon. The higher strain on the articular side of the tendon, especially at the insertion region, suggests a propensity for tears to initiate in the articular tendinous zone."}
{"id": "16022271", "title": "Radiology case of the month. Unusual bilateral bone lesions in an 8-year-old boy. Ollier's Disease (multiple enchondromatosis).", "content": "Radiology case of the month. Unusual bilateral bone lesions in an 8-year-old boy. Ollier's Disease (multiple enchondromatosis)."}
{"id": "16022221", "title": "Recurrent anterior glenohumeral instability with onset after forty years of age: the role of the anterior mechanism.", "content": "Recurrent anterior glenohumeral instability with onset after forty years of age: the role of the anterior mechanism. Recurrent instability in patients over forty years of age is felt to occur primarily as a result of an associated rotator cuff tear. This is often referred to as the \"posterior mechanism.\" We reviewed our patients over the age of forty who underwent an anterior shoulder repair to identify the incidence of capsulolabral detachments and the role of an \"anterior mechanism\" in this patient population. A retrospective review of all patients from 1985 to 2000 was performed to identify patients who had surgery for recurrent instability that began after forty years of age. Of the 265 patients records reviewed, 11 patients were identified who fulfilled the inclusion criteria. Of the 11 patients identified, 9 patients underwent anterior capsulolabral reconstruction for recurrent instability; the remaining two patients underwent repair of large rotator cuff tears. All 9 patients had a capsulolabral detachment, 4 had a rotator interval defect, 2 had anterior and inferior capsular redundancy, 1 had a small rotator cuff tear and 1 had an anterior capsular avulsion from the humeral head. At minimum follow-up of 32 months none of the patients reported episodes of instability. The reported incidence of rotator cuff tears in patients over the age of forty following an initial traumatic anterior glenohumeral dislocation ranges from 35% to 100%. When recurrent instability occurs, it is postulated to occur via a \"posterior mechanism\" (i.e., secondary to a significant full-thickness rotator cuff tear). However, all of our patients had an anterior capsulolabral detachment as the \"common lesion\" associated with recurrent instability. Although small, this series emphasizes the role of the \"anterior mechanism\" in patients who develop recurrent instability after the age of forty. A high rate of success was achieved by addressing the pathoanatomic changes identified."}
{"id": "16018524", "title": "Arthroscopic debridement of irreparable massive rotator cuff tears--a comparison of debridement alone and combined procedure with biceps tenotomy.", "content": "Arthroscopic debridement of irreparable massive rotator cuff tears--a comparison of debridement alone and combined procedure with biceps tenotomy. The goal of the study was to compare the results of arthroscopic debridement in massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears with and without tenotomy of the long head of the biceps (LHB). We evaluated 41 patients who were treated by a single surgeon for massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears either by arthroscopic debridement alone (24 patients) or with additional tenotomy of LHB (17 patients). The mean age was 67 years (range: 61 to 82 years) and the average follow-up was 31 months (range: 24 to 48 months). There was no significant difference between the two groups in age, gender, pain, function, and follow-up. All patients had significant disabling pain weakness preoperatively. Assessments were made using the Constant score. The average Constant score for the group without LHB tenotomy improved from a mean of 39 points (range: 19 to 54 points) preoperatively to a mean of 67 points (range: 41 to 87 points) and for the group with additional LHB tenotomy from a mean of 41 points (range: 16 to 54 points) preoperatively to a mean of 69 points (range: 49 to 87 points) at the time of follow-up. The radiological study showed no significant narrowing of the subacromial space. No statistical significance (P > .05) was found between the two groups. However, patients with additional LHB tenotomy had a longer duration of postoperative pain relief, but final pain score difference was not statistically significant. There was no complication related to the procedure. Arthroscopic d\u00e9bridement of massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears provides reliable expectation for improvement in function, decrease in pain, and improvement in shoulder scores for most patients. Additional LHB tenotomy did not significantly influence the postoperative results at the latest follow-up. In our series we noted no significant humeral head migration or developing rotator cuff arthropathy."}
{"id": "16018517", "title": "The Paget-Schroetter syndrome.", "content": "The Paget-Schroetter syndrome. Primary axillo-subclavian venous thrombosis is pathology of the young working man. It affects above all the main upper limb and arises during a physical activity of the shoulder. Its aetiology is complex and multifactorial. It is most often the consequence of a chronic compression of the subclavian vein at the level of the thoracic outlet. Clinical presentation can be confirmed with a duplex scan investigation.Early diagnosis offers the opportunity for rapid venous recanalisation with an anticoagulation treatment. A fibrinolytic therapy can be started in the same session of the phlebography. In case of success, a dynamic phlebography is performed to confirm the existence of a venous thoracic outlet syndrome. Even if indications for surgical management of primary subclavian vein thrombosis are still controversial, it is actually clear that this multidisciplinary management of these patients has to be as early as possible. Decompression of the thoracic outlet can be performed secondarily using various techniques including first-rib resection. Should this approach fail to re-establish patency, leaving some residual disabling of the arm, axillo-subclavian vein revascularization can provide good mid-term results."}
{"id": "16015239", "title": "Contact forces in the subacromial space: effects of scapular orientation.", "content": "Contact forces in the subacromial space: effects of scapular orientation. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of scapular orientation on clearance in the subacromial space. Eight glenohumeral joints from fresh-frozen human cadavers were secured to an Instron mechanical testing machine via a custom-made translation table. Forces were applied to simulate rotator cuff and deltoid contraction. Superior translation of the glenohumeral joint was simulated, and the distance before the development of significant subacromial contact force was measured. Specimens were tested at varying orientations of scapular posterior tilting, upward rotation, and external rotation. Results demonstrated no significant effect of posterior tilting and external rotation. Subacromial clearance was found to decrease with an increase in upward rotation, which is contrary to what was expected. These results suggest that changes in upward rotation observed in patients with impingement syndrome may serve to open the subacromial space. Future work needs to focus on confirming these results and determining contact location."}
{"id": "16015237", "title": "A comparison of functional, patient-based scores in subacromial impingement.", "content": "A comparison of functional, patient-based scores in subacromial impingement. The goal of this study was to compare the Oxford Shoulder Score (OSS), the Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI), and the Short Form 36 (SF-36) for their correlation, agreement, sensitivity to change, and test-retest reliability in patients with a clinical diagnosis of subacromial impingement. All patients attending a specialist subacromial impingement clinic over a 6-month period completed the OSS, SPADI, and SF-36 at each visit. A total of 323 sets of observations were recorded in 110 patients. The first 38 of these patients were also sent the questionnaires to complete before their visit. There was good correlation between the OSS and SPADI scores (correlation coefficient = 0.85) and good agreement between the scores on each scale (weighted kappa = 0.79). The correlation with total SF-36 was poor (0.37 for OSS and 0.26 for SPADI). The OSS and SPADI showed good effect sizes compared with the total SF-36 score and good test-retest reliability. These data support the use of the OSS or SPADI in patients with subacromial impingement."}
{"id": "16015236", "title": "Superior excursion of the humeral head: a diagnostic tool in rotator cuff tear surgery.", "content": "Superior excursion of the humeral head: a diagnostic tool in rotator cuff tear surgery. Superior excursion of the humeral head on the face of the glenoid was investigated to determine whether a relationship exists between the degree of humeral head excursion and the identity of the injured tendon in a shoulder with a torn rotator cuff. Twenty-seven patients with unilateral full-thickness rotator cuff tears diagnosed by either positive arthrogram or magnetic resonance imaging were included in this study. Three groups were formed based on intraoperative findings: 10 patients had isolated supraspinatus tendon tears (group 1), 11 patients had supraspinatus and infraspinatus tears (group 2), and 6 patients had supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis tendon tears (group 3). There was no statistically significant difference between the degree of humeral head excursion in groups 1 and 2. However, patients in group 3 had a statistically significantly higher degree of excursion of the humeral head (P < .05) when compared with groups 1 and 2. In addition, an inverse relationship between the degree of humeral head excursion and preoperative Constant scores was found. Superior excursion of the humeral head on the glenoid had a significantly higher incidence in patients with subscapularis tears, and a larger amount of excursion was present in patients who had lower preoperative Constant scores."}
{"id": "16013343", "title": "Cumulative trauma disorders in betel pepper leaf-cullers visiting a rehabilitation clinic: experience in Taitung.", "content": "Cumulative trauma disorders in betel pepper leaf-cullers visiting a rehabilitation clinic: experience in Taitung. Betel pepper (Piper betle L.) cultivation is an important agricultural industry in Taitung, Taiwan, and culling leaves is very labor-intensive. This case study compares the proportion of cumulative trauma disorders (CTDs) between cullers and those with other occupations. Patients with musculoskeletal disorders in the rehabilitation clinic of a local hospital in Taitung were enrolled. This all female cohort was divided into a culler group (betel pepper cullers, n = 20), and a non-culler group (other occupations, n = 47). Three cullers were interviewed, and were also recorded to elucidate the related ergonomics. Patients were diagnosed using plain radiography and ultrasonography. The act of culling involves an overhead internal rotation of both shoulders with extended elbows while standing, followed by wrist flexion and forearm pronation. Flexing of the fingers is also required by the tools, 'iron nails' fitted onto both thumbs. The proportions of patients with shoulder impingement syndrome (SIS) and carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) were significantly higher among cullers than non-cullers (0.45 vs. 0.15, p = 0.011 and 0.40 vs. 0.06, p = 0.002, respectively). Furthermore, the total frequency of CTDs displayed a positive linear correlation with employment duration (r = 0.618, p = 0.004). Proportions of occupational SIS and CTS were higher among betel pepper cullers than those with other occupations. These CTDs may have resulted from a prolonged static posture and repetitive motions during culling."}
{"id": "16012501", "title": "Arthroscopically repaired Bankart lesions and the effect of two different arm positions on immediate postoperative evaluation with magnetic resonance arthrography.", "content": "Arthroscopically repaired Bankart lesions and the effect of two different arm positions on immediate postoperative evaluation with magnetic resonance arthrography. To evaluate and describe the findings of immediate postoperative magnetic resonance (MR) arthrography of repaired capsulolabral buttress using 2 different arm positions (internal rotation and external rotation) for patients who have undergone arthroscopic Bankart repair. Case series. Arthroscopically repaired Bankart lesions in 22 nonconsecutive patients were examined with axial T2-weighted MR arthrography. We studied each of the 22 shoulders on the day of surgery for each patient. We measured 3 parameters (height, slope, and medial overhang) on the axial image at the anteroinferior portion of the glenoid (near the most inferior anchor) while placing each patient's arm into 2 different positions. The first involved internal rotation and the second, external rotation of the shoulder with the arm held at the side of the trunk and the elbow at 90 degrees flexion. The mean internal rotation of the arm was 30 degrees (range, 14 degrees to 45 degrees) and the mean external rotation was 19 degrees (range, 2 degrees to 44 degrees). The mean labral height and slope differences between the 2 arm positions were 1.47 mm (standard deviation [SD], 0.75 mm; range, 0.6 mm to 3.5 mm; P < .001) and 6.91 degrees (SD, 3.4 degrees; range, 2.2 degrees to 11.2 degrees; P < .001), respectively. Medial overhang on the glenoid rim was 81% positive with the arm at internal rotation whereas medial overhang was 86% negative with the arm at external rotation (P < .001). On MR arthrography, internal rotation of shoulder showed the loss of the capsulolabral buttress in all patients. On MR arthrography, the arthroscopically repaired capsulolabral buttress was affected by rotation of the arm after Bankart repair. Internal rotation of the arm significantly decreased our ability to see the repaired capsulolabral buttress on MR arthrography. Level III, diagnostic study of nonconsecutive patients."}
{"id": "16006792", "title": "Radiation-associated cutaneous atypical vascular lesions and angiosarcoma: clinicopathologic analysis of 42 cases.", "content": "Radiation-associated cutaneous atypical vascular lesions and angiosarcoma: clinicopathologic analysis of 42 cases. Cutaneous angiosarcoma is a rare but well-recognized complication after radiation therapy. Atypical post-radiation vascular lesions (AVLs) with a benign course have been described recently, but few cases with limited follow-up have been studied so far. A total of 42 cases diagnosed as either radiation-associated cutaneous vascular lesions or angiosarcoma were retrieved from departmental and consultation files from 1995 to 2003. Hematoxylin and eosin-stained sections and clinical as well as follow-up data were evaluated. All patients were female with a median age of 59 years (range, 36-90 years). Presentation ranged from small erythematous/violaceous papules or nodules to large plaques with discoloration located on the chest wall (35), abdomen (2), shoulder, groin, flank, axilla, and lower leg (1 each). Reasons for radiation included breast carcinoma (35 cases) and a variety of other lesions (mainly malignant disease). Size range was 0.1 to 20 cm. Angiosarcomas presented as larger lesions (median, 7.5 cm) compared with AVLs (median, 0.5 cm). The time interval from radiation was significantly shorter for the development of AVL (median, 3.5 years) compared with cutaneous angiosarcoma (median, 6 years). Histologic evaluation revealed 26 lesions meeting criteria for angiosarcoma, ranging from morphologically low-grade to high-grade; 16 cases were classified as AVLs. These were fairly well-circumscribed lesions confined within superficial to mid dermis and composed of complex anastomosing and focally dilated vascular spaces. Some showed prominent hyperchromatic endothelial cells, while others were characterized by areas with a dissecting growth pattern within dermal collagen. Endothelial multilayering was absent. Clinical follow-up, available for 36 patients (range, 2-84 months; median, 17 months), revealed 4 patients who died of disease, 4 patients had systemic metastasis, and 12 patients with local recurrence. All patients with systemic relapse had an initial diagnosis of angiosarcoma. One patient with an AVL had a recurrence at the same site, 3 patients developed additional new lesions, and 1 patient developed multiple small papules on the chest wall, which progressed from an AVL to angiosarcoma. This study outlines the morphologic spectrum of radiation-associated cutaneous AVLs. No adverse outcome has been observed so far in this more benign subset of cases, but longer-term follow-up is necessary."}
{"id": "16002494", "title": "The resisted supination external rotation test: a new test for the diagnosis of superior labral anterior posterior lesions.", "content": "The resisted supination external rotation test: a new test for the diagnosis of superior labral anterior posterior lesions. To evaluate a new clinical test, the resisted supination external rotation test, for the diagnosis of superior labral anterior posterior lesions of the shoulder. Cohort study (diagnosis); Level of evidence, 2. Forty athletes (average age, 23.9 years) with activity-related shoulder pain were enrolled in the study. The patients underwent 3 different tests designed specifically to detect superior labral anterior posterior lesions (the resisted supination external rotation test, the crank test, and the active compression test); the tests were performed in a random order on the affected shoulder. The results of the tests were compared with arthroscopic findings. Out of 40 athletes, 29 (72.5%) had superior labral anterior posterior tears. The resisted supination external rotation test had the highest sensitivity (82.8%), specificity (81.8%), positive predictive value (92.3%), negative predictive value (64.3%), and diagnostic accuracy (82.5%) of all tests performed. By re-creating the peel-back mechanism, the resisted supination external rotation test is more accurate than 2 other commonly used physical examination tests designed to diagnose superior labral anterior posterior tears in overhead-throwing athletes. By using this test in the context of a thorough clinical history and physical examination, lesions of the superior labrum can be more reliably diagnosed."}
{"id": "16002492", "title": "Extracorporeal shock wave therapy in the treatment of calcific tendinitis of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Extracorporeal shock wave therapy in the treatment of calcific tendinitis of the rotator cuff. Low-energy extracorporeal shock wave therapy is an alternative treatment, with limited evidence for effectiveness, for calcific tendinitis of the rotator cuff. Objective localization of the calcium deposit by 3-dimensional, computer-assisted navigation reveals superior clinical and radiographic outcomes compared to localization through patient-to-therapist feedback. Randomized controlled clinical trial; Level of evidence, 1. A prospective, randomized, single-blind study was carried out on 50 patients. The population was divided into 2 groups of equal numbers (navigation group and feedback group). In all patients, treatment-resistant pain was evident for longer than 6 months. A total of 3 therapy sessions of constant low-energy focused shock wave therapy was administered in weekly intervals in both groups. Local anesthesia was not applied. Radiographs and clinical assessment, including the Constant and Murley shoulder scoring system and the visual analog scale for pain, were performed both before therapy and after 12 weeks. In the navigation group, the calcium deposit was localized using a radiographically guided, 3-dimensional, computer-assisted device. The feedback group was treated after locating the point of maximum tenderness through palpation by the therapist with feedback from the patient. Both groups had significant improvements in the Constant and Murley score and the visual analog scale after 12 weeks. The results from the navigation group were statistically significantly superior to those of the feedback group. In the navigation group, 6 calcium deposits disappeared and 9 altered, compared to 1 disappearance and 12 alterations in the feedback group. No severe complications occurred. Three-dimensional, computer-assisted navigation reveals significantly better results and is therefore recommended when extracorporeal shock wave therapy is used in the treatment of calcific tendinitis of the rotator cuff."}
{"id": "16002489", "title": "Correlation of range of motion and glenohumeral translation in professional baseball pitchers.", "content": "Correlation of range of motion and glenohumeral translation in professional baseball pitchers. Altered mobility patterns in the throwing shoulders of professional baseball pitchers have been reported. Most published reports examining glenohumeral laxity have not used an objective testing device. Quantify and compare glenohumeral translation and rotational range of motion between the throwing and non-throwing shoulders in professional baseball pitchers. Descriptive laboratory study. Force-displacement and range of motion measures were performed bilaterally on 43 asymptomatic professional baseball pitchers. Ultrasound imaging was used to measure glenohumeral translations under stressed and unstressed conditions. No significant difference in translation was found between the throwing and nonthrowing shoulders. For both shoulders, posterior translation (5.38 +/- 2.7 mm) was significantly greater (P < .001) than was anterior translation (2.81 +/- 1.6 mm). External rotation in the throwing shoulder was significantly greater than that in the nonthrowing shoulder (P < .001), whereas internal rotation in the throwing shoulder was significantly less than that in the nonthrowing shoulder (P < .001). The total arc of rotation for the throwing shoulder was not significantly different than that for the nonthrowing shoulder, and correlation coefficients were poor between rotational and translational range of motion in the throwing shoulder, ranging from r = 0.232 to 0.209 between variables. No significant difference in glenohumeral translation exists between the throwing and nonthrowing shoulders in asymptomatic professional baseball pitchers, posterior translation is significantly greater than anterior translation in the throwing shoulders of professional baseball pitchers, and glenohumeral translation is not related to rotational range of motion in the throwing shoulders of professional baseball pitchers. Altered mobility patterns in asymptomatic professional baseball pitchers may be due to factors other than capsular adaptive changes."}
{"id": "16002486", "title": "Functional outcome and health-related quality of life after surgical repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tear using a mini-open technique.", "content": "Functional outcome and health-related quality of life after surgical repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tear using a mini-open technique. Rotator cuff tear, a common shoulder injury, can lead to shoulder pain and functional loss. Surgical repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears using the mini-open surgical technique will improve shoulder function and health-related quality of life. Cohort study. Level of evidence, 2. Patients with a full-thickness rotator cuff tear who underwent a mini-open repair were evaluated for (1) active shoulder range of motion preoperatively, and 6 months and 12 months postoperatively and (2) health-related quality of life preoperatively, 6 months postoperatively, and annually up to 5 years postoperatively. Satisfaction with the repair and return to work status were ascertained 1 year postoperatively. A subgroup analysis of tear size and patient age was also undertaken. Of the subjects, 61 (73%) were men, and the average age was 53.2 ( +/- 9.9) years. According to repeated-measures analysis of variance, shoulder range of motion (flexion and external rotation) improved significantly from before surgery to 1 year after surgery (P <.001). The mean American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores improved from 53.3 ( +/- 20.6) preoperatively to 90.6 ( +/- 11.7) 1 year postoperatively (P <.001). The mean Western Ontario Rotator Cuff scores also improved from 43.2 ( +/- 20.2) preoperatively to 87.2 ( +/- 14.3) 1 year postoperatively (P <.001). No differences were seen in either the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores or Western Ontario Rotator Cuff scores between the 1-year examination and the last follow-up assessment undertaken at a median of 5 years postoperatively (P >.05). Ninety-six percent of patients were satisfied or very satisfied with the results of their repair; 78% of patients who were working before surgery returned to work without modification by 1 year postoperatively. For the most part, patient age and size of tear did not influence postoperative range of motion or health-related quality of life. Mini-open rotator cuff repair led to improved shoulder function and health-related quality of life up to 5 years postoperatively."}
{"id": "16002483", "title": "Prevalence and variance of shoulder injuries in elite collegiate football players.", "content": "Prevalence and variance of shoulder injuries in elite collegiate football players. Shoulder injuries are the fourth most common musculoskeletal injury encountered in American football players. There is little information in the literature on the role of playing position in the type of shoulder injuries seen. There is a high prevalence of shoulder injuries in elite collegiate American football players, with type of injury varying by playing position. Cohort study (prevalence); Level of evidence, 3. A total of 336 elite collegiate American football players were invited to the National Football League Combine for physical testing and medical evaluation. Current and historical data were evaluated for the purpose of this study, and all players underwent radiographic examinations, including plain radiographs and/or magnetic resonance imaging when necessary. All shoulder pathological conditions and shoulder surgical procedures were recorded. Players were categorized by position for the analysis of position-specific trends. Of the players, 50% had a history of shoulder injuries, with a total of 226 shoulder injuries (1.3 injuries per player injured); 56 players (34%) had a total of 73 surgeries. The most common injuries were acromioclavicular separation (41%), anterior instability (20%), rotator cuff injury (12%), clavicle fracture (4%), and posterior instability (4%). The most common surgeries performed were anterior instability reconstruction (48%), Mumford/Weaver-Dunn surgery (15%), posterior instability surgery (10%), and rotator cuff surgery (10%). Shoulder injuries were more common in quarterbacks and defensive backs. Surgery was more common in linebackers or linemen. A history of anterior instability was more common in defensive players, with surgery required 76% of the time. Linemen had more rotator cuff injuries and posterior instability than players in other positions. Shoulder injuries are common injuries in elite collegiate football players, with one-third undergoing surgical procedures. There are definitive trends in the types of injuries per player position."}
{"id": "16000664", "title": "The Kim test: a novel test for posteroinferior labral lesion of the shoulder--a comparison to the jerk test.", "content": "The Kim test: a novel test for posteroinferior labral lesion of the shoulder--a comparison to the jerk test. Detection of a posteroinferior labral lesion by physical examination is often difficult. To introduce a novel diagnostic test for detecting a posteroinferior labral lesion of the shoulder. The Kim test can detect a posteroinferior labral lesion of the shoulder. Cohort study (diagnosis); Level of evidence, 1. In 172 painful shoulders, the Kim test was compared with the jerk test and was verified by arthroscopic examination. A sudden onset of posterior shoulder pain and click with or without clunk indicated a positive test result. Thirty-three shoulders had a positive Kim test result, in which 24 had a posteroinferior labral lesion and 9 had a normal posteroinferior labrum. Of 139 shoulders with a negative Kim test result, 6 had a posteroinferior labral tear and 133 had a normal posteroinferior labrum. The sensitivity of the Kim test was 80%, specificity was 94%, positive predictive value was 0.73, and negative predictive value was 0.96. The interexaminer reliability between 2 examiners was 0.91. The accuracy of the jerk test in detecting a posteroinferior labral lesion was the following: sensitivity, 73%; specificity, 98%; positive predictive value, 0.88; and negative predictive value, 0.95. The location of the posterior labral lesion was predominantly posterior in 19 shoulders and predominantly inferior in 11 shoulders. The Kim test was more sensitive in detecting a predominantly inferior labral lesion, whereas the jerk test was more sensitive in detecting a predominantly posterior labral lesion. The sensitivity in detecting a posteroinferior labral lesion increased to 97% when the 2 tests were combined. The Kim test is a reliable diagnostic test for detection of a posteroinferior labral lesion."}
{"id": "16000663", "title": "Application of tissue engineering techniques for rotator cuff regeneration using a chitosan-based hyaluronan hybrid fiber scaffold.", "content": "Application of tissue engineering techniques for rotator cuff regeneration using a chitosan-based hyaluronan hybrid fiber scaffold. The current surgical procedures for irreparable rotator cuff tears have considerable limitations. Tissue engineering techniques using novel scaffold materials offer potential alternatives for managing these conditions. A chitosan-based hyaluronan hybrid scaffold could enhance type I collagen products with seeded fibroblasts and thereby increase the mechanical strength of regenerated tendon in vivo. Controlled laboratory study. The scaffolds were created from chitosan-based hyaluronan hybrid polymer fibers. Forty-eight rabbit infraspinatus tendons and their humeral insertions were removed to create defects. Each defect was covered with a fibroblast-seeded scaffold (n = 16) or a non-fibroblast-seeded scaffold (n = 16). In the other 16 shoulders, the rotator cuff defect was left free as the control. At 4 and 12 weeks after surgery, the engineered tendons were assessed by histological, immunohistochemical (n = 2), and biomechanical (n = 6) analyses. Type I collagen was only seen in the fibroblast-seeded scaffold and increased in the regenerated tissue. The tensile strength and tangent modulus in the fibroblast-seeded scaffold were significantly improved from 4 to 12 weeks postoperatively. The fibroblast-seeded scaffold had a significantly greater tangent modulus than did the non-fibroblast-seeded scaffold and the control at 12 weeks. This scaffold material enhanced the production of type I collagen and led to improved mechanical strength in the regenerated tissues of the rotator cuff in vivo. Rotator cuff regeneration is feasible using this tissue engineering technique."}
{"id": "16000662", "title": "Tendon-to-bone pressure distributions at a repaired rotator cuff footprint using transosseous suture and suture anchor fixation techniques.", "content": "Tendon-to-bone pressure distributions at a repaired rotator cuff footprint using transosseous suture and suture anchor fixation techniques. Interface contact pressure between the tendon and bone has been shown to influence healing. This study evaluates the interface pressure of the rotator cuff tendon to the greater tuberosity for different rotator cuff repair techniques. The transosseous tunnel rotator cuff repair technique provides larger pressure distributions over a defined insertion footprint than do suture anchor techniques. Controlled laboratory study. Simulated rotator cuff tears over a 1 x 2-cm infraspinatus insertion footprint were created in 25 bovine shoulders. A transosseous tunnel simple suture technique (n = 8), suture anchor simple technique (n = 9), and suture anchor mattress technique (n = 8) were used for repair. Pressurized contact areas and mean pressures of the repaired tendon against the tuberosity were determined using pressure-sensitive film placed between the tendon and the tuberosity. The mean contact area between the tendon and tuberosity insertion footprint was significantly greater for the transosseous technique (67.7 +/- 5.8 mm(2)) compared with the suture anchor simple (34.1 +/- 9.4 mm(2)) and suture anchor mattress (26.0 +/- 5.3 mm(2)) techniques (P < .05). The mean interface pressure exerted over the footprint by the tendon was also greater for the transosseous technique (0.32 +/- 0.05 MPa) compared with the suture anchor simple (0.26 +/- 0.04 MPa) and suture anchor mattress (0.24 +/- 0.02 MPa) techniques (P < .05). The transosseous tunnel rotator cuff repair technique creates significantly more contact and greater overall pressure distribution over a defined footprint when compared with suture anchor techniques. Stronger and faster rotator cuff healing may be expected when beneficial pressure distributions exist between the repaired rotator cuff and its insertion footprint. Tendon-to-tuberosity pressure and contact characteristics should be considered in the development of improved open and arthroscopic rotator cuff repair techniques."}
{"id": "15999281", "title": "Ultrasound of tendon tears. Part 1: general considerations and upper extremity.", "content": "Ultrasound of tendon tears. Part 1: general considerations and upper extremity. The role of ultrasound (US) in assessing musculoskeletal disorders is persistently increasing because of its low cost, readiness, noninvasiveness, and possibility of allowing a dynamic examination. Secondary to increased sport practice, tendon tears are more frequently observed in daily medical practice. They deserve early diagnosis to allow proper treatment that can limit functional impairment. The aim of this review article is twofold: to illustrate the US appearance of normal tendons and to describe the US findings of the most common tendon tears."}
{"id": "15999280", "title": "Adhesive capsulitis: sonographic changes in the rotator cuff interval with arthroscopic correlation.", "content": "Adhesive capsulitis: sonographic changes in the rotator cuff interval with arthroscopic correlation. To evaluate the sonographic findings of the rotator interval in patients with clinical evidence of adhesive capsulitis immediately prior to arthroscopy. We prospectively compared 30 patients with clinically diagnosed adhesive capsulitis (20 females, 10 males, mean age 50 years) with a control population of 10 normal volunteers and 100 patients with a clinical suspicion of rotator cuff tears. Grey-scale and colour Doppler sonography of the rotator interval were used. Twenty-six patients (87%) demonstrated hypoechoic echotexture and increased vascularity within the rotator interval, all of whom had had symptoms for less than 1 year. Three patients had hypoechoic echotexture but no increase in vascularity, and one patient had a normal sonographic appearance. All patients were shown to have fibrovascular inflammatory soft-tissue changes in the rotator interval at arthroscopy commensurate with adhesive capsulitis. None of the volunteers or the patients with a clinical diagnosis of rotator cuff tear showed such changes. Sonography can provide an early accurate diagnosis of adhesive capsulitis by assessing the rotator interval for hypoechoic vascular soft tissue."}
{"id": "15996546", "title": "p53 mediates cellular dysfunction and behavioral abnormalities in Huntington's disease.", "content": "p53 mediates cellular dysfunction and behavioral abnormalities in Huntington's disease. We present evidence for a specific role of p53 in the mitochondria-associated cellular dysfunction and behavioral abnormalities of Huntington's disease (HD). Mutant huntingtin (mHtt) with expanded polyglutamine (polyQ) binds to p53 and upregulates levels of nuclear p53 as well as p53 transcriptional activity in neuronal cultures. The augmentation is specific, as it occurs with mHtt but not mutant ataxin-1 with expanded polyQ. p53 levels are also increased in the brains of mHtt transgenic (mHtt-Tg) mice and HD patients. Perturbation of p53 by pifithrin-alpha, RNA interference, or genetic deletion prevents mitochondrial membrane depolarization and cytotoxicity in HD cells, as well as the decreased respiratory complex IV activity of mHtt-Tg mice. Genetic deletion of p53 suppresses neurodegeneration in mHtt-Tg flies and neurobehavioral abnormalities of mHtt-Tg mice. Our findings suggest that p53 links nuclear and mitochondrial pathologies characteristic of HD."}
{"id": "15995469", "title": "Incidence and severity of biceps long head tendon lesion in patients with complete rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Incidence and severity of biceps long head tendon lesion in patients with complete rotator cuff tears. Biceps long head tendon lesion is commonly associated with rotator cuff tendon pathology. This study is to determine the pathologic spectrum of biceps long head tendon in surgical cases with complete full thickness rotator cuff tear. Between 1993 and 2002, 122 complete rotator cuff tears with surgery were included for the analysis. During surgery, biceps long head tendon was grossly examined or evaluated via arthroscopy. A simplified classification was used to describe the biceps lesion. 50 (41%) patients had type 1 lesion (tendinitis), 10 (8%) patients had type 2 lesion (subluxation), 12 (10%) patients had type 3 (dislocation), 15 (12%) patients had type 4 (partial tear), and 6 patients (5%) had type 5 (complete rupture). The remaining 29 patients (24%) did not have obvious pathology. All chronic rotator cuff tear (> 3 months) were associated with biceps tendon pathology. A rotator cuff tear greater than 5 cm as determined at surgery was strongly associated with an advanced biceps lesion. Biceps tendon injuries are associated with complete rotator cuff tears and there may be a causal relationship due to the impingement that occurs. Early identification and repair of rotator cuff lesions may prevent further deterioration of the biceps tendon."}
{"id": "15995114", "title": "Treatment of painful pseudoparesis due to irreparable rotator cuff dysfunction with the Delta III reverse-ball-and-socket total shoulder prosthesis.", "content": "Treatment of painful pseudoparesis due to irreparable rotator cuff dysfunction with the Delta III reverse-ball-and-socket total shoulder prosthesis. The Delta III reverse-ball-and-socket total shoulder implant is designed to restore overhead shoulder function in the presence of irreparable rotator cuff deficiency by using the intact deltoid muscle and the stability provided by the prosthetic design. Our purpose was to evaluate the clinical and radiographic results of this arthroplasty in a consecutive series of shoulders with painful pseudoparesis due to irreversible loss of rotator cuff function. Fifty-eight consecutive patients with moderate-to-severe shoulder pain and active anterior elevation of <90 degrees due to an irreparable rotator cuff tear were treated with a Delta III total shoulder replacement at an average age of sixty-eight years. Seventeen of the procedures were the primary treatment for the shoulder, and forty-one were revisions. The patients were examined clinically and radiographically after an average duration of follow-up of thirty-eight months. On the average, the subjective shoulder value increased from 18% preoperatively to 56% postoperatively (p < 0.0001); the relative Constant score, from 29% to 64% (p < 0.0001); the Constant score for pain, from 5.2 to 10.5 points (p < 0.0001); active anterior elevation, from 42 degrees to 100 degrees (p < 0.0001); and active abduction, from 43 degrees to 90 degrees (p < 0.0001). The patients for whom the implantation of the Delta III prosthesis was the primary procedure and those who had had previous surgery showed similar amounts of improvement. The total complication rate, including all minor complications, was 50%, and the reoperation rate was 33%. Of the seventeen primary operations, 47% (eight) were associated with a complication and 18% (three) were followed by a reoperation. Of the forty-one revisions, 51% (twenty-one) were associated with a complication and 39% (sixteen) were followed by a reoperation. Subjective results and satisfaction rates were not influenced by complications or reoperations when the prosthesis had been retained. Total shoulder arthroplasty with the Delta III prosthesis is a salvage procedure for severe shoulder dysfunction caused by an irreparable rotator cuff tear associated with other glenohumeral lesions. Complications were frequent following both primary and revision procedures, but they rarely affected the final outcome. The procedure has a substantial potential to improve the condition of patients with severe shoulder dysfunction, at least in the short term."}
{"id": "15995110", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of clinical tests for the different degrees of subacromial impingement syndrome.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of clinical tests for the different degrees of subacromial impingement syndrome. Several tests for making the diagnosis of rotator cuff disease have been described, but their utility for diagnosing bursitis alone, partial-thickness rotator cuff tears, and full-thickness rotator cuff tears has not been studied. The hypothesis of this study was that the degree of severity of rotator cuff disease affects the diagnostic values of the commonly used clinical tests. Eight physical examination tests (the Neer impingement sign, Hawkins-Kennedy impingement sign, painful arc sign, supraspinatus muscle strength test, Speed test, cross-body adduction test, drop-arm sign, and infraspinatus muscle strength test) were evaluated to determine their diagnostic values, including likelihood ratios and post-test probabilities, for three degrees of severity in rotator cuff disease: bursitis, partial-thickness rotator cuff tears, and full-thickness rotator cuff tears. A forward stepwise logistic regression analysis was used to determine the best combination of clinical tests for predicting the various grades of impingement syndrome. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and overall accuracy of the eight tests varied considerably. The combination of the Hawkins-Kennedy impingement sign, the painful arc sign, and the infraspinatus muscle test yielded the best post-test probability (95%) for any degree of impingement syndrome. The combination of the painful arc sign, drop-arm sign, and infraspinatus muscle test produced the best post-test probability (91%) for full-thickness rotator cuff tears. The severity of the impingement syndrome affects the diagnostic values of the commonly used clinical tests. The variable accuracy of these tests should be taken into consideration when evaluating patients with symptoms of rotator cuff disease."}
{"id": "15987547", "title": "Management and outcomes of 42 surgical suprascapular nerve injuries and entrapments.", "content": "Management and outcomes of 42 surgical suprascapular nerve injuries and entrapments. Retrospective chart reviews of 42 patients with surgical suprascapular nerve (SSN) injury/entrapment were performed. Presenting symptoms, findings, operative approach, and results are documented. Forty-two patients with SSN injuries/entrapments underwent operations between 1970 and 2002. Charts were retrospectively reviewed for the presence of shoulder pain; spinati muscle function was evaluated with the Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center grading system. Side of lesion and sex were equally represented; mean follow-up was 18 months (range, 12-48 mo). SSN injuries/entrapments were associated with occupational overuse, sports-related injury, direct trauma and ganglion cysts. Thirty-one (79%) of 39 patients with suprascapular notch SSN injuries/entrapments, excluding ganglion cysts, presented with mild to moderate shoulder pain and spinati weakness. Motor function for these 31 patients was graded on a scale of 0 to 5. Preoperatively, patients had supraspinatus function Grades 0 to 2 and infraspinatus function Grades 0 to 2. Supraspinatus function improved postoperatively to Grade 4 or better in 28 patients (90%) and to Grades 2 to 3 in 3 patients (10%). Infraspinatus function improved to better than Grade 3 in 10 patients (32%), to Grades 2 to 3 in 14 patients (45%), and to Grade 1 in 7 patients (23%). Preoperatively, eight (21%) of 39 patients presenting with persistent severe pain had Grade 3 spinati strength. Of these eight patients, seven (88%) had an improvement in pain postoperatively. Strength in this group remained the same or improved to Grade 4. Postoperatively, three patients with ganglion cysts had good improvement in spinati function. Although SSN injury/entrapment is rare, 42 patients are presented who responded well to SSN release. Supraspinatus muscle improvement was as good as or better than that achieved in the infraspinatus."}
{"id": "15983127", "title": "A systematic approach to magnetic resonance imaging interpretation of sports medicine injuries of the shoulder.", "content": "A systematic approach to magnetic resonance imaging interpretation of sports medicine injuries of the shoulder. Magnetic resonance imaging has developed as a useful imaging modality in the evaluation of the athlete with shoulder pain. The multiplanar capabilities of magnetic resonance imaging make it ideal for detecting the anatomical variations of the osseous outlet that may contribute to the clinical syndrome of impingement. Its superb soft tissue contrast and spatial resolution allow for accurate differentiation between tendinopathy, partial-thickness tear, and full-thickness tear of the rotator cuff and also allow for detection of the subtle lesions of the capsule and labrum that are associated with shoulder instability. However, to accurately interpret the numerous images and pulse sequences obtained in a standard magnetic resonance examination of the shoulder, it is helpful to have a systematic approach to ensure that each of the pertinent anatomical structures are evaluated. This article will provide a systematic approach to the interpretation of a magnetic resonance examination of the shoulder. The normal imaging appearance of each anatomical structure will be described, and the most useful pulse sequences and imaging planes for the evaluation of each structure will be discussed. Finally, the signs of injury will be described and illustrated."}
{"id": "15966539", "title": "Current concepts in the recognition and treatment of superior labral (SLAP) lesions.", "content": "Current concepts in the recognition and treatment of superior labral (SLAP) lesions. Pathology of the superior aspect of the glenoid labrum (SLAP lesion) poses a significant challenge to the rehabilitation specialist due to the complex nature and wide variety of etiological factors associated with these lesions. A thorough clinical evaluation and proper identification of the extent of labral injury is important to determine the most appropriate nonoperative and/or surgical management. Postoperative rehabilitation is based on the specific surgical procedure as well as the extent, location, and mechanism of labral pathology and associated lesions. Emphasis is placed on protecting the healing labrum, while gradually restoring range of motion, strength, and dynamic stability of the glenohumeral joint. The purpose of this paper is to provide an overview of the anatomy and pathomechanics of SLAP lesions and review specific clinical examination techniques used to identify these lesions, including 3 newly described tests. Furthermore, a review of the current surgical management and postoperative rehabilitation guidelines is provided."}
{"id": "15944642", "title": "Arthroscopic transfer of the long head biceps to the conjoint tendon.", "content": "Arthroscopic transfer of the long head biceps to the conjoint tendon. Pathology of the biceps tendon is often a factor in the etiology of shoulder pain. However, diagnosis and treatment of such pathology remains controversial. When conservative management fails to relieve symptoms, surgical options include tenotomy or tenodesis. Tenotomy has provided excellent results with regard to local pain relief, but a potential cosmetic deformity and occasional painful cramping are common in younger patients. Tenodesis has also had high failure rates resulting from persistent local pain. We have used an all-arthroscopic technique for transfer of the long-head biceps to the conjoint tendon instead of traditional tenodesis. We believe that this transfer more closely recreates the normal axis of the biceps muscle and may offer improved results over conventional tenodesis."}
{"id": "15944641", "title": "Traumatic rupture of the coracoacromial ligament.", "content": "Traumatic rupture of the coracoacromial ligament. This is a case report of an arthroscopically diagnosed injury to the coracoacromial ligament at the undersurface of the acromion. To our knowledge, this has not been previously described. Traumatic avulsion of this ligament may represent a source of subacromial impingement that has not been recognized."}
{"id": "15944622", "title": "Recovery after arthroscopic subacromial decompression: prognostic value of the subacromial injection test.", "content": "Recovery after arthroscopic subacromial decompression: prognostic value of the subacromial injection test. To evaluate the use of a steroid/local anesthetic subacromial injection as a prognostic tool for patient recovery following arthroscopic subacromial decompression (ASD). Prospective cohort study. A local anesthetic/steroid subacromial injection was administered to all patients with a clinical diagnosis of subacromial impingement syndrome. In the event of a negative result to the injection test, the diagnosis was confirmed by computed tomographic arthrography or magnetic resonance imaging. All patients underwent standard ASD. The outcome was assessed using the Constant score, performed preoperatively, at 3 weeks, 3 months, and at discharge. The eventual functional outcome was correlated with the results of the injection test and the operative findings. There were 101 patients (53 male, 48 female), with a mean age of 52 years (range, 21 to 77 years) in the study. Patients were followed-up for a mean of 14 months (range, 3 to 24 months). All patients had an impingement lesion noted at arthroscopy. The mean preoperative Constant score for the entire group was 48 points (range, 20-67) with a postoperative mean of 81 (range, 46-98). Sixteen patients had a negative preoperative injection test. The mean improvement in this group was 21 points (47 rising to 68) compared with 35 points (48 to 83) in the positive group (P < .05, Mann-Whitney U test). The groups were otherwise similar for age, gender, and operative findings. The steroid/local anesthetic injection test is a useful tool both diagnostically and prognostically in patients with subacromial impingement syndrome. In patients with a confirmed diagnosis but a negative test there is still a significant improvement in the postoperative Constant score, but this is of a lesser degree than in those with a positive result to local anesthetic injection. Level III, Diagnostic Study of Nonconsecutive Patients."}
{"id": "15944617", "title": "Matrix molecule mRNA levels in the bursa and rotator cuff of patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Matrix molecule mRNA levels in the bursa and rotator cuff of patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears. The purpose of this study was to evaluate at the mRNA level a subset of extracellular matrix molecules relevant during healing and remodeling of rotator cuff tears. Controlled laboratory study. Bursal and rotator cuff tissue from the margin of the rotator cuff tear were harvested from 10 patients (mean age, 57.5 +/- 7.3 years) undergoing surgical repair of full-thickness rotator cuff tears. There were six male and four female patients with a mean duration of symptoms of 14.6 months (range, 2 to 60 months). The mean tear size was 4.4 cm. In addition, tissue was obtained from 6 cadaveric specimens with no gross evidence of rotator cuff tearing. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed for type I, II, and III collagen, biglycan, decorin, and aggrecan, and normalized to the housekeeping gene GAPDH. RT-PCR showed that both the bursa and rotator cuff margin had increased mRNA levels for type I and type III collagen in patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears when compared with normal cadaveric controls. In addition, there was a significant decrease in decorin mRNA levels and an increase in aggrecan mRNA levels in the rotator cuff margin of torn rotator cuff tendons when compared with normal cadaveric controls. These results suggest that both the bursa and rotator cuff margin of patients with rotator cuff tears are actively remodeling after injury and that both tissues may potentially contribute to the healing process following repair. These findings may help clinicians determine what aspects of the repair process can be manipulated to affect optimal ruptured tendon repair."}
{"id": "15935534", "title": "Three-dimensional scapulothoracic motion during active and passive arm elevation.", "content": "Three-dimensional scapulothoracic motion during active and passive arm elevation. Scapulothoracic muscle activity is believed to be important for normal scapulothoracic motion. In particular, the trapezius and serratus anterior muscles are believed to play an important role in the production and control of scapulothoracic motion. The aim of this study was to determine the effects of different levels of muscle activity (active versus passive arm elevation) on three-dimensional scapulothoracic motion. Twenty subjects without a history of shoulder pathology participated in this study. Three-dimensional scapulothoracic motion was determined from electromagnetic sensors attached to the scapula, thorax and humerus during active and passive arm elevation. Muscle activity was recorded from surface electrodes over the upper and lower trapezius, serratus anterior, anterior and posterior deltoid, and infraspinatus muscles. Differences in scapulothoracic motion were calculated between active and passive arm elevation conditions. Scapular motion was observed during the trials of passive arm elevation; however, there was more upward rotation of the scapula, external rotation of the scapula, clavicular retraction, and clavicular elevation under the condition of active arm elevation. This was most pronounced for scapular upward rotation through the mid-range (90-120 degrees) of arm elevation. The upper and lower trapezius and serratus anterior muscles have an important role in producing upward rotation of the scapula especially throughout the mid-range of arm elevation. Additionally, it appears that capsuloligamentous and passive muscle tension contribute to scapulothoracic motion during arm elevation. Assessment of the upper and lower trapezius and serratus anterior muscles and upward rotation of the scapula should be part of any shoulder examination."}
{"id": "15933798", "title": "Transanal endoscopic microsurgery: a prospective evaluation of functional results.", "content": "Transanal endoscopic microsurgery: a prospective evaluation of functional results. Local excision is a commonly used technique for many benign and selected malignant rectal lesions. Compared with radical resection, it is associated with decreased morbidity and mortality and improved functional results. Transanal endoscopic microsurgery is gaining popularity because of its ability to access the upper rectum and its precise excision techniques. However, the functional consequences have not been extensively studied. All patients subject to transanal endoscopic microsurgery prospectively completed preoperative and postoperative (6 weeks) surveys including Fecal Incontinence Severity Index, Fecal Incontinence Quality of Life, number of bowel movements per 24 hours, and ability to defer defecation. All data were collected by an independent research coordinator. Demographics, operative details, and complications were also collected prospectively. Forty-one patients successfully underwent transanal endoscopic microsurgery. Fourteen patients had malignant lesions and 27 had benign lesions. Two patients required abdominoperineal resection based on postoperative diagnosis. Thirty-nine patients have completed follow-up and were available for review. Mean length of surgery was 64 minutes and length of stay was 0.9 day. Average distance from the anal verge to the proximal tumor margin was 11.4 cm and mean tumor size was 8.75 cm. Twenty-three patients had full-thickness excision with primary closure, ten had full-thickness excision without closure, five had partial-thickness excision, one had an excision of a mass in the anovaginal septum, and one had resection of an anastomotic stricture. Each patient served as his own control. Preoperative and postoperative number of bowel movements per 24 hours were 2.0 and 2.0, respectively. Preoperative vs. postoperative urgency (ability to defer defecation less than ten minutes) was unchanged. Mean preoperative and postoperative Fecal Incontinence Severity Index scores were 2.4 (range, 0-43) and 2.4 (range, 0-17), respectively (higher scores indicate worse function). In addition, the four parameters measured by the Fecal Incontinence Quality of Life survey were unchanged when preoperative and postoperative data were compared. Transanal endoscopic microsurgery allows precise excision of tumors throughout the rectum. However, it involves inserting a 40-mm-diameter operating proctoscope and significant operating times. Despite this, as measured by ability to defer defecation, number of bowel movements per 24 hours, Fecal Incontinence Severity Index, and Fecal Incontinence Quality of Life survey, transanal endoscopic microsurgery has no detrimental affect on fecal continence."}
{"id": "15930554", "title": "Anterior acromioplasty for the chronic impingement syndrome in the shoulder. 1972.", "content": "Anterior acromioplasty for the chronic impingement syndrome in the shoulder. 1972. Impingement on the tendinous portion of the rotator cuff by the coracoacromial ligament and the anterior third of the acromion is responsible for a characteristic syndrome of disability of the shoulder. A characteristic proliferative spur and ridge has been noted on the anterior lip and undersurface of the anterior process of the acromion and this area may also show erosion and eburnation. The treatment of the impingement is to remove the anterior edge and undersurface of the anterior part of the acromion with the attached coracoacromial ligament. The impingement may also involve the tendon of the long head of the biceps and if it does, it is best to decompress the tendon and remove any osteophytes which may be in its groove, but to avoid transplanting the biceps tendon if possible. Hypertrophic lipping at the acromio-clavicular joint may impinge on the supraspinatus tendon when the arm is in abduction and, if the lip is prominent, this joint should be resected. These are the principles of anterior acromioplasty."}
{"id": "15930541", "title": "Accuracy of office-based ultrasonography of the shoulder for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Accuracy of office-based ultrasonography of the shoulder for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. This prospective multi-institutional study was designed to define the accuracy of ultrasonography, when performed in an orthopaedic surgeon's office, for the diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. An anatomic diagnosis and a treatment plan were made on the basis of office-based shoulder ultrasonography, physical examination, and radiographs for ninety-eight patients (ninety-nine shoulders) with a clinical diagnosis of a rotator-cuff-related problem. The results of the ultrasonographic studies were then compared with the results of magnetic resonance imaging and the operative findings. Office-based ultrasonography led to the correct diagnosis for thirty-seven (88%) of forty-two shoulders with a full-thickness rotator cuff tear or both full and partial-thickness tears, twenty-six (70%) of thirty-seven shoulders with a partial-thickness rotator cuff tear only, and sixteen (80%) of twenty shoulders with normal tendons. In no case was the surgical approach (open or arthroscopic) that had been planned on the basis of the ultrasonography altered by the operative findings, but the operative finding of a full-thickness tear resulted in an arthroscopic cuff repair in four shoulders. Magnetic resonance imaging led to the correct diagnosis for forty (95%) of forty-two shoulders with a full-thickness rotator cuff tear or both full and partial-thickness rotator cuff tears, twenty-seven (73%) of thirty-seven shoulders with only a partial-thickness tear, and fifteen (75%) of twenty shoulders with normal tendons. There were no significant differences between magnetic resonance imaging and ultrasonography with regard to the correct identification of a full-thickness tear or its size. The sensitivity of ultrasonography for detecting tear size in the anterior-posterior dimension was 86% (95% confidence interval, 71% to 95%), and that of magnetic resonance imaging was 93% (95% confidence interval, 81% to 99%) (p = 0.26). The sensitivity of ultrasonography for detecting tear size in the medial-lateral dimension was 83% (95% confidence interval, 69% to 93%), and that of magnetic resonance imaging was 88% (95% confidence interval, 74% to 96%) (p = 0.41). A well-trained office staff and an experienced orthopaedic surgeon can effectively utilize ultrasonography, in conjunction with clinical examination and a review of shoulder radiographs, to accurately diagnose the extent of rotator cuff tears in patients suspected of having such tears. Errors in diagnosis made on the basis of ultrasonography most often consist of an inability to distinguish between partial and full-thickness tears that are approximately 1 cm in size. In this study, such errors did not significantly affect the planned surgical approach."}
{"id": "15930537", "title": "Open rotator cuff repair without acromioplasty.", "content": "Open rotator cuff repair without acromioplasty. In most clinical reports on rotator cuff repair, acromioplasty was done as part of the procedure. In this prospective study, we evaluated the hypothesis that rotator cuff repair without acromioplasty would result in a substantial improvement in shoulder comfort and function. Ninety-six consecutive primary repairs of full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff were performed through a deltoid-muscle-splitting incision that preserved the integrity of the coracoacromial arch and the deltoid insertion. All patients were invited to participate in a prospective study involving periodic self-assessment of shoulder function with the Simple Shoulder Test and general health status with the Short Form-36 (SF-36) questionnaire, both of which are validated instruments. Sixty-one patients provided follow-up information for at least two years postoperatively, and the average duration of follow-up was five years. Thirty-four of the tears involved the supraspinatus tendon alone; sixteen involved the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons; and eleven involved the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis tendons. The percentage of shoulders that could be used to perform each of the twelve functions on the Simple Shoulder Test was significantly increased postoperatively (p < 0.002). Men and women had different degrees of function preoperatively (p < 0.00000001) and postoperatively (p < 0.001), but the improvement in function was essentially identical for the two genders. The mean improvement in the number of shoulder tests that could be performed was best for the patients with one-tendon tears (4.9 tests), next best for those with two-tendon tears (3.6 tests), and worst for those with three-tendon tears (3.3 tests). SF-36 scores for physical role (p < 0.003) and comfort (p < 0.0001) were significantly improved postoperatively. Significant improvement in self-assessed shoulder comfort and in each of the twelve shoulder functions was observed after rotator cuff repairs performed without acromioplasty. The technique that we used is very similar to that described by Codman almost seventy years ago."}
{"id": "15930531", "title": "Arthroscopic repair of full-thickness tears of the supraspinatus: does the tendon really heal?", "content": "Arthroscopic repair of full-thickness tears of the supraspinatus: does the tendon really heal? Good functional results have been reported for arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears, but the rate of tendon-to-bone healing is still unknown. Our hypothesis was that arthroscopic repair of full-thickness supraspinatus tears achieves a rate of complete tendon healing equivalent to those reported in the literature with open or mini-open techniques. Sixty-five consecutive shoulders with a chronic full-thickness supraspinatus tear were repaired arthroscopically in sixty-five patients with use of a tension-band suture technique. Patients ranged in age from twenty-nine to seventy-nine years. The average duration of follow-up was twenty-nine months. Fifty-one patients (fifty-one shoulders) had a computed tomographic arthrogram, and fourteen had a magnetic resonance imaging scan, performed between six months and three years after surgery. All patients were assessed with regard to function and the strength of the shoulder elevation. The rotator cuff was completely healed and watertight in forty-six (71%) of the sixty-five patients and was partially healed in three. Although the supraspinatus tendon did not heal to the tuberosity in sixteen shoulders, the size of the persistent defect was smaller than the initial tear in fifteen. Sixty-two of the sixty-five patients were satisfied with the result. The Constant score improved from an average (and standard deviation) of 51.6 +/- 10.6 points preoperatively to 83.8 +/- 10.3 points at the time of the last follow-up evaluation (p < 0.001), and the average University of California at Los Angeles score improved from 11.5 +/- 1.1 to 32.3 +/- 1.3 (p < 0.001). The average strength of the shoulder elevation was significantly better (p = 0.001) when the tendon had healed (7.3 +/- 2.9 kg) than when it had not (4.7 +/- 1.9 kg). Factors that were negatively associated with tendon healing were increasing age and associated delamination of the subscapularis or infraspinatus tendon. Only ten (43%) of twenty-three patients over the age of sixty-five years had completely healed tendons (p < 0.001). Arthroscopic repair of an isolated supraspinatus detachment commonly leads to complete tendon healing. The absence of healing of the repaired rotator cuff is associated with inferior strength. Patients over the age of sixty-five years (p = 0.001) and patients with associated delamination of the subscapularis and/or the infraspinatus (p = 0.02) have significantly lower rates of healing."}
{"id": "15924511", "title": "Effectiveness of a graded exercise therapy program for patients with chronic shoulder complaints.", "content": "Effectiveness of a graded exercise therapy program for patients with chronic shoulder complaints. An operant behavioural and time-contingent graded exercise therapy program was developed to improve functional ability irrespective of pain experience in patients with chronic shoulder complaints. The clinical effectiveness of graded exercise therapy compared to usual care was evaluated in a randomised clinical trial. Assessments were carried out before and after 12 weeks of treatment. Performance of daily activities was measured by two outcome measures: the main complaints instrument and the Shoulder Disability Questionnaire (SDQ). Patients were eligible for participation if they had suffered from shoulder complaints for at least three months. Patients suffering from systemic diseases, referred pain or severe biomedical or psychiatric disorders were excluded. Patients (n = 176) were randomised and allocated either to graded exercise therapy (n = 87) or usual care (n = 89). Graded exercise therapy led to greater improvement in the performance of daily activities than usual care. However, only mean differences between groups in performance of activities related to the main complaints reached statistical significance (p = 0.049; 95% CI 0.0 to 15.0). The observed beneficial effects were considered to be small to moderate (calculated effect sizes: 0.30 for the main complaints instrument and 0.07 for the SDQ). Subgroup analysis showed larger improvements on the mean complaints instrument in patients not reporting pain reduction over time. Graded exercise therapy seems to be less effective in restoring performance of daily activities as assessed by the SDQ in patients showing a painful arc during physical examination. Results showed that graded exercise therapy is more effective in restoring the ability to daily activities in patients with chronic shoulder complaints than usual care, although beneficial effects are small."}
{"id": "15921471", "title": "Effects of acupuncture versus ultrasound in patients with impingement syndrome: randomized clinical trial.", "content": "Effects of acupuncture versus ultrasound in patients with impingement syndrome: randomized clinical trial. There is no definitive evidence for the efficacy of the physical therapy interventions used for patients with impingement syndrome. The purpose of this study was to compare manual acupuncture and continuous ultrasound, both applied in addition to home exercises, for patients diagnosed with impingement syndrome. Eighty-five patients with clinical signs of impingement syndrome were randomly assigned to either a group that received acupuncture (n=44) or a group that received ultrasound (n=41). Both interventions were given by physical therapists twice a week for 5 weeks in addition to a home exercise program. Scores from 3 shoulder disability measures, combined in the analysis, measured change during a period of 12 months. Both groups improved, but the acupuncture group had a larger improvement in the combined score. The results suggest that acupuncture is more efficacious than ultrasound when applied in addition to home exercises."}
{"id": "15911667", "title": "Accuracy of CT arthrography in the assessment of tears of the rotator cuff.", "content": "Accuracy of CT arthrography in the assessment of tears of the rotator cuff. CT arthrography and arthroscopy were used to assess tears of the rotator cuff in 259 shoulders. Tear size was determined in the frontal and sagittal planes according to the classification of the French Arthroscopy Society. CT arthrography had a sensitivity of 99% and a specificity of 100% for the diagnosis of tears of supraspinatus. For infraspinatus these figures were 97.44% and 99.52%, respectively and, for subscapularis, 64.71% and 98.17%. For lesions of the long head of the biceps, the sensitivity was 45.76% and the specificity was 99.57%. Our study showed an excellent correlation between CT arthrography and arthroscopy when assessing the extent of a rotator cuff tear. CT arthrography should, therefore, be an indispensable part of pre-operative assessment. It allows determination of whether a tear is reparable (retraction of the tendon and fatty degeneration of the corresponding muscle) and whether this is possible by arthroscopy (degree of tendon retraction and extension to subscapularis)."}
{"id": "15911666", "title": "The effect of suture materials and techniques on the outcome of repair of the rotator cuff: a prospective, randomised study.", "content": "The effect of suture materials and techniques on the outcome of repair of the rotator cuff: a prospective, randomised study. In a prospective, randomised study on the repair of tears of the rotator cuff we compared the clinical results of two suture techniques for which different suture materials were used. We prospectively randomised 100 patients with tears of the rotator cuff into two groups. Group 1 had transosseous repair with No. 3 Ethibond using modified Mason-Allen sutures and group 2 had transosseous repair with 1.0 mm polydioxanone cord using modified Kessler sutures. After 24 to 30 months the patients were evaluated clinically using the Constant score and by ultrasonography. Of the 100 patients, 92 completed the study. No significant statistical difference was seen between the two groups: Constant score, 91% vs 92%; rate of further tear, 18% vs 22%; and revision, 4% vs 4%. In cases of further tear the outcome in group 2 did not differ from that for the intact repairs (91% vs 91%), but in group 1 it was significantly worse (94% vs 77%, p = 0.005). Overall, seven patients had complications which required revision surgery, in four for pain (two in each group) and in three for infection (two in group 1 and one in group 2)."}
{"id": "15911143", "title": "EEG-based neuroprosthesis control: a step towards clinical practice.", "content": "EEG-based neuroprosthesis control: a step towards clinical practice. This case study demonstrates the coupling of an electroencephalogram (EEG)-based Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) with an implanted neuroprosthesis (Freehand system). Because the patient was available for only 3 days, the goal was to demonstrate the possibility of a patient gaining control over the motor imagery-based Graz BCI system within a very short training period. By applying himself to an organized and coordinated training procedure, the patient was able to generate distinctive EEG-patterns by the imagination of movements of his paralyzed left hand. These patterns consisted of power decreases in specific frequency bands that could be classified by the BCI. The output signal of the BCI emulated the shoulder joystick usually used, and by consecutive imaginations the patient was able to switch between different grasp phases of the lateral grasp that the Freehand system provided. By performing a part of the grasp-release test, the patient was able to move a simple object from one place to another. The results presented in this work give evidence that Brain-Computer Interfaces are an option for the control of neuroprostheses in patients with high spinal cord lesions. The fact that the user learned to control the BCI in a comparatively short time indicates that this method may also be an alternative approach for clinical purposes."}
{"id": "15908528", "title": "Detection and measurement of rotator cuff tears with sonography: analysis of diagnostic errors.", "content": "Detection and measurement of rotator cuff tears with sonography: analysis of diagnostic errors. The purpose of this study was to analyze the causes of errors in the detection and measurement of rotator cuff tears in our patient population. Seventy-one consecutive patients with shoulder pain who were prospectively studied with sonography had subsequent arthroscopy that showed a full-thickness or partial-thickness tear or intact cuff. For sonography and arthroscopy, the length or degree of retraction and width of a tear, when present, was recorded. When there were discrepant findings, representative images were jointly evaluated by the radiologist and orthopedic surgeon to determine the cause of the error. Fifteen detection errors were found, including five misses (three < 5-mm subscapularis and two small partial-thickness tears), four errors inherent with the test (distinguishing large bursal side or extensive partial-thickness from full-thickness tears and tendinopathy from partial-thickness tears), three errors of an unknown cause, two due to misinterpretation, and one error inherent with the patient. Seventeen measurement errors occurred with full-thickness tears, 15 of those in patients with large or massive tears. Bursal thickening (n = 4), non-visualization of the torn tendon end (n = 2), nonretracted tear (n = 2), and complex tear (n = 1) contributed to the errors. Eight measurement errors occurred with partial-thickness tears. Difficulty distinguishing tendinopathy from partial-thickness tears (n = 3) and complex tears (n = 3) accounted for six errors. Although infrequent, detection errors were due to limitations inherent with the test or misses. Limitations inherent with the patient and misinterpretation of the findings were rare. Most measurement errors occurred in patients with large or massive cuff tears."}
{"id": "15902524", "title": "Trapezius muscle imbalance in individuals suffering from frozen shoulder syndrome.", "content": "Trapezius muscle imbalance in individuals suffering from frozen shoulder syndrome. This aim of this study was to characterize upper and lower trapezius muscle activity for patients experiencing frozen shoulder syndrome (FSS) compared to asymptomatic subjects. Fifteen patients suffering from unilateral FSS and 15 asymptomatic subjects voluntarily participated in this study. Data were gathered on electromyographic (EMG) activity obtained from the upper and lower trapezius muscles during maximal static arm elevations at six different testing positions: 60 and 120 degrees of flexion, abduction in the frontal plane, and abduction in the scapular plane. The group with FSS revealed increased upper trapezius EMG activity at the 60 degrees (mean difference = 12%, p < 0.003) and 120 degrees (mean difference = 24%, p < 0.004) testing positions, and increased lower trapezius EMG activity at the 120 degrees testing positions (mean difference = 6%, p < 0.002), compared to asymptomatic subjects. Higher ratios of the upper trapezius to lower trapezius EMG activity were also found in the patient group (p < 0.0005) compared to asymptomatic subjects. The results of this study indicate that the increased trapezius muscle activity may contribute to scapular substitution movement in compensation for impaired glenohumeral motion in patients with FSS. The insufficiency of the increased lower trapezius muscle activity should be an important consideration in the rehabilitation of patients experiencing FSS."}
{"id": "15901124", "title": "The effect of long versus short pectoralis minor resting length on scapular kinematics in healthy individuals.", "content": "The effect of long versus short pectoralis minor resting length on scapular kinematics in healthy individuals. Two-group comparison. To compare scapular kinematics during arm elevation between groups distinguished by pectoralis minor resting length. Studies have demonstrated that individuals with subacromial impingement have altered scapular kinematics, such as loss of posterior tipping and increased internal rotation. One proposed mechanism for these alterations is an adaptively short pectoralis minor. This anterior scapulothoracic muscle may impact normal scapular kinematics if adaptively short. Fifty volunteers without shoulder pain were divided into long or short groups according to normalized pectoralis minor resting length. An electromagnetic motion capture system determined the angular orientation of the scapula, humerus, and trunk during arm elevation in 3 separate planes. Groups were compared for 3-dimensional scapular orientation relative to the trunk at arm elevation angles of 30 degrees, 60 degrees, 90 degrees, and 120 degrees, using a mixed-model analysis of variance (ANOVA). There were statistically significant interaction effects between group and arm elevation angle for scapular tipping in all planes of arm elevation, with the scapula for the short group staying anteriorly tipped at higher angles. There was also a significant interaction for scapular internal rotation at lower arm elevation angles in the coronal plane only, with individuals with a shorter pectoralis minor demonstrating a more internally rotated scapula. The group distinguished by a short pectoralis minor demonstrated scapular kinematics similar to the kinematics exhibited in earlier studies by subjects with shoulder impingement. These results support the theory that an adaptively short pectoralis minor may influence scapular kinematics and is therefore a potential mechanism for subacromial impingement."}
{"id": "15894730", "title": "Masseter myodegeneration as a cause of trismus or dysphagia in adult horses.", "content": "Masseter myodegeneration as a cause of trismus or dysphagia in adult horses. The medical records of eight horses with histological evidence of myodegeneration of the masseter muscles were examined. While they were alive their most common clinical signs had included difficulty in eating or opening their mouths, weight loss, difficulty in moving, and noticeable atrophy of the masseter muscles. The serum activities of muscle enzymes were abnormally high in all of the horses. Whole blood and/or liver selenium and vitamin E concentrations were less than the reference ranges in some of the horses. The lesions varied with the stage of the disease and consisted of swelling and discoloration, or muscle atrophy and fibrosis. Histologically, the muscle changes ranged from acute to subacute degeneration, with regenerative changes accompanying ongoing degeneration, to chronic degeneration with fibrotic replacement of muscle tissue. There were changes in the masseter muscle of all the horses, but some had widespread lesions in skeletal muscle, and a few also had myocardial lesions."}
{"id": "15891739", "title": "The arthroscopic active compression test.", "content": "The arthroscopic active compression test. Pathology of the biceps tendon is often a factor in the pathogenesis of shoulder pain. However, diagnosis and management of such pathology remains controversial. Multiple tests have been described to identify pathology related to the biceps tendon and biceps anchor. The active compression test is one such test that has been used clinically to identify patients with superior labral/biceps anchor pathology. An arthroscopic version of this test is described to identify biceps pathology intraoperatively and to aid the surgeon in making diagnostic and treatment decisions."}
{"id": "15891730", "title": "Biomechanical evaluation of different suture anchors for the stabilization of anterior labrum lesions.", "content": "Biomechanical evaluation of different suture anchors for the stabilization of anterior labrum lesions. The aim of the study was to investigate the biomechanical performance of different devices for anterior shoulder reconstruction in a clinically relevant human cadaver shoulder model. Biomechanical cadaveric study. The soft tissue, except for the joint capsule, was dissected from 28 fresh-frozen human shoulder specimens. A Bankart lesion was created and repaired with 3 suture anchors. The devices tested were the 2.4-mm Fastak (Arthrex, Karlsfeld, Germany) with either Ethibond (Ethicon, Westwood, MA) no. 2 or 3, the 2.8-mm Fastak with Ethibond no. 2, the Panalok (Mitek, Norwood, MA) with Ethibond no. 2 with a modified setting technique, and the 8-mm Suretac (Acufex Microsurgical, Mansfield, MA). The specimens were anteriorly dislocated in 60 degrees glenohumeral abduction and 90 degrees external rotation. Load was measured continuously and failures were noted. The experimental groups were compared with each other and with a control group with intact shoulders. Bankart repair with 2.4-mm Fastaks and Ethibond no. 2 and 3 failed at a mean load of 342.0 N and 692.2 N, respectively, predominantly by suture rupture at the eyelet of the anchor. Shoulder reconstruction with 2.8-mm Fastaks failed at an average load of 722.8 N, mostly by suture rupture at the knot. The difference to the 2.4-mm Fastak with Ethibond no. 2 was significant (P < .05). The mean load to failure was 983.8 N in the Panalok group, and the most frequent failure mode was suture rupture at the knot. Bankart repair with Suretac failed at an average load of 468.4 N, typically by capsular damage at the repair site. Capsular injuries in the control group occurred at a mean load of 958.2 N. Anterior shoulder reconstruction with 2.4-mm Fastak with Ethibond no. 2 and with Suretac were statistically significantly inferior to the control group (P < .05). All tested devices allow stable anterior shoulder reconstruction, but we recommend the Panalok and the 2.8-mm Fastak because they provided greater stability than either the 2.4-mm Fastak or the Suretac in our experiments. Suretac can possibly cause additional capsular damage in redislocations after Bankart repair. This cadaveric study gives an insight into the biomechanical performance of a Bankart repair with different devices directly postoperative and shows possible failure modes and additional injuries in case of early traumatic redislocation."}
{"id": "15891729", "title": "Immediate postoperative fluid retention and weight gain after shoulder arthroscopy.", "content": "Immediate postoperative fluid retention and weight gain after shoulder arthroscopy. The primary purpose of this study was to determine the amount of weight gain immediately after shoulder arthroscopy. In addition, patient and surgical factors correlated with weight gain were analyzed. We hypothesized that there would be a significant increase in weight immediately after shoulder arthroscopy and that the amount of weight gain would correlate with a number of surgical factors. Observational case series. Fifty-three patients were enrolled in the study. There were 34 male and 19 female patients, with a mean age of 47.1 +/- 13.8 years. All patients were weighed before and after surgery using the same weight scale by the same observer. Weight gain was calculated and adjusted to account for the weight of the dressing and sling. Weight gain then was correlated to various clinical and surgical variables. Pearson correlation coefficients, Student t tests, and stepwise regression were used to determine significant correlations between clinical and surgical variables and weight gain. The mean amount of net weight gain was 8.7 +/- 3.9 lb (range, 0.8-18.8 lb), representing 4.6% +/- 2.1% of preoperative weight. The mean amount of weight gain attributable to arthroscopy fluid only was 4.2 +/- 3.8 lb (range, 0-14.5 lb), representing a gain of 2.2% +/- 2.0% of preoperative weight. The mean amount of intravenous fluid infused was 1,885 +/- 547 mL, and the mean amount of normal saline arthroscopy fluid used was 30 +/- 24 L. Surgical time, the amount of arthroscopy fluid, the size of the rotator cuff tear, the number of tendons involved, the presence of a subscapularis tear, the number of procedures performed, the concomitant performance of a subacromial decompression, the number of BioCorkscrew (Arthrex, Inc., Naples, FL) anchors used, and the total number of anchors used all correlated with increasing weight gain (all P < .05). A procedure of stepwise regression selection did not identify any quantitative parameters attributable to weight gain other than the earlier-described parameters. There were no significant intraoperative or postoperative complications attributable to the amount of weight gain. Weight gain immediately after shoulder arthroscopy is a common finding. Although no complications were seen in this group of patients, both patients and surgeons should be aware of this concern after shoulder arthroscopy and the potential complications related to it."}
{"id": "15891728", "title": "Open versus arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: a comparative view of 96 cases.", "content": "Open versus arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: a comparative view of 96 cases. This study was performed to review and compare the outcome of a consecutive series of 96 rotator cuff repairs performed with an open versus arthroscopic technique. The arthroscopic repairs include the beginning of the learning curve. Case series. In a 24-month period from 1999 to 2001, 95 patients underwent a cuff repair with bony reattachment by 1 surgeon; 4 patients had surgery on both shoulders. We present subjective outcome data from 96 of 99 operated shoulders by the use of a visual analog scale (VAS), the Simple Shoulder Test (SST), and the question of overall patient satisfaction. Thirty shoulders undergoing surgery before February 2000 had open cuff repair (12 classic open, 18 mini-open) and 66 shoulders undergoing surgery after February 2000 had an arthroscopic cuff repair with suture anchors. All but 3 shoulders had the supraspinatus/infraspinatus tendon refixed, 32% had a subscapularis reattachment, and 21% an additional SLAP repair. Groups A (30 shoulders, open repair) and B (66 shoulders, arthroscopic repair) were comparable concerning tear size, cause of the tear, professional shoulder strain, and preoperative pain intensity. At follow-up evaluation (15-40 months after surgery), group B had significantly better pain relief on the VAS (P < .05), more yes answers in the SST (9.7 vs. 8.7, not significant), and a higher patient satisfaction rate of 92.4% versus 80% (not significant). From the 12 questions of the SST, all but 1 showed a higher percentage of yes answers in group B; for 3 questions concerning mobility the difference was significant (P < .07). There was no correlation between tear size and outcome in the SST. Arthroscopic cuff repair yielded equal or better results than open repair, even at the beginning of the learning curve. Patients with an arthroscopic repair had a significantly better decrease in pain and a better functional result concerning mobility. Arthroscopic repair is successful for large and small tears. Biomechanically, large tears might even benefit more than small ones. Level IV."}
{"id": "15891500", "title": "Value of magnetic resonance imaging for muscle denervation syndromes of the shoulder girdle.", "content": "Value of magnetic resonance imaging for muscle denervation syndromes of the shoulder girdle. Clinical evaluation of neuromuscular disorders typically consists of obtaining a detailed clinical history, physical examination, and electrophysiologic examinations. Electrodiagnostic examinations significantly aid in distinguishing between myopathy, neuropathy, and neuromuscular disorders. Electrodiagnostic examinations also assist in determining the severity and extent of disease. Progress can also be monitored on follow-up testing. The benefit of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in neuromuscular disease evaluation lies primarily in identifying a specific underlying gross pathologic cause and its location in the neuraxis as well as in identifying associated secondary findings. In some cases, MRI is particularly helpful when a solitary, small, deep muscle is affected. Imaging can be useful in assessing clinical progress in some cases. Causes of muscle denervation include mass lesions and trauma as well as infectious, autoimmune, and idiopathic causes. This article illustrates the common denervation syndromes that involve the shoulder girdle: Parsonage-Turner syndrome, quadrilateral space syndrome, and suprascapular neuropathy. By demonstrating the exact muscles involved and spared, MRI noninvasively identifies the level of nerve insult in the neuraxis. Furthermore, in cases in which a mass is responsible for denervation, MRI can directly show the cause and aid in treatment planning."}
{"id": "15890637", "title": "Operative stabilization of posterior shoulder instability.", "content": "Operative stabilization of posterior shoulder instability. Symptomatic, traumatic posterior shoulder instability is often the result of a posteriorly directed blow to an adducted, internally rotated, and forward-flexed upper extremity. Operative repair has been shown to provide favorable results. Current arthroscopic techniques with suture anchors and the ability to plicate the capsule using a nonabsorbable suture may provide favorable outcomes with reduced morbidity. To evaluate the results of operative shoulder stabilization in patients with traumatic posterior shoulder instability. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. A consecutive series of patients who underwent arthroscopic or open posterior stabilization for traumatic posterior shoulder instability were evaluated using subjective assessments, physical examinations, the Single Assessment Numeric Evaluation, Rowe score, Simple Shoulder Test, and the Western Ontario Shoulder Instability Index. Between May 1996 and February 2002, 31 shoulders (30 patients) underwent posterior stabilization (19 arthroscopically, 12 open). There were 29 men and 1 woman (mean age, 23 years). Preoperatively, all patients had a distinct traumatic cause for the instability. On physical examination, all patients had posterior apprehension and increased (2+, 3+) posterior load-shift testing. Preoperative radiographs and/or magnetic resonance imaging revealed posterior rim calcification or reverse Bankart lesions in 29 cases (94%). At arthroscopy, posterior labral injuries, reverse Bankart lesions, or humeral head defects were identified. Follow-up averaged 40 months, and the mean duration between injury and surgery was 21 months. The mean Single Assessment Numeric Evaluation, Rowe score, Simple Shoulder Test, and Western Ontario Shoulder Instability Index scores, respectively, for the entire group were 89, 87, 11, and 346; for the open group, they were 81, 80, 10.5, and 594; for the arthroscopic group, they were 92, 92, 11.4, and 190. The Western Ontario Shoulder Instability Index (P < .03) and Rowe score (P < .04) outcomes scores for the arthroscopic group were statistically better than those of the open group. Twenty-nine of 31 shoulders were rated as excellent or good. In the case of traumatic posterior shoulder subluxation, posterior lesions of the labrum (\"reverse Bankart\"), articular edge, and capsule are observed. Surgical treatment addressing these lesions led to satisfactory results for both the open and arthroscopic treated groups. In this study, an arthroscopic technique utilizing suture anchor repair with capsular placation provided the most favorable outcomes."}
{"id": "15889041", "title": "Lag signs.", "content": "Lag signs."}
{"id": "15887585", "title": "Management of irreparable rotator cuff tears and glenohumeral arthritis.", "content": "Management of irreparable rotator cuff tears and glenohumeral arthritis. Glenohumeral arthritis with irreparable rotator cuff tears remain a difficult entity to treat. Varied causes include rotator cuff tear arthropathy, osteoarthritis, or rheumatoid arthritis with irreparable cuff tear. Common symptoms are progressive pain and dysfunction. Physical examination may reveal pain, crepitance, rotator cuff weakness, and loss of motion and function. Radiographs may reveal varying degrees of osteophyte formation, sclerotic bone, superior humeral head migration, and bony erosion. Additional imaging modalities may reveal cuff tear size, retraction, atrophy, and fatty infiltration. Failure of nonoperative management may lead to operative intervention. Rotator cuff repair or reconstruction may help prevent progression of tears and future arthritic changes. In patients with moderate to severe glenohumeral arthritis and irreparable rotator cuff tears, hemiarthroplasty is currently the procedure of choice. For patients with severe cuff dysfunction or loss of coracoacromial arch, or for patients who require revision, the reverse shoulder prosthesis may offer a treatment option. Future management continues to be defined with additional study."}
{"id": "15872389", "title": "Cutaneous angiomatosis in a young dog.", "content": "Cutaneous angiomatosis in a young dog. A 1-year-old, spayed, female, mixed-breed dog had two reddish-purple cutaneous lesions, one on the right dorsal antebrachium and the other on the right shoulder. The lesions consisted of approximately 13 x 3 cm and 15 x 10 cm, irregular, patchy regions of 0.5-3.0 cm, circular, sometimes raised, reddish-purple swellings resembling ecchymoses. The lesion on the antebrachium had been noticed since the dog was adopted at 6 months of age and appeared to have increased in size over an 11-week period, at which time skin punch biopsy revealed an infiltrative pattern of well-differentiated blood vessels leading to an interpretation that the lesion was a well-differentiated hemangiosarcoma. The second lesion was revealed when the dog had its fur shaved in that area during surgical preparation to excise the antebrachial lesion. No other skin lesions were found on the dog. Microscopically, there was a widely disseminated and infiltrative-like pattern of benign-appearing small blood vessels, which were throughout the superficial and deep dermis and subcutis. Although the disseminated nature suggested malignancy, the histologic appearance of well-differentiated small blood vessels and nonprogressive clinical features indicate that the lesions were benign. The dog has been followed for 6 years and to date has no evidence of progression of the antebrachial lesion or shoulder lesion. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of a congenital angiomatosis-like lesion in a young dog, with extensive involvement of the forelimb."}
{"id": "15871742", "title": "The factor validity of the Western Ontario Rotator Cuff Index.", "content": "The factor validity of the Western Ontario Rotator Cuff Index. The Western Ontario Rotator Cuff Index (WORC) is a self-report questionnaire developed specifically to evaluate disability in persons with pathology of the rotator cuff of the shoulder. The authors created items in 5 categories based on a model of quality of life, but never validated this structure. The purpose of this study was to examine the validity of the original 5-domain model of the WORC by performing factor analysis. Three hundred twenty nine subjects (age, mean: 52, SD: 12) were tested prior to undergoing surgery for rotator cuff pathologies. They completed the WORC, a self-report questionnaire, which has 21 items on the effect of the rotator cuff problem on symptoms, activities and emotions. Statistical calculations included correlations between items, Cronbach's alpha of the total scale and subscales, and principal component factor analysis with oblique rotation. Correlations ranged from .09 to .70 between all the items, from .29 to .70 between items within a subscale, and from .53 to .72 between subscale scores. Cronbach's alpha was .93 for the total scale, and .72 to .82 for the subscales. The factor analysis produced 3 factors that explained 57% of the variance. The first factor included symptoms and emotional items, the second included strength items and the third included daily activities. The results of this study did not support the 5-domain model of the WORC."}
{"id": "15866244", "title": "Shoulder impingement syndrome.", "content": "Shoulder impingement syndrome. Subacromial impingement syndrome is a common cause of shoulder pain. The purpose of this article is to review the clinical presentation, physical examination findings, and differential diagnosis of impingement syndrome. Using an evidence-based approach, we propose an algorithm for the management of subacromial impingement syndrome including indications for nonoperative management, advanced imaging, and operative management."}
{"id": "15864899", "title": "Diagnosing rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Diagnosing rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "15864042", "title": "MRI findings in throwing shoulders: abnormalities in professional handball players.", "content": "MRI findings in throwing shoulders: abnormalities in professional handball players. Shoulders of throwing athletes are highly stressed joints and likely to have more structural abnormalities seen on magnetic resonance imaging scans. Prevalence and type of structural abnormalities, especially abnormalities of the rotator cuff tendons and the superolateral humeral head, and correlation of magnetic resonance imaging findings with symptoms and clinical tests, are not well known. Throwing and nonthrowing (symptomatic and asymptomatic) shoulders of 30 fully competitive professional handball players and 20 dominant shoulders of randomly selected volunteers were evaluated for comparison clinically and with magnetic resonance imaging. An average of seven abnormal magnetic resonance imaging findings was observed in the throwing shoulders; more than in the nonthrowing and the control shoulders. Although 93% of the throwing shoulders had abnormal magnetic resonance imaging findings, only 37% were symptomatic. Partial rotator cuff tears and mainly superolateral osteochondral defects of the humeral head were identified as typical throwing lesions. Symptoms correlated poorly with abnormalities seen on magnetic resonance imaging scans and findings from clinical tests. This suggests that the evaluation of an athlete's throwing shoulder should be done very thoroughly and should not be based mainly on abnormalities seen on magnetic resonance imaging scans."}
{"id": "15861412", "title": "Interferon alpha therapy for patients with essential thrombocythemia: final results of a phase II study initiated in 1986.", "content": "Interferon alpha therapy for patients with essential thrombocythemia: final results of a phase II study initiated in 1986. In 1986, a Phase II trial of recombinant interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) was initiated as therapy for patients with essential thrombocythemia (ET). Patients were treated with subcutaneous IFN-alpha at a dose of 5 x 10(6) units/m(2) daily. In responding patients, the therapy lasted at least 3 years. Twenty-three patients (14 females and 9 males; median age, 41 years; age range, 20-63 years) with a median platelet count of 1350 x 10(9)/L were treated. After a median follow-up of 174 months (14.5 years), 15 of 20 evaluable patients (75%) responded, including 14 patients who achieved a complete hematologic response (CHR) (6 of them with bone marrow remission) and 1 patient who demonstrated a partial response. The median time to response was 6 months (range, 0.5-36 months), and the median response duration was 48 months (range, 5-114 months). Seven patients who achieved a CHR and were taken off therapy after they completed 3 years of maintenance therapy sustained their response for a median of 28 months. No symptoms or signs of thrombosis or hemorrhage were observed in responding patients. Eleven of 14 patients (78%) who achieved a CHR developed a recurrence, and 2 of 5 patients with recurrences who were rechallenged with IFN-alpha achieved a second response. The treatment was tolerated relatively well. IFN-alpha was safe and effective therapy for patients with ET, and the ability of IFN-alpha to reverse disease pathology and possibly modify the clinical course of patients with ET warrants its investigation in larger, prospective trials."}
{"id": "15859531", "title": "Translation, adaptation and validation of the Shoulder Rating Questionnaire (SRQ) into the Dutch language.", "content": "Translation, adaptation and validation of the Shoulder Rating Questionnaire (SRQ) into the Dutch language. To translate and adapt the original English version of the Shoulder Rating Questionnaire (SRQ) into the Dutch language (SRQ-DLV) and evaluate its internal consistency, reliability, validity and responsiveness to clinical changes. Prospective study. Outpatient departments of orthopaedics, radiology and physical therapy of an academic and a non-academic hospital. One hundred and seven patients treated for unilateral shoulder disorder (adhesive capsulitis 68, calcifying tendinitis 22, impingement syndrome or rotator cuff tear 17). The original SRQ was translated and adapted following international guidelines. The SRQ-DLV was used among other measures of body function and structure, activities and societal participation in order to determine reliability, internal consistency, validity and responsiveness. Assessments were done at baseline and three months after treatment, with the SRQ-DLV being re-administered within one week before the baseline measurement and the start of the treatment for testing reliability. Cronbach's alpha for internal consistency was 0.89 for the total questionnaire and 0.81, 0.80, 0.72 and 0.84 for the domains pain, daily activities, sports/recreational activities and work, respectively. Test-retest reliability of the SRQ-DLV and its subscales ranged from 0.63 to 0.86. The summary score of the SRQ-DLV correlated with measures of shoulder function, daily activities and quality of life. Except for the work subscale of the SRQ-DLV, large effect sizes, reflecting its responsiveness to clinical changes after treatment, were found for both the summary and the subscales scores. Empirical data support that the SRQ-DLV is a reliable, valid and responsive measure to be used in clinical trials including Dutch patients with various shoulder disorders."}
{"id": "15855096", "title": "Surgically repaired massive rotator cuff tears: MRI of tendon integrity, muscle fatty degeneration, and muscle atrophy correlated with intraoperative and clinical findings.", "content": "Surgically repaired massive rotator cuff tears: MRI of tendon integrity, muscle fatty degeneration, and muscle atrophy correlated with intraoperative and clinical findings. Our goal in this study was to evaluate by means of MRI the clinical significance of tendon integrity, muscle fatty degeneration, and muscle atrophy in surgically repaired massive rotator cuff tears and to correlate these and other prognostic factors with intraoperative and clinical findings. Twenty-eight surgically proven massive rotator cuff tears were retrospectively included in the study. Twenty-two patients underwent complete repair, and six patients underwent partial repair. Preoperative and postoperative clinical assessment was performed by using the University of California at Los Angeles score. Preoperative and postoperative MRI studies were evaluated for the presence and extent of rotator cuff tear and for the degree of fatty degeneration and atrophy of the rotator cuff muscles. At a mean 44.4 months' follow-up, 20 patients (71.4%) had a favorable result. A total of 25 patients (89.2%) showed postoperative full-thickness rotator cuff tear, 19 of which were reruptures. A sagittal preoperative rotator cuff tear of less than or equal to 34 mm showed a specificity of 100% for predicting a favorable outcome. A coronal postoperative rotator cuff tear of less than or equal to 34 mm showed a specificity of 85.7% and a positive predictive value of 92.9% for predicting a favorable outcome. A postoperative fatty degeneration of infraspinatus muscle less than or equal to 2 had a specificity of 87.5% and a positive predictive value of 90.9% for predicting a favorable outcome. Open repair of massive rotator cuff tears may reach a favorable outcome in a significant proportion of patients, despite a high rate of recurrent or residual tears. Oblique coronal sizes of the recurrent or residual tear of less than or equal to 34 mm and postoperative fatty degenerations of infraspinatus muscle of less than or equal to 2 may allow a favorable outcome."}
{"id": "15846753", "title": "Acupuncture for shoulder pain.", "content": "Acupuncture for shoulder pain. There are many commonly employed forms of treatment for shoulder disorders. This review of acupuncture is one in a series of reviews of varying interventions for shoulder disorders including adhesive capsulitis (frozen shoulder), rotator cuff disease and osteoarthritis. Acupuncture to treat musculoskeletal pain is being used increasingly to confer an analgesic effect and to date its use in shoulder disorder has not been evaluated in a systematic review. To determine the efficacy and safety of acupuncture in the treatment of adults with shoulder pain. The Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, MEDLINE, EMBASE and CINAHL were searched from inception to December 2003, and reference lists from relevant trials were reviewed. Randomised and quasi-randomised trials, in all languages, of acupuncture compared to placebo or another intervention in adults with shoulder pain. Specific exclusions were duration of shoulder pain less than three weeks, rheumatoid arthritis, polymyalgia rheumatica, cervically referred pain and fracture. Two reviewers independently extracted trial and outcome data. For continuous outcome measures where the standard deviations were not reported it was either calculated from the raw data or converted from the standard error of the mean. If neither of these was reported, authors were contacted. Where results were reported as median and range, the trial was not included in the meta-analysis, but presented in Additional Tables. Effect sizes were calculated and combined in a pooled analysis if the study end-points population and intervention were homogenous. Results are presented separately for rotator cuff disease, adhesive capsulitis, full thickness rotator cuff tear and mixed diagnoses, and, where possible, combined in meta-analysis to indicate effect of acupuncture across all shoulder disorders. Nine trials of varying methodological quality met the inclusion criteria. For all trials there was poor description of interventions. Varying placebos were used in the different trials. Two trials assessed short-term success (post intervention) of acupuncture for rotator cuff disease and could be combined in meta analysis. There was no significant difference in short-term improvement associated with acupuncture when compared to placebo, but due to small sample sizes this may be explained by Type II error. Acupuncture was of benefit over placebo in improving the Constant Murley Score (a measure of shoulder function) at four weeks (WMD 17.3 (7.79, 26.81)). However, by four months, the difference between the acupuncture and placebo groups, whilst still statistically significant, was no longer likely to be clinically significant (WMD 3.53 (0.74, 6.32)). The Constant Murley Score is graded out of 100, hence a change of 3.53 is unlikely to be of substantial benefit. The results of a small pilot study demonstrated some benefit of both traditional and ear acupuncture plus mobilization over mobilization alone. There was no difference in adverse events related to acupuncture when compared to placebo, however this was assessed by only one trial Due to a small number of clinical and methodologically diverse trials, little can be concluded from this review. There is little evidence to support or refute the use of acupuncture for shoulder pain although there may be short-term benefit with respect to pain and function. There is a need for further well designed clinical trials."}
{"id": "15840617", "title": "A population study on differences in the determinants of a specific shoulder disorder versus nonspecific shoulder pain without clinical findings.", "content": "A population study on differences in the determinants of a specific shoulder disorder versus nonspecific shoulder pain without clinical findings. Musculoskeletal pain frequently occurs without particular clinical findings. Pain per se may be determined by factors other than those indicating a clinical disorder. The authors examined the prevalence and determinants of clinically diagnosed chronic rotator cuff tendinitis and self-reported nonspecific shoulder pain. The Health 2000 survey, carried out in 2000-2001 in Finland, included a nationally representative sample of 8,028 persons aged 30 years or more. In the present study, analyses were restricted to subjects aged 30-64 years who had held a job during the preceding 12 months. The prevalences of chronic rotator cuff tendinitis and nonspecific shoulder pain were 2.0% (78 of 3,909 subjects) and 12% (410 of 3,525 subjects), respectively. Nonspecific pain was related to burnout (adjusted odds ratio (OR) = 1.7, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.4, 2.2), depression (among women, the adjusted OR was 1.8 (95% CI: 1.1, 2.9) for mild depression and 3.0 (95% CI: 1.6, 5.6) for severe depression), and inability to express one's feelings (alexithymia) (adjusted OR = 1.6, 95% CI: 1.1, 2.5). However, these factors were not associated with chronic rotator cuff tendinitis, determinants of which were work-related cumulative loading on the shoulder, age, and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (adjusted OR = 8.8, 95% CI: 1.9, 40.3). The determinants of specific musculoskeletal disorders differ from those of subjective complaints without clinical findings. Such complaints may be indicators of adverse psychological and psychosocial factors rather than the presence of an underlying pathologic condition."}
{"id": "15839308", "title": "Diagnosis of shoulder pain by history and selective tissue tension: agreement between assessors.", "content": "Diagnosis of shoulder pain by history and selective tissue tension: agreement between assessors. Evaluation of agreement between assessors. To evaluate agreement between an expert in selective tissue tension (STT) and 3 other trained assessors, all using STT in conjunction with a preliminary clinical history, on their diagnostic labelling of painful shoulders. Consensus on diagnostic labelling for shoulder pain is poor, hampering interpretation of the evidence for interventions. STT, a systematic approach to physical examination and diagnosis, offers potential for standardization, but its reliability is contentious. Four trained assessors, 1 of whom was considered an expert, separately assessed 56 painful shoulders in 53 subjects (32 male [mean+/-SD age, 51+/-13 years], 21 female [mean+/-SD age, 57+/-12 years]), using STT in conjunction with a preliminary clinical history. Assessors labelled each painful shoulder as \"rotator cuff lesion,\" \"bursitis,\" \"capsulitis,\" \"other diagnosis,\" or \"no diagnosis.\" Combinations of diagnoses were allowed. A diagnosis was made in every case, with less than 7% of the diagnoses being combined. With the diagnostic categories pooled, agreement (kappa and 95% confidence interval [CI]) between the expert assessor and each of the other assessors was good, ranging from 0.61 (0.44-0.78) to 0.75 (0.60-0.90). For single diagnostic categories, agreement between the expert and each of the others (dichotomized data) ranged from 0.35 (-0.03-0.73) to 0.58 (0.29-0.87) for bursitis; 0.63 (0.40-0.86) to 0.82 (0.65-0.99) for capsulitis; 0.71 (0.49-0.93) to 0.79 (0.61-0.96) for rotator cuff lesions; and from 0.69 (0.35-1.00) to 0.78 (0.48-1.00) for other diagnoses. Overall, STT in conjunction with a preliminary clinical history enables good agreement between trained assessors. Future work is required to evaluate its criterion validity."}
{"id": "15839306", "title": "The effect of rotator cuff tear size on shoulder strength and range of motion.", "content": "The effect of rotator cuff tear size on shoulder strength and range of motion. Prospective cohort study. To determine the effect of rotator cuff tear size on shoulder strength and range of motion. Patients with rotator cuff pathology typically present with weakness and motion loss in various motions. The extent to which the presence of a rotator cuff tear and the size of the tear affect strength and range of motion is not well understood. Sixty-one patients scheduled for surgery, with a diagnosis of a rotator cuff tear and/or subacromial impingement, underwent examination for shoulder pain, function, range of motion, and strength. The extent of rotator cuff pathology was documented during subsequent surgery (presence of tear, tear size, tear thickness). There were 10 massive tears, 15 large tears, 13 medium tears, 12 small tears, and 11 rotator cuffs without a tear. Patients had marked weakness in abduction strength at 90 degrees and 10 degrees of abduction, in external rotation strength at 90 degrees, and in the \"full can test\" (all, P<.0001). Marked range of motion losses in shoulder flexion and external rotation at 0 degrees and 90 degrees abduction (all, P<.001) were also observed. Abduction strength deficit at 10 degrees was affected by rotator cuff tear size (P<.0001). Twenty of 25 patients with large or massive tears had deficits greater than 50%, compared with only 1 of 11 patients with no tear, 2 of 12 patients with a small tear, and 5 of 13 patients with a medium tear (P<.0001). Other strength and range of motion deficits or indices of pain and function were unaffected by tear size. Weakness of greater than 50% relative to the contralateral side in shoulder abduction at 10 degrees of abduction was indicative of a large or massive rotator cuff tear."}
{"id": "15834056", "title": "Exercises versus arthroscopic decompression in patients with subacromial impingement: a randomised, controlled study in 90 cases with a one year follow up.", "content": "Exercises versus arthroscopic decompression in patients with subacromial impingement: a randomised, controlled study in 90 cases with a one year follow up. To compare the effect of graded physiotherapeutic training of the rotator cuff versus arthroscopic subacromial decompression in patients with subacromial impingement. Randomised controlled trial with 12 months' follow up in a hospital setting. Ninety consecutive patients aged 18 to 55 years were enrolled. Symptom duration was between six months and three years. All fulfilled a set of diagnostic criteria for rotator cuff disease, including a positive impingement sign. Patients were randomised either to arthroscopic subacromial decompression, or to physiotherapy with exercises aiming at strengthening the stabilisers and decompressors of the shoulder. Outcome was shoulder function as measured by the Constant score and a pain and dysfunction score. \"Intention to treat\" analysis was used, with comparison of means and control of confounding variables by general equation estimation analysis. Of 90 patients enrolled, 84 completed follow up (41 in the surgery group, 43 in the training group). The mean Constant score at baseline was 34.8 in the training group and 33.7 in the surgery group. After 12 months the mean scores improved to 57.0 and 52.7, respectively, the difference being non-significant. No group differences in mean pain and dysfunction score improvement were found. Surgical treatment of rotator cuff syndrome with subacromial impingement was not superior to physiotherapy with training. Further studies are needed to qualify treatment choice decisions, and it is recommended that samples are stratified according to disability level."}
{"id": "15831310", "title": "The elbow: diagnosis and treatment of common injuries.", "content": "The elbow: diagnosis and treatment of common injuries. This article deals with common injuries to the elbow. Elbow anatomy is reviewed. Diagnosis and treatment of pronator syndrome,lateral epicondylitis (tennis elbow), radial tunnel syndrome, posterior interosseous nerve syndrome, medial epicondylitis (golfer's elbow), ulnar collateral ligament injury, cubital tunnel syndrome,posterolateral rotatory instability, distal biceps injuries, tricepstendon injuries, and posterior elbow impingement are discussed."}
{"id": "15827367", "title": "Correlation of Short Form-36 and disability status with outcomes of arthroscopic acetabular labral debridement.", "content": "Correlation of Short Form-36 and disability status with outcomes of arthroscopic acetabular labral debridement. Arthroscopic debridement is the standard of care for the treatment of acetabular labral tears. The Short Form-36 has not been used to measure hip arthroscopy outcomes, and the impact of disability status on hip arthroscopy outcomes has not been reported. Short Form-36 subscale scores will demonstrate good correlation with the modified Harris hip score, but patients undergoing disability evaluation will have significantly worse outcome scores. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. The records of active-duty soldiers who underwent hip arthroscopy at the authors' institution were retrospectively reviewed. Forty consecutive patients who underwent hip arthroscopy for the primary indication of labral tear formed the basis of the study group. Patients completed the modified Harris hip score, the Short Form-36 general health survey, and a subjective overall satisfaction questionnaire. Thirty-three patients, with a mean age of 34.6 years, were available for follow-up at a mean of 25.7 months postoperatively. Fourteen (43%) patients were undergoing medical evaluation boards (military equivalent of workers' compensation or disability claim). Pearson correlation coefficients for comparing the Short Form-36 Bodily Pain, Physical Function, and Physical Component subscale scores to the modified Harris hip score were 0.73, 0.71, and 0.85, respectively (P < .001). The mean modified Harris hip score was significantly lower in patients on disability status than in those who were not (92.4 vs 61.1; P < .0001). The Short Form-36 subscale scores were significantly lower in disability patients (P < .02). Patient-reported satisfaction rates (70% overall) were 50% for those undergoing disability evaluations and 84% for those who were not (P < .04). There was no significant difference in outcomes based on patient age, surgically proven chondromalacia, or gender for military evaluation board status. The Short Form-36 demonstrated good correlation with the modified Harris hip score for measuring outcomes after arthroscopic partial limbectomy. Arthroscopic debridement yielded a high percentage of good results when patients undergoing disability evaluations were excluded. Disability status may be a negative predictor of success after hip arthroscopy."}
{"id": "15827365", "title": "Topical glyceryl trinitrate application in the treatment of chronic supraspinatus tendinopathy: a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled clinical trial.", "content": "Topical glyceryl trinitrate application in the treatment of chronic supraspinatus tendinopathy: a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled clinical trial. Topical glyceryl trinitrate therapy has previously demonstrated short-term pain reduction in patients with supraspinatus tendinopathy. Topical glyceryl trinitrate improves outcome measures in patients with supraspinatus tendinopathy. Randomized controlled clinical trial; Level of evidence, 1. Fifty-three patients (57 shoulders) were recruited, and the authors completed a prospective, randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled clinical trial of continuous topical glyceryl trinitrate treatment (1.25 mg/24-h glyceryl trinitrate). The glyceryl trinitrate group had significantly reduced shoulder pain with activity, at night, and at rest at week 24 (P = .03); reduced internal rotation impingement at week 24 (P = .02); increased range of motion in abduction and internal rotation at week 24 (P = .04); and increased force at weeks 12 and 24 with supraspinatus muscle testing (P = .001), external rotation (P = .04), internal rotation (P = .01), adduction (P = .04), and subscapularis pushoff (P = .01). Forty-six percent of patients on glyceryl trinitrate patches were asymptomatic with activities of daily living at 6 months compared with 24% of patients with tendon rehabilitation alone (P = .007, chi(2) analysis). Mean effect size for all outcome measures was 0.26. Topical glyceryl trinitrate treatment significantly improved pain scores, range of motion, internal rotation impingement, muscular force, and patient outcomes in patients with supraspinatus tendinopathy. Topical glyceryl trinitrate should be included as part of nonsurgical management of chronic tendinopathies."}
{"id": "15808040", "title": "Corticosteroid injections for painful shoulder: a meta-analysis.", "content": "Corticosteroid injections for painful shoulder: a meta-analysis. There are no systematic reviews of corticosteroids for shoulder pain that calculate the numbers needed to treat. We wished to determine the effectiveness in terms of improvement of symptoms of intra-articular and subacromial injections of corticosteroid for rotator cuff tendonitis and frozen shoulder. Systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. Data sources included the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, Medline, EMBASE, hand searches and author contacts. The review methods required any randomised controlled trial in which the effectiveness of subacromial or intra-articular steroid injections versus placebo and versus non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medication, could be ascertained. The outcome was improvement of symptoms. The data abstraction was done independently, as was the validity assessment. The data was pooled using Review Manager 4.1. Seven studies were reviewed for corticosteroids versus placebo and three for corticosteroids versus nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). The relative risk for improvement for subacromial corticosteroid injection for rotator cuff tendonitis was 3.08 (95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.94 to 4.87). The number needed to treat based on the pooled relative risk was 3.3 (95% CI = 1.8 to 7.7) patients to obtain one improvement. The relative risk for high dose (50 mg of prednisone or more) was 5.9 (95% CI = 2.8 to 12.6). The relative risk for improvement with steroids compared with NSAIDs was 1.43 (95% CI = 0.95 to 2.16). The number needed to treat for corticosteroids versus NSAIDs was 2.5 (95% CI = 1 to 9) for one significant study. The relative risks for intra-articular steroid injection for rotator cuff tendonitis were not statistically significant. Subacromial injections of corticosteroids are effective for improvement for rotator cuff tendonitis up to a 9-month period. They are also probably more effective than NSAID medication. Higher doses may be better than lower doses for subacromial corticosteroid injection for rotator cuff tendonitis."}
{"id": "15805942", "title": "The acromiohumeral and coracohumeral intervals are abnormal in rotator cuff tears with muscular fatty degeneration.", "content": "The acromiohumeral and coracohumeral intervals are abnormal in rotator cuff tears with muscular fatty degeneration. We sought to determine how various types of full-thickness rotator cuff tears, fatty degeneration of the rotator cuff muscles, duration of symptoms, and mechanism of injury affect the sizes of the acromiohumeral and coracohumeral intervals. We studied 206 shoulders with rotator cuff tears that had surgical treatment. The acromiohumeral interval (anteroposterior radiograph) and the coracohumeral interval (computed tomogram) were measured on preoperative imaging studies. An abnormal acromiohumeral interval was associated with multiple-tendon rotator cuff tears involving the infraspinatus, fatty degeneration of the supraspinatus or infraspinatus, and duration of symptoms longer than 5 years. An abnormal coracohumeral interval was associated with a combined tear of the supraspinatus and subscapularis and fatty degeneration of the infraspinatus or subscapularis. Fatty degeneration of the infraspinatus therefore was associated with an abnormal acromiohumeral interval and an abnormal coracohumeral interval. Evaluation of a patient who has a diminished acromiohumeral or coracohumeral interval should involve examination with computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging of the rotator cuff tendons to determine the type of tear and of the rotator cuff muscles to determine the degree of fatty degeneration. Diagnostic study, Level II-1 (development of diagnostic criteria on basis of consecutive patients--with universally applied reference \"gold\" standard). See the Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence."}
{"id": "15805213", "title": "A cadaveric model of the throwing shoulder: a possible etiology of superior labrum anterior-to-posterior lesions.", "content": "A cadaveric model of the throwing shoulder: a possible etiology of superior labrum anterior-to-posterior lesions. It has been speculated that a shift of the throwing arc commonly develops in athletes who perform overhead activities, resulting in greater external rotation and decreased internal rotation caused by anterior capsular laxity and posterior capsular contracture, respectively. Osseous adaptation in the form of increased humeral and glenoid retroversion may provide a protective function in the asymptomatic athlete but cannot explain the pathological changes seen in the shoulder of the throwing athlete. Therefore, the objective of the present study was to examine the biomechanical effects of capsular changes in a cadaveric model. Ten cadaveric shoulders were tested with a custom shoulder-testing device. Humeral rotational range of motion, the position of the humerus in maximum external rotation, and glenohumeral translations in the anterior, posterior, superior, and inferior directions were measured with the shoulder in 90 degrees of abduction. Translations were measured with the humerus secured in 90 degrees of external rotation. To simulate anterior laxity due to posterior capsular contracture, the capsule was nondestructively stretched 30% beyond maximum external rotation with the shoulder in 90 degrees of abduction. This was followed by the creation of a 10-mm posterior capsular contracture. Rotational, humeral shift, and translational tests were performed for the intact normal shoulder, after anterior capsular stretching, and after simulated posterior capsular contracture. Nondestructive capsular stretching resulted in a significant increase in external rotation (average increase, 18.2 degrees 2.1 degrees ; p < 0.001), and subsequent simulated posterior capsular contracture resulted in a significant decrease in internal rotation (average decrease, 8.8 degrees +/- 2.3 degrees ; p = 0.02). There also was a significant increase in anterior translation with the application of a 20-N anterior translational force after nondestructive capsular stretching (average increase, 1.7 +/- 0.3 mm, p = 0.0006). The humeral head translated posteroinferiorly when the humerus was rotated from neutral to maximum external rotation. This did not change significantly in association with anterior capsular stretching. Following simulated posterior capsular contracture, there was a trend toward a more posterosuperior position of the humeral head with the humerus in maximum external rotation in comparison with the position in the stretched conditions, although these differences were not significant. A posterior capsular contracture with decreased internal rotation does not allow the humerus to externally rotate into its normal posteroinferior position in the cocking phase of throwing. Instead, the humeral head is forced posterosuperiorly, which may explain the etiology of Type-II superior labrum anterior-to-posterior lesions in overhead athletes."}
{"id": "15800529", "title": "The multiple-ligament injured knee: evaluation, treatment, and results.", "content": "The multiple-ligament injured knee: evaluation, treatment, and results. The multiple-ligament injured knee is a complex problem in orthopaedic surgery. Most dislocated knees involve tears of the anterior and posterior cruciate ligaments (ACL/PCL) and at least 1 collateral ligament complex. Careful assessment of the extremity vascular status is essential because of the possibility of arterial and/or venous compromise. These complex injuries require a systematic approach to evaluation and treatment. Physical examination and imaging studies enable the surgeon to make a correct diagnosis and to formulate a treatment plan. Arthroscopically assisted combined ACL/PCL reconstruction is a reproducible procedure. Knee stability is improved postoperatively when evaluated using knee ligament rating scales, arthrometer testing, and stress radiographic analysis. Acute medial collateral ligament (MCL) tears, when combined with ACL/PCL tears, may in certain cases be treated with bracing. Posterolateral corner injuries combined with ACL/PCL tears are best treated with primary repair as indicated, combined with reconstruction using a post of strong autograft (split biceps tendon, biceps tendon, semitendinosus) or allograft (Achilles tendon, bone-patellar tendon-bone) tissue. Surgical timing depends on the ligaments injured, the vascular status of the extremity, reduction stability, and the overall health of the patient. We prefer to use allograft tissue for reconstruction in these cases because of the strength of these large grafts and the absence of donor site morbidity."}
{"id": "15800517", "title": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: the learning curve.", "content": "Arthroscopic rotator cuff repair: the learning curve. The purpose of this study was to answer the question: How many cases are required for a surgeon to become proficient in performing arthroscopic rotator cuff repair? We hypothesize that as surgical experienced is gained, learning can be quantitatively shown by a significant decrease in operative time. Prospective case series. Rotator cuff repair time (RCRT) in minutes (as well as other time components comprising total surgical time) was recorded for 100 consecutive patients having arthroscopic rotator cuff repair performed by a single surgeon beginning with his first case in private practice. Mean RCRTs for consecutive blocks of 10 cases were compared. Learning is graphically represented by plotting the RCRT by case number and generating a logarithmic trend curve. A best-fit linear equation (y = mx + b) allows comparison of the initial 10 cases with the subsequent 90 cases, where m , the slope, represents the rate of decrease in RCRT (learning). Mean RCRT decreased significantly (P < .05) from the first block of 10 cases to the second block of 10 cases. There were no significant changes in mean RCRT when comparing other consecutive blocks of 10 cases. The slope of the line fitting the first block of 10 cases is -8.75; the slope (m) of the line fitting the subsequent 90 cases is -0.23. There is no significant difference in mean RCRT when cases are stratified by tear size. Graphic representation of RCRT by case number generates a learning curve whereby learning is quantitatively shown as a significant decrease in operative time as surgical experience is gained. Qualification of the learning curve for arthroscopic rotator cuff repair provides a guide for orthopaedic surgeons contemplating the expected time line for acquiring proficiency in this technique."}
{"id": "15789010", "title": "Differential patterns of muscle activation in patients with symptomatic and asymptomatic rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Differential patterns of muscle activation in patients with symptomatic and asymptomatic rotator cuff tears. Patients with rotator cuff tears have varying degrees of symptom expression. Our purpose was to evaluate the differential firing patterns of the rotator cuff, deltoid, and scapular stabilizer muscle groups in normal control subjects and in patients with symptomatic and asymptomatic 2-tendon rotator cuff tears. Eighteen subjects were evaluated: six normal subjects and twelve with 2-tendon cuff tears (six asymptomatic and six symptomatic). All cuff tear patients had magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans documenting superoposterior tear configurations involving the supraspinatus and infraspinatus tendons; all normal subjects had an ultrasound examination confirming the absence of cuff pathology. Subjects were grouped based on shoulder examination and outcomes questionnaires. Asymptomatic patients had minimal pain (<3 on the visual analog scale and no loss of active range of motion compared with the contralateral side); symptomatic patients had pain greater than 3 on the visual analog scale and decreased range of motion compared with the contralateral side (>10 degrees of motion loss). Electromyographic activity from 12 muscles and kinematic data were collected simultaneously during 10 functional tasks. Both symptomatic and asymptomatic cuff subjects demonstrated a trend toward increased muscle activation during all tasks compared with normal subjects. During the internal rotation tasks, asymptomatic patients had significantly greater (P<.05) subscapularis activity than symptomatic patients (65% maximal voluntary contraction [MVC] vs 42% MVC). During the carrying task, asymptomatic patients demonstrated significantly less (P<.03) upper trapezius muscle activation than symptomatic patients (16% MVC vs 50% MVC). During shoulder elevation tasks, symptomatic patients had significantly greater supraspinatus (52% MVC vs 28% MVC, P<.03), infraspinatus (32% MVC vs 16% MVC, P<.05), and upper trapezius (39% MVC vs 20% MVC, P<.04) muscle activation compared with asymptomatic patients. During heavy elevation (8 lb), asymptomatic patients showed a trend toward increased activation (P<.06) of the subscapularis compared with symptomatic patients (34% MVC vs 21% MVC). Differential shoulder muscle firing patterns in patients with rotator cuff pathology may play a role in the presence or absence of symptoms. Asymptomatic subjects demonstrated increased firing of the intact subscapularis, whereas symptomatic subjects continued to rely on torn rotator cuff tendons and periscapular muscle substitution, resulting in compromised function."}
{"id": "15789005", "title": "Arthroscopic observation of capsulolabral reduction after shoulder dislocation.", "content": "Arthroscopic observation of capsulolabral reduction after shoulder dislocation. The standard treatment for most first-time anterior shoulder dislocations is reduction and immobilization. This places the arm in a position of adduction and internal rotation. We question whether this position assists or hinders reduction of a displaced capsulolabral injury (Bankart lesion). This study examined the pathology present after traumatic first-time anterior shoulder dislocations and looked at the reduction of the Bankart lesion in internal and external rotation. A series of 25 patients with Bankart lesions were identified who underwent arthroscopy at a mean of 10.5 days after first-time anterior shoulder dislocations. We found that there is wide variation in pathology after anterior dislocation. In 23 of 25 patients in whom the capsulolabral complex was detached (Bankart lesion), we found that external rotation of the arm improved the reduction of the labrum (92%). We conclude that in patients with a displaced Bankart lesion, the standard treatment of immobilization in internal rotation may hinder anatomic healing of this injury."}
{"id": "15789004", "title": "The Constant score in normal shoulders.", "content": "The Constant score in normal shoulders. Relative Constant-Murley shoulder scores are based on an age- and sex-matched normal population from Constant's original research. The purpose of this study was to determine normal Constant scores in a contemporary population and compare these values with those originally established by Constant. Two subject groups were analyzed. The first group comprised 1620 clinic patients whose normal shoulders were scored by resident physicians instructed on the Constant scoring technique. The second group comprised 115 healthy volunteers whose normal shoulders were scored by 1 experienced physician-researcher. There were no significant score differences between the two groups, indicating that, after instruction, scoring did not depend on tester experience. In both groups, there were significant score differences between sex and age groups. Similar to Constant's study, age-related declines in scores and strength existed for both sexes but were less pronounced. Using Constant's original values to calculate relative scores can overestimate shoulder function in women aged over 40 years and men aged over 60 years. If relative Constant scores are used, absolute scores should be concurrently reported to allow comparisons with different populations."}
{"id": "15789001", "title": "Bankart repair in patients aged fifty years or greater: results of arthroscopic and open repairs.", "content": "Bankart repair in patients aged fifty years or greater: results of arthroscopic and open repairs. Currently, there is little information on the results of Bankart repairs in older patients. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to determine the results, complications, and rates of revision among patients aged 50 years or greater undergoing Bankart repairs. Between 1992 and 1999, 12 Bankart repairs were performed on patients aged 50 years or greater (mean, 57 years) at our institution. Eleven patients with complete clinical records, operative reports, and minimum 3-year follow-up (mean, 6.5 years) were included in the study. All patients had shoulder instability as a result of specific trauma. Six patients underwent open repairs, and five underwent arthroscopic repairs. There were no patients with full-thickness rotator cuff tears. At the most recent follow-up, there were no shoulders with recurrent instability. The mean simple shoulder test score was 10.8 in the open group and 9.8 in the arthroscopic group. The mean American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score was 98 in the open group versus 87 in the arthroscopic group. At the most recent follow-up, mean elevation in the open group was 178 degrees versus 174 degrees in the arthroscopic group. Mean external rotation was 70 degrees in the open group and 72 degrees in the arthroscopic group. The data from this study suggest that Bankart repair in older patients is associated with a low recurrence rate, and similar results may be obtained with either open or arthroscopic procedures."}
{"id": "15788594", "title": "Value of FDG PET in the assessment of patients with multiple myeloma.", "content": "Value of FDG PET in the assessment of patients with multiple myeloma. Our objective was to evaluate if whole-body PET with FDG is able to detect bone marrow involvement in patients with multiple myeloma and to assess its appearance and distribution pattern. Seventeen whole-body FDG PET scans were performed in 13 patients with multiple myeloma. Four patients were referred for evaluation of extent of disease pretherapy and nine patients were referred for assessment of therapy response (chemotherapy, radiation therapy, bone marrow transplant). FDG PET images were evaluated for distribution and uptake pattern. Standardized uptake values were obtained to quantify FDG uptake. Results of other imaging examinations (MRI, CT, radiography), laboratory data, biopsies, and the clinical course were used for verification of detected lesions. FDG PET was able to detect medullary involvement of multiple myeloma. There were two false-negative results. In one patient, the radiographic skeletal survey showed subcentimeter lytic lesions within the ribs that were not detected on FDG PET and in the other patient, a lytic lesion detected on radiographs showed only mildly increased FDG uptake that was not identified prospectively. There was one false-positive FDG PET result in a patient who had undergone radiation therapy 3 weeks before PET. FDG PET was helpful in differentiating between posttherapeutic changes and residual/recurrent tumor and in assessing response to therapy. FDG PET resulted in upstaging of disease in four patients, which influenced subsequent management and prognosis. Sensitivity of FDG PET in detecting myelomatous involvement was 85% and specificity was 92%. FDG PET is able to detect bone marrow involvement in patients with multiple myeloma. FDG PET is useful in assessing extent of disease at time of initial diagnosis, contributing to staging that is more accurate. FDG PET is also useful for evaluating therapy response."}
{"id": "15776309", "title": "Endovascular aortic aneurysm repair with the Zenith endograft in patients with ectatic iliac arteries.", "content": "Endovascular aortic aneurysm repair with the Zenith endograft in patients with ectatic iliac arteries. Endovascular aortic aneurysm repair (EVAR) in patients with ectatic iliac arteries is feasible; however, most studies have reported experience from single institutions where distal flare techniques with endograft components were used on an \"off-label basis.\" The Zenith endovascular graft allows adequate seal in ectatic common iliac arteries (CIAs) with diameters up to 20 mm. To determine whether large or ectatic CIAs are a risk factor for early and late endograft failure, we analyzed data from the Zenith U.S. multicenter trial. Among 352 patients receiving the endograft in the Zenith u.s. clinical study, 156 patients (44%) had at least one ectatic iliac artery (maximum diameter between 14 and 20 mm), whereas 22 (6.3%) had bilateral CIAs of normal diameter (< 14 mm). Variables analyzed included those defined by the reporting standards for EVAR (SVS/AAVS) as well as iliac-related outcome and indications for secondary iliac interventions. Univariate (Kaplan-Meier [KM] receiver operating characteristics curve, and Cox regression analyses were used to determine the association between CIA diameter and iliac-related complications. The median follow-up period was 24 months. Technical success was similar (>99%) for patients with ectatic and normal CIAs. Only one late type I distal endoleak was reported and was attributed to failure of distal iliac seal in a patient with ectatic CIAs. Freedom from iliac-related secondary intervention (IRSI) was not significantly different between the groups (KM, log-rank test, p = 0.98) with rates at 1, 12, and 24 months of 98%, 97%, and 95% for patients with ectatic CIAs, and 100%, 95%, and 95% for patients with normal iliac arteries, respectively. Moreover, Cox regression analysis revealed that the maximum CIA diameter was not a significant predictor of freedom from IRSI (hazard ratio, 0.98; 95% confidence interval, 0.7-1.4; p = 0.98). In patients with large CIAs, indications for IRSI included distal type I endoleak (1, 0.6%), type III endoleak (1, 0.6%), graft limb occlusion (4, 2.6%), and device stenosis (1, 0.6%). The only IRSI in a patient with normal CIAs was performed for device stenosis (4.6%). In conclusion, the Zenith endograft is effective for EVAR in patients with ectatic CIAs. Moreover, the presence of large CIAs was not associated with an increased risk of adverse iliac-related outcome or subsequent IRSI. Long-term surveillance, however, is mandatory, as IRSIs may be necessary."}
{"id": "15773644", "title": "Comparison of total and partial traumatic tears of the subscapularis tendon.", "content": "Comparison of total and partial traumatic tears of the subscapularis tendon. We treated surgically 16 shoulders with an isolated traumatic rupture of the subscapularis tendon over a six-year period. Nine patients had a total and seven a partial tear of the subscapularis tendon. Repair was undertaken through a small deltopectoral groove approach. The mean Constant score improved in total tears from 38.7 to 89.3 points (p = 0.003) and in partial tears from 50.7 to 87.9 points (p = 0.008). The total tears were significantly more improved by surgery than the partial tears (p = 0.001). The delay between trauma and surgery was inversely proportional to the improvement in the Constant score suggesting that early diagnosis and surgical repair improves outcome."}
{"id": "15773565", "title": "Subacromial impingement syndrome: the effect of changing posture on shoulder range of movement.", "content": "Subacromial impingement syndrome: the effect of changing posture on shoulder range of movement. Random allocation of subjects into a placebo-controlled, crossover study. To investigate the effect of changing thoracic and scapular posture on shoulder flexion and scapular plane abduction range of motion in asymptomatic subjects, and in subjects with subacromial impingement syndrome. Changes in upper body posture and concomitant imbalance of the muscle system have been proposed as one of the etiological mechanisms leading to subacromial impingement syndrome. Although clinicians commonly assess posture and devise rehabilitation programs to correct posture, there is little evidence to support this practice. Selected postural, range of movement, and pain measurements were investigated in 60 asymptomatic subjects and 60 subjects with subacromial impingement syndrome, prior to and following thoracic and scapular taping intended to change their posture. Changing posture had an effect on all components of posture measured (P<.001) and these changes were associated with a significant increase (P<.001) in the range of motion in shoulder flexion and abduction in the plane of the scapula. Changing posture was not found to have a significant effect on the intensity of pain experienced by the symptomatic subjects, although the point in the range of shoulder elevation at which they experienced their pain was significantly higher (P<.001). The findings of this investigation suggest that changing 1 or more of the components of posture may have a positive effect on shoulder range of movement and the point at which pain is experienced."}
{"id": "15769790", "title": "Diagnosis and relation to general health of shoulder disorders presenting to primary care.", "content": "Diagnosis and relation to general health of shoulder disorders presenting to primary care. To prospectively evaluate the incidence, spectrum of disease and relation to general health of shoulder disorders in primary care. Patients presenting with shoulder pain to two large general practices in the Cambridge area over a 1-month period were invited to participate. After consulting their general practitioner, patients were administered a demographic information questionnaire, a shoulder pain and disability index (SPADI) and a short form 36 (SF-36) health survey. Subsequent review in a clinic held by a rheumatology registrar every 2 weeks was undertaken. The sex- and age-standardized incidence of shoulder pain was 9.5 per 1000 (95% confidence interval 7.9 to 11.2 per 1000). Rotator cuff tendinopathy was found in 85%, signs of impingement in 74%, acromioclavicular joint disease in 24%, adhesive capsulitis in 15% and referred pain in 7%. On the SPADI the mean disability subscale score was 45 (95% confidence interval 41 to 50) and the mean pain score was 58 (95% confidence interval 53 to 62) (range 0 to 100). Evaluation of general health status using the SF-36 showed the difference between population norms and those with shoulder pain was significant in six of the eight domains, being especially marked (greater than 20 point reduction) for emotional role, physical function and physical role. Shoulder pain, most commonly due to rotator cuff tendinopathy, is associated with significantly reduced health when measured by both specific and generic means. Effort towards prevention and early intervention in these complaints is warranted."}
{"id": "15756620", "title": "Surgical management of chronic, unreduced posterior dislocation of the shoulder.", "content": "Surgical management of chronic, unreduced posterior dislocation of the shoulder. Four patients with chronic posterior dislocation of the shoulder underwent surgical treatment after an average delay of 10 months from injury. They were examined clinically and radiographically at an average follow-up of 32 months. Treatment consisted of subscapularis tendon transfer (McLaughlin procedure) into the humeral defect in one case, transfer of the lesser tuberosity (McLaughlin modified procedure) in two cases, and in the fourth case-a patient with a 19-month missed dislocation and 50% humeral head lesion-a transposition of the coracoid process and conjoined tendon was performed. X-rays and CT scan excluded avascular necrosis or severe post-traumatic arthrosis. All patients achieved complete pain relief without limitation of daily or work activities. A slight limitation of anterior elevation and external rotation was present in all patients. Our results confirm that McLaughlin's original or modified procedure is suggested in cases of chronic, unreduced posterior dislocation of the shoulder (type I according to Randelli). The transposition of the coracoid process is a valid alternative to prosthesis and to autologous or homologous bone graft implants."}
{"id": "15756189", "title": "Diagnosis and treatment of chronic painful shoulder: review of nonsurgical interventions.", "content": "Diagnosis and treatment of chronic painful shoulder: review of nonsurgical interventions. Chronic painful shoulder is a common complaint, yet its initial pathogenesis may have multiple etiologies as well as multiple and perhaps distinct primary or secondary etiologies responsible for its final clinical presentation. While the clinical presentation of pain and limitation of motion is easily defined, there are no standardized criteria for the differential diagnosis of various chronic shoulder pain syndromes, much less a consensus on their treatment. At present, there are limited nonsurgical options and medications approved for the treatment of chronic painful shoulder, and, with limited exceptions, there are no definitive conclusions about the efficacy of these therapies based on controlled clinical studies reported in the literature. There is a clear clinical need for local nonsurgical treatments that are safe and effective for chronic painful conditions. In this article, an attempt is made to review the diagnoses associated with chronic shoulder pain and some of the limited data that exist so as to suggest a therapeutic algorithm."}
{"id": "15756188", "title": "Arthroscopic versus mini-open rotator cuff repair: a cohort comparison study.", "content": "Arthroscopic versus mini-open rotator cuff repair: a cohort comparison study. To critically compare arthroscopic and mini-open rotator cuff repair. Retrospective case control study. Nine patients who had an arthroscopic rotator cuff repair (ARCR) were matched for age, gender, dominance, side of injury, history of trauma, duration of symptoms, and type of rotator cuff injury, with 12 patients who had a mini-open rotator cuff repair (MOR). Comparison included a preoperative and postoperative physical examination as well as a completed Simple Shoulder Test (SST) questionnaire at the latest follow-up at a minimum of 27 months. Both groups had significant reductions in pain scores (P < .01) and there was no significant difference in preoperative or postoperative active flexion or external rotation between both groups (P > .20). Although the ARCR group showed a significant improvement in strength (P < .01) and the MOR group did not, no patient had less than 4/5 strength. The impingement sign remained positive in 1 MOR patient, but all patients had a negative Jobe's test result. Pain and Tasks assessment by SST questionnaire showed that neither group had night pain or discomfort when using their arms overhead. There were no significant differences in the overall SST scores between groups. Because all patients in each group were satisfied with the procedure and there were no objective differences in outcome, we conclude that there is no difference in outcome between ARCR and MOR. Thus, the choice of one approach over the other is best based on surgeon or patient preference. Level III, Retrospective Case Control Study."}
{"id": "15748923", "title": "The college athlete.", "content": "The college athlete. Participation in sports is important to many college students. Student athletes come from different levels of previous sport experience as they enter collegiate athletics. The primary source of student medical care is the campus student health center. The health care providers at student health centers attend to many of the sports-related concerns of student athletes. Preparticipation evaluation provides an opportunity to assess the general health of the student athlete and to identify conditions that might increase the risk of further injury. Sudden cardiac death and sports-associated concussions have generated much interest and are reviewed in this article. Other areas reviewed here include use of drugs and supplements, ankle sprains, acute knee ligament injuries, back pain, and shoulder impingement syndrome."}
{"id": "15736287", "title": "Porcine small intestine submucosa (SIS) is not an acellular collagenous matrix and contains porcine DNA: possible implications in human implantation.", "content": "Porcine small intestine submucosa (SIS) is not an acellular collagenous matrix and contains porcine DNA: possible implications in human implantation. Porcine small intestinal submucosa (SIS) has been recommended as a cell-free, biocompatible biomaterial for the repair of rotator cuff tendon tear. However, we have observed noninfectious edema and severe pain in patients who have undergone SIS implantation for tendon repair. The aim of this study was to conduct an independent assessment of the safety and efficacy of Restore SIS membrane. The Restore orthobiologic implant was examined by histology and the nested PCR technique using porcine immunoreceptor DAP12 gene to examine if SIS membrane contained porcine cells or DNA, respectively. The material was also implanted into mice and rabbits for the evaluation of biological reaction and inflammatory response. Restore SIS was found to contain multiple layers of porcine cells. Chloroacetate esterase staining showed that some of these cells were mast cells. Nested PCR of the DAP12 gene demonstrated that Restore SIS contained porcine DNA material. Subcutaneous implantation of Restore SIS membrane in mice, and in rabbits for rotator cuff tendon repair, showed that the membrane caused an inflammatory reaction characterized by massive lymphocyte infiltration. In conclusion, Restore SIS is not an acellular collagenous matrix, and contains porcine DNA. Our results contradict the current view that Restore SIS is a cell-free biomaterial, and that no inflammatory response is elicited by its implantation. We suggest that further studies should be conducted to evaluate the clinical safety and efficacy of SIS implant biomaterials."}
{"id": "15734235", "title": "Rat supraspinatus muscle atrophy after tendon detachment.", "content": "Rat supraspinatus muscle atrophy after tendon detachment. Rotator cuff tears are one of the most common tendon disorders found in the healthy population. Tendon tears not only affect the biomechanical properties of the tendon, but can also lead to debilitation of the muscles attached to the damaged tendons. The changes that occur in the muscle after tendon detachment are not well understood. A rat rotator cuff model was utilized to determine the time course of changes that occur in the supraspinatus muscle after tendon detachment. It was hypothesized that the lack of load on the supraspinatus muscle would cause a significant decrease in muscle mass and a conversion of muscle fiber properties toward those of fast fiber types. Tendons were detached at the insertion on the humerus without repair. Muscle mass, morphology and fiber properties were measured at one, two, four, eight, and 16 weeks after detachment. Tendon detachment resulted in a rapid loss of muscle mass, an increase in the proportion of fast muscle fibers, and an increase in the fibrotic content of the muscle bed, concomitant with the appearance of adhesions of the tendon to surrounding surfaces. At 16 weeks post-detachment, muscle mass and the fiber properties in the deep muscle layers returned to normal levels. However, the fiber shifts observed in the superficial layers persisted throughout the experiment. These results suggest that load returned to the muscle via adhesions to surrounding surfaces, which may be sufficient to reverse changes in muscle mass."}
{"id": "15734234", "title": "Asymmetric atrophy of the supraspinatus muscle following tendon tear.", "content": "Asymmetric atrophy of the supraspinatus muscle following tendon tear. Muscle atrophy is a known consequence of muscle disuse, muscle denervation and tendon tear. Whereas after nerve injury muscle atrophies in the denervated area, the distribution of muscle atrophy following tear of its tendon is not known. Standardized MRI scans of 64 consecutive, painful shoulders were evaluated for supraspinatus tendon tearing, myotendinous retraction, supraspinatus muscle atrophy, fatty infiltration, ratio of the scapular (deep) and fascial (superficial) muscle area (\"symmetry\") and position of the central tendon within the supraspinatus fossa. There were thirteen shoulders with no and eleven shoulders with partial thickness supraspinatus tendon tears. In the forty cases with full thickness tendon tear, there was significant muscle atrophy and fatty infiltration. Atrophy of the fascial muscle portion was 43%, on the bony side it was 9% (p<0.005). The position of the central tendon within the supraspinatus fossa, was unaltered. Muscular changes following tendon tear occur highly asymmetrically: the muscle portion originating from the fascia primarily atrophies, the portion originating from the scapula primarily undergoes fatty infiltration. Muscular changes are not simply a consequence of muscle disuse, but dependent on architectural changes in the muscle."}
{"id": "15726327", "title": "Symptomatic calcification of the medial collateral ligament of the knee joint: a report about five cases.", "content": "Symptomatic calcification of the medial collateral ligament of the knee joint: a report about five cases. Symptomatic calcifications of the rotator cuff tendons is well-known pathologic condition. However, pathologic calcifications may involve other structures of the locomotor system as well. We report about five patients (age 52-66 years) with a painful calcification at the proximal part of the medial collateral ligament of the knee joint. All five patients presented with load-dependent pain pretending meniscus symptoms, but manual valgus stress provoked severe pain at the medial side of the knee. Conventional X-ray examination showed a dense rounded deposit at the proximal part of the medial collateral ligament. Initially all patients were treated conservatively by needling and infiltration with a local anaesthetic. Open resection of the deposit was performed in four patients after unsuccessful conservative treatment. Postoperatively all patients were immediately free of pain. After a mean follow-up of 6 years (patient 1-4) (range=2.5-9.5 years), all patients were still free of pain. Histological evaluation of biopsies obtained during surgery showed nodular deposition of calcium at the collagen fibres, vascular proliferations and inflammative changes. Soft tissue calcifications have to be considered as a rare differential diagnosis in patients presenting with medial knee joint pain. Open resection reduces symptoms immediately. The histological changes seen were comparable to that reported about pathological tendon calcifications of the shoulder. Therefore, both conditions might be of the same aetiology."}
{"id": "15726094", "title": "The relationship among strength and mobility measures and self-report outcome scores in persons after rotator cuff repair surgery: impairment measures are not enough.", "content": "The relationship among strength and mobility measures and self-report outcome scores in persons after rotator cuff repair surgery: impairment measures are not enough. In the past, measures of active range of motion and strength testing were deemed sufficient to \"prove\" the efficacy of treatment interventions. In the current outcomes milieu, however, the focus has shifted to patient-centered assessment (ie, patients' ability to perform activities that are personally relevant). We report results from a study with patients in the private practice of a shoulder surgeon. In this study we evaluated the relationship between impairment measures and scores from several shoulder outcome scales. In addition, we examined transcripts of interviews with shoulder patients regarding the impact of shoulder problems on their lives. One hundred eight persons participated in a randomized trial of home exercise instruction after arthroscopic repair of rotator cuff tears. Two impairment measures were used-strength estimates obtained by use of a Nicholas electronic dynamometer and range of motion in the standing position. Self- reported outcomes were measured by use of the Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI) and the University of Pennsylvania (UPenn) Shoulder Scale. Pearson correlation coefficients were calculated to estimate the associations between scores on impairment measures and self-report measures. R 2 values were calculated to estimate the proportion of variance shared by impairment and self-report scores. We found that the linear relationship between impairment scores and patient-reported outcomes was quite low, explaining as little as 8% of the total variance. Qualitative analysis of patient interviews suggests that patients distinguish between their impairment and their status on personally relevant outcomes. Future research should evaluate the nature of patient judgments of shoulder health outcomes."}
{"id": "15726089", "title": "Biomechanical effects of supraspinatus repair on the glenohumeral joint.", "content": "Biomechanical effects of supraspinatus repair on the glenohumeral joint. We repaired full-thickness rotator cuff tears in human cadaveric shoulder specimens. The purpose of this study was to determine whether a repaired supraspinatus will result in a change in joint forces, contact pressures and area, and position of the humerus relative to the glenoid compared with the pathologic and simulated complete-tear specimens. Force couples exist in the coronal plane between the deltoid and the inferior portion of the rotator cuff and in the transverse plane between the anterior cuff (subscapularis) and posterior cuff (infraspinatus and teres minor). This has served as a model for shoulder and rotator cuff research. Our model differs from previous studies in that the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi/teres major were included because they are important contributors to shoulder function. Muscle force simulation was performed through a clamp, cable, and pneumatic system for the tendons of the rotator cuff, pectoralis major, and teres major/latissimus dorsi. Each specimen was tested in its native state of a full-thickness supraspinatus tear in 10 degrees and 60 degrees of abduction with neutral humeral rotation. In each position there were 2 loading conditions: (1) all muscles loaded with 60 N and (2) deltoid loaded with 90 N and 60 N for all others (3:2 ratio between the deltoid and supraspinatus). Pathologic tear, repaired, and simulated complete-tear conditions were subjected to the same testing sequence. After repair, there was an increase in percent inferior force in the 10 degrees abduction, 60-N loaded condition ( P = .02). The increase in percent inferior force may represent greater concavity-compression and spacer effect, which are both important functions of the supraspinatus. Contact pressure decreased in both the pathologic and simulated complete-tear conditions at 10 degrees abduction with 90-N deltoid loading ( P = .01). A corresponding increase in area was observed at this position for the pathologic tear condition only ( P = .01). This could represent greater concavity-compression, indicating that strengthening may provide a biomechanical benefit."}
{"id": "15726088", "title": "Effect of rotator cuff pathology on shoulder rhythm.", "content": "Effect of rotator cuff pathology on shoulder rhythm. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that shoulder rhythm is affected by rotator cuff pathology during arm elevation. We divided 42 subjects into 3 groups: those with full-thickness rotator cuff tears (RCTs) (n = 14), those with tendinopathy (n = 13), and control subjects (n = 15). Shoulder kinematics was recorded while subjects performed elevation in the sagittal and scapular planes. Euler angles were computed for scapular and humeral elevation. Data were divided into 3 equal phases. Lines were fit and the slope determined for each phase. Significant differences in slopes ( P < .05) were found between experimental groups for both motions. The RCT group had higher slopes in the initial and middle phases for sagittal elevation and in the middle phase for scapular abduction. The scapula was elevated more in the RCT group in the initial two thirds of movement. This motion may change the length of remaining muscles so that they operate on a more effective part of their length-tension curve."}
{"id": "15726086", "title": "External rotation of the glenohumeral joint: ligament restraints and muscle effects in the neutral and abducted positions.", "content": "External rotation of the glenohumeral joint: ligament restraints and muscle effects in the neutral and abducted positions. External rotation of the glenohumeral joint is important in a variety of pathologic states, yet the ligamentous restraints to external rotation have not been thoroughly investigated and the muscle effects have received even less attention. The purpose of this study was to investigate the ligamentous restraints and muscle effects limiting external rotation of the glenohumeral joint in a biomechanical cadaveric model. External rotation torque was applied to the humeri of 15 shoulders mounted in the supine position in a custom fixture while varying rotator cuff and biceps loads in 15 degrees and 60 degrees of glenohumeral abduction. A randomly chosen ligament (coracohumeral ligament [CHL], combined superior and middle glenohumeral ligaments [S+M], anterior band of the inferior glenohumeral ligament [AB], entire inferior glenohumeral ligament [IGHL], or posterior capsule [PC]) was cut, and testing was repeated (n = 3 for each ligament). Torque data were collected every 3 degrees through the entire range of external rotation. Individual muscles were loaded with 22.2 N (designated as a standard state) and were compared with loads of 0, 11.1, and 44.5 N. Alterations in muscle loads were analyzed with a residual maximum likelihood-based repeated-measures model. Ligament effects were analyzed by use of analysis of variance with Tukey correction. In the neutral position, each ligament except the PC significantly affected the torque required for external rotation, with IGHL > CHL > AB > S+M. In this position, loading the subscapularis to 44.5 N significantly increased the torque required to externally rotate the shoulder whereas unloading it significantly decreased the torque required. In the 60 degrees abducted position, each ligament except the PC significantly affected the torque required for external rotation, with IGHL > AB > S+M > CHL. In this position, loading the biceps or subscapularis to 44.5 N significantly increased the torque required to externally rotate the shoulder as rotation increased whereas unloading it significantly decreased the torque required as rotation increased. This work demonstrates that the glenohumeral joint capsule behaves as a cylinder with many regions serving as restraints to external rotation. In addition, the long head of the biceps has an important role as a dynamic restraint to external rotation in the abducted shoulder. This is a new function attributed to the biceps and reinforces the role of external rotation in the generation of biceps and superior labral pathology."}
{"id": "15726081", "title": "Type II SLAP lesions: a new scoring system--the sulcus score.", "content": "Type II SLAP lesions: a new scoring system--the sulcus score. A new scoring system-the sulcus score-was developed to differentiate between a large superior labral sulcus and a type II superior labrum anterior-posterior (SLAP) lesion. The sulcus scoring system permits quantification of the size of the superior labral sulcus and the severity of a type II SLAP lesion. Specifically, the depth of the superior labral sulcus was classified into 4 grades, and the length was recorded by clock position. The sulcus score was then calculated by multiplying the depth (grade) by the length (the number of \"hours\" from the clock position). After stretching of the anterior capsule into excessive humeral external rotation at 60 degrees glenohumeral abduction, the sulcus score of cadaveric shoulders increased significantly (before, 3.4; after, 6.8), indicating the extension of the superior labral sulcus and resulting in a pathologically created type II SLAP lesion. The intraclass correlation coefficient and mean difference were 0.77 and 0.8 +/- 0.7, respectively, for intraobserver repeatability and 0.72 and 0.9 +/- 0.6, respectively, for interobserver reproducibility. The sulcus score provided a consistent and objective means for quantitatively describing the size and severity of type II SLAP lesions. Clinical assessment of the superior labral sulcus by use of the sulcus score may be useful for the diagnosis and treatment of type II SLAP lesions."}
{"id": "15723212", "title": "Acromioclavicular joint cyst: nine cases of a pseudotumor of the shoulder.", "content": "Acromioclavicular joint cyst: nine cases of a pseudotumor of the shoulder. (1) To analyse the imaging appearances of nine patients with acromioclavicular joint cysts presenting as shoulder masses for tumor staging with operative, histopathological and joint aspiration findings. Retrospective review of imaging and correlation with clinical, operative and surgical notes. Images were reviewed by two musculoskeletal radiologists by consensus. Nine patients who presented clinically with a shoulder mass were evaluated by radiographs (n=9), ultrasound (n=1), conventional arthrography (n=3), MRI (n=6; with direct MR arthrography n=2, indirect MR arthrography n=4). All patients had a focal mass superior to the AC joint, with a size ranging from 1.5 cm to 6 cm and a mean of 3.27 cm. Correlation was available with surgery (n=7), histopathology (n=2) and cyst aspiration (n=2). Two patients were managed conservatively. Geyser sign was positive in all three arthrograms. All MRIs revealed extensive rotator cuff tears with a column of fluid extending from the glenohumeral joint through the rotator cuff tear into the acromioclavicular joint and acromioclavicular cyst. Chondrocalcinosis was seen in the acromioclavicular joint cyst (n=2) and in the glenohumeral joint (n=1). Aspirate in two patients contained calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystals. Acromioclavicular joint cysts may present as a tumor mass. They are associated with extensive rotator cuff tears and there is usually communication of the cyst with the joint space. This feature excludes a diagnosis of tumor. AC joint cysts may be associated with calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate deposition disease."}
{"id": "15723009", "title": "Intraarticular lesions in primary frozen shoulder after manipulation under general anesthesia.", "content": "Intraarticular lesions in primary frozen shoulder after manipulation under general anesthesia. The aim of this study was to find intraarticular lesions after manipulation under general anesthesia in patients with primary frozen shoulder. In a prospective trial conducted between 2001 and 2003 in 30 patients with primary frozen shoulder, the affected shoulders were manipulated while the patients were under general anesthetia. Exclusion criteria were secondary stiffness caused by rotator cuff tears and glenohumeral arthritis. After manipulation, each patient was examined by arthroscopy, and any intraarticular lesions were documented. In all patients, during manipulation, a significant improvement in the range of motion was achieved. Under anesthesia, flexion improved on average from 70 degrees +/- 33 degrees to 180 degrees +/- 15 degrees, abduction from 50 degrees +/- 20 degrees to 170 degrees +/- 25 degrees, and external rotation from -5 degrees +/- 10 degrees to +40 degrees +/- 20 degrees. Arthroscopy revealed hemarthrosis in all patients after manipulation. In 22 patients, localized synovitis was detected in the area of the rotator interval, whereas in 8 patients, disseminated synovitis was observed as a feature of adhesive capsulitis. After manipulation, the capsule was seen to be ruptured superiorly in 11 patients, the anterior capsule was ruptured up to the infraglenoid pole in 24 patients, and 16 patients each had a capsular lesion located posteriorly. In 18 patients no additional joint damage was found after manipulation. In 4 patients, iatrogenic superior labrum anterior-posterior lesions were observed. Further injuries detected were 3 fresh partial tears of the subscapularis tendon, 4 anterior labral detachments (1 with a small osteochondral defect), and 2 tears of the middle glenohumeral ligament. Even though manipulation under anesthesia is effective in terms of joint mobilization, the method can cause iatrogenic intraarticular damage."}
{"id": "15722277", "title": "The effects of thermal capsular shrinkage on the outcomes of arthroscopic stabilization for primary anterior shoulder instability.", "content": "The effects of thermal capsular shrinkage on the outcomes of arthroscopic stabilization for primary anterior shoulder instability. The effectiveness of arthroscopic thermal capsulorrhaphy in the prevention of recurrent instability in primary anterior stabilization is undetermined. To determine if patients with recurrent anterior shoulder instability who have labral repair plus arthroscopic thermal capsulorrhaphy have better outcomes than those with labral repair alone. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 3. There were 72 patients who underwent arthroscopic anterior shoulder stabilization with Suretac II tacks (n = 32) during 1996 to 1999 or with Suretac II tacks plus arthroscopic radiofrequency capsular shrinkage (n = 40) from 1999 to 2002. Standardized patient-determined and examiner-determined outcome measures were obtained preoperatively and at 3, 6, 12, and 24 months postoperatively. Statistical analyses included a Kaplan-Meier analysis of time to recurrent instability. Of the 72 patients, 66 had complete follow-up, including 28 patients treated with the Suretac stabilization and 38 patients with the Suretac plus radiofrequency shrinkage, for a mean follow-up of 58 and 30 months, respectively. All patients had a Bankart lesion. Both groups had similar results with respect to patient-determined and examiner-determined outcome measures. The only adverse outcome was postoperative recurrent instability in 6 of 28 cases in the Suretac group alone and 8 of 38 cases in the Suretac-plus -shrinkage group. Most recurrent instability occurred between 6 and 24 months. Kaplan-Meier analysis for time to recurrent instability showed no differences in the rate of instability recurrence between the 2 groups. Arthroscopic thermal capsulorrhaphy neither enhanced nor impaired the outcomes of arthroscopic labral repair with biodegradable tacks in patients with primary recurrent anterior shoulder instability."}
{"id": "15713296", "title": "Effect of abducting and adducting muscle activity on glenohumeral translation, scapular kinematics and subacromial space width in vivo.", "content": "Effect of abducting and adducting muscle activity on glenohumeral translation, scapular kinematics and subacromial space width in vivo. It is currently unknown in which ways activity of the ab- and adductor shoulder muscles affects shoulder biomechanics (scapular kinematics and glenohumeral translation), and whether these changes are relevant for alterations of the subacromial space width. The objective of this experimental in vivo study was thus to test the hypotheses that potential changes of the subacromial space width (during antagonistic muscle activity) are caused by alterations of scapular kinematics and/or glenohumeral translation. The shoulders of 12 healthy subjects were investigated with an open MRI-system at 30 degrees, 60 degrees, 90 degrees, 120 degrees and 150 degrees of arm elevation. A force of 15N was applied to the distal humerus, once causing isometric contraction of the abductors and once contraction of the adductors. The scapulo-humeral rhythm, scapular tilting and glenohumeral translation were calculated from the MR image data for both abducting and adducting muscle activity. Adducting muscle activity led to significant increase of the subacromial space width in all arm positions. The scapulo-humeral rhythm (2.2-2.5) and scapular tilting (2-4 degrees) remained relatively constant during elevation, no significant difference was found between abducting and adducting muscle activity. The position of the humerus relative to the glenoid was, however, significantly (p < 0.05) different (inferior and anterior) for adducting versus abducting muscle activity in midrange elevation (60-120 degrees). These data show that the subacromial space can be effectively widened by adducting muscle activity, by affecting the position of the humerus relative to the glenoid. This effect may be employed for conservative treatment of the impingement syndrome."}
{"id": "15712983", "title": "Pectoralis major muscle injuries: evaluation and management.", "content": "Pectoralis major muscle injuries: evaluation and management. Pectoralis major muscle tears are relatively rare injuries that primarily occur while lifting weights, particularly when doing a bench press. Complete ruptures are most commonly avulsions at or near the humeral insertion. Ruptures at the musculo-tendinous junction and intramuscular tears usually are caused by a direct blow. The patient may hear a snap at the time of injury and report pain, weakness, swelling, or muscular deformity. Physical examination can reveal ecchymosis, a palpable defect, asymmetric webbing of the axillary fold, and weakness on resisted shoulder adduction and internal rotation. A detailed history and physical examination can be augmented by radiologic studies, including magnetic resonance imaging. Nonsurgical treatment is now recommended only for the older, sedentary patient or for proximal muscle belly tears. Surgery, whether early or delayed, consistently yields superior results compared with nonsurgical management. Prompt diagnosis and timely intervention likely will produce improved results."}
{"id": "15703964", "title": "3D kinematic in-vitro comparison of posterolateral corner reconstruction techniques in a combined injury model.", "content": "3D kinematic in-vitro comparison of posterolateral corner reconstruction techniques in a combined injury model. With the variable injury pattern to the posterolateral structures (PLS) of the knee, a number of reconstructive procedures have been introduced. It was the aim of the present study to evaluate the resulting 3D kinematics following three different surgical techniques of reconstruction in a combined posterior cruciate ligament (PCL)/PLS injury model. In nine human cadaveric knees, 3D kinematics were recorded during the path of flexion-extension using a computer based custom made 6-degree-of-freedom (DOF) testing apparatus. Additional laxity tests were conducted at 30 and 90 degrees of flexion. Testing was performed before and after cutting the PLS and PCL, followed by PCL reconstruction alone. Reconstructing the posterolateral corner, three surgical techniques were compared: (a) the posterolateral corner sling procedure (PLCS), (b) the biceps tenodesis (BT), and (c) a bone patellar-tendon bone (BTB) allograft reconstruction. Posterior as well as rotational laxity were significantly increased after PCL/PLS transection at 30 and 90 degrees of flexion. Isolated PCL reconstruction resulted in a remaining external rotational deficiency for both tested flexion angles. Additional PLS reconstruction closely restored external rotation as well as posterior translation to intact values by all tested procedures. Compared to the intact knee, dynamic testing revealed a significant internal tibial rotation for (b) BT (mean=3.9 degrees, p=0.043) and for (c) BTB allograft (mean=4.3 degrees, p=0.012). (a) The PLCS demonstrated a tendency to internal tibial rotation between 0 and 60 degrees of flexion (mean=2.2 degrees, p=0.079). Varus/valgus rotation as well as anterior/posterior translation did not show significant differences for any of the tested techniques. The present study shows that despite satisfying results in static laxity testing, pathological 3D knee kinematics were not restored to normal, demonstrated by a nonphysiological internal tibial rotation during the path of flexion-extension."}
{"id": "15701612", "title": "A prospective, double-blind, randomized clinical trial comparing subacromial injection of betamethasone and xylocaine to xylocaine alone in chronic rotator cuff tendinosis.", "content": "A prospective, double-blind, randomized clinical trial comparing subacromial injection of betamethasone and xylocaine to xylocaine alone in chronic rotator cuff tendinosis. Rotator cuff tendinosis is a common problem with significant health and economic effects. Nonoperative management includes the widespread use of subacromial steroid injections despite the lack of evidence of its efficacy. A subacromial injection of betamethasone will be more effective than xylocaine alone in improving the quality of life, impingement sign, and range of motion in patients who have chronic rotator cuff tendinosis or partial rotator cuff tears. Randomized controlled clinical trial; Level of evidence, 1. Patients with rotator cuff tendinosis or partial cuff tear with symptoms longer than 6 months, with failure of 6 weeks of physical therapy and 2 weeks of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, who were older than 30 years of age, and who showed >50% improvement with the Neer impingement test were stratified for Workplace Safety and Insurance Board status and previous injection. Outcome measures--the Western Ontario Rotator Cuff Index; American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons standardized form; Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand; active forward elevation; active internal rotation; active external rotation; and the Neer impingement sign--were assessed at 2, 6, 12, and 24 weeks after injection. The injection into the subacromial space contained either 5 mL of 2% xylocaine alone or 4 mL of 2% xylocaine and 1 mL (6 mg) of betamethasone in an opaque syringe. In 58 patients (betamethasone group, n = 30; xylocaine group, n = 28), the authors found no statistically significant difference between the 2 treatment groups for all outcomes and time intervals. The scores for the Western Ontario Rotator Cuff Index at 3 months were xylocaine = 45.4% +/- 13% and betamethasone = 56.3% +/- 17% (P = .13). At 6 months, the scores were xylocaine = 51% +/- 32% and betamethasone = 59% +/- 26% (P = .38). All other outcomes showed similar values. As well, similar results were found for 2 and 6 weeks after injection. Both groups showed improvement from baseline in all outcomes. With the numbers available for this study, the authors found betamethasone to be no more effective in improving the quality of life, range of motion, or impingement sign than xylocaine alone in patients with chronic rotator cuff tendinosis for all follow-up time intervals evaluated."}
{"id": "15701606", "title": "Arthroscopic release of the long head of the biceps tendon: functional outcome and clinical results.", "content": "Arthroscopic release of the long head of the biceps tendon: functional outcome and clinical results. Treatment of chronic, refractory biceps tendinitis remains controversial. The authors sought to evaluate clinical and functional outcomes of arthroscopic release of the long head of the biceps tendon. In specific cases of refractory biceps tendinitis, site-specific release of the long head of the biceps tendon may yield relief of pain and symptoms. Case series; Level of evidence, 4. Fifty-four patients diagnosed with biceps tendinitis underwent arthroscopic release of the long head of the biceps tendon as an isolated procedure or as part of a concomitant shoulder procedure over a 2-year period. Patients were not excluded for concomitant shoulder abnormality, including degenerative joint disease, rotator cuff tears, Bankart lesions, or instability. Nine of 40 patients had an isolated arthroscopic release of the biceps tendon. At a minimum of 2 years, the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons; the University of California, Los Angeles; and the L'Insalata shoulder questionnaires as well as ipsilateral and contralateral metrics were used for evaluation. The L'Insalata; University of California, Los Angeles; and American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons scores were 77.6, 27.6, and 75.6, respectively. Seventy percent had a Popeye sign at rest or during active elbow flexion; 82.7% of men and 36.5% of women had a positive Popeye sign (P < .05); 68% were rated as good, very good, or excellent. No patient reported arm pain at rest distally or proximally; 38% of patients complained of fatigue discomfort (soreness) isolated to the biceps muscle after resisted elbow flexion. Arthroscopic release of the long head of the biceps tendon is an appropriate and reliable intervention for patients with chronic, refractory biceps tendinitis. Cosmetic deformity presenting as a positive Popeye sign and fatigue discomfort were the primary complaints. Although tenotomy is not the ideal intervention for patients of all ages with various shoulder abnormalities, data suggest that it may be an acceptable surgical intervention for a specifically selected cohort of individuals."}
{"id": "15689868", "title": "Triple labral lesions: pathology and surgical repair technique-report of seven cases.", "content": "Triple labral lesions: pathology and surgical repair technique-report of seven cases. The purpose of this article is to describe the pathology and operative treatment of triple labral lesions. Retrospective review. From June 1998 to June 2001, 297 patients underwent surgery by the senior author for lesions of the glenoid labrum. Of these, 7 patients (2.4%) had combined lesions of the anterior, posterior, and superior labrum. All patients were male with a mean age of 25 +/- 7.3 years. All had a traumatic onset of symptoms. There were 4 dominant and 3 nondominant shoulders. Two patients had previously undergone surgery for instability. Each patient's primary complaint was instability and apprehension in the abducted and externally rotated position. No patient complained of posterior instability, although 3 patients had physical examinations suggestive of excessive posterior laxity. All patients underwent arthroscopic surgery following failure of conservative management. All patients had distinct anterior labrum, posterior labrum, and type II SLAP lesions. All anterior and posterior labrum injuries were Bankart type except one. Two patients had complete circumferential detachment of the labrum and the other 5 patients had a small portion of the labrum still attached. Six patients had a Hill-Sachs lesion and 1 patient had a reverse Hill-Sachs lesion. All were nonengaging Hill-Sachs lesions. All patients were treated with suture anchor fixation of the torn labrum to bone. The median number of anchors used for fixation was 7 (range, 5 to 9 anchors). All patients were treated with a standardized postoperative rehabilitation protocol. At latest follow-up, 6 of 7 patients were satisfied with the procedure. There were no cases of recurrent instability. One patient developed post-traumatic osteoarthritis and underwent a second arthroscopic procedure and subsequently required hemiarthroplasty. This patient was dissatisfied with his result. Triple labral lesions represent an uncommon combination of lesions of the glenoid labrum. The majority of cases are likely secondary to primary anterior instability. Arthroscopic repair of triple labral lesions using suture anchor fixation to bone, although difficult and time consuming, can restore normal stability to the glenohumeral joint. The long-term outcome of these severe labral lesions remains to be determined, particularly with respect to the development of post-traumatic osteoarthritis. Level IV. Case series, no or historical control group."}
{"id": "15689867", "title": "Long head biceps tenotomy versus tenodesis: a cadaveric biomechanical analysis.", "content": "Long head biceps tenotomy versus tenodesis: a cadaveric biomechanical analysis. Treatment of pathology of the long head biceps (LHB) tendon has become an area of renewed interest among orthopaedic surgeons in recent years. Numerous authors have recommended tenotomy, whereas others have recommended tenodesis to avoid distal migration of the LHB tendon stump and the associated cosmetic deformity that may develop. The purpose of the present study was to determine the likelihood of distal migration from the bicipital groove of the long head biceps tendon after tenotomy under physiologic loading conditions and the ultimate load to failure for tenotomized LHB tendons, and to compare these values with those present after tenodesis with an interference screw in a cadaveric model. Anatomic cadaveric biomechanical study. Cyclic loading was performed on 10 cadaveric shoulders through the LHB tendon on an MTS machine (Materials Testing System; MTS Systems Corp, Minneapolis, MN) at a peak force of 50 N (loading rate of 100 N/second) for 200 cycles. After cyclic loading, the specimens were tested to failure at a loading rate of 100 N/second. Failure was defined as migration of the biceps stump distal to the bicipital groove on the proximal humerus. The LHB tendon was then passed back up the bicipital groove and tenodesis was performed in the groove with a bioabsorbable interference screw according to a previously described technique (Arthrex, Naples, FL). Cyclic and load to failure testing were then repeated in similar fashion and the values were recorded and compared with those of the tenotomized subjects (n = 10 in each group). Four of 10 tenotomized specimens (40%) failed during cyclic loading, with the average number of cycles to failure being 35. The other 6 specimens passed the cyclic test. The average ultimate load to failure in these specimens was 110.7 N. After biceps tenodesis, all specimens passed the cyclic loading test. The average ultimate load to failure in these 10 specimens was 310.8 N. Compared with the 6 tenotomized specimens that passed the cyclic test, the specimens that underwent tenodesis had a significantly higher pullout strength (ultimate strength) with P = .001. These results show that, compared with tenodesis, biceps tenotomy results in a significant risk of distal LHB tendon migration and significantly lower load to failure. Cyclic loads similar to those produced by gentle active range of motion without resistance resulted in failure in 40% of specimens tested after an average of 35 cycles. Based on these results, the authors recommend that LHB tenodesis be considered in any patient who may object to the cosmetic deformity and associated dysfunction produced by distal LHB tendon migration after tenotomy. The findings of this study help determine whether to perform long head biceps tenotomy or tenodesis when dealing with long head biceps tendon pathology."}
{"id": "15687748", "title": "Shoulder function in patients with frozen shoulder before and after 4-week rehabilitation.", "content": "Shoulder function in patients with frozen shoulder before and after 4-week rehabilitation. This study evaluated changes in shoulder function in patients with frozen shoulder after 4-week rehabilitation combining exercise with electrical therapy and massage. Ten patients with frozen shoulder (mean +/- standard error (SE) age 50.2+/-4.6 years) and 10 control subjects (49.8+/-4.6 years) participated in the study. Standard goniometric measurements were used to assess shoulder flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, internal and external rotation active range of motion. Isometric maximal force of the shoulder flexors, abductors, adductors, internal and external rotators was measured by hand-held dynamometer. Shoulder muscle isometric endurance was characterized by net impulse assessed during weight (30% of maximal force) holding in hand till exhaustion. Shoulder pain was assessed by visual analogue scale. Before rehabilitation, patients with frozen shoulder had less (p<0.05) active range of motion and shoulder muscle maximal force for all measured directions, and less (p<0.05) net impulse during shoulder muscle isometric endurance test for involved extremity compared to controls. In patients with frozen shoulder, shoulder flexion, abduction, adduction and adduction active range of motion, maximal force of shoulder muscles in all measured force directions and net impulse during shoulder muscle isometric endurance test for involved extremity increased (p<0.05) after rehabilitation. No significant changes in shoulder internal and external rotation active range of motion for involved extremity in patients with frozen shoulder were observed with rehabilitation. A 4-week rehabilitation program improved shoulder flexion, extension, abduction and adduction active range of motion in patients with frozen shoulder coupled with non-significant changes in external and internal rotation range of motion. A significant increase in shoulder muscle isometric strength and endurance and decrease in shoulder pain in patients with frozen shoulder was observed after treatment."}
{"id": "15687170", "title": "Open operative treatment for anterior shoulder instability: when and why?", "content": "Open operative treatment for anterior shoulder instability: when and why? The treatment of anterior glenohumeral instability continues to evolve. Open capsulolabral repairs are time-tested and reliable. In an era in which arthroscopic techniques continue to improve, open surgery remains an acceptable option, and there are still certain injury patterns that cannot be adequately addressed arthroscopically. Decision-making regarding surgery for instability is influenced by the surgeon's experience and the relevant pathological findings. Open operative treatment is the preferred approach in many instances of recurrent anterior instability, particularly when there is bone and soft-tissue loss and in revision settings."}
{"id": "15685073", "title": "The causes of pain in benign solitary enchondromas of the proximal humerus.", "content": "The causes of pain in benign solitary enchondromas of the proximal humerus. Patients with benign solitary enchondromas of the proximal humerus frequently present to the diagnosing physician with shoulder pain. Once the lesion is considered benign, emphasis can be placed on identifying the etiology for the pain. We reviewed our experience with these patients to identify the cause of the presenting pain. A retrospective review of clinical records and radiographic studies (radiographs, magnetic resonance images, and bone scans) was done for all patients presenting to an orthopaedic oncology unit with solitary enchondroma of the proximal humerus. Attention was focused on diagnostic evidence of additional disease in the shoulder. Fifty-seven patients (mean age, 53.6 years) met the criteria of the study and were included for evaluation. Of patients presenting with pain, 82% (47 of 57 patients) had findings seen on magnetic resonance imaging scans that correlated with the initial clinical diagnostic impression, suggesting that other disease was present that could explain the pain. Solitary enchondromas of the proximal humerus often are found incidentally during the initial evaluation of patients with shoulder pain. This study showed that additional treatable disease usually is present in patients with enchondromas of the proximal humerus."}
{"id": "15681266", "title": "Shoulder impingement: the effect of sitting posture on shoulder pain and range of motion.", "content": "Shoulder impingement: the effect of sitting posture on shoulder pain and range of motion. The re-education of spinal posture is an integral part of shoulder impingement management yet supporting evidence is limited. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of slouched versus erect sitting posture on shoulder pain intensity and range of motion (ROM) in subjects with impingement. A same-subject repeated-measures design was utilized. Maximum active shoulder flexion and associated pain intensity were measured in 28 subjects in slouched and erect sitting postures, using video-analysis and visual analogue scales, respectively. An intra-tester reliability study of the video-analysis system was completed and intra-class correlation coefficients calculated. Shoulder flexion differences between slouched and erect sitting posture were analysed using a repeated-measures analysis of variance (ANOVA). The intra-tester reliability of the video-analysis method was found to be 'excellent' (ICC = 0.99). Flexion ROM was significantly greater in the erect sitting posture (F = 100.3, P < 0.0001); the mean ROM difference between postures was 17.67 degrees (+/- 9.17 degrees). There was no significant difference in pain intensity between postures (F = 1.9, P = 0.179). An erect sitting posture appeared to increase active shoulder flexion in subjects with shoulder impingement, although there were no differences in reported pain intensity. Further research is required to investigate the long-term effects of postural re-education."}
{"id": "15680567", "title": "Flexor carpi ulnaris tendinopathy.", "content": "Flexor carpi ulnaris tendinopathy. This study describes the pathology of flexor carpi ulnaris (FCU) tendinopathy and its treatment. Five patients (1 bilateral) who failed nonsurgical management of FCU tendinopathy had FCU tendon debridement. The excised tendon was examined histologically and 4 patients (1 bilateral) were followed-up for at least 12 months. The pathology was degenerative tendinosis (angiofibroblastic hyperplasia) in all specimens, identical to that observed in tennis elbow and the rotator cuff. Surgical excision of the pathologic degeneration gave excellent pain relief in all cases. The pathology of FCU tendinopathy (ie, degenerative tendinosis) is similar to that of other extrasynovial tendons. Surgical debridement of the pathologic tendinosis tissue is effective treatment for patients who fail nonsurgical management."}
{"id": "15674840", "title": "Interobserver variation in sonography of the painful shoulder.", "content": "Interobserver variation in sonography of the painful shoulder. This study was conducted as a prospective assessment of interobserver variability in the sonographic evaluation of the rotator cuff. Three musculoskeletal radiologists who had different levels of scanning experience each performed shoulder sonography on 24 consecutive patients during 1 patient visit. The diagnostic criteria full-thickness rotator cuff tear, tendon calcification, tendinosis of the supraspinatus, subacromial fluid, subacromial synovial/bursal thickening, dynamic signs of impingement, and abnormality in the long head of biceps tendon were scored, with independent observers recording the data. Statistical analysis was performed using Cohen's kappa test, with significance assessed at p values of less than 0.05. There was good agreement (kappa >0.60, p <0.01) between the experienced operators for full-thickness rotator cuff tear, tendon calcification, dynamic signs of impingement, and abnormality of the long head of biceps tendon. There was no significant agreement between the experienced operators and the less experienced operator in several categories, including (and importantly) full-thickness rotator cuff tears (kappa=0.18-0.21). In experienced hands sonography of the rotator cuff is a reproducible diagnostic test, but agreement is poor when there is marked disparity between the operators' experience levels. Our findings suggest a need for a more clearly defined training curriculum for sonography of the shoulder in radiology training programs."}
{"id": "15665693", "title": "Magnetic resonance appearance of bone marrow edema associated with hydroxyapatite deposition disease without cortical erosion.", "content": "Magnetic resonance appearance of bone marrow edema associated with hydroxyapatite deposition disease without cortical erosion. The authors report the magnetic resonance (MR) appearance of bone marrow edema associated with hydroxyapatite deposition disease without cortical erosion. Hydroxyapatite deposition disease may have bone marrow edema on MR imaging without radiographic evidence of cortical erosion, mimicking the appearance of fracture, neoplasm, or infection. Awareness of this association can prevent unnecessary additional imaging evaluation or biopsy."}
{"id": "15658142", "title": "Ultrasonography as a diagnostic modality in acromioclavicular joint pathologies.", "content": "Ultrasonography as a diagnostic modality in acromioclavicular joint pathologies. Ultrasound is useful in detecting acromioclavicular pathologies in cases of trauma, inflammations and degenerative changes. To describe the sonographic findings of acromioclavicular joint pathology in patients with anterior shoulder pain. Sonographic examination of the ACJ was used to examine 30 adults with anterior shoulder pain. As a control group we studied 30 asymptomatic patients and compared the findings to plain radiographs of the symptomatic group. The pathologic findings consisted of swelling of the joints, bone irregularities, widening and/or narrowing of the ACJ, soft tissue cyst formation, excessive fluid collection, and calcification. All these signs represent degenerative changes compatible with early osteoarthritis. We encountered one case of septic arthritis that required joint aspiration and antibiotic treatment. It is our belief that ultrasonography should be used routinely in cases of anterior shoulder pain since it demonstrates various pathologies undetected by plain radiographs."}
{"id": "15657070", "title": "A randomized controlled trial of intra-articular triamcinolone and/or physiotherapy in shoulder capsulitis.", "content": "A randomized controlled trial of intra-articular triamcinolone and/or physiotherapy in shoulder capsulitis. To assess the effectiveness of intra-articular triamcinolone injection and physiotherapy singly or combined in the treatment of adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder. Eighty patients with adhesive capsulitis of less than 6 months duration were randomized to one of four groups: Group A, injection of triamcinolone 20 mg and eight sessions of standardized physiotherapy; Group B, injection of triamcinolone 20 mg alone; Group C, placebo injection and eight sessions of standardized physiotherapy; or Group D, placebo injection alone. All subjects were given an identical home exercise programme. Outcome measures were assessed at 6 weeks and 16 weeks. The primary outcome measure was Shoulder Disability Questionnaire (SDQ) score. Secondary outcomes were measurement of pain using a visual analogue scale (VAS), global disability using VAS and range of passive external rotation. A two-way analysis of variance was used to explore the effects of corticosteroid injection and physiotherapy. At 6 weeks, the SDQ had improved significantly more in the groups receiving corticosteroid injection (P = 0.004). Physiotherapy improved passive external rotation at 6 weeks (P = 0.02) and corticosteroid injection improved self-assessment of global disability at 6 weeks (P = 0.04). There was no interaction effect between injection and physiotherapy. At 16 weeks, all groups had improved to a similar degree with respect to all outcome measures. Corticosteroid injection is effective in improving shoulder-related disability, and physiotherapy is effective in improving the range of movement in external rotation 6 weeks after treatment."}
{"id": "15650671", "title": "Pullout strength of knotless suture anchors.", "content": "Pullout strength of knotless suture anchors. Suture anchors are used consistently for repairs of soft tissues, especially around the glenohumeral joint. These anchors can be used either arthroscopically or in an open procedure to anatomically restore the labrum and capsular tissues to the glenoid after avulsion injuries (Bankart lesion). The purpose of this study was to analyze the pullout strength of a new knotless suture anchor (Mitek Knotless Suture Anchor; Mitek, Norwood, MA) compared with 2 commercially available suture anchors that require knots to be tied (Mitek Panalok 3.5-mm Anchor and Mitek GII Quick Anchor). Randomized cadaveric study. Three groups of 10 anchors were tested on 15 fresh-frozen cadaveric glenoids. Two anchors were affixed to the anterior glenoid in subchondral bone, 1 each from 2 groups. In this way, the variance of bone density among groups was minimized. The anchors requiring knots were fixed to the glenoid and tied to a ring using a Duncan knot with 3 half-hitches alternating posts. The Knotless Anchor was looped through the ring and anchored into the glenoid as described by the manufacturer. All constructs were then tested for tensile strength on an Instron machine (Canton, MA) using a crosshead speed of 200 mm/min. Ultimate failure was defined as complete failure of the construct (either suture breakage or anchor pullout). Data were then analyzed for statistical significance using analysis of variance analysis among the 3 groups, and a 2-tailed t test for statistical significance among groups. The average failure under tensile load for the GII, Panalok, and Knotless Anchors were 471.5 N, 432.8 N, and 650.0 N, respectively. Statistical analysis showed a statistical difference between the Knotless Anchor and the GII and Panalok sutures ( P = .02). Two-tailed t tests between the Knotless Anchor and the GII or Panalok Anchors were also significant (P = .02 and P = .02, respectively). Observations included a large standard deviation within groups. This is thought to result from the variation in bone density because markedly lower tensile loads were recorded for those anchors that pulled out from the bone before suture failure. The Knotless Suture Anchor is a statistically stronger construct with respect to tensile loads. It appears to be a viable option for any type of soft-tissue repair around the glenoid. Because the knot in suture repair is consistently the weakest point in the construct and because of the difficulty in tying knots arthroscopically, the Knotless Suture Anchor appears to be a stronger and easier method for both arthroscopic and open Bankart repair, with or without capsular shift."}
{"id": "15650660", "title": "Vascularity of the hip labrum: a cadaveric investigation.", "content": "Vascularity of the hip labrum: a cadaveric investigation. The purpose of this study was to define the vascularity of the hip labrum and to identify regional differences in vascular penetration that may have implications for the healing potential of this structure. Injection study of human cadavers to investigate the vascularity of the hip labrum. Twelve hips from 6 human frozen cadavers devoid of severe articular pathology were used. High-resolution surface-coil magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed in both sagittal and coronal planes to better define anatomic planes in 2 dimensions and to correlate Spalteholz sections with the surrounding joint and labral anatomy. Each pelvis was injected with intra-arterial India Ink and frozen; 3-mm sagittal or coronal sections were then cut and processed using a modified Spalteholz technique, yielding anatomic zones of the labrum. Six specimens were cut in the sagittal plane and 6 were cut in the coronal plane. Specimens were examined at x10 magnification with transillumination. Anatomic zones with regional variations in vascularity were defined. The anterior and superior aspects of the labrum showed degenerative changes on MRI and under direct manual transillumination in 75% of specimens. Overall, there was a relatively poor vascular supply to the labrum; however, there were regional differences between anatomic zones. Zone I (capsular contribution) had significantly more vascularity than zone II (articular side) (P < .01). Zone IA (the portion of the zone not attached to bone) showed the most consistent source of vessels across all specimens (smallest variation between specimens); however, zone IB (the portion of the zone attached to bony acetabulum) had the greatest overall mean vascularity score. These differences were not statistically significant. Furthermore, vascularity patterns were not significantly different in the anterior, superior, posterior, and inferior labral regions, nor were they different in torn versus intact specimens. The cadaveric specimens evaluated in this study had a relatively avascular hip labrum. However, the increased vascularity seen in zone I (capsular side) may have implications for treatment, similar to that described in the meniscus of the knee. A better understanding of the vascularity of the hip labrum will guide treatment of labral pathology and may have implications for the healing potential of this structure. Labral tears occurring in the vascular zone may be amenable to arthroscopic repair rather than debridement."}
{"id": "15635053", "title": "Inherited motor neuron disease in domestic cats: a model of spinal muscular atrophy.", "content": "Inherited motor neuron disease in domestic cats: a model of spinal muscular atrophy. Juvenile-onset spinal muscular atrophy was observed in an extended family of purebred domestic cats as a fully penetrant, simple autosomal recessive trait. Affected kittens exhibited tremor, proximal muscle weakness, and muscle atrophy beginning at ~4 mo of age. Apparent loss of function was rapid initially but progressed slowly after 7-8 mo of age, and variably disabled cats lived for at least 8 y. Electromyography and microscopic examination of muscle and nerve biopsies were consistent with denervation atrophy as a result of a central lesion. There was astrogliosis and dramatic loss of motor neurons in ventral but not dorsal horn gray matter of spinal cord and loss of axons in ventral horn nerve roots. These phenotypic findings were similar to mild forms (type III) of spinal muscular atrophy in humans caused by survival of motor neuron mutations, but molecular analysis excluded feline survival of motor neuron as the disease gene in this family. A breeding colony has been established for further investigation of this naturally occurring large-animal model of inherited motor neuron disease."}
{"id": "15634822", "title": "Determinants of patient satisfaction with outcome after rotator cuff surgery.", "content": "Determinants of patient satisfaction with outcome after rotator cuff surgery. The outcome after rotator cuff surgery has been reported frequently with use of condition-specific measures, but patient satisfaction has not been well studied. The purpose of this study was to identify the determinants of patient satisfaction with the outcome after rotator cuff surgery. A cohort of 311 patients undergoing rotator cuff surgery was studied prospectively. Two hundred and fifty-four patients had subjective follow-up for a minimum of one year, and fifty-seven patients had subjective and objective follow-up for a minimum of one year. Diagnoses included tendinitis or impingement (eighty patients), a partial-thickness rotator cuff tear (fifty-five patients), and a full-thickness rotator cuff tear (176 patients). The dependent variable was patient satisfaction with the outcome, graded ordinally on a scale of 1 to 10. Independent variables included demographic, surgical, objective follow-up, and subjective follow-up parameters. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to identify the determinants of satisfaction. Univariate analysis of demographic variables demonstrated no significant differences (p > 0.05) with respect to patient satisfaction. Analysis of the surgical variables showed significantly decreased satisfaction (p < 0.05) for patients who had debridement for a massive, irreparable cuff tear; those who had subscapularis tears; and those with larger supraspinatus and infraspinatus tears. Analysis of the objective variables at follow-up demonstrated significantly decreased satisfaction (p < 0.05) for patients with diminished and weakened forward elevation, impingement signs, and acromioclavicular joint pain and tenderness. Univariate analysis of subjective variables at follow-up showed significantly decreased satisfaction (p < 0.001) for patients with pain, functional difficulty, and work disability. Multivariate analysis demonstrated significantly decreased satisfaction associated with pain (p < 0.001) and dysfunction (p < 0.05). A significant relationship (p < 0.05) was detected between satisfaction and a willingness to recommend the surgery to another. A significant relationship (p < 0.05) was also found between satisfaction and the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons score. Subjective variables of symptoms and function have the most robust associations with patient satisfaction following rotator cuff surgery. Thus, in assessing the outcome of rotator cuff surgery from the perspective of patient satisfaction with outcome, we emphasize the importance of patient-derived subjective assessment of symptoms and function."}
{"id": "15621320", "title": "Changes in the long head of the biceps tendon in rotator cuff tear shoulders.", "content": "Changes in the long head of the biceps tendon in rotator cuff tear shoulders. Morphologic changes in the long head of the biceps tendon have been described in association with rotator cuff disease, yet mechanical significance of these changes remains unclear. An experiment was designed to test the hypotheses that the cross-sectional area and material properties of the long head of the biceps tendon are different in shoulders with full thickness rotator cuff tears and shoulders with intact rotator cuff tendons. Seven pairs of cadaver shoulders were tested. In each pair one shoulder had a full thickness rotator cuff tear and the other did not. Thus, a matched design was used. Cross sectional areas were measured. Tendon material properties were measured using an optical strain system. We were unable to detect a statistically significant difference in the long head of the biceps area or material properties between tendons in shoulders with and without rotator cuff tears. An a priori power analysis was conducted indicating the sample size was sufficient to detect a difference of 70 MPa in the elastic modulus measurement. Our data indicate there is no difference in the long head of the biceps cross sectional area or material properties. Therefore, the long head of the biceps tendon appears to retain its material properties in the presence of a rotator cuff tear. The clinical significance of this finding is that the long head of the biceps can be retained in the presence of a rotator cuff tear without concern that mechanical properties have substantially deteriorated."}
{"id": "15615971", "title": "Sonography of full-thickness supraspinatus tears: comparison of patient positioning technique with surgical correlation.", "content": "Sonography of full-thickness supraspinatus tears: comparison of patient positioning technique with surgical correlation. Sonography has become a popular technique for the assessment of musculoskeletal disorders. Patient positioning is crucial to a thorough and accurate assessment of rotator cuff tendons. Two positions, the Crass and modified Crass, have been routinely used in the research and clinical settings to examine the supraspinatus tendon. Our study was a prospective trial to determine whether the Crass or the modified Crass position affords the most accurate measure of supraspinatus tears when compared with surgical findings. Twenty-one patients with full-thickness supraspinatus tears underwent shoulder sonography in both the Crass and the modified Crass positions. Measurements of supraspinatus tears were performed in the sagittal and transverse dimensions. Patients subsequently underwent either arthroscopic or open supraspinatus repair. Intraoperative measurements were made in two dimensions and were compared with sonographic findings. Sonography had 100% specificity in detecting full-thickness supraspinatus tears. No statistically significant difference was seen between the size of supraspinatus tears in the Crass and modified Crass positions and surgical findings in the transverse plane (p = 0.55 and 0.61, respectively). In the sagittal dimension, no statistically significant difference was seen between surgical findings and the Crass position (p = 0.14); however, a difference existed when the modified Crass position was used (p = 0.03). Sonography reliably detects and quantifies supraspinatus tears. Both the Crass and the modified Crass positions reflected the true size of supraspinatus tears in the transverse plane. In the sagittal plane, the Crass position is the more useful to quantify supraspinatus tears because the modified Crass position overestimates the size of such tears."}
{"id": "15533608", "title": "Exacerbation of rheumatoid arthritis following Helicobacter pylori eradication: disruption of established oral tolerance against heat shock protein?", "content": "Exacerbation of rheumatoid arthritis following Helicobacter pylori eradication: disruption of established oral tolerance against heat shock protein? A 62-year-old Japanese woman with RA received an eradication therapy against Helicobacter pylori in November 1999. Eight weeks later, successful eradication was confirmed by negative results for rapid urease test, pathologic findings, and a fall in anti-H. pylori IgG antibody titer. During the course, parameters for RA activity were exacerbated: C-reactive protein 1.1-4.2 mg/dL, rheumatoid arthritis precipitation antigen 2560-5120 dils., erythrocyte sedimentation rate 52-123 mm/h, and complements CH50 50 to over 60 U/mL. Lansbury index increased from 70% to 105%. Two more weeks later, the patient noticed right shoulder pain. She also complained of bilateral gonalgia two months later, and physical examination revealed increased fluid in the knee joints. Prednisolone was required to control the disease activity. The results of this case suggested that RA patients might experience a deleterious effect on the disease activity following H. pylori eradication possibly through disruption of the established oral tolerance against stress protein such as mycobacterial heat shock protein 65."}
{"id": "15378320", "title": "Arthroscopic debridement of massive rotator cuff tears: negative prognostic factors.", "content": "Arthroscopic debridement of massive rotator cuff tears: negative prognostic factors. The purpose of this study was to identify the factors that may lead to poor outcomes after arthroscopic debridement in massive rotator cuff tears. Thirty-three patients (10 women and 23 men) with massive, irreparable rotator cuff tears underwent arthroscopy by a single surgeon. The preoperative diagnosis was based on the clinical examination and MRI. Their mean age was 69 years (range 62-79 years), and the average follow-up was 31 months (range 24-46 months). If indicated, the performed arthroscopic debridement included acromioplasty, debridement of the cuff, resection of the distal part of the clavicle or tenotomy of the long head of the biceps. In 28 cases (85%) acromioplasties and in 6 cases (18%) biceps tenotomies were performed, 2 of which were a single tenotomy without any associated acromioplasty. One patient had been managed with concomitant resection of the distal part of the clavicle. The Constant and Murley Score improved by a mean of 30 points, from a mean of 37 points (range 21-52) preoperatively to a mean of 67 points (range 31-82) at the time of follow-up. Some 82% of the patients were satisfied with the procedure. The result was considered unsatisfactory because of inadequate pain relief in 4 shoulders, because of limited active abduction in 1 and because of limited external rotation in 1. A poor outcome was associated with a complete tear of the subscapularis tendon in 6 patients. The radiological study showed no significant narrowing of the subacromial space. Our early results suggest that arthroscopic debridement is an excellent treatment for elderly patients with modest functional demands. However, its long-term consequences remain to be evaluated by studies with lengthy follow-up. Prognostic factors that may lead to a negative outcome are preoperative superior migration of the humeral head, presence of subscapularis tear, presence of glenohumeral arthritis and decreased range of motion."}
{"id": "15378264", "title": "Multivariate analysis of biochemical markers in synovial fluid from the shoulder joint for diagnosis of rotator cuff tears.", "content": "Multivariate analysis of biochemical markers in synovial fluid from the shoulder joint for diagnosis of rotator cuff tears. Multivariate discriminant analysis allowed definition of cytokine, matrix metalloproteinases (MMP), and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMP) levels in synovial fluid (SF) of patients with rotator cuff tears and other shoulder lesions. We analyzed SF aspirated from the glenohumeral joints of 17 patients with rotator cuff tears; SF from nine patients with other shoulder lesions was used to characterize a non-rotator-cuff-tear (NRCT) group. Discriminant analysis demonstrated statistically significant differences in (1) the determination of whether rotator cuff tear patients are separable from the NRCT group using the influential functions, the most influential of which were interleukin 1-beta, MMP-2, and MMP-13, and (2) the assessment of whether full-thickness rotator cuff tears are distinguishable from partial tears using identical influential functions. The most influential function in the latter analysis was MMP-13. Both interleukin 1-beta and MMP-13 might be biochemical markers of impending rotator cuff tears."}
{"id": "15024575", "title": "Third degree perineal tears in a university medical center where midline episiotomies are not performed.", "content": "Third degree perineal tears in a university medical center where midline episiotomies are not performed. Midline episiotomy is a known major risk factor for severe perineal lacerations. The study was aimed to define obstetric risk factors for third-degree perineal tears in a university medical center where midline episiotomies are not performed. A comparison between vaginal deliveries complicated with third-degree perineal tears and deliveries without third-degree perineal tears was performed. Deliveries occurred between the years 1988-1999 in a tertiary medical center. Multiple gestations, preterm deliveries (<37 weeks' gestation), cesarean deliveries and cases of shoulder dystocia were excluded from the analysis. A multiple logistic regression model was constructed in order to find independent risk factors for third-degree perineal tears. Odds ratios (OR) and their 95% confidence interval (CI) were calculated from the regression coefficient. During the study period, 79 (0.1%) consecutive cases of third degree perineal tears were identified. Significant risk factors from the univariate analysis were fetal macrosomia (OR 2.7, 95% CI 1.2-5.5), nulliparity (OR 2.9, 95% CI 1.8-4.6), labor induction (OR 1.9, 95% CI 1.0-3.5), failure of labor to progress during the second stage (OR 10.8, 95% CI 5.4-21.1), non-reassuring fetal heart rate patterns (OR 11.7, 95% CI 6.1-21.5), mediolateral episiotomy (OR 2.8, 95% CI 1.8-4.5), vacuum extraction (OR 10.6, 95% CI 6.1-18.3), and forceps delivery (OR 29.2, 95% CI 7.3-97.2). However, using a multivariable analysis, only fetal macrosomia (OR 2.5, 95% CI 1.2-4.9), vacuum extraction (OR 8.2, 95% CI 4.7-14.5), and forceps delivery (OR 26.7, 95% CI 8.0-88.5) remained as independent risk factors. The combined risk for instrumental deliveries of macrosomic newborns was 8.6 (95% CI 1.2-62.5; p=0.010). After adjustment for possible confounding variables, mediolateral episiotomy per se was not an independent risk factor for third-degree perineal tears. Instrumental vaginal deliveries of macrosomic fetuses should be avoided whenever possible to decrease the occurrence of third-degree perineal tears."}
{"id": "14727054", "title": "The German Short Musculoskeletal Function Assessment questionnaire: reliability, validity, responsiveness, and comparison with the Short Form 36 and Constant score--a prospective evaluation of patients undergoing repair for rotator cuff tear.", "content": "The German Short Musculoskeletal Function Assessment questionnaire: reliability, validity, responsiveness, and comparison with the Short Form 36 and Constant score--a prospective evaluation of patients undergoing repair for rotator cuff tear. In a prospective clinical trial, first the German Short Musculoskeletal Function Assessment questionnaire (SMFA-D) was tested for reliability, validity, and responsiveness in 23 patients with rotator cuff tears, and secondly the Short Form (SF)-36, and the Constant score were evaluated comparatively in 45 patients with rotator cuff tear undergoing open repair. Retest reliability was excellent for the functional index of the SMFA-D and satisfactory for the bother index. The SMFA-D showed good validity and responsiveness. All three instruments demonstrated significantly the positive effect of rotator cuff repair at 12-month follow-up. Using comparable scales, effect sizes were bigger with the SMFA-D than with the SF-36 and as big as the Constant score. Significant correlations of the SMFA-D indices with the SF-36 scales and the Constant score could be shown preoperatively. At 12-month follow-up, all correlations between SMFA-D indices, SF-36 scales, and Constant score function scales were still significant. We recommend use of the SMFA-D to assess changes in functional status concerning patients with rotator cuff tear undergoing open repair."}
