{"id": "24286085", "title": "Molecular identification and polymorphism determination of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis agents isolated from human and animal hosts in Iran.", "content": "Molecular identification and polymorphism determination of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis agents isolated from human and animal hosts in Iran. Amplification of internal transcript spacer 1 of ribosomal RNA (ITS1-RNA) gene followed by RFLP analysis and sequencing was used to identify the causing agents of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis (CL and VL) in humans and animal reservoir hosts from various geographical areas in Iran. We also used random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD-PCR) to obtain polymorphisms among isolates of Leishmania spp. Totally, 362 suspected human and animal cases including 173 CL, 49 VL, 60 rodents, and 80 domestic dogs were examined for Leishmania infection. From 112 culture-positive samples prepared from CL cases, 75 (67%) were infected with L. major and 37 (33%) with L. tropica. Of the 60 rodents examined, 25 (41.6%) harbored the Leishmania infection; 21 were infected with L. major and 4 with L. turanica. From 49 suspected VL, 29 were positive by direct agglutination test (DAT), whereas microscopy detected parasite in bone marrow of 25 and culture in 28 of the patients. Two VL patients were infected with L. tropica and 26 with L. infantum. Of the 80 domestic dogs, 56 showed anti-Leishmania antibodies with DAT. Of these, 55 were positive by both microscopy and culture. Molecular identity, obtained only for 47 samples, revealed L. infantum in 43 and L. tropica in 4 dogs. The polymorphisms among L. tropica and L. major isolates were 3.6% and 7.3%; the rate among human and canine VL isolates was 2.8% and 9.8%, respectively. Our results showed that at least four different Leishmania species with various polymorphisms circulate among humans and animal hosts in Iran."}
{"id": "24270249", "title": "Performance of a rapid diagnostic test for the detection of visceral leishmaniasis in a large urban setting.", "content": "Performance of a rapid diagnostic test for the detection of visceral leishmaniasis in a large urban setting. Rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) may improve the early detection of visceral leishmaniasis (VL), but their real-world performance requires additional study. Therefore, we evaluated the performance of an rK39-based RDT (Kalazar Detect\u2122) for the detection of VL in an endemic, large urban area. Data were collected from a registry of rK39 RDT performed at 11 emergency care units in Belo Horizonte, Brazil, and from a national database of reportable communicable diseases of the Sistema de Informa\u00e7\u00e3o de Agravos de Notifica\u00e7\u00e3o (SINAN). The rapid rK39 test was performed in 476 patients, with 114 (23.9%) positive results. The analysis of rK39 RDT performance was based on 381 (80%) cases reported to the SINAN database, of which 145 (38.1%) were confirmed cases. Estimates for sensitivity and specificity were 72.4% (95% CI: 64.6-79%) and 99.6% (95%CI: 97.6-99.9%), respectively. Positive and negative predictive values were estimated at 99.1% (95%CI: 94.9-99.8%) and 85.5% (95%CI: 80.8-89.1%), respectively. In addition, close agreement between the rK39 RDT and indirect immunofluorescence was observed. In summary, the rK39 RDT showed a high specificity but only moderate sensitivity. In endemic areas for VL, treatment may be considered in cases with clinical manifestations and a positive rK39 RDT, but those with a negative test should be subjected to further investigation."}
{"id": "24086782", "title": "Validation of two rapid diagnostic tests for visceral leishmaniasis in Kenya.", "content": "Validation of two rapid diagnostic tests for visceral leishmaniasis in Kenya. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a systemic parasitic disease that is fatal unless treated. In Kenya, national VL guidelines rely on microscopic examination of spleen aspirate to confirm diagnosis. As this procedure is invasive, it cannot be safely implemented in peripheral health structures, where non-invasive, accurate, easy to use diagnostic tests are needed. We evaluated the sensitivity, specificity and predictive values of two rapid diagnostic tests (RDT), DiaMed IT LEISH and Signal-KA, among consecutive patients with clinical suspicion of VL in two treatment centres located in Baringo and North Pokot District, Rift Valley province, Kenya. Microscopic examination of spleen aspirate was the reference diagnostic standard. Patients were prospectively recruited between May 2010 and July 2011. Of 251 eligible patients, 219 patients were analyzed, including 131 VL and 88 non-VL patients. The median age of VL patients was 16 years with predominance of males (66%). None of the tested VL patients were co-infected with HIV. Sensitivity and specificity of the DiaMed IT LEISH were 89.3% (95%CI: 82.7-94%) and 89.8% (95%CI: 81.5-95.2%), respectively. The Signal KA showed trends towards lower sensitivity (77.1%; 95%CI: 68.9-84%) and higher specificity (95.5%; 95%CI: 88.7-98.7%). Combining the tests did not improve the overall diagnostic performance, as all patients with a positive Signal KA were also positive with the DiaMed IT LEISH. The DiaMed IT LEISH can be used to diagnose VL in Kenyan peripheral health facilities where microscopic examination of spleen aspirate or sophisticated serological techniques are not feasible. There is a crucial need for an improved RDT for VL diagnosis in East Africa."}
{"id": "24048530", "title": "Comparative evaluation of blood and serum samples in rapid immunochromatographic tests for visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Comparative evaluation of blood and serum samples in rapid immunochromatographic tests for visceral leishmaniasis. Rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) based on the detection of specific antibodies in serum are commonly used for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Several commercial kits are available, and some of them allow the use of whole-blood samples instead of serum. An RDT is much more user-friendly for blood samples than for serum samples. In this study, we examined the sensitivities and specificities of six different commercially available immunochromatographic tests for their accuracy in detecting Leishmania infection in whole blood and serum of parasitologically confirmed VL cases. This study was performed in areas of India and Nepal where VL is endemic. A total of 177 confirmed VL cases, 208 healthy controls from areas of endemicity (EHCs), 26 malaria patients (MP), and 37 tuberculosis (TB) patients were enrolled. The reproducibilities of the blood and serum results and between-reader and between-laboratory results were tested. In India, the sensitivities of all the RDTs ranged between 94.7 and 100.0%, with no significant differences between whole blood and serum. The specificities ranged between 92.4 and 100.0%, except for the specificity of the Onsite Leishmania Ab RevB kit, which was lower (33.6 to 42.0%). No differences in specificities were observed for blood and serum. In Nepal, the sensitivities of all the test kits, for whole-blood as well as serum samples, ranged between 96.3 and 100.0%, and the specificities ranged between 90.1 and 96.1%, again with the exception of that of the Onsite Leishmania Ab RevB test, which was markedly lower (48.7 to 49.3%). The diagnostic accuracies of all the tests, except for one brand, were excellent for the whole-blood and serum samples. We conclude that whole blood is an adequate alternative for serum in RDTs for VL, with sensitivities and specificities comparable to those obtained in serum samples, provided that the test kit is of overall good quality."}
{"id": "24045639", "title": "The IL-33/ST2 axis is associated with human visceral leishmaniasis and suppresses Th1 responses in the livers of BALB/c mice infected with Leishmania donovani.", "content": "The IL-33/ST2 axis is associated with human visceral leishmaniasis and suppresses Th1 responses in the livers of BALB/c mice infected with Leishmania donovani. During visceral leishmaniasis, the control of hepatic parasite burden is mainly due to granuloma assembly in a microenvironment consisting of both Th1 and Th2 components. Using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) dosages, quantitative PCR (qPCR), immunohistochemistry, and flow cytometry, we studied the role of interleukin-33 (IL-33), a recently described cytokine signaling through the ST2 receptor, during visceral leishmaniasis. We showed that a higher level of IL-33 was detected in the serum of patients with visceral leishmaniasis than in that from healthy donors and demonstrated the presence of IL-33(+) cells in a liver biopsy specimen from a patient. Similarly, in BALB/c mice experimentally infected with L. donovani, a higher level of IL-33 was detected in the serum, as well as the presence of IL-33(+) cells and ST2(+) cells in the mouse liver. In ST2(-/-) BALB/c mice, better control of the hepatic parasite burden and reduced hepatomegaly were observed. This was associated with strong induction of Th1 cytokines (gamma interferon [IFN-\u03b3] and IL-12) compared to the level in wild-type (WT) mice and better recruitment of myeloid cells associated with strongly induced chemokines (CCL2 and CXCL2) and receptors (CCR2 and CXCR2). Conversely, BALB/c mice treated twice weekly with recombinant IL-33 showed a dramatically reduced induction of Th1 cytokines and delayed inhibition of monocyte and neutrophil recruitment in the liver, which was associated with reduced KC/CXCL1 and CXCR2 expression. Taken together, our results suggest that IL-33 could be a new deleterious regulator of the hepatic immune response against Leishmania donovani, via the repression of the Th1 response and myeloid cell recruitment. Visceral leishmaniasis is a life-threatening systemic disease due to the Leishmania protozoa L. infantum and L. donovani and is ranked by the World Health Organization as the second most important protozoan parasitic disease after malaria for its grave morbidity, high mortality, and global distribution. Leishmania parasites subvert the host's immune response to propagate to target organs, including the spleen, the bone marrow, and the liver. Control of hepatic parasite burdens depends on a delicate and poorly understood Th1/Th2 immune balance. To better understand this complex immune response, new cytokines are interesting targets for research studies. IL-33 is a newly described cytokine usually associated with Th2 response and involved in different diseases, including infectious diseases and hepatitis. Our results suggest that IL-33 could be a new factor of susceptibility and a potential prognostic marker during visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "23990996", "title": "Risk factors for seroconversion by Leishmania infantum in a cohort of dogs from an endemic area of Brazil.", "content": "Risk factors for seroconversion by Leishmania infantum in a cohort of dogs from an endemic area of Brazil. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) has recently emerged in various urban and peri-urban areas of Brazil and other countries. Understanding the urbanization of VL requires identification of risk factors associated with human and canine infection. To determine the predictors of risk for canine VL, a survey was conducted of 1,443 dogs, from which a cohort was selected (n = 455) and evaluated for approximately 26 months. Serology was conducted with two enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA): one conducted in the Laboratory of Zoonosis of the Belo Horizonte Health Department (LZOON) and the other in the Laboratory of Immunopathology of the Federal University of Ouro Preto (LIMP). A molecular diagnostic method (PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism) and a structured questionnaire were also used. To identify the factors associated with seroconversion, two time-dependent Cox regression models were performed with different sensitivities (model 1, seroconversion by ELISA/LZOON; model 2, seroconversion by ELISA/LIMP). The overall incidences of seroconversion were 6.5/1000 dogs-months and 11.2/1000 dogs-months for ELISA/LZOON and ELISA/LIMP, respectively. Increased risk of seroconversion was associated with short fur (model 1: hazard ratio [HR] 1.9), the presence of dry leaves (model 1: HR 2.8) or manure (model 1: HR 3.5) in the backyard, dogs sleeping predominantly in the backyard (model 2: HR 2.1), the presence of symptoms (model 2: HR 2.0), and positive molecular results during follow-up (model 2: HR 1.5). Decreased risk was associated with insecticide spraying in the house (model 2: HR 0.5). These results indicate that more-vulnerable domiciles, certain dog behaviors, lack of vector control measures, and positive molecular results were associated with the occurrence of canine VL. Furthermore, it is important to emphasize that PCR-positive dogs should be monitored, owing to the possibility of seroconversion. Identifying risk factors for seroconversion in dogs is crucial for developing adequate strategies for VL prevention and control."}
{"id": "23930349", "title": "Post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis with mucosal involvement: an unusual case presentation including successful treatment with miltefosine.", "content": "Post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis with mucosal involvement: an unusual case presentation including successful treatment with miltefosine. Post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) is a dermatologic manifestation that usually occurs after visceral leishmaniasis (VL) caused by Leishmania donovani. It is characterized by hypopigmented patches, a macular or maculopapular rash and nodular skin lesions on the body surface. Involvement of the mucosae is very rare and unusual in PKDL. We report a case of PKDL that presented with polymorphic skin lesions, along with involvement of peri-oral mucosa and tongue from an endemic area for kala-azar in Bangladesh. In the absence of a definite past history of kala-azar, a clinical suspicion for PKDL was confirmed by positive rapid serological tests against two recombinant (rK39 and rK28) leishmanial antigens, demonstration of Leishmania donovani (LD) body in the slit skin smear, and isolation of promastigotes by culture from a nodular lesion. The patient was treated with oral Miltefosine for three consecutive months and showed significant clinical improvement as demonstrated by a negative slit skin smear at two months after initiation of therapy. We report this case as an unusual presentation of mucosal involvement in PKDL and subsequent treatment success with Miltefosine."}
{"id": "23929119", "title": "Asymptomatic Leishmania infantum infections in humans living in endemic and non-endemic areas of Croatia, 2007 to 2009.", "content": "Asymptomatic Leishmania infantum infections in humans living in endemic and non-endemic areas of Croatia, 2007 to 2009. The prevalence of asymptomatic leishmaniasis in the general population of Croatia has not been studied to date. To assess the prevalence of Leishmania infantum specific IgG antibodies among immunocompetent residents of Croatia, sera from 2,035 persons (eastern coast of Adriatic Sea, n=1,186; Adriatic islands, n=653; mainland, n=196), were tested by an enzyme immunoassay. A total of 231 (11.4%) persons had anti-Leishmania antibodies. Multivariate analysis revealed that seropositivity was associated with geographic location and age. Residents of coastal areas and islands were significantly more seropositive than mainland residents (odds ratios (OR) 20.37 to 28.51). Moderate to high anti-Leishmania seroprevalence was found throughout the eastern Adriatic coast and islands (4.0% to 22.2%) including the sites previously considered non-endemic. A highly endemic focus was identified in central coastal Dalmatia (seroprevalence 22.2%; OR: 1.72; 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.33-2.22). Regarding age, children aged 0-9 years were the most vulnerable group for asymptomatic Leishmania infection (OR: 2.19; 95% CI: 1.16-4.14)."}
{"id": "23920056", "title": "Longitudinal analysis of serological tests officially adopted by the Brazilian Ministry of Health for the diagnosis of canine visceral leishmaniasis in dogs vaccinated with Leishmune\u00ae.", "content": "Longitudinal analysis of serological tests officially adopted by the Brazilian Ministry of Health for the diagnosis of canine visceral leishmaniasis in dogs vaccinated with Leishmune\u00ae. Development of vaccines against canine visceral leishmaniasis (CVL) may provide a prophylactic barrier, but antibody response detected by standard diagnostic techniques may not separate vaccinated from naturally infected dogs. Moreover, anti-Leishmania antibody levels in vaccinated dogs may be detectable for months. Accordingly, the aim of the present study was to comparatively evaluate an \"in-house\" ELISA with three serological tests officially adopted by the Brazilian Ministry of Health for the diagnosis of CVL in dogs vaccinated with Leishmune(\u00ae). A total of 18 mongrel dogs were submitted to a complete protocol of the vaccine, monitored and evaluated in 5 times (T0-T4) up to 180 days after T0. Twenty-one days after the first dose (T1), 50% of the dogs were seropositive by the \"in-house\" ELISA and 5.5% by IFAT, while by the official ELISA and DPP(\u00ae) CVL rapid test all dogs tested negative. At time T2, 42 days after of the first dose, 100%, 83.3%, 11.1%, and 5.5% of the dogs were seropositive by the \"in-house\" ELISA, IFAT, official ELISA kit and the DPP(\u00ae) CVL rapid test, respectively. Ninety days after the first dose (T3), 100%, 83.3%, 72.2% and 33.3% of the dogs were seropositive by the \"in-house\" ELISA, official ELISA kit, IFAT, and the DPP(\u00ae) CVL rapid test, respectively. Finally, at time T4, 88.8%, 33.3%, 11.1% and 5.5% of the dogs were seropositive by the \"in-house\" ELISA, official ELISA kit, DPP(\u00ae) CVL rapid test and IFAT, respectively. In conclusion, dogs vaccinated with Leishmune(\u00ae) cross-react by an \"in-house\" ELISA and by the three official Brazilian serological tests for the diagnosis of canine visceral leishmaniasis up to six months after the first vaccine dose, and may be mistakenly diagnosed and removed."}
{"id": "23918217", "title": "Cross-sectional study to assess risk factors for leishmaniasis in an endemic region in Sri Lanka.", "content": "Cross-sectional study to assess risk factors for leishmaniasis in an endemic region in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka reports significantly more cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) cases than visceral leishmaniasis (VL) cases, both of which are caused by Leishmania donovani MON-37. A cross-sectional study conducted in an area with a high prevalence of CL prevalent included 954 participants of an estimated population of 61,674 to estimate the number of CL cases, ascertain whether there is a pool of asymptomatic VL cases, and identify risk factors for transmission. A total of 31 cases of CL were identified, of whom 21 were previously diagnosed and 10 were new cases. Using rK39 rapid diagnostic test to detect antibodies against Leishmania spp., we found that only one person was seropositive but did not have clinical symptoms of CL or VL, which indicated low transmission of VL in this area. \u03c7(2) test, independent sample t-test, and multivariate analysis of sociodemographic and spatial distribution of environmental risk factors showed that living near paddy fields is associated with increased risk for transmission of CL (P \u2264 0.01)."}
{"id": "23875052", "title": "rKLO8, a novel Leishmania donovani - derived recombinant immunodominant protein for sensitive detection of visceral leishmaniasis in Sudan.", "content": "rKLO8, a novel Leishmania donovani - derived recombinant immunodominant protein for sensitive detection of visceral leishmaniasis in Sudan. For effective control of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in East Africa, new rapid diagnostic tests are required to replace current tests with low sensitivity. The aim of this study is to improve diagnosis of VL in East Africa by testing a new antigen from an autochthonous L. donovani strain in Sudan. We cloned, expressed and purified a novel recombinant protein antigen of L. donovani from Sudan, designated rKLO8, that contains putative conserved domains with significant similarity to the immunodominant kinesin proteins of Leishmania. rKLO8 exhibited 93% and 88% amino acid identity with cloned kinesin proteins of L. infantum (synonymous L. chagasi) (K39) and L. donovani (KE16), respectively. We evaluated the diagnostic efficiency of the recombinant protein in ELISA for specific detection of VL patients from Sudan. Data were compared with a rK39 ELISA and two commercial kits, the rK39 strip test and the direct agglutination test (DAT). Of 106 parasitologically confirmed VL sera, 104 (98.1%) were tested positive by rKLO8 as compared to 102 (96.2%) by rK39. Importantly, the patients' sera showed increased reactivity with rKLO8 than rK39. Specificity was 96.1% and 94.8% for rKLO8- and rK39 ELISAs, respectively. DAT showed 100% specificity and 94.3% sensitivity while rK39 strip test performed with 81.1% sensitivity and 98.7% specificity. The increased reactivity of Sudanese VL sera with the rKLO8 makes this antigen a potential candidate for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Sudan. However, the suitability at the field level will depend on its performance in a rapid test format."}
{"id": "23868744", "title": "Small mammals as hosts of Leishmania spp. in a highly endemic area for zoonotic leishmaniasis in North-Eastern Brazil.", "content": "Small mammals as hosts of Leishmania spp. in a highly endemic area for zoonotic leishmaniasis in North-Eastern Brazil. Leishmania parasites cause leishmaniasis in humans and animals worldwide. These parasites are transmitted by phlebotomine sand flies, which become infected upon feeding on an infected mammalian host. We assessed the occurrence of Leishmania infection in small mammals in an area of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis endemicity. A total of 180 small mammals were trapped in 2003 and 2006 in a rural area in north-eastern Brazil. Spleen and skin samples from these animals were assessed by two PCR protocols, one targeting Leishmania (Viannia) spp. and other Leishmania (Leishmania) infantum. Additionally, serum samples were tested by an immunochromatographic test with rK39 as antigen. Overall, 23.2% (38/164) of the animals were positive to L. (V.) spp. and 8.8% (14/160) to L. (L.) infantum). Five animals of four species (Didelphis albiventris, Nectomys squamipes, Rattus rattus and Holochilus sciureus) were positive by both PCR protocols, an overall co-infection rate of 2.5%. By serology, 5% (7/139) of the animals were positive, but all of them were PCR-negative. An isolate obtained from a water rat (N. squamipes) was characterized as L. (V.) braziliensis (zymodeme Z-74). This study reinforces the involvement of different small mammals (e.g., N. squamipes, R. rattus and H. scieurus) in the transmission cycles of L. (V.) braziliensis and L. (L.) infantum in north-eastern Brazil. The finding of L. (V.) braziliensis infection in black rats suggests a rapid process of adaptation of a New World Leishmania species to an Old World rodent and raises interesting questions regarding the co-evolution of these parasites and their vertebrate hosts."}
{"id": "23836568", "title": "Comparison of parasitological, serological, and molecular tests for visceral leishmaniasis in HIV-infected patients: a cross-sectional delayed-type study.", "content": "Comparison of parasitological, serological, and molecular tests for visceral leishmaniasis in HIV-infected patients: a cross-sectional delayed-type study. The aim of this study was to evaluate the accuracy of invasive and non-invasive tests for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in a large series of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients. In this delayed-type cross-sectional study, 113 HIV-infected symptomatic patients were evaluated by an adjudication committee after clinical follow-up to establish the presence or absence of VL as the target condition (reference test). The index tests were recombinant K39 antigen-based immunochromatographic test (rK39), indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFAT), prototype kit of direct agglutination test (DAT-LPC), and real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) in peripheral blood. Compared with parasitological test and adjudication committee diagnosis or latent class model analyses, IFAT and rk39 dipstick test presented the lowest sensitivity. DAT-LPC exhibited good overall performance, and there was no statistical difference between DAT-LPC and qPCR diagnosis accuracy. Real-time PCR emerges as a less invasive alternative to parasitological examination for confirmation of cases not identified by DAT."}
{"id": "23816511", "title": "Cutaneous and post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania infantum in endemic areas of visceral leishmaniasis, northwestern Iran 2002-2011: a case series.", "content": "Cutaneous and post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania infantum in endemic areas of visceral leishmaniasis, northwestern Iran 2002-2011: a case series. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is endemic in Northwest and southern Iran. Reports of cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) in Northwest areas are rare, and its etiological agents are unknown. In the current study, we report six CL and two post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) cases caused by Leishmania infantum from endemic areas of VL in the Northwest. Smears were made from skin lesions of 30 suspected patients in 2002-2011, and CL was determined by microscopy or culture. Leishmania spp. were identified by nested-PCR assay. The disease was confirmed in 20 out of 30 (66%) suspected patients by parasitological examinations. L. infantum was identified in eight and Leishmania major in 12 CL cases by nested-PCR. Cutaneous leishmaniasis patients infected with L. major had the history of travel to CL endemic areas. L. infantum antibodies were detected by direct agglutination test (DAT) at titers of 1:3200 in two cases with history of VL. Results of this study indicated that L. infantum is a causative agent of CL as well as PKDL in the VL endemic areas."}
{"id": "23778671", "title": "Specificity of the rapid rK39 antigen-based immunochromatographic test Kalazar Detect(r) in patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis in Brazil.", "content": "Specificity of the rapid rK39 antigen-based immunochromatographic test Kalazar Detect(r) in patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis in Brazil. The aim of this study was to evaluate the specificity of a rapid immunochromatographic test that was developed to detect antibodies against the rK39 antigen for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). This evaluation was performed using sera from patients with a confirmed diagnosis of active cutaneous leishmaniasis. The sera from 272 patients with a confirmed diagnosis of localised cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) who resided in an area endemic for Leishmania braziliensis in Brazil were obtained before the initiation of antileishmanial treatment. Kalazar Detect(r)(InBios, Seattle, WA) recombinant K39 antigen-based immunochromatographic strips were used according to the manufacturer's instructions. The test results were evaluated independently by two examiners in sequential order. The positive controls for the test included five serum samples from five patients with parasitologically confirmed diagnosis of VL caused by Leishmania infantum in Brazil. Overall, 100% of the samples obtained from patients with CL were negative, confirming the absence of a serological cross-reaction for individuals with cutaneous disease when these patients were evaluated using the rapid test. The lack of a cross-reaction in patients who were infected by parasites of the same genus highlights the specificity of the rK39 antigen for the diagnosis of VL in areas with the sympatric circulation of L. braziliensis and L. infantum."}
{"id": "23738023", "title": "Potential non-invasive urine-based antigen (protein) detection assay to diagnose active visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Potential non-invasive urine-based antigen (protein) detection assay to diagnose active visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "23729024", "title": "Effectiveness of miltefosine treatment in targeting anti-leishmanial HO-1/Nrf-2-mediated oxidative responses in visceral leishmaniasis patients.", "content": "Effectiveness of miltefosine treatment in targeting anti-leishmanial HO-1/Nrf-2-mediated oxidative responses in visceral leishmaniasis patients. Miltefosine, an alkylphosphocholine anti-cancer drug, exhibits direct activity against Leishmania donovani and also promotes anti-leishmanial host immunomodulatory functions. Nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf-2), a redox-sensitive transcription factor, regulates the host stress responses leading to effective microbial clearance by a positive effect on haem oxygenase-1 (HO-1) enzyme expression/activity. We aimed to investigate the role of miltefosine in regulating HO-1/Nrf-2-mediated oxidative responses in visceral leishmaniasis (VL) patients in vivo and in vitro. Splenic aspirate and bone marrow aspirate cells of VL patients (n\u200a=\u200a23) were used in the study. RT-PCR of HO-1, Nrf-2 translocation analysis and HO-1 ELISA were used to investigate the HO-1/Nrf-2-mediated modulation of oxidative responses by miltefosine in vivo. Fluorometric measurement of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was performed, determination of glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity was performed, and bilirubin and superoxide dismutase (SOD) levels were determined. The in vitro HO-1/Nrf-2-dependent anti-leishmanial effect of miltefosine was assessed by the use of specific inhibitors/inducers and subsequent microscopic measurement of parasite killing and Th1/Th2 cytokine regulation by ELISA. Increased levels of transcript and serum HO-1, Nrf-2 nuclear translocation, serum bilirubin, GPx and SOD activity in untreated VL patients were reversed after miltefosine chemotherapy. The effectiveness of miltefosine for positive induction of ROS via NADPH correlated with a decrease in HO-1/ERK/Nrf-2-dependent parasite load. Furthermore, HO-1 blockade by miltefosine led to suppression of interleukin-10 and transforming growth factor-\u03b2, but enhanced interleukin-12 and tumour necrosis factor-\u03b1 production, in VL patients. The antioxidant promoting property of L. donovani is crucial for protection against the mounting redox threat in the host. Therefore, these findings provide direct evidence for targeting HO-1/Nrf-2 as an anti-leishmanial approach for chemotherapy in human VL."}
{"id": "23717700", "title": "Diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Bihar India: comparison of the rK39 rapid diagnostic test on whole blood versus serum.", "content": "Diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Bihar India: comparison of the rK39 rapid diagnostic test on whole blood versus serum. Antibody-detecting rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) against rK39 are available to aid in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Although these rK39 RDTs have been developed, validated and approved for use with serum, they are universally performed using whole blood. It was therefore necessary to determine whether this RDT is as sensitive on whole blood as on serum. In this study we compared the rK39 RDT on serum and blood samples from 624 individuals with symptoms of VL attending the outpatient clinic at the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna, India. A total of 251 cases (40%) were both serum and blood-positive and 26 cases (4%) were identified as blood-negative and serum-positive. These 26 individuals in general had low titer antibodies against rK39 as determined by ELISA and follow-up on most of these individuals revealed none had persistent VL symptoms. The Cohen kappa index comparing blood and serum was 0.88 indicating excellent concordance. Although the concordance was excellent, it is possible to miss rK39 positive individuals when using blood and the titer of anti-rK39 antibodies is low. We recommend that when an individual from an endemic area has obvious clinical symptoms of VL and the whole blood rK39 RDT is negative, that the test should be redone 2-3 weeks later if the symptoms persist."}
{"id": "23693114", "title": "[Visceral leishmaniasis in an HIV positive patient].", "content": "[Visceral leishmaniasis in an HIV positive patient]. visceral leishmaniasis is the most serious clinical picture of leishmaniasis or kala azar. In Mexico it is a rare disease, which is a reason why it is diagnosed late concluding with patient's death most of the time. We present a clinical case of an HIV-positive male patient who developed visceral leishmaniasis, with the objective of showing the pathophysiological characteristics as well as the diagnostic approach and treatment. a 45-year-old male, a water utility company worker, presented to the hospital as having chronic bloody diarrhea, abdominal distension, cramping pain, weight loss and fever. On physical examination, he was febrile, with pain localized to the right lower quadrant and hepatosplenomegaly. The ELISA test for HIV was positive and the ultrasound showed a cecal tumor. A tumor biopsy was performed and the pathology report described leishmaniasis. in patients with leishmaniasis and HIV the response to treatment is poor and the mortality rate is high due to lower immune response from the host. Current studies suggest treating these patients with HIV and leishmaniasis with pertinent drugs in combination with miltefosine and liposomal amphotericin B. Introducci\u00f3n: la leishmaniasis visceral o kala azar es la presentaci\u00f3n cl\u00ednica m\u00e1s grave. En M\u00e9xico, es una enfermedad rara por lo que su diagn\u00f3stico es tard\u00edo y generalmente culmina en la muerte del paciente. Se describe a un paciente VIH positivo que desarroll\u00f3 leishmaniasis visceral. El objetivo es explicar sus caracter\u00edsticas fisiopatol\u00f3gicas y de su tratamiento. Caso cl\u00ednico: hombre de 45 a\u00f1os de edad, quien ingres\u00f3 al hospital por cuadro cr\u00f3nico de diarrea sanguinolenta, distensi\u00f3n abdominal, dolor tipo c\u00f3lico, p\u00e9rdida de peso y fiebre. A la exploraci\u00f3n f\u00edsica se identific\u00f3 paciente febril con dolor en fosa iliaca derecha y hepatoesplenomegalia. La prueba ELISA para VIH result\u00f3 positiva y el ultrasonido hizo evidente una tumoraci\u00f3n en ciego, por lo que se realiz\u00f3 biopsia. El informe histopatol\u00f3gico indic\u00f3 que se trataba de leishmaniasis. Conclusiones: en los pacientes con leishmaniasis e infecci\u00f3n por VIH existe pobre respuesta al tratamiento y la mortalidad es alta, causada por la menor respuesta inmune del hu\u00e9sped. En la literatura especializada se sugiere el tratamiento establecido para la infecci\u00f3n por VIH combinado con miltefosine y anfotericina B liposomal para la leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "23657530", "title": "Successful substitution of fetal calf serum by human plasma for bulk cultivation of Leishmania donovani promastigotes.", "content": "Successful substitution of fetal calf serum by human plasma for bulk cultivation of Leishmania donovani promastigotes. The potential of human plasma (HP) or serum (HS) as a replacement for fetal calf serum (FCS) was evaluated in a liver infusion tryptose (LIT) medium for bulk cultivation of Leishmania donovani promastigotes. The promastigote yield with the LIT-FCS standard medium was 0.4-1.8\u00d710(7) ml(-1), and yields of 0.5-3.4\u00d710(7) (P\u200a=\u200a0.527) and 0.4-2.4\u00d710(7) (P\u200a=\u200a0.062) were recorded for two LIT medium variants containing HP or HS as supplement instead of FCS. Significantly, higher promastigote yields of 1.3-4.9\u00d710(7) ml(-1) were demonstrated when LIT medium was supplemented with HP of blood group O but not A, B, AB or equally pooled ABO (P\u200a=\u200a0.007-0.020). Matching (P\u200a=\u200a0.56) strong positive (1\u200a:\u200a10 2400 to \u22651\u200a:\u200a262 144 00) and weak negative (1\u200a:\u200a5-1\u200a:\u200a160) direct agglutination test (DAT) titres, respectively, were demonstrated in 24 visceral leishmaniasis (VL) and 45 non-VL sera for both standard LIT-FCS and alternative LIT-HP derived antigens. Our findings indicate strong potential for sustainable production of promastigotes for important diagnostic procedures such as DAT in the VL affected areas."}
{"id": "23563762", "title": "Use of the polymerase chain reaction for the diagnosis of asymptomatic Leishmania infection in a visceral leishmaniasis-endemic area.", "content": "Use of the polymerase chain reaction for the diagnosis of asymptomatic Leishmania infection in a visceral leishmaniasis-endemic area. The diagnosis of asymptomatic infection with Leishmania (Leishmania) chagasi has become more important over recent years. Expansion of visceral leishmaniasis might be associated with other routes of transmission such as transfusion, congenital or even vector transmission, and subjects with asymptomatic infection are potential reservoirs. Moreover, the identification of infection may contribute to the management of patients with immunosuppressive conditions (HIV, transplants, use of immunomodulators) and to the assessment of the effectiveness of control measures. In this study, 149 subjects living in a visceral leishmaniasis endemic area were evaluated clinically and submitted to genus-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR), serological testing, and the Montenegro skin test. Forty-nine (32.9%) of the subjects had a positive PCR result and none of them developed the disease within a follow-up period of three years. No association was observed between the results of PCR, serological and skin tests. A positive PCR result in subjects from the endemic area did not indicate a risk of progression to visceral leishmaniasis and was not associated with a positive result in the serological tests."}
{"id": "23509434", "title": "Development of a novel rapid immunodiagnostic kit based on flagellar 40\u2009kDa antigen epitope for the detection of typhoid fever in Indian patients.", "content": "Development of a novel rapid immunodiagnostic kit based on flagellar 40\u2009kDa antigen epitope for the detection of typhoid fever in Indian patients. To aid the clinical diagnosis of typhoid fever in India, where most hospitals and primary health centres have no facilities for culture, we report on the development of a novel and rapid immunodiagnostic kit for the direct detection of Salmonella Typhi--specific IgG antibodies against S. Typhi flagellar H antigen. The disease often does not show a specific clinical picture, and can be confused with other febrile illness such as malaria, dengue fever and Staphylococcus aureus. To overcome the problem of cross reactivity specific epitope of the flagellar H antigen was immobilised on the testing kit strip eliminating chances of cross reactivity and false positive results thereby increasing the specificity of the test. Since the immunodiagnostic kit, uses the flagellar H antigen from bacteria present in our country, the antibodies present in the serum of patients of our country will have maximum binding affinity, enhancing the sensitivity of our test kit. The immunodiagnostic kit on analysis gave a positive result with clinically diagnosed typhoid positive patient serum and negative results were obtained with the sera of clinically diagnosed malaria, abscess of Staphylococcus aureus and Visceral leishmaniasis (Kala-azar) patients."}
{"id": "23469296", "title": "Comparison of visceral leishmaniasis diagnostic antigens in African and Asian Leishmania donovani reveals extensive diversity and region-specific polymorphisms.", "content": "Comparison of visceral leishmaniasis diagnostic antigens in African and Asian Leishmania donovani reveals extensive diversity and region-specific polymorphisms. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), caused by infection with Leishmania donovani complex, remains a major public health problem in endemic regions of South Asia, East Africa, and Brazil. If untreated, symptomatic VL is usually fatal. Rapid field diagnosis relies principally on demonstration of anti-Leishmania antibodies in clinically suspect cases. The rK39 immunochromatographic rapid diagnostic test (RDT) is based on rK39, encoded by a fragment of a kinesin-related gene derived from a Brazilian L. chagasi, now recognised as L. infantum, originating from Europe. Despite its reliability in South Asia, the rK39 test is reported to have lower sensitivity in East Africa. A reason for this differential response may reside in the molecular diversity of the rK39 homologous sequences among East African L. donovani strains. Coding sequences of rK39 homologues from East African L. donovani strains were amplified from genomic DNA, analysed for diversity from the rK39 sequence, and compared to South Asian sequences. East African sequences were revealed to display significant diversity from rK39. Most coding changes in the 5' half of repeats were non-conservative, with multiple substitutions involving charge changes, whereas amino acid substitutions in the 3' half of repeats were conservative. Specific polymorphisms were found between South Asian and East African strains. Diversity of HASPB1 and HASPB2 gene repeat sequences, used to flank sequences of a kinesin homologue in the synthetic antigen rK28 designed to reduce variable RDT performance, was also investigated. Non-canonical combination repeat arrangements were revealed for HASPB1 and HASPB2 gene products in strains producing unpredicted size amplicons. We demonstrate that there is extensive kinesin genetic diversity among strains in East Africa and between East Africa and South Asia, with ample scope for influencing performance of rK39 diagnostic assays. We also show the importance of targeted comparative genomics in guiding optimisation of recombinant/synthetic diagnostic antigens."}
{"id": "23464581", "title": "Molecular and serological markers of Leishmania donovani infection in healthy individuals from endemic areas of Bihar, India.", "content": "Molecular and serological markers of Leishmania donovani infection in healthy individuals from endemic areas of Bihar, India. Recent epidemiological reports indicate that asymptomatic human infections with Leishmania donovani, the causative agent of visceral leishmaniasis or Kala-azar (KA), occur frequently in India. We explored markers of infection. Blood samples were collected from 286 healthy subjects from 16 villages in the Muzaffarpur district of Bihar. These individuals were classified into three groups: (i) persons with no history of KA and living in a house where no KA cases were previously reported, (ii) persons with no history of KA but living in a house where KA cases were diagnosed at the time of sampling or in the past, and (iii) successfully treated KA patients. Each sample was tested using a Leishmania-specific PCR to detect Leishmania DNA, and two serological tests to demonstrate anti-Leishmania antibodies: the Direct Agglutination Test and rK39 ELISA. PCR positivity was similar among the three groups (20-25%). In contrast, among treated patients, the percentage of serologically positive individuals was roughly five times that of healthy individuals with no KA history, as measured with either test. Living in a house where KA had been reported did not affect seropositivity. A significant proportion of asymptomatic infections of Leishmania exist in endemic regions. Using a combination of molecular and serological tests increases the capacity to detect infections at different stages. Further work is required to understand the kinetics of the markers."}
{"id": "23459501", "title": "Latent infection with Leishmania donovani in highly endemic villages in Bihar, India.", "content": "Latent infection with Leishmania donovani in highly endemic villages in Bihar, India. Asymptomatic persons infected with the parasites causing visceral leishmaniasis (VL) usually outnumber clinically apparent cases by a ratio of 4-10 to 1. We describe patterns of markers of Leishmania donovani infection and clinical VL in relation to age in Bihar, India. We selected eleven villages highly endemic for Leishmania donovani. During a 1-year interval we conducted two house to house surveys during which we collected blood samples on filter paper from all consenting individuals aged 2 years and above. Samples were tested for anti-leishmania serology by Direct Agglutination Test (DAT) and rK39 ELISA. Data collected during the surveys included information on episodes of clinical VL among study participants. We enrolled 13,163 persons; 6.2% were reactive to DAT and 5.9% to rK39. Agreement between the tests was weak (kappa\u200a=\u200a0.30). Among those who were negative on both tests at baseline, 3.6% had converted to sero-positive on either of the two tests one year later. Proportions of sero-positives and sero-converters increased steadily with age. Clinical VL occurred mainly among children and young adults (median age 19 years). Although infection with L. donovani is assumed to be permanent, serological markers revert to negative. Most VL cases occur at younger ages, yet we observed a steady increase with age in the frequency of sero-positivity and sero-conversion. Our findings can be explained by a boosting effect upon repeated exposure to the parasite or by intermittent release of parasites in infected subjects from safe target cells. A certain proportion of sero-negative subjects could have been infected but below the threshold of antibody abundance for our serologic testing."}
{"id": "23428104", "title": "Developments in diagnosis and treatment of visceral leishmaniasis during the last decade and future prospects.", "content": "Developments in diagnosis and treatment of visceral leishmaniasis during the last decade and future prospects. Human visceral leishmaniasis (VL) continues to be a life-threatening neglected tropical disease, with close to 200 million people at risk of infection globally. Epidemics and resurgence of VL are associated with negligence by the policy makers, economic decline and population movements. Control of the disease is hampered by the lack of proficient vaccination, rapid diagnosis in a field setting and severe side effects of current drug therapies. The diagnosis of VL relied largely on invasive techniques of detecting parasites in splenic and bone marrow aspirates. rK39 and PCR, despite problems related to varying sensitivities and specificities and field adaptability, respectively, are considered the best options for VL diagnosis today. No single therapy of VL currently offers satisfactory efficacy along with safety. The field of VL research only recently shifted toward actively identifying new drugs for safe and affordable treatment. Oral miltefosine and safe AmBisome along with better use of amphotericin B have been rapidly implemented in the last decade. A combination therapy will substantially reduce the required dose and duration of drug administration and reduce the chance of the development of resistance. In addition, identification of asymptomatic cases, vector control and treatment of post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis would allow new perspectives in VL control and management."}
{"id": "23413992", "title": "Rapid diagnostic tests for non-malarial febrile illness in the tropics.", "content": "Rapid diagnostic tests for non-malarial febrile illness in the tropics. The recent roll-out of rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) for malaria has highlighted the decreasing proportion of malaria-attributable illness in endemic areas. Unfortunately, once malaria is excluded, there are few accessible diagnostic tools to guide the management of severe febrile illnesses in low resource settings. This review summarizes the current state of RDT development for several key infections, including dengue fever, enteric fever, leptospirosis, brucellosis, visceral leishmaniasis and human African trypanosomiasis, and highlights many remaining gaps. Most RDTs for non-malarial tropical infections currently rely on the detection of host antibodies against a single infectious agent. The sensitivity and specificity of host-antibody detection tests are both inherently limited. Moreover, prolonged antibody responses to many infections preclude the use of most serological RDTs for monitoring response to treatment and/or for diagnosing relapse. Considering these limitations, there is a pressing need for sensitive pathogen-detection-based RDTs, as have been successfully developed for malaria and dengue. Ultimately, integration of RDTs into a validated syndromic approach to tropical fevers is urgently needed. Related research priorities are to define the evolving epidemiology of fever in the tropics, and to determine how combinations of RDTs could be best used to improve the management of severe and treatable infections requiring specific therapy."}
{"id": "23382276", "title": "Validation of a direct agglutination test prototype kit for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Validation of a direct agglutination test prototype kit for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. A freeze-dried antigen was developed with Leishmania (L.) infantum and used for the production of a prototype direct agglutination test kit for the laboratory diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL), called DAT-LPC. On this study the diagnosis validity of this prototype was performed. To evaluate the sensitivity and specificity 103 samples from Brazilian patients with VL and 110 samples from patients with other parasitic infections, and healthy subjects were assayed with DAT-LPC and DAT-KIT (Royal Tropical Institute, Amsterdam, NL). Additionally, the results of 103 samples of VL patients based on two agglutination tests were transformed in Log10 and correlated. The DAT-LPC showed a sensitivity of 99.0%, specificity of 98.2% and diagnosis validity of 98.6%, which were similar to those found by the DAT-KIT (p > 0.05). Moreover, there was positive correlation between the positive titers obtained by DAT-LPC and by DAT-KIT (Spearman correlation coefficient of 0.75 p = 0.0001). DAT-LPC showed thermal stability and diagnosis performance similar to those of the DAT-KIT. Our results suggest that DAT-LPC is a robust, simple, equipment-independent and efficient tool for the diagnosis of VL and should thus replace the IFAT as routine diagnostic test in the Brazilian public health system."}
{"id": "23375044", "title": "Oral mucosal involvement in visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Oral mucosal involvement in visceral leishmaniasis. Leishmaniasis affects both the visceral and cutaneous tissues in body. Oral Mucosal involvement in leishmaniasis is rare and is often overlooked. We present a case 17 year old boy from the north east region of Bihar who has a history of visceral leishmaniasis one year back, came to the department of oral surgery for treatment of persistent oral ulcers. Oral examination did not give any diagnostic information while systemic examination revealed enlarged spleen and low grade fever. Patient was screened for leishmaniasis by rK39 based immunochromatographic strip test which came to be positive. Biopsy of the ulcer as well as splenic and bone marrow aspirate confirmed the presence of leishmaniasis. Patient was administered Amphotericin B for 20 days following which significant clinical and haematological improvement followed."}
{"id": "23375008", "title": "Low prevalence of Leishmania donovani infection among the blood donors in kala-azar endemic areas of Bangladesh.", "content": "Low prevalence of Leishmania donovani infection among the blood donors in kala-azar endemic areas of Bangladesh. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a major public health problem in Bangladesh with the highest disease burden in the Mymensingh District. The disease is transmitted by sand fly bites, but it may also be transmitted through blood transfusions. No information is available about the prevalence of Leishmania infection among blood donors in Bangladesh; therefore we aimed to investigate this question. The study was carried out in the Blood Transfusion Department of Mymensingh Medical College Hospital. One thousand one hundred and ninety five adult healthy blood donors attending in this department were enrolled in the study from August 2010 to April 2011. After obtaining written consent, socio-demographic data and a detailed health history were collected. The medical officer in the unit performed a complete physical examination to exclude any acute or chronic diseases, which was followed by sero-diagnosis for exposure to Leishmania by rK39 strip test using finger prick blood. Blood donors with a positive rK39 strip test underwent a PCR test for detection of leishmania DNA in their peripheral blood buffy coat. Eighty two percent of enrolled blood donors were male (n=985) and 18% (n=210) were female. The mean age of blood donors was 27 years (SD, 7.95 years). The majority of donors were literate and had mid-to-higher socioeconomic condition reflected by household conditions reported by the subject. Only 2.6% had a family member with VL in the past. Three blood donors were positive for leishmania infection by rK39 strip test (0.3%, 95%CI, 0.05%-0.73%). None of these 3 had active leishmania infection as demonstrated by PCR analysis. During six months of follow up, neither rK39 positive (n=3) nor rK39 negative (n=1192) donors developed VL. The prevalence of Leishmania donovani infection among blood donors attending the Blood Transfusion Department of Mymensingh Medical College Hospital was very low. Therefore the chance for transmission of VL through blood transfusion is negligible. We believe that the National VL Elimination Program does not need set up routine screening for Leishmania donovani infection in blood transfusion departments located in VL endemic areas of Bangladesh."}
{"id": "23324219", "title": "The efficacy of L. (L.) chagasi excreted-secreted antigens (ESAs) for visceral leishmaniasis diagnosis is due to low levels of cross-reactivity.", "content": "The efficacy of L. (L.) chagasi excreted-secreted antigens (ESAs) for visceral leishmaniasis diagnosis is due to low levels of cross-reactivity. The analysis of promastigote excreted-secreted antigen (ESA) reactivity with 53 visceral leishmaniasis (VL) cases showed that each sample reacted regardless of the antigen or the Leishmania species used in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) displayed 100% positivity with the L. (L.) chagasi ESA-blot recognizing bands of molecular weight ranging from 26.5 to 31.5 kDa. The analysis of 160 non-visceral cases showed that 5% of the samples cross-reacted with the L. (L.) chagasi ESA-ELISA and 9.4% reacted with the ESA isolated from L. (L.) amazonensis and L. (V.) braziliensis, whereas a high cross-reaction ranging from 24.4% to 25% was observed with total crude promastigote antigens (PRO-ELISA). The ESA-blot of L. (L.) chagasi tested with non-visceral sera samples showed a cross-reaction with 8.8% of cases; most of these cases represented tegumentary leishmaniasis and only one acute chagasic case. These data lead us to recommend the use of ESA as an alternative antigen in VL diagnosis."}
{"id": "23279800", "title": "Reliable diagnosis of post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) using slit aspirate specimen to avoid invasive sampling procedures.", "content": "Reliable diagnosis of post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) using slit aspirate specimen to avoid invasive sampling procedures. Confirmatory diagnosis of post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) is primarily based on invasive skin biopsy procedure. We evaluated the utility of minimally invasive slit aspirate specimen for serological and molecular diagnosis of PKDL. We compared the PKDL diagnosis using slit aspirate and skin biopsy specimens from the same patients. Serological diagnosis using rK39 strip test was performed with serum and slit aspirate sample; molecular diagnosis for parasite detection and quantification was carried out by quantitative real-time PCR (Q-PCR) with skin biopsy and slit aspirate sample. The rK39 serological strip test was positive in all PKDL cases with both slit aspirate and serum samples (n\u00a0=\u00a050) and negative in all control cases (n\u00a0=\u00a024), giving a sensitivity of 100% (95% CI: 92.9-100%) and a specificity of 100% (95% CI: 86.2-100%). Quantitative-PCR detected parasite in all PKDL slit aspirates (n\u00a0=\u00a050, sensitivity\u00a0=\u00a0100%, 95% CI: 92.9-100%) and tissue biopsies (n\u00a0=\u00a046, sensitivity\u00a0=\u00a0100%, 95% CI: 92.3-100; it was negative in all controls including dermal tissues (n\u00a0=\u00a024) and slit aspirates (n\u00a0=\u00a024), giving specificity of 100% (95% CI: 86.2-100%). The parasite load in tissue and slit aspirate samples was significantly (P\u00a0<\u00a00.0001) correlated (r\u00a0=\u00a00.82). Slit aspirates are a simpler and minimally invasive sampling technique for initial screening by serology followed by confirmatory diagnosis of PKDL with microscopy and/or Q-PCR. The simplified procedure has the potential for epidemiological studies and assessment of cure in PKDL."}
{"id": "23276878", "title": "Rapid detection of human and canine visceral leishmaniasis: assessment of a latex agglutination test based on the A2 antigen from amastigote forms of Leishmania infantum.", "content": "Rapid detection of human and canine visceral leishmaniasis: assessment of a latex agglutination test based on the A2 antigen from amastigote forms of Leishmania infantum. The diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in humans and animal reservoir hosts is difficult, particularly in rural areas where the disease is endemic and laboratory facilities are limited. This study aimed to develop a latex agglutination test (LAT) for the rapid detection of anti-Leishmania antibodies against the A2 antigen derived from the amastigote form as well as those against crude antigens derived from the promastigote form of an Iranian strain of Leishmania (Leishmania) infantum. The A2 antigen (42-100 kDa) was prepared from the amastigote form of L. infantum, purified with electroelution and compared with the crude antigen from the promastigote form of L. infantum. Both antigens showed appropriate intensity reactions, were selected using dot blotting of positive and negative pooled sera and used to sensitize 0.9-\u03bcm latex beads. The tests were carried out on sera from 43 symptomatic, human patients with VL confirmed by parasitological examination and direct agglutination test (DAT), 30 healthy controls and 32 patients with other infections but without VL. Canine sera were collected from 63 domestic dogs with VL confirmed using parasitological examinations and DAT and 31 healthy dogs from areas non-endemic for VL. Compared with the controls, human sera from DAT-confirmed patients yielded a sensitivity of 88.4% (95% CI, 82.1-94.5%) and specificity of 93.5% (95% CI, 87.0-99.7%) on A2-LAT (amastigote) when 1:3200 was used as the cut-off titre. A good degree of agreement was found between A2-LAT and DAT (0.914). LAT required 3-5 min to complete, versus the 12-18 h needed for DAT. Compared with the controls, A2-LAT of canine sera from DAT-confirmed cases yielded a sensitivity of 95.2% (95% CI, 95.0-95.4%) and specificity of 100% (95% CI 100%) when 1:320 was used as the cut-off titre. A good degree of agreement was found between A2-LAT and DAT (0.968). Similarly, the sensitivity and specificity of Pro.-LAT (promastigote) was calculated to be 88.4% and 91.9%, respectively for human sera and 96.8% and 90.3%, respectively for canine sera. No statistically significant differences were observed between A2-LAT and Pro.-LAT for the detection of human and canine L. infantum infections. In conclusion, A2-LAT and Pro.-LAT could be used in parallel to screen for L. infantum infections in humans and dogs in areas endemic for VL in Iran."}
{"id": "23221770", "title": "Clinical aspects of visceral leishmaniasis in HIV infection.", "content": "Clinical aspects of visceral leishmaniasis in HIV infection. HIV infection profoundly impairs the immune mechanisms needed to control and clear Leishmania infection, and outcomes in patients with HIV-associated visceral leishmaniasis are poor. This review summarizes recent work describing the epidemiology, presentation and outcomes of HIV-associated visceral leishmaniasis and discusses advances in diagnosis and management. Studies have shown that serological tests can effectively diagnose HIV-associated visceral leishmaniasis, with a sensitivity of 98% if direct agglutination test and rK39 assays are used in combination. Few data exist to guide treatment recommendations. Observational data show high rates of toxicity and treatment failure with pentavalent antimonials, and their use is no longer recommended. Liposomal amphotericin B (L-AmB) is better tolerated, but outcomes are suboptimal, with mortality rates of 7-12%, and parasitological failure rates of up to 32%. Initial reports suggest that L-AmB and miltefosine in combination may be effective in HIV-associated visceral leishmaniasis; however, clinical trial data are lacking. Secondary prophylaxis reduces the rate of relapse, but optimal regimens have not been defined, and optimal timing of antiretroviral therapy initiation in patients with visceral leishmaniasis is unknown. Recent studies have demonstrated the inadequacy of current treatments for HIV-associated visceral leishmaniasis. Clinical trials are needed to improve early diagnosis, develop combination therapies and define effective secondary prophylaxis regimens."}
{"id": "23159412", "title": "Comparison of real-time PCR and conventional PCR with two DNA targets for detection of Leishmania (Leishmania) infantum infection in human and dog blood samples.", "content": "Comparison of real-time PCR and conventional PCR with two DNA targets for detection of Leishmania (Leishmania) infantum infection in human and dog blood samples. Zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is endemic in northwestern Iran. Real-time PCR, conventional PCR, and the direct agglutination test (DAT) were used to diagnose Leishmania infantum infection in blood samples from 100 domestic dogs and 100 humans. Based on clinical evaluation, 82 humans and 72 dogs from the endemic area were categorized as having asymptomatic infection, DAT positive with no clinical signs of VL, or symptomatic infection, DAT positive with at least one sign of VL. Eighteen human samples containing no Leishmania antibodies (DAT(-)) and 28 dog DAT(-) sera from non-endemic areas with no history of VL constituted negative controls. All 46 DAT(-) samples were also negative by Dipstick rK39. Bone marrow material was used for parasitological examinations in symptomatic VL, and peripheral blood samples were used for detection of L. infantum infection using conventional PCR and real-time PCR in non-symptomatic subjects. Two DNA targets (ITS1 kDNA) were used for conventional PCR. L. infantum antibodies in sera were detected by DAT. Parasitemia was measured by real-time PCR targeting kDNA using Taqman Assay. All 72 (100%) symptomatic (38/38) and asymptomatic (34/34) dog DAT(+)samples, 45 of 48 (93.8%) symptomatic human DAT(+) samples, and 32 of 34 (94.1%) human asymptomatic cases were identified by real-time PCR. The mean (59.19 vs 12.38 parasite equivalents/mL of blood) and median (16.15 vs 1 parasite equivalents/mL of blood) ranges of parasitemia were higher in dogs than in humans (P<0.05). The highest agreement was obtained between real-time PCR and DAT (99% in dogs and 95% in humans). Sensitivity of 100% and 93.9%, specificity of 96.4% and 100%, positive predictive values of 98.6% and 100%, and negative predictive values of 100% and 78.3% were found by real-time PCR for dog and human samples, respectively."}
{"id": "23149580", "title": "Evaluation of rK-39 strip test using urine for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in an endemic region of India.", "content": "Evaluation of rK-39 strip test using urine for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in an endemic region of India. The definitive diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) requires invasive procedures for demonstration of parasites in tissue smear or culture. These procedures need expertise and laboratory supports and cannot be performed in the field. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the existing rK-39 immunochromatographic nitrocellulose strips test (ICT) with some modification in human urine for diagnosis of VL. The test was performed on both sera and urine samples on the same 786 subjects (365 confirmed VL and 421 control subjects). The sensitivity of the rK-39 ICT in serum was 100%, whereas the specificity was 93.8%, 100%, and 96.2% in healthy controls from endemic, non-endemic, and other infectious diseases, respectively. However, in urine samples, the test showed 96.1% sensitivity and 100% specificity. Considering sensitivity and feasibility of the test in the field, rK-39 ICT using urine samples can be an alternative to conventional invasive VL diagnosis."}
{"id": "23123344", "title": "A simple immune complex dissociation ELISA for leishmaniasis: standardization of the assay in experimental models and preliminary results in canine and human samples.", "content": "A simple immune complex dissociation ELISA for leishmaniasis: standardization of the assay in experimental models and preliminary results in canine and human samples. Visceral leishmaniasis, caused by Leishmania (Leishmania) chagasi, is a chronic parasitic disease of humans and dogs. Confirmation of the protozoal agent in bone marrow, lymph node or spleen aspirate is diagnostic, while specific-IgG serology is used mainly for epidemiology despite the general presence of high levels of serum immunoglobulin. Anecdotal reports of false-negative serology in active disease cases are known and are ascribed to the formation of immune complexes. Because dissociation of immune complexes can be accomplished by acid treatment, we devised a simple, routine enzyme immunoassay (ELISA) for the dissociation of immune complexes in serum samples using acid treatment in wells adsorbed with Leishmania antigen (dELISA). Confirmatory acid dot-blot was also developed for antigen detection by anti-Leishmania rabbit antiserum. In experimental L. chagasi hamster models, immune complexes interfered with ELISA mostly in the 30 and 60 days postinfection, according to both dELISA and antigen dot-blot results. In larger samples from endemic areas, dELISA was positive in 10% of seronegative dog samples (7/70) and 3.5% in negative human samples (3/88), showing that dELISA could be used in the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Moreover, dELISA could be used as an alternative approach to screening asymptomatic visceral leishmaniasis patients, instead of invasive confirmatory testing."}
{"id": "22765517", "title": "Animal reservoirs of visceral leishmaniasis in India.", "content": "Animal reservoirs of visceral leishmaniasis in India. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a disease that has both zoonotic and anthroponotic etiologies. In India, VL is endemic, considered to be anthroponotic, and caused by Leishmania donovani . Anthroponotic diseases are maintained by transmission from human to human and to a lesser extent from human to animals. Serum samples from 1,220 animals from 7 human VL endemic districts of Bihar, India, were tested for antibodies to a recombinant kinetoplast antigen (rK39 antigen) present in amastigotes of visceralizing Leishmania species, i.e., L. donovani complex. Additionally, PCR was used to examine samples positive by rK39 antigen serology. Antibodies to rK39 indicative of VL were detected in 33 of 1,220 animals. Thirty-one of 867 goats (Capra hircus), 1 of 161 cattle (Bos indicus), and 1 of 54 wild rats (Rattus sp.) were positive by rK39 serology. None of 106 chickens (Gallus domesticus), 26 sheep (Ovis aries), 3 water buffaloes (Bubalus bubalus), or 3 dogs (Canis familiaris) was positive by rK39 serology. Leishmania donovani DNA was detected by PCR in 20 rK39 positive blood samples from goats and 1 sample from a cow. The present study indicates that goats are potential animal reservoirs of human VL in India."}
{"id": "11491498", "title": "Anti-beta2 glycoprotein I and anticardiolipin antibodies in leptospirosis, syphilis and Kala-azar.", "content": "Anti-beta2 glycoprotein I and anticardiolipin antibodies in leptospirosis, syphilis and Kala-azar. Reports have shown that anticardiolipin (aCL) antibodies present in patients with autoimmune diseases are dependent on the cofactor,beta2 glycoprotein I (beta2 GPI), as opposed to aCL antibodies seen in infectious diseases such as syphilis, HIV hepatitis C, etc. The assay for anti-beta2GPI antibodies has been reported to be more specific for antiphospholipid syndrome (APS). However, the prevalence of these antibodies in diseases such as leishmaniasis and leptospirosis remains unknown. The aim of the present study was determine the prevalence of antibodies to cardiolipin and to beta2GPI in patients with different infectious diseases, including leptospirosis, syphilis and leishmaniasis. Samples from patients with Kala-azar (visceral leishmaniasis), syphilis or leptospirosis were tested for IgG and IgM anticardiolipin and IgG anti-beta2GPI antibodies by ELISA. In patients with Kala-azar the prevalence of IgG aCL, IgM aCL and anti-beta2GPI was 6% (2/30), 3% (1/30) and 53% (16/30), respectively. In syphilis the prevalence was 18% (14/74), 13% (10/74) and 10% (8/70), respectively. In leptospirosis the frequency of these antibodies was 23% (9/39), 10% (4/39) and 17% (6/34), respectively. There was no statistical correlation between aCL and anti-beta2GPI antibodies in these diseases. This study clearly shows a significant prevalence of anti-beta2GPI antibodies in leptospirosis and leishmaniasis and syphilis. This indicates that the assay for antibeta2GPI antibodies should be thoroughly validated before it is introduced as a definitive tool for the diagnosis of APS, testing a larger number of sera from patients with a wider range of clinical conditions."}
{"id": "21923256", "title": "A novel 12.6-kDa protein of Leishmania donovani for the diagnosis of Indian visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "A novel 12.6-kDa protein of Leishmania donovani for the diagnosis of Indian visceral leishmaniasis. For the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL), rK39 antigen-based rapid test is widely used. Unfortunately, up to 32% healthy individuals from endemic region test positive with this antigen. There is an urgent need to search for a more specific antigen with sensitivity similar to rK39. We identified a Leishmania donovani-specific 12.6-kDa (BHUP3) soluble promastigote antigen through sensitive western blot technique. The identified protein was partially purified from sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and the antigenic response of eluted protein was determined by western blot with different groups of individual sera. The diagnostic potential was further validated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using serum of 100 VL patients, 93 nonendemic healthy control individuals, 110 endemic healthy control individuals, and 110 disease control individuals. Further, it was characterized by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis followed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time-of-flight analysis. On blotting, antibody against this protein was recognized by all (9/9) VL patient's sera, but it was absent in every control group (nonendemic healthy control and endemic healthy control). Sensitivity of the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was 88% (89/101), whereas the specificity for endemic healthy, nonendemic healthy, and different disease groups were 96% (106/110), 100% (93/93), and 97% (107/110), respectively. The two-dimensional gel electrophoresis showed a single spot, and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time-of-flight analysis revealed that it is a 113-amino-acid-long putative uncharacterized protein of 12.6-kDa anamorsin homolog matched completely with Leishmania major (GenBank accession number: Q4QIS1). Despite marginally lower sensitivity of BHUP3, excellent specificity warrants its further development as a tool for diagnosis of VL."}
{"id": "8072969", "title": "[Visceral leishmaniasis in HIV infection: advantages of serodiagnosis by the ELISA technique].", "content": "[Visceral leishmaniasis in HIV infection: advantages of serodiagnosis by the ELISA technique]."}
{"id": "23295882", "title": "First description of autochthonous canine visceral leishmaniasis in the metropolitan region of Vit\u00f3ria, State of Esp\u00edrito Santo, Brazil.", "content": "First description of autochthonous canine visceral leishmaniasis in the metropolitan region of Vit\u00f3ria, State of Esp\u00edrito Santo, Brazil. We investigated autochthonous canine visceral leishmaniasis (CVL) in the metropolitan region of Vit\u00f3ria (MRV), an area in which a human case was previously reported. Serological, parasitological, and molecular tests were performed in 201 dogs. Twenty-six (13%) and 12 (6%) dogs were identified as positive using in-house enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and rK39 tests, respectively. Two dogs had a positive culture for Leishmania chagasi, and 4 were polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-positive for Leishmania spp. One positive dog belonged to the aforementioned patient. Although the responsible vector was not found, our results provide evidence of autochthonous CVL in the MRV, a non-endemic area for VL."}
{"id": "23288063", "title": "Factors associated with asymptomatic infection in family members and neighbors of patients with visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Factors associated with asymptomatic infection in family members and neighbors of patients with visceral leishmaniasis. This study analyzed factors associated with asymptomatic Leishmania chagasi infection in family members and neighbors of patients with visceral leishmaniasis (VL). A cross-sectional study was conducted with 361 individuals in the counties comprising Ilha de S\u00e3o Lu\u00eds (S\u00e3o Lu\u00eds Island) in Maranh\u00e3o State, Brazil. The Montenegro skin test (MST) and serology by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) were performed to detect infection. Odds ratios (OR) and prevalence ratios (PR) and their 95% confidence intervals (95%CI) were estimated by multilevel logistic regression and Poisson regression, respectively. The rates of positive reactions were 71.3% for MST and 9.7% for ELISA. The variable associated with infection according to MST was living in the same household as the index case (PR = 1.36; 95%CI: 1.03-1.78). According to ELISA, the statistically significant variables were: living in the county of Raposa (OR = 3.56; 95%CI: 1.24-10.19) and living in the same household as the index case (OR = 2.70; 95%CI: 1.19-6.08). Family members of individuals with LV are at increased risk of infection. Priority control measures should target these families."}
{"id": "23272263", "title": "Low parasite load estimated by qPCR in a cohort of children living in urban area endemic for visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil.", "content": "Low parasite load estimated by qPCR in a cohort of children living in urban area endemic for visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil. An important issue associated with the control of visceral leishmaniasis is the need to identify and understand the relevance of asymptomatic infection caused by Leishmania infantum. The aim of this study was to follow the course of asymptomatic L. infantum infection in children in an area of Brazil where it is endemic. The children were assessed twice during a 12-month period. In this population study, 1875 children, ranging from 6 months to 7 years of age, were assessed. Blood samples were collected on filter papers via finger prick and tested by ELISA (L. infantum soluble antigen and rk39). Seropositives samples (n\u200a=\u200a317) and a number of seronegatives samples (n\u200a=\u200a242) were subjected to qPCR. After 12 months, blood samples were collected from a subgroup of 199 children and tested for Leishmania spp. to follow the course of infection. At baseline qPCR testing identified 82 positive samples. The prevalence rate, as estimated for 1875 children based on the qPCR results, was 13.9%. The qPCR testing of whole blood samples collected from a cohort of children after 12 months (n\u200a=\u200a199) yielded the following results: of the 44 (22.1%) children with positive qPCR results at baseline, only 10 (5.0%) remained positive, and 34 (17.1%) became negative; and of the 155 (77.9%) children with negative qPCR results, 131 (65.8%) remained negative, and 24 (12.1%) became positive at the follow-up measurement. The samples with positive findings at baseline (n\u200a=\u200a82) had a mean of 56.5 parasites/mL of blood; and at follow-up the mean positive result was 7.8 parasites/mL. The peripheral blood of asymptomatic children had a low and fluctuating quantity of Leishmania DNA and a significant decrease in parasitemia at 1-year follow-up. Quantitative PCR enables adequate monitoring of Leishmania infection."}
{"id": "23272257", "title": "Leishmaniasis direct agglutination test: using pictorials as training materials to reduce inter-reader variability and improve accuracy.", "content": "Leishmaniasis direct agglutination test: using pictorials as training materials to reduce inter-reader variability and improve accuracy. The Direct Agglutination Test (DAT) has a high diagnostic accuracy and remains, in some geographical areas, part of the diagnostic algorithm for Visceral Leishmaniasis (VL). However, subjective interpretation of results introduces potential for inter-reader variation. We report an assessment of inter-laboratory agreement and propose a pictorial-based approach to standardize reading of the DAT. In preparation for a comparative evaluation of immunochromatographic diagnostics for VL, a proficiency panel of 15 well-characterized sera, DAT-antigen from a single batch and common protocol was sent to nine laboratories in Latin-America, East-Africa and Asia. Agreement (i.e., equal titre or within 1 titer) with the reading by the reference laboratory was computed. Due to significant inter-laboratory disagreement on-site refresher training was provided to all technicians performing DAT. Photos of training plates were made, and end-titres agreed upon by experienced users of DAT within the Visceral-Leishmaniasis Laboratory-Network (VL-LN). Pre-training, concordance in DAT results with reference laboratories was only 50%, although agreement on negative sera was high (94%). After refresher training concordance increased to 84%; agreement on negative controls increased to 98%. Variance in readings significantly decreased after training from 3.3 titres to an average of 1.0 titre (two-sample Wilcoxon rank-sum (Mann-Whitney) test (z\u200a=\u200a-3,624 and p\u200a=\u200a0.0003)). The most probable explanation for disagreement was subjective endpoint reading. Using pictorials as training materials may be a useful tool to reduce disparity in results and promote more standardized reading of DAT, without compromising diagnostic sensitivity."}
{"id": "23272069", "title": "Diagnostic peptide discovery: prioritization of pathogen diagnostic markers using multiple features.", "content": "Diagnostic peptide discovery: prioritization of pathogen diagnostic markers using multiple features. The availability of complete pathogen genomes has renewed interest in the development of diagnostics for infectious diseases. Synthetic peptide microarrays provide a rapid, high-throughput platform for immunological testing of potential B-cell epitopes. However, their current capacity prevent the experimental screening of complete \"peptidomes\". Therefore, computational approaches for prediction and/or prioritization of diagnostically relevant peptides are required. In this work we describe a computational method to assess a defined set of molecular properties for each potential diagnostic target in a reference genome. Properties such as sub-cellular localization or expression level were evaluated for the whole protein. At a higher resolution (short peptides), we assessed a set of local properties, such as repetitive motifs, disorder (structured vs natively unstructured regions), trans-membrane spans, genetic polymorphisms (conserved vs. divergent regions), predicted B-cell epitopes, and sequence similarity against human proteins and other potential cross-reacting species (e.g. other pathogens endemic in overlapping geographical locations). A scoring function based on these different features was developed, and used to rank all peptides from a large eukaryotic pathogen proteome. We applied this method to the identification of candidate diagnostic peptides in the protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi, the causative agent of Chagas disease. We measured the performance of the method by analyzing the enrichment of validated antigens in the high-scoring top of the ranking. Based on this measure, our integrative method outperformed alternative prioritizations based on individual properties (such as B-cell epitope predictors alone). Using this method we ranked [Formula: see text]10 million 12-mer overlapping peptides derived from the complete T. cruzi proteome. Experimental screening of 190 high-scoring peptides allowed the identification of 37 novel epitopes with diagnostic potential, while none of the low scoring peptides showed significant reactivity. Many of the metrics employed are dependent on standard bioinformatic tools and data, so the method can be easily extended to other pathogen genomes."}
{"id": "23164318", "title": "Active case detection in national visceral leishmaniasis elimination programs in Bangladesh, India, and Nepal: feasibility, performance and costs.", "content": "Active case detection in national visceral leishmaniasis elimination programs in Bangladesh, India, and Nepal: feasibility, performance and costs. Active case detection (ACD) significantly contributes to early detection and treatment of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) and post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) cases and is cost effective. This paper evaluates the performance and feasibility of adapting ACD strategies into national programs for VL elimination in Bangladesh, India and Nepal. The camp search and index case search strategies were piloted in 2010-11 by national programs in high and moderate endemic districts / sub-districts respectively. Researchers independently assessed the performance and feasibility of these strategies through direct observation of activities and review of records. Program costs were estimated using an ingredients costing method. Altogether 48 camps (Bangladesh-27, India-19, Nepal-2) and 81 index case searches (India-36, Nepal-45) were conducted by the health services across 50 health center areas (Bangladesh-4 Upazillas, India-9 PHCs, Nepal-37 VDCs). The mean number of new case detected per camp was 1.3 and it varied from 0.32 in India to 2.0 in Bangladesh. The cost (excluding training costs) of detecting one new VL case per camp varied from USD 22 in Bangladesh, USD 199 in Nepal to USD 320 in India. The camp search strategy detected a substantive number of new PKDL cases. The major challenges faced by the programs were inadequate preparation, time and resources spent on promoting camp awareness through IEC activities in the community. Incorrectly diagnosed splenic enlargement at camps probably due to poor clinical examination skills resulted in a high proportion of patients being subjected to rK39 testing. National programs can adapt ACD strategies for detection of new VL/PKDL cases. However adequate time and resources are required for training, planning and strengthening referral services to overcome challenges faced by the programs in conducting ACD."}
{"id": "23147155", "title": "Use of the Kala-Azar Detect\u00ae and IT-LEISH\u00ae rapid tests for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil.", "content": "Use of the Kala-Azar Detect\u00ae and IT-LEISH\u00ae rapid tests for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil. The performances of two rapid tests and a standard serological test for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) were compared using sera from 193 patients with VL and 85 controls. The Kala-Azar Detect(\u00ae), IT-LEISH(\u00ae) and IFI-LH(\u00ae) assays showed sensitivities of 88.1%, 93.3% and 88.6%, respectively, and specificities of 90.6%, 96.5% and 80%, respectively. The sensitivity values were similar for both rapid tests, but the specificity and positive predictive values of IT-LEISH(\u00ae) were higher than the corresponding values for IFI-LH(\u00ae). Both rapid tests showed satisfactory performances and can be used in primary health care settings; however, IT-LEISH(\u00ae) permits the use of whole blood, making this assay more suitable for bedside diagnosis."}
{"id": "23133683", "title": "Burden of visceral leishmaniasis in villages of eastern Gedaref State, Sudan: an exhaustive cross-sectional survey.", "content": "Burden of visceral leishmaniasis in villages of eastern Gedaref State, Sudan: an exhaustive cross-sectional survey. Since December 2009, M\u00e9decins Sans Fronti\u00e8res has diagnosed and treated patients with visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in Tabarak Allah Hospital, eastern Gedaref State, one of the main endemic foci of VL in Sudan. A survey was conducted to estimate the VL incidence in villages around Tabarak Allah. Between the 5(th) of May and the 17(th) of June 2011, we conducted an exhaustive door-to-door survey in 45 villages of Al-Gureisha locality. Deaths were investigated by verbal autopsies. All individuals with (i) fever of at least two weeks, (ii) VL diagnosed and treated in the previous year, and (iii) clinical suspicion of post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) were referred to medical teams for case ascertainment. A new case of VL was a clinical suspect with a positive rk39 rapid test or direct agglutination test (DAT). In the 45 villages screened, 17,702 households were interviewed, for a population of 94,369 inhabitants. The crude mortality rate over the mean recall period of 409 days was 0.13/10'000 people per day. VL was a possible or probable cause for 19% of all deaths. The VL-specific mortality rate was estimated at 0.9/1000 per year. The medical teams examined 551 individuals referred for a history of fever of at least two weeks. Out of these, 16 were diagnosed with primary VL. The overall incidence of VL over the past year was 7.0/1000 persons per year, or 7.9/1000 per year when deaths possibly or probably due to VL were included. Overall, 12.5% (11,943/95,609) of the population reported a past VL treatment episode. VL represents a significant health burden in eastern Gedaref State. Active VL case detection had a very low yield in this specific setting with adequate access to care and may not be the priority intervention to enhance control in similar contexts."}
{"id": "23112869", "title": "Parasite burden in hamsters infected with two different strains of leishmania (Leishmania) infantum: \"Leishman Donovan units\" versus real-time PCR.", "content": "Parasite burden in hamsters infected with two different strains of leishmania (Leishmania) infantum: \"Leishman Donovan units\" versus real-time PCR. To develop and test new therapeutics and immune prophylaxis strategies for visceral leishmaniasis (VL), understanding tissue parasitism evolution after experimental infection with Leishmania infantum is important. Experimental infection in a hamster model (Mesocricetus auratus) reproduces several typical aspects of canine and human VL that are closely related to the inoculum's route. We quantified the parasitism in the liver and spleen of hamsters experimentally infected by various routes (intradermal, intraperitoneal, and intracardiac [IC]) and different strains of L. infantum (MHOM/BR/74/PP75 and Wild) and compared two different methodologies to evaluate tissue parasitism (Leishman Donovan units [LDU] and real-time qPCR). In addition, the quantification of specific total-IgG in the serum of uninfected and infected hamsters was determined by ELISA. The animals were followed for 1, 3, 6 and 9 months post-infection for survival analysis. We found that infection with the Wild strain by the IC route resulted in higher mortality. Positive antibody (IgG) responses were detected with higher peaks at 6 and 9 months in the IC group inoculated with PP75 strain. However, in animals infected with the Wild strain the IgG levels were elevated in all infected groups during all the time evaluated. We also observed by LDU analysis that the IC route lead to higher parasitism in the liver and spleen with both strains. Furthermore, qPCR showed higher sensitivity for identifying animals with low parasitic burden. In conclusion, qPCR can be useful for assessing parasitism in the spleen and liver of a hamster model infected with L. infantum independent of the route of infection, and this technique may become an essential tool for assessing parasite density in the hamster model after experimental treatment or immunization with potential vaccine candidates."}
{"id": "23072132", "title": "[Survey on a new case of visceral leishmaniasis in Shanxi Province].", "content": "[Survey on a new case of visceral leishmaniasis in Shanxi Province]. A new case of visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar) was reported by Changzhi CDC of Shanxi Province in September 2011. The case was investigated clinically and epidemiologically. The patient was a two-year-old boy who lived in Huangnian Town of Changzhi County in Shanxi Province. Clinical examination showed hepatosplenomegaly, consistent decrease of blood cells and Leishman-Donovan body in the bone marrow smear. The rK39 immune diagnosis test showed strongly positive. The case was diagnosed as kala-azar. After one course treatment of sodium stibogluconate, the patient's condition improved markedly. There were no cases of kala-azar in this region historically. Blood samples of 17 individuals and 5 domestic animals including 3 dogs were all negative in the rK39 immunodiagnostic test. It is speculated that the potential risk of kala-azar transmission exists in this region."}
{"id": "23064668", "title": "[Kala azar - Lethal course of visceral leishmaniasis. Synchronous infection with Leishmania donovani/infantum complex and Leishmania major in a patient after Mediterranean vacation].", "content": "[Kala azar - Lethal course of visceral leishmaniasis. Synchronous infection with Leishmania donovani/infantum complex and Leishmania major in a patient after Mediterranean vacation]. Infections with Leishmania spp. are endemic in areas of the tropics and subtropics. An increased incidence of human infections has been reported in southern Europe, where zoonotic leishmaniasis is common. The systemic, visceral infection is caused by the Leishmania donovani/infantum complex and may be fatal when untreated. A 42-year-old man presented with a 6 week history of erythroderma, pancytopenia, hepatosplenomegaly and recurrent fever after a sojourn in Croatia. The patient's past history revealed a 10-year history of psoriasis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease treated with methotrexate and prednisolone. Pathology was assessed by histology and molecular biologic analyses. RESULTS AND COURSE: A repeated bone marrow biopsy revealed multiple intracellular particles which were identified as Leishmania amastigotes. Indirect immunofluorescence as well as enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) of patient's serum showed specific anti-Leishmania antibodies. Despite rapid initiation of systemic therapy, the patient died of a secondary infection. Post mortem, PCR and sequencing revealed synchronous infection with Leishmania donovani/infantum complex and Leishmania major. Diagnosis of patients with complex clinical features is challenging even for experienced clinicians. Critical interpretation of findings and, if necessary, repetition of invasive examinations may be necessary for proper diagnosis. Increasing numbers of immunocompromised patients (iatrogenic, HIV) will expand the spectrum of rare infectious diseases including visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "23029576", "title": "Factors associated with Leishmania asymptomatic infection: results from a cross-sectional survey in highland northern Ethiopia.", "content": "Factors associated with Leishmania asymptomatic infection: results from a cross-sectional survey in highland northern Ethiopia. In northern Ethiopia the prevalence of visceral leishmaniasis is steadily rising posing an increasing public health concern. In order to develop effective control strategies on the transmission of the disease it is important to generate knowledge on the epidemiological determinants of the infection. We conducted a cross-sectional survey on children 4-15 years of age using a multi staged stratified cluster sampling on high incidence sub-districts of Amhara regional state, Ethiopia. The survey included a socio-demographic, health and dietary questionnaire, and anthropometric measurements. We performed rK39-ICT and DAT serological tests in order to detect anti-Leishmania antibodies and carried out Leishmanin Skin Test (LST) using L.major antigen. Logistic regression models were used. Of the 565 children surveyed 56 children were positive to infection (9.9%). The individual variables that showed a positive association with infection were increasing age, being male and sleeping outside [adjusted odds ratios (95% CI): 1.15 (1.03, 1.29), 2.56 (1.19, 5.48) and 2.21 (1.03, 4.71) respectively] and in relation to the household: past history of VL in the family, living in a straw roofed house and if the family owned sheep [adjusted OR (95% CI): 2.92 (1.25, 6.81), 2.71 (1.21, 6.07) and 4.16 (1.41, 12.31) respectively]. A behavioural pattern like sleeping outside is determinant in the transmission of the infection in this area. Protective measures should be implemented against this identified risk activity. Results also suggest a geographical clustering and a household focalization of the infection. The behaviour of the vector in the area needs to be clarified in order to establish the role of domestic animals and house materials in the transmission of the infection."}
{"id": "23023349", "title": "Testing urine samples with rK39 strip as the simplest non-invasive field diagnosis for visceral leishmaniasis: an early report from eastern India.", "content": "Testing urine samples with rK39 strip as the simplest non-invasive field diagnosis for visceral leishmaniasis: an early report from eastern India. Diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a major obstacle in the control of this disease. The rK39 strip-test using patient's blood is a breakthrough; however, it still requires a blood sample, which is a concern for safety in the field. We tried to simplify the test using the patient's urine instead of blood. To observe the sensitivity and specificity of the urine test in comparison with the blood test. We tested active and post-treatment VL patients, Post Kala azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL), VL/HIV and control subjects (healthy, disease suspects and diseased other than VL) with the rK39 strip-test using blood and urine samples. The level of agreement between the urine and blood testing was calculated by inter-rater agreement (kappa) statistics. Forty-two active VL, 40 treated VL, six PKDL, three VL/HIV and 139 controls (54 healthy, 21 disease suspects and 64 diseased other than VL) were tested. All VL-related cases showed positive results with urine as well as blood samples (100%). The urine testing was found to have 100% sensitivity and 86.33% specificity for the diagnosis of VL. Kappa statistic between the two methods was 0.916 (P<0.001). Urine testing had more false-positive results in comparison with blood testing (13.67% vs. 9.45%), but the test subjects were from VL-endemic areas and they might be exposed to Leishmania donovani infection. The present study has the potentiality of providing a new, yet simplest non-invasive screening tool for VL in remote rural areas."}
{"id": "22987654", "title": "Preventing zoonotic canine leishmaniasis in northeastern Brazil: pet attachment and adoption of community Leishmania prevention.", "content": "Preventing zoonotic canine leishmaniasis in northeastern Brazil: pet attachment and adoption of community Leishmania prevention. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), caused by Leishmania infantum chagasi (L.i. chagasi syn. infantum) in northeastern Brazil, was responsible for 51,000 new VL cases from 1980 to 2003. Household presence of L. infantum-infected dogs is a major risk factor for human infection. Despite culling of dogs based on seropositivity, canine L. infantum seroprevalence remains near 20%, suggesting that dog culling is ineffective for preventing VL spread. We administered a cross-sectional survey to 224 households within 300 m of the homes of VL human patients diagnosed within the last year. The goal was to develop a model for voluntary preventative use based on characteristics and motivations of dog owners. We identified that owner knowledge deficiencies regarding canine transmission of L. infantum associated with increased risk of dog infection (odds ratio [OR] = 3.681, confidence interval [CI] = 1.223, 11.08). Higher owner education was associated with decreased levels of dog seropositivity (OR = 0.40, CI = 0.20, 0.81). Pet attachment (P = 0.036) and perception of risk/disease knowledge (P = 0.040) were significantly associated with willingness to voluntarily purchase canine VL prevention. These results highlight the importance of owner attachment to their pet in implementing reservoir-targeted zoonotic VL prevention."}
{"id": "22951664", "title": "[A case of cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania infantum in a non-endemic province (Ankara) of Turkey].", "content": "[A case of cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania infantum in a non-endemic province (Ankara) of Turkey]. Southeastern Anatolia and the Mediterranean regions of Turkey are known as endemic areas for cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL). In this report, a 64 years-old male patient with CL caused by Leishmania infantum has been presented. The patient who was inhabiting in Ankara (Central Anatolia region, Turkey) complained from a lesion on his right ring finger for the last six months. He has a cat and has been engaged with gardening. Overall, he was healthy with the exception of hypertension and glucose intolerance. The patient had not left Ankara since the last seven months, however, he had previously been to the Aegean coast during his summer holiday. The examination of the 4th phalanx of his right hand revealed the presence of a 3 x 3 cm erythematous, slightly swollen lesion, at the center of which 1.5 x 1.5 cm ulcerative area covered with a hemorrhagic crust, was detected. Neither axillary or cervical lymphadenopathy, nor hepatosplenomegaly could be observed. The routine examinations, including complete blood count, serum biochemistry, chest X-ray and abdominal ultrasonography were within normal limits. Giemsa stained smears prepared from aspiration of the lesion revealed amastigote-like organisms and leishmania promastigotes were grown in NNN media. PCR amplification of the specimen indicated the presence of a positive DNA band of 420 bp specific for Leishmania spp. The serum sample of the patient revealed positivity for leishmaniasis by the rapid rK39 test and immunofluorescence antibody (IFAT) test. The organism was identified as L.infantum by PCR-RFLP applied to the cultivated organism. The examination of his cat's serum for leishmaniasis by IFAT and PCR, were negative. The exact way of transmission had not been confirmed for the patient. However, when long incubation period of CL was considered, the transmission might probably occurred during his summer stay in the Aegean coast. This case was presented to withdraw attention to a delayed diagnosis of CL which developed in a non-endemic area and which was due to L.infantum instead of the more common L.tropica species."}
{"id": "22949343", "title": "Fever, dyspnea, and hepatitis in an Iraq veteran.", "content": "Fever, dyspnea, and hepatitis in an Iraq veteran."}
{"id": "22942208", "title": "A global comparative evaluation of commercial immunochromatographic rapid diagnostic tests for visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "A global comparative evaluation of commercial immunochromatographic rapid diagnostic tests for visceral leishmaniasis. Poor access to diagnosis stymies control of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Antibody-detecting rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) can be performed in peripheral health settings. However, there are many brands available and published reports of variable accuracy. Commercial VL RDTs containing bound rK39 or rKE16 antigen were evaluated using archived human sera from confirmed VL cases (n = 750) and endemic non-VL controls (n = 754) in the Indian subcontinent (ISC), Brazil, and East Africa to assess sensitivity and specificity with 95% confidence intervals. A subset of RDTs were also evaluated after 60 days' heat incubation (37\u00b0C, 45\u00b0C). Interlot and interobserver variability was assessed. All test brands performed well against ISC panels (sensitivity range, 92.8%-100%; specificity range, 96%-100%); however, sensitivity was lower against Brazil and East African panels (61.5%-91% and 36.8%-87.2%, respectively). Specificity was consistently > 95% in Brazil and ranged between 90.8% and 98% in East Africa. Performance of some products was adversely affected by high temperatures. Agreement between lots and readers was good to excellent (\u03ba > 0.73-0.99). Diagnostic accuracy of VL RDTs varies between the major endemic regions. Many tests performed well and showed good heat stability in the ISC; however, reduced sensitivity against Brazilian and East African panels suggests that in these regions, used alone, several RDTs are inadequate for excluding a VL diagnosis. More research is needed to assess ease of use and to compare performance using whole blood instead of serum and in patients coinfected with human immunodeficiency virus."}
{"id": "22920931", "title": "Evaluation of serological markers to monitor the disease status of Indian post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis.", "content": "Evaluation of serological markers to monitor the disease status of Indian post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis. Post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL), a dermal sequel of visceral leishmaniasis presents with macular or polymorphic lesions. As immunological variations between these two forms have not been delineated, we evaluated levels of antileishmanial total Ig, IgG and its subclasses, IgM, IgE, IgG avidity, cytokines IL-10, IL-4, IL-13 and expression of CD19. The levels of Ig and IgG in polymorphic PKDL were higher than macular PKDL, while significant curtailment in levels of Ig, IgM and IgG following treatment was evident only in polymorphic PKDL. With regard to IgG subclasses, IgG1 and IgG3 were significantly raised in polymorphic PKDL, whereas in macular PKDL only IgG1 was elevated; treatment decreased levels of IgG1, IgG2 and IgG3 only in polymorphic PKDL; IgE levels were raised in both groups but no marked alterations occurred following treatment. The avidity of IgG was higher in polymorphic PKDL and correlated with duration of disease. IL-10 was higher in polymorphic PKDL and decreased significantly after treatment, whereas in macular PKDL IL-4 predominated. Taken together, in PKDL the humoral immune response was greater in the polymorphic variant than the macular form suggesting that serological markers may have a role in monitoring polymorphic PKDL."}
{"id": "22897740", "title": "Latent class analysis of diagnostic tests for visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil.", "content": "Latent class analysis of diagnostic tests for visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil. To estimate the sensitivities and specificities of different diagnostic tests for visceral leishmaniasis (VL) using latent class analysis (LCA). \u2002 This study was performed using data from a prospective study conducted in four Brazilian states from May 2004 to May 2007. Five diagnostic tests for VL were evaluated in 285 VL cases and 119 non-cases: microscopy, indirect fluorescence antibody test (IFAT), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using recombinant K39 antigen (rK39-ELISA), direct agglutination test (DAT) and the rK39 rapid test. Microscopy showed sensitivity of 77.0% (CI: 71.5-81.5) and specificity of 99.0% (CI: 94.0-99.7). The IFAT and the DAT showed similar sensitivities, 88.3% (CI: 84.0-92.0) and 88.5% (CI: 84.1-92.0), respectively, but the DAT had a higher specificity (95.4%, CI: 89.2-98.1) than did the IFAT (83.0%, CI: 75.0-88.2). The rK39-ELISA and the rK39 rapid test showed sensitivities of 99.0% (CI: 96.3-99.6) and 94.0% (CI: 90.1-96.3), and specificities of 82.5% (CI: 75.0-88.3) and 100% (CI: 97.0-100.0%), respectively. Considering the lack of an adequate reference standard, LCA proved to be a useful tool in validating diagnostic methods for VL. The DAT and the rK39 rapid test showed better performance. Thus, clinically suspected cases of VL in a Brazilian endemic area could be treated based on the positivity of one of these tests."}
{"id": "22879460", "title": "Mycobacterium indicus pranii (Mw)-mediated protection against visceral leishmaniasis: involvement of TLR4 signalling.", "content": "Mycobacterium indicus pranii (Mw)-mediated protection against visceral leishmaniasis: involvement of TLR4 signalling. The aim of this study was to characterize the antileishmanial activity of heat-killed Mycobacterium indicus pranii (Mw) alone or in combination with a subtoxic dose of amphotericin B [AMB(st)]. Mw- and Mw\u200a+\u200aAMB(st)-mediated antileishmanial activity was evaluated by microscopic counting of intracellular amastigotes in Giemsa-stained macrophages and real-time PCR analysis of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression and measurement of nitric oxide generation by Griess reagent. The relationship between Mw and Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) signalling was studied by fluorescence-activated cell sorting, western blot and confocal microscopy. The effect of Mw alone or in combination with AMB(st) on the expression and production of interleukin (IL)-12, tumour necrosis factor-\u03b1, IL-10 and transforming growth factor-\u03b2 was analysed by real-time PCR and ELISA, respectively. Mw treatment alone or with AMB(st) caused a significant increase in TLR4 expression of L. donovani-infected macrophages along with the activation of TLR4 downstream signalling, facilitating active nuclear translocation of nuclear factor \u03baB (NF-\u03baB). These events culminated in the up-regulation of the proinflammatory response, which was abrogated by treatment with TLR4-specific small-interfering RNA. In addition, this study demonstrates that this chemoimmunotherapeutic strategy confers protection against leishmanial pathogenesis via TLR4-dependent counter-regulation of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and arginase1 activity. These results provide a mechanistic understanding of Mw- or Mw\u200a+\u200aAMB(st)-mediated protection against leishmanial parasites within host macrophages."}
{"id": "22869633", "title": "ELISA with recombinant rKRP42 antigen using urine samples: a tool for predicting clinical visceral leishmaniasis cases and its outbreak.", "content": "ELISA with recombinant rKRP42 antigen using urine samples: a tool for predicting clinical visceral leishmaniasis cases and its outbreak. We reported a highly sensitive and specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) that detects immunoglobulin G (IgG) in urine using rKRP42 antigen for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). The ELISA was applied to study chronological change in antibody titers in five study areas in Rajshahi district, Bangladesh. A total of 585 subjects without a past VL history were examined at least three times in the 30-month follow-up period; of these subjects, 137 (23.4%) subjects became ELISA-positive at least one time during the study. Among the positive cases, 40 (29.2%) subjects developed clinical VL, and 31 (77.5%) of these subjects showed IgG titers of \u2265 1,000 U more than one time in the study period. Considering only the first ELISA results, 22 subjects with IgG titers of \u2265 1,000 U could be found, and 21 (95.5%) of these subjects turned out to be clinical cases. The high urinary IgG titers (\u2265 1,000 U) will help predict possible clinical VL cases and thus, identify an outbreak in its earlier stage."}
{"id": "22828555", "title": "Spectrum of skin lesions of post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis in kala-azar endemic areas of Bangladesh.", "content": "Spectrum of skin lesions of post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis in kala-azar endemic areas of Bangladesh. Post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) is a complication of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) and serves as a potential reservoir for Leishmania parasite. The study was aimed to evaluate the spectrum of skin lesions of PKDL in kala-azar endemic areas in Bangladesh. This cross sectional study was carried out to observe the characteristics of skin lesions among 250 PKDL cases. The suspected PKDL patients in highly endemic villages of Fulbaria Upazilla of Mymensingh district.were subjected to a dipstick test (rK39) for kala azar. The median time interval between diagnosing kala-azar and PKDL was 23 month (m-21, r- 0-60 months). The most common skin lesions were multiple symmetrical hypopigmented macules with irregular margins in 179(71.6%) cases followed by erythematous facial induration in 74(29.6%), papular in 33(13.2%), nodular in 28(11.2%) cases, combination of macules, papules, nodules and plaques in 88(35.2%) cases, annular in 7(2.8%) cases and Papillomatous mucosal growth in 2(0.8%) cases. Sites of involvement were mostly in face (92.4%), Trunk (84.8%), extremities (33.2%), oral mucosa and tongue (0.8%) and Genitalia (1.2%). Suspicion of PKDL on the basis of skin lesions will lead to early diagnosis and prompt treatment will impart an important role in prevention and eradication of Leishmaniasis in Bangladesh."}
{"id": "22815147", "title": "Evaluation of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay based on crude Leishmania histone proteins for serodiagnosis of human infantile visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Evaluation of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay based on crude Leishmania histone proteins for serodiagnosis of human infantile visceral leishmaniasis. Human visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is routinely diagnosed by detecting IgG that specifically binds to Leishmania antigens. The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) remains a widely used method. However, the biggest challenge remains the choice of antigen with the highest specificity and sensitivity. This study is aimed at assessing the diagnostic performances of crude Leishmania histone (CLH) protein-based ELISAs in Mediterranean VL patients. The CLH proteins were biochemically purified from promastigote nuclear extracts. Their reactivities were analyzed by Western blotting (WB) using rabbit polyclonal antibodies against Leishmania recombinant histones and sera from VL patients, respectively. Then, the diagnostic potential of CLH proteins was validated by the CLH-based ELISA using 42 infantile VL patients' sera and 70 control subjects. The CLH-based ELISA performance was compared to that of the soluble Leishmania antigen (SLA)- and the recombinant K39 (rK39)-based ELISAs. Analysis of the WB profile with the use of polyclonal antibodies confirmed the histone origin of low molecular mass proteins (12 to 16 kDa). All VL samples tested presented antibodies reacting against different antigen fractions; however, recognition patterns were different depending on the reactivity of each serum. CLH-based ELISA showed an excellent ability to discriminate between VL cases and healthy controls (97.6% sensitivity and 100% specificity). It had a diagnostic performance similar to that of rK39-based ELISA (97.6% sensitivity and 97.1% specificity, P = 0.5) and a better serodiagnosis accuracy than the SLA-based ELISA (85.7% sensitivity and 90% specificity, P < 0.05). Therefore, crude Leishmania histone extract could be a valuable antigen for clinical use."}
{"id": "22764294", "title": "Assessment of interferon-\u03b3 levels and leishmanin skin test results in persons recovered for leishmaniasis.", "content": "Assessment of interferon-\u03b3 levels and leishmanin skin test results in persons recovered for leishmaniasis. Patients who recover from leishmaniasis usually show development of strong immunity and induction of interferon-\u03b3 (IFN-\u03b3) and delayed type hypersensitivity. In a randomized trial, we analyzed the IFN-\u03b3 response by using a Quantiferon-Leishmania assay against three Leishmania peptide antigens and compared it with results of the leishmanin skin test (LST) in persons residing in areas in Iran to which zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis (ZCL, 181 persons), anthroponotic cutaneous leishmaniasis (ACL, 104 persons), and zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis (ZVL, 67 persons) are endemic. The percentage of persons with an IFN-\u03b3-positive response (> 0.2 IU/mL) to three antigens and the mean concentration of IFN-\u03b3 induced by the antigens were higher for persons from areas endemic for ZVL than for persons from areas endemic for ZCL and ACL. The percentage of persons with LST-positive results (\u2265 5 mm indurations) was 99%, 94%, and 70% for areas with ZCL, ACL, and ZVL, respectively. Our data indicate that the LST is significantly more sensitive than IFN-\u03b3 levels in persons who have been cured of cutaneous leishmaniasis than in persons who have been cured of ZVL."}
{"id": "22761296", "title": "Sensitivity and specificity of an operon immunochromatographic test in serum and whole-blood samples for the diagnosis of Trypanosoma cruzi infection in Spain, an area of nonendemicity.", "content": "Sensitivity and specificity of an operon immunochromatographic test in serum and whole-blood samples for the diagnosis of Trypanosoma cruzi infection in Spain, an area of nonendemicity. Trypanosoma cruzi infection is an imported parasitic disease in Spain, and the majority of infected individuals are in the chronic phase of the disease. This study evaluated the sensitivity and specificity of the Operon immunochromatographic test (ICT-Operon; Simple Stick Chagas and Simple Chagas WB [whole blood]; Operon S.A., Spain) for different biological samples. Well-characterized serum samples were obtained from chagasic patients (n = 63), nonchagasic individuals (n = 95), visceral leishmaniasis patients (n = 38), and malaria patients (n = 55). Noncharacterized specimens were obtained from Latin American immigrants and individuals at risk with a clinical and/or epidemiological background: these specimens were recovered serum or plasma samples (n = 450), whole peripheral blood (n = 94), and capillary blood (n = 282). The concordance of the results by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and indirect immunofluorescence test was considered to be the \"gold standard\" for diagnosis. Serum and plasma samples were analyzed by Stick Chagas, and whole blood was analyzed by Simple Chagas WB. The sensitivity and specificity of the ICT-Operon in well-characterized samples were 100% and 97.9%, respectively. No cross-reactivity was found with samples obtained from visceral leishmaniasis patients. In contrast, a false-positive result was obtained in 27.3% of samples from malaria patients. The sensitivities of the rapid test in noncharacterized serum or plasma, peripheral blood, and capillary blood samples were 100%, 92.1%, and 86.4%, respectively, while the specificities were 91.6%, 93.6%, and 95% in each case. ICT-Operon showed variable sensitivity, depending on the kind of sample, performing better when serum or plasma samples were used. It could therefore be used for serological screening combined with any other conventional test."}
{"id": "22760038", "title": "Evaluation of two novel rapid rKE16 antigen-based tests for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in India.", "content": "Evaluation of two novel rapid rKE16 antigen-based tests for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in India. We compared the two formats of rKE16 antigen-based rapid tests, a flowthrough test (KEFT) and a lateral flow test (KELF), with the rK39 rapid test for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Sensitivities with KEFT (99%, 198/200) and rK39 (99.5%, 199/200) were comparable and higher than that with KELF (95.5%, 191/200). In the control groups comprising subjects with diseases from areas of nonendemicity or endemicity and subjects with different diseases, the specificities were comparable for all three rapid tests, except that specificity was higher with KELF in the controls from areas of endemicity."}
{"id": "22724032", "title": "Immunodominant antigens of Leishmania chagasi associated with protection against human visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Immunodominant antigens of Leishmania chagasi associated with protection against human visceral leishmaniasis. Protection and recovery from visceral leishmaniasis (VL) have been associated with cell-mediated immune (CMI) responses, whereas no protective role has been attributed to humoral responses against specific parasitic antigens. In this report, we compared carefully selected groups of individuals with distinct responses to Leishmania chagasi to explore antigen-recognizing IgG present in resistant individuals. VL patients with negative delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) were classified into the susceptible group. Individuals who had recovered from VL and converted to a DTH+ response, as well as asymptomatic infected individuals (DTH+), were categorized into the resistant group. Sera from these groups were used to detect antigens from L. chagasi by conventional and 2D Western blot assays. Despite an overall reduction in the reactivity of several proteins after DTH conversion, a specific group of proteins (approximately 110-130 kDa) consistently reacted with sera from DTH converters. Other antigens that specifically reacted with sera from DTH+ individuals were isolated and tandem mass spectrometry followed by database query with the protein search engine MASCO were used to identify antigens. The serological properties of recombinant version of the selected antigens were tested by ELISA. Sera from asymptomatic infected people (DTH+) reacted more strongly with a mixture of selected recombinant antigens than with total soluble Leishmania antigen (SLA), with less cross-reactivity against Chagas disease patients' sera. Our results are the first evidence of leishmania proteins that are specifically recognized by sera from individuals who are putatively resistant to VL. In addition, these data highlight the possibility of using specific proteins in serological tests for the identification of asymptomatic infected individuals."}
{"id": "22686715", "title": "Recent advances in the diagnosis and treatment of kala-azar.", "content": "Recent advances in the diagnosis and treatment of kala-azar. In India, about 100 000 cases of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) or kala-azar are estimated to occur annually, 90% of which occur in the state of Bihar. Currently, antibody-based tests such as the rK39-based immunochromatographic strip test and the direct agglutination test (DAT) are widely used for the diagnosis of VL. However, their major drawback is continued positivity both long after cure and in a high proportion of individuals living in endemic areas. Thus, antibody-based tests must always be used in combination with a standardized clinical case definition for VL. There have been many breakthroughs in the past decade in the treatment of kala-azar in India, such as approval of oral miltefosine and paromomycin, single-dose treatment with liposomal amphotericin B and multidrug treatment. Encouraged by these advances, an ambitious VL elimination programme was launched with the aim to eliminate VL as a public health problem in India, Nepal and Bangladesh by 2015. Early diagnosis, complete treatment of cases, integrated vector management, effective disease surveillance, and clinical and operational research should be the five key components of the strategy to achieve this goal."}
{"id": "22666514", "title": "The diagnostic accuracy of serologic and molecular methods for detecting visceral leishmaniasis in HIV infected patients: meta-analysis.", "content": "The diagnostic accuracy of serologic and molecular methods for detecting visceral leishmaniasis in HIV infected patients: meta-analysis. Human visceral leishmaniasis (VL), a potentially fatal disease, has emerged as an important opportunistic condition in HIV infected patients. In immunocompromised patients, serological investigation is considered not an accurate diagnostic method for VL diagnosis and molecular techniques seem especially promising. This work is a comprehensive systematic review and meta-analysis to evaluate the accuracy of serologic and molecular tests for VL diagnosis specifically in HIV-infected patients. Two independent reviewers searched PubMed and LILACS databases. The quality of studies was assessed by QUADAS score. Sensitivity and specificity were pooled separately and compared with overall accuracy measures: diagnostic odds ratio (DOR) and symmetric summary receiver operating characteristic (sROC). Thirty three studies recruiting 1,489 patients were included. The following tests were evaluated: Immunofluorescence Antibody Test (IFAT), Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), immunoblotting (Blot), direct agglutination test (DAT) and polimerase chain reaction (PCR) in whole blood and bone marrow. Most studies were carried out in Europe. Serological tests varied widely in performance, but with overall limited sensitivity. IFAT had poor sensitivity ranging from 11% to 82%. DOR (95% confidence interval) was higher for DAT 36.01 (9.95-130.29) and Blot 27.51 (9.27-81.66) than for IFAT 7.43 (3.08-1791) and ELISA 3.06 (0.71-13.10). PCR in whole blood had the highest DOR: 400.35 (58.47-2741.42). The accuracy of PCR based on Q-point was 0.95; 95%CI 0.92-0.97, which means good overall performance. Based mainly on evidence gained by infection with Leishmania infantum chagasi, serological tests should not be used to rule out a diagnosis of VL among the HIV-infected, but a positive test at even low titers has diagnostic value when combined with the clinical case definition. Considering the available evidence, tests based on DNA detection are highly sensitive and may contribute to a diagnostic workup."}
{"id": "22665599", "title": "Low prevalence of Leishmania infection in post-epidemic areas of Libo Kemkem, Ethiopia.", "content": "Low prevalence of Leishmania infection in post-epidemic areas of Libo Kemkem, Ethiopia. In Libo Kemkem (a district of Amhara region, Ethiopia), no cases of kala-azar had ever been reported until 2005 when an outbreak occurred. Over one-third of those cases were children under 15 years of age. The aim of the present study was to determine the prevalence of Leishmania infection in children aged 4-15 years. A cross-sectional survey was conducted in 2009. Children participating in the survey were selected using a three-stage cluster sampling method. A total of 386 children were included in the study. The overall prevalence of Leishmania infection (direct agglutination test- and/or rK39 immunochromatographic test- and/or leishmanin skin test-positive subjects) in this population was 1.02% (95% confidence interval = 0-4.54), and prevalence was higher in boys and children older than 12 years. Only one case of active disease was encountered. The results suggest that the conditions responsible for the outbreak no longer reign. However, active surveillance remains necessary."}
{"id": "22629475", "title": "Improved canine and human visceral leishmaniasis immunodiagnosis using combinations of synthetic peptides in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.", "content": "Improved canine and human visceral leishmaniasis immunodiagnosis using combinations of synthetic peptides in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a severe infectious disease caused by protozoan parasites of the genus Leishmania and the domestic dogs are the main urban parasite reservoir hosts. In Brazil, indirect fluorescence antibody tests (IFAT) and indirect enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using promastigote extracts are widely used in epidemiological surveys. However, their sensitivity and specificity have often been compromised by the use of complex mixtures of antigens, which reduces their accuracy allowing the maintenance of infected animals that favors transmission to humans. In this context, the use of combinations of defined peptides appears favorable. Therefore, they were tested by combinations of five peptides derived from the previously described Leishmania diagnostic antigens A2, NH, LACK and K39. Combinations of peptides derived A2, NH, LACK and K39 antigens were used in ELISA with sera from 44 human patients and 106 dogs. Improved sensitivities and specificities, close to 100%, were obtained for both sera of patients and dogs. Moreover, high sensitivity and specificity were observed even for canine sera presenting low IFAT anti-Leishmania antibody titers or from asymptomatic animals. The use of combinations of B cell predicted synthetic peptides derived from antigens A2, NH, LACK and K39 may provide an alternative for improved sensitivities and specificities for immunodiagnostic assays of VL."}
{"id": "22556076", "title": "Usefulness of the rK39-immunochromatographic test, direct agglutination test, and leishmanin skin test for detecting asymptomatic Leishmania infection in children in a new visceral leishmaniasis focus in Amhara State, Ethiopia.", "content": "Usefulness of the rK39-immunochromatographic test, direct agglutination test, and leishmanin skin test for detecting asymptomatic Leishmania infection in children in a new visceral leishmaniasis focus in Amhara State, Ethiopia. In areas where visceral leishmaniasis is anthroponotic, asymptomatically infected patients may play a role in transmission. Additionally, the number of asymptomatic patients in a disease-endemic area will also provide information on transmission dynamics. Libo Kemkem and Fogera districts (Amhara State, Ethiopia) are now considered newly established areas to which visceral leishmaniasis is endemic. In selected villages in these districts, we conducted a study to assess the usefulness of different approaches to estimate the asymptomatic infection rate. Of 605 participants, the rK39 immunochromatographic test was able to detect asymptomatic infection in 1.5% (9 of 605), direct agglutination test in 5.3% (32 of 605), and leishmanin skin test in 5.6% (33 of 589); the combined use of serologic methods and leishmanin skin test enabled detecting asymptomatic infection in 10.1% (61 of 605). We conclude that the best option to detect asymptomatic infection in this new visceral leishmaniasis-endemic focus is the combined use of the direct agglutination test and the leishmanin skin test."}
{"id": "22518013", "title": "Identification and diagnostic utility of Leishmania infantum proteins found in urine samples from patients with visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Identification and diagnostic utility of Leishmania infantum proteins found in urine samples from patients with visceral leishmaniasis. Despite the clear need to control visceral leishmaniasis (VL), the existing diagnostic tests have serious shortcomings. Here, we introduce an innovative approach to directly identify Leishmania infantum antigens produced in vivo in humans with VL. We combined reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) with mass spectrometry and categorized three distinct L. infantum proteins presumably produced in bone marrow/spleen/liver and excreted in the urine of patients with VL. The genes coding for these proteins (L. infantum iron superoxide dismutase, NCBI accession number XP_001467866.1; L. infantum tryparedoxin, NCBI accession number XP_001466642.1; and L. infantum nuclear transport factor 2, NCBI accession number XP_001463738.1) were cloned, and the recombinant molecules were produced in Escherichia coli. Antibodies to these proteins were produced in rabbits and chickens and were used to develop a capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) designed to detect these L. infantum antigens in the urine of VL patients. Specificity of the antibodies was confirmed by a Western blot analysis using both recombinant proteins and whole parasite extract. Importantly, a urinary antigen detection assay assembled with pairs of antibodies specific for each of these antigens identified 17 of 19 patients with VL. These results indicate that an improved antigen detection assay based on L. infantum proteins present in the urine of patients with VL may represent an important new strategy for the development of a specific and accurate diagnostic test that has the potential to both distinguish active VL from asymptomatic infection and serve as an important tool to monitor therapy efficacy."}
{"id": "22495122", "title": "Dynamics of the antibodies in cohorts of cured cases of visceral leishmaniasis: its implication on the validity of serological test, value in prognosis and in post therapeutic assessment.", "content": "Dynamics of the antibodies in cohorts of cured cases of visceral leishmaniasis: its implication on the validity of serological test, value in prognosis and in post therapeutic assessment. The major disadvantage of a Serological test like Direct Agglutination Test (DAT) for Visceral Leishmaniasis (also called Kala-azar) is its inability to distinguish between recent and past infection. The objective of our study was to look at rate of decline of antibodies in fully cured cases of Kala-azar and length of time it takes for DAT to become negative. Cohort Study involving completely treated Kala-azar cases from Government Hospital during one calendar year of study. Cases were selected on the basis of treatment cohorts 0, 3, 6, 9 & 12 mo after completion of treatment.. Phase I--The cases were traced and after obtaining the informed consent they were subjected to Direct Agglutination Test (DAT). Phase II--The five treatment cohorts, constituting 82 cured cases (average of 15 cured cases per each treatment cohort) were tested again with DAT three months after the first test. The titers of Phase-I and phase-II tests were analyzed for the dynamics of the antibodies for the period. Cutoff-Values of DAT below 1:800 are considered negative. Values of 1:800, 1:1200, 1:1600 and so on are considered positive. The mean titer [Geometric Mean Titer (GMT)] at the start of treatment was 1:1120, which showed steady decline up to six months, plummeting below the cutoff titer for the DAT (1:800) at the ninth month. Antibodies continue to linger for about one year in cured Kala-azar cases even after correct and complete treatment. Single DAT results may be misleading due to high false positivity up to one year after the cure. Paired test defined as two tests 3 mo apart on the same subject. Paired test is highly recommended for diagnosis and prognosis. DAT is still a very useful tool for diagnosis if used along with clinical correlation."}
{"id": "22492143", "title": "Identification and characterization of a novel Leishmania donovani antigen for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Identification and characterization of a novel Leishmania donovani antigen for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Despite several drawbacks, rK39-based rapid immunochromatographic test is widely used for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in the Indian subcontinent. There is an urgent need to develop a better antigen. In this study we separated crude soluble antigens of Leishmania donovani by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and hybridized with pool sera from pre- and post-treated VL patients, 6 months follow-up, endemic healthy (EHC), and nonendemic healthy controls (NEHC) by Western blotting. The sensitivity of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with identified protein was 95% (confidence interval [CI] = 89.6-98.01%), whereas the specificity for EHC, NEHC, and different disease groups were 96.3% (CI = 89.8-98.6%), 100% (CI = 95.8-100%), and 97.4% (CI = 91.02-99.3%), respectively. This specific antigen was subjected to two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and after tryptic digestion, antigen was characterized by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry. Further analysis showed that it is a member of the heat shock protein family of 70 kDa, designated as BHUP1, and has great potential in the diagnosis of VL."}
{"id": "22492142", "title": "rK39 antigen for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis by using human saliva.", "content": "rK39 antigen for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis by using human saliva. The rK39 rapid immunochromatographic test (ICT) is now being widely used in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) using serum. We evaluated the presence of anti-rK-39 antibody in human saliva being noninvasive to replace the invasive procedures of diagnosis. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and ICT assays were performed in 300 subjects: 114-confirmed VL patients, 95 and 47 healthy controls from endemic and nonendemic regions, respectively, and 44 subjects with different diseases. Sensitivity in saliva was 83.3% by ELISA and 82.5% by ICT, compared with 100% for both ICT and ELISA in serum. Specificity in saliva was 100%, 90.5%, and 88.6% with ELISA, and 91.48%, 91.57%, and 84.06% using ICT, in nonendemic, endemic, and different diseases, respectively. In serum, specificity was 97%, 88.5%, and 89% by ELISA and 100%, 94.7%, and 95.5% by ICT in nonendemic, endemic, and different diseases, respectively. Saliva is not suitable for diagnosis of VL because of low sensitivity."}
{"id": "22427411", "title": "Mucocutaneous leishmaniasis in a patient treated with anti-TNF-\u03b1 therapy.", "content": "Mucocutaneous leishmaniasis in a patient treated with anti-TNF-\u03b1 therapy."}
{"id": "22426042", "title": "The adjuvanticity of Chiococca alba saponins increases with the length and hydrophilicity of their sugar chains.", "content": "The adjuvanticity of Chiococca alba saponins increases with the length and hydrophilicity of their sugar chains. The saponins of Chiococca alba are triterpene bidesmosides that contain glycidic moieties attached to the C-3 and C-28 carbon of their aglycone. We describe that their adjuvant potential increases in direct relationship to the length and hydrophilicity of the C-28 attached sugar chain which contains: arabinose-rhamnose in the CA2, arabinose-rhamnose-xylose in the CA3X; arabinose-rhamnose-apiose in the CA3 and arabinose-rhamnose-apiose-apiose in the CA4 saponin. The hydrophile/lipophile balance calculated for CA2 was 12.7, for CA3 and CA3X was 15.8 and for CA4 19.9. All saponins were formulated with the FML antigen for mice prophylaxis against visceral leishmaniasis. The immune response was studied using an ELISA-antibody assay and monitoring of the intradermal response (IDR) to Leishmania antigens, the cytokine expression in supernatants and the intracellular staining of in vitro cultured splenocytes. After challenge, significant increases of IgG and IgG2a antibodies were noted only in the CA4 vaccinated mice that showed extended IDR, higher IFN-\u03b3 production by CD8+ and TNF-\u03b1 production by CD4+ T cells, higher TNF-\u03b1 secretion and the highest reduction of the parasite load (78%). The increases in IDR, CD4-TNF-\u03b1, CD8-IFN-\u03b3 and CD8-TNF-\u03b1 by the CA4 vaccine were strong correlates of protection and were significantly correlated to the decrease of parasite load (p=-0.007). Protection generated by the CA4 vaccine was mainly mediated by a CD4+ T cell and a TNF-\u03b1 driven response with a lower contribution of CD8+ T cells, as confirmed by an in vivo depletion with monoclonal antibodies and by vaccination assays in TNF-\u03b1-receptor knock-out mice. Our results confirm that the superiority of the CA4 saponin is related to the higher hydrophilicity of its longer carbohydrate chain. C. alba saponins were non-toxic and only the xylose-containing saponin CA3X was hemolytic (HD(50)=87 \u03bcg/ml). The increase in sugar units of the saponins is positively correlated to the increase of IDR and to the decrease of parasite load."}
{"id": "22403310", "title": "Identification of a Western blot pattern for the specific diagnosis of Trypanosoma cruzi infection in human sera.", "content": "Identification of a Western blot pattern for the specific diagnosis of Trypanosoma cruzi infection in human sera. A Western blot (WB) method using a lysate from Trypanosoma cruzi (Maracay strain) epimastigotes was evaluated. Serum samples from 37 patients with confirmed Chagas disease (cohort I), 27 Spanish patients with visceral leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania infantum (cohort II), and 28 Colombian patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by L. panamensis and negative serology for Chagas disease (cohort III) were tested. The negative controls were 55 healthy seronegative subjects for T. cruzi and Leishmania; 28 of the negative controls were from a region endemic for Chagas disease and Leishmania (cohort IV), and 27 of the negative controls were from a non-endemic area for Leishmania and T. cruzi (cohort V). A homogeneous standard band pattern consisting of six antigenic bands corresponding to 28, 32, 38, 39, 40, and 48 kDa was recognized simultaneously for all Chagasic patients' sera. Sera from Leishmania-infected patients showed a heterogeneous band pattern that was easily differentiated from the pattern of patients with Chagas disease. WB with T. cruzi epimastigote antigen is an efficient method for diagnosis and may be used as an alternative to confirm T. cruzi and detect cross-reactivity with Leishmania."}
{"id": "22389742", "title": "Predictive models for the diagnostic of human visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil.", "content": "Predictive models for the diagnostic of human visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil. In Brazil, as in many other affected countries, a large proportion of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) occurs in remote locations and treatment is often performed on basis of clinical suspicion. This study aimed at developing predictive models to help with the clinical management of VL in patients with suggestive clinical of disease. Cases of VL (n = 213) had the diagnosis confirmed by parasitological method, non-cases (n = 119) presented suggestive clinical presentation of VL but a negative parasitological diagnosis and a firm diagnosis of another disease. The original data set was divided into two samples for generation and validation of the prediction models. Prediction models based on clinical signs and symptoms, results of laboratory exams and results of five different serological tests, were developed by means of logistic regression and classification and regression trees (CART). From these models, clinical-laboratory and diagnostic prediction scores were generated. The area under the receiver operator characteristic curve, sensitivity, specificity, and positive predictive value were used to evaluate the models' performance. Based on the variables splenomegaly, presence of cough and leukopenia and on the results of five serological tests it was possible to generate six predictive models using logistic regression, showing sensitivity ranging from 90.1 to 99.0% and specificity ranging from 53.0 to 97.2%. Based on the variables splenomegaly, leukopenia, cough, age and weight loss and on the results of five serological tests six predictive models were generated using CART with sensitivity ranging from 90.1 to 97.2% and specificity ranging from 68.4 to 97.4%. The models composed of clinical-laboratory variables and the rk39 rapid test showed the best performance. The predictive models showed to be a potential useful tool to assist healthcare systems and control programs in their strategical choices, contributing to more efficient and more rational allocation of healthcare resources."}
{"id": "22370826", "title": "In-house ELISA method to analyze anti-Trypanosoma cruzi IgG reactivity for differential diagnosis and evaluation of Chagas disease morbidity.", "content": "In-house ELISA method to analyze anti-Trypanosoma cruzi IgG reactivity for differential diagnosis and evaluation of Chagas disease morbidity. The goal was to develop an in-house serological method with high specificity and sensitivity for diagnosis and monitoring of Chagas disease morbidity. With this purpose, the reactivities of anti-T. cruzi IgG and subclasses were tested in successive serum dilutions of patients from Berilo municipality, Jequitinhonha Valley, Minas Gerais, Brazil. The performance of the in-house ELISA was also evaluated in samples from other relevant infectious diseases, including HIV, hepatitis C (HCV), syphilis (SYP), visceral leishmaniasis (VL), and American tegumentary leishmaniasis (ATL), and noninfected controls (NI). Further analysis was performed to evaluate the applicability of this in-house methodology for monitoring Chagas disease morbidity into three groups of patients: indeterminate (IND), cardiac (CARD), and digestive/mixed (DIG/Mix), based on their clinical status. The analysis of total IgG reactivity at serum dilution 1:40 was an excellent approach to Chagas disease diagnosis (100% sensitivity and specificity). The analysis of IgG subclasses showed cross-reactivity, mainly with NI, VL, and ATL, at all selected serum dilutions. Based on the data analysis, the IND group displayed higher IgG3 levels and the DIG/Mix group presented higher levels of total IgG as compared with the IND and CARD groups. These findings demonstrated that methodology presents promising applicability in the analysis of anti-T. cruzi IgG reactivity for the differential diagnosis and evaluation of Chagas disease morbidity."}
{"id": "22370753", "title": "Diagnosing visceral leishmaniasis and HIV/AIDS co-infection: a case series study in Pernambuco, Brazil.", "content": "Diagnosing visceral leishmaniasis and HIV/AIDS co-infection: a case series study in Pernambuco, Brazil. HIV/AIDS-associated visceral leishmaniasis may display the characteristics of an aggressive disease or without specific symptoms at all, thus making diagnosis difficult. The present study describes the results of diagnostic tests applied to a series of suspected VL cases in HIV-infected/AIDS patients admitted in referral hospitals in Pernambuco, Brazil. From a total of 14 eligible patients with cytopenias and/or fever of an unknown etiology, and indication of bone marrow aspirate, 10 patients were selected for inclusion in the study. Diagnosis was confirmed by the following examinations: Leishmania detection in bone marrow aspirate, direct agglutination test, indirect immunofluorescence, rK39 dipstick test, polymerase chain reaction and latex agglutination test. Five out of the ten patients were diagnosed with co-infection. A positive direct agglutination test was recorded for all five co-infected patients, the Leishmania detection and latex agglutination tests were positive in four patients, the rK39 dipstick test in three, the indirect immunofluorescence in two and a positive polymerase chain reaction was recorded for one patient. This series of cases was the first to be conducted in Brazil using this set of tests in order to detect co-infection. However, no consensus has thus far been reached regarding the most appropriate examination for the screening and monitoring of this group of patients."}
{"id": "22361489", "title": "Miltefosine triggers a strong proinflammatory cytokine response during visceral leishmaniasis: role of TLR4 and TLR9.", "content": "Miltefosine triggers a strong proinflammatory cytokine response during visceral leishmaniasis: role of TLR4 and TLR9. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) caused by the protozoan parasite, Leishmania donovani, is associated with irregular fever, weight loss, hepatosplenomegaly and anemia. The therapeutic arsenal against VL is limited and the recent advent of a novel immunomodulatory drug, Miltefosine has shown promising results for effective treatment of VL but its dependence on Toll like receptors (TLR) has not been explored. In this study, we have shown that the non-cytotoxic dose (5 \u03bcM) of Miltefosine could render significant protection corresponding to 88% and 95% reduction in intracellular parasite load at 24 h and 48 h in L. donovani infected THP1 cells. This was accompanied by a strong proinflammatory cytokine response in the form of IFN-\u03b3, IL-12 and TNF-\u03b1 as evident by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and real time PCR (RT-PCR). This Miltefosine induced proinflammatory cytokine response in infected THP1 cells was also accompanied by simultaneous 10- and 12-fold increase in TLR4 mRNA and TLR9 mRNA. These changes in cytokine response and TLR expression were also studied in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of VL patients treated with Miltefosine by RT-PCR which showed similar results as in THP1 cells. Thereby, suggesting a probable dependence of Miltefosine on TLR4 and TLR9 in triggering a proinflammatory response."}
{"id": "22348817", "title": "High frequency of asymptomatic Leishmania spp. infection among HIV-infected patients living in endemic areas for visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil.", "content": "High frequency of asymptomatic Leishmania spp. infection among HIV-infected patients living in endemic areas for visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil. This study aims at estimating the prevalence of Leishmania infection among HIV-infected patients through the use of non-invasive tests. The study was conducted in three Infectious Diseases Services in two large Brazilian cities, both endemic areas for visceral leishmaniasis. Three hundred and eighty-one asymptomatic patients were enrolled whose ages ranged from 19 to 58 years old; 63.5% were men; mean TCD4+ was 380 cells/\u03bcl; and mean viral load was 153800 copies/ml. All individuals were tested for Leishmania infection through: ELISA using crude Leishmania infantum (ELISA), ELISA using the recombinant K39 antigen (rK39), indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFAT) and PCR targeted to kDNA region. The tests' positivity were: 10.8% (ELISA), 3.9% (IFAT), 0.8% (rK39), 6.3% PCR and 20.2% (overall, at least one positive test), with no statistical correlation between positivity and clinical and laboratorial variables. Concordance among tests was low (Kappa <0.20). Prevalence of Leishmania asymptomatic infection was high in this population, reinforcing the need for attention in the evaluation of HIV patients from endemic areas. New efforts are needed to develop more specific and sensitive tests to diagnose Leishmania asymptomatic infection. Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) seems to have a protective role against disease progression in co-infected individuals."}
{"id": "22303488", "title": "Comparative study of rK39 Leishmania antigen for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis: systematic review with meta-analysis.", "content": "Comparative study of rK39 Leishmania antigen for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis: systematic review with meta-analysis. The rK39 recombinant protein is derived from a specific antigen produced by the Leishmania donovani complex, and has been used in the last two decades for the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. We present here a systematic review and meta-analysis of studies evaluating serologic assays to diagnose visceral leishmaniasis to determine the accuracy of rK39 antigen in comparison to the use of other antigen preparations. A systematic review with meta-analysis of the literature was performed to compare the rK39 strip-test and ELISA formats against serological tests using promastigote antigens derived from whole or soluble parasites for Direct Aglutination Test (DAT), Indirect Immunofluorescence test (IFAT) and ELISA with a promastigote antigen preparation (p-ELISA). Gold standard diagnosis was defined by the demonstration of amastigotes on hematological specimens. A database search was performed on Medline, Lilacs, Scopus, Isi Web of Science, and Cochrane Library. Quality of data was assessed using the QUADAS questionnaire. A search of the electronic databases found 352 papers of which only 14 fulfilled the selection criteria. Three evaluated the rK39 ELISA, while 13 evaluated the rK39 immunochromatographic strip test. The summarized sensitivity for the rK39-ELISA was 92% followed by IFAT 88% and p-ELISA 87%. The summarized specificity for the three diagnostic tests was 81%, 90%, and 77%. Studies comparing the rK39 strip test with DAT found a similar sensitivity of 94%, although the DAT had a slightly higher specificity. The rK39 strip test was more sensitive and specific than the IFAT and p-ELISA. We did not detect any difference in the sensitivity and specificity between strips produced by different manufacturers. The rK39 protein used either in a strip test or in an ELISA, and the DAT are the best choices for implementation of rapid, easy and efficient test for serodiagnosis of VL."}
{"id": "22221754", "title": "Preparation and evaluation of a glycerol-preserved direct agglutination antigen for long-term preservation: a comparative study of the detection of anti-Leishmania infantum antibodies in human and dog.", "content": "Preparation and evaluation of a glycerol-preserved direct agglutination antigen for long-term preservation: a comparative study of the detection of anti-Leishmania infantum antibodies in human and dog. To prepare and evaluate a glycerol-preserved antigen from an Iranian strain of Leishmania infantum (L. infantum) for use in glycerol-preserved direct agglutination tests (GP-DAT) as an alternative to freeze dried direct agglutination tests (FD-DAT) that use freeze-dried antigen. Glycerol-preserved DAT antigen was prepared and stored at different temperatures. We tested antigen stored at 4 \u00b0C, 22-37 \u00b0C and 50 \u00b0C over a period of 365 days. Seven hundred twenty-nine serum samples were collected from different geographical zones of Iran from 2007-2009, and 80 of these samples were pooled to produce sera. Each pooled serum contained 10 sera. All positive and negative pooled sera were separately tested for anti-L. infantum antibodies with GP-DAT, FD-DAT and formaldehyde-fixed direct agglutination test (FF-DAT) antigens; tests were performed on both human and dog sera over a period of 12 months. There was strong agreement between the results obtained using GP-DAT and FD-DAT antigens stored at 22-37 \u00b0C for 12 months for both human (100%) and dog (100%) pooled sera. The direct agglutination test results were highly reproducible (weighted kappa: GP=0.833, FD=0.979 and FF=0.917). Because GP-DAT antigen is highly stable over a range of temperatures and is easy to transport in the field, this type of antigen may be particularly useful in areas with endemic visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "22137192", "title": "Is leishmaniasis widespread in Spain? First data on canine leishmaniasis in the province of Lleida, Catalonia, northeast Spain.", "content": "Is leishmaniasis widespread in Spain? First data on canine leishmaniasis in the province of Lleida, Catalonia, northeast Spain. Canine leishmaniasis (CanL) is a widespread disease present in 42 countries. It is considered of epidemiological importance because of its role as a reservoir of human leishmaniasis. Knowledge of the real distribution of CanL and its emergence and/or re-emergence is of great importance in order to determine the extension of the disease. This work reports the detection of CanL in a farm dog located in a Pyrenean area of northwest Catalonia (Spain) where the disease was previously unknown. Since the dog had never left the region and sandfly vectors, Phlebotomus ariasi and P. perniciosus, were present in the farm the case is considered as autochthonous and is the first to be published in this region of Spain."}
{"id": "22065060", "title": "Diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis: developments over the last decade.", "content": "Diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis: developments over the last decade. Diagnostic parameters for visceral leishmaniasis (VL), a potentially fatal parasitic disease caused by Leishmania donovani, have been redefined in the last decade with the development of serological and molecular tests, though a definitive diagnosis still banks on the century-old parasitological methods in many areas. Recombinant antigens have improved performance of serodiagnostic methods. Serology-based tests, rk39 antigen dipstick, and direct agglutination test commonly employed in the field are highly sensitive methods, however, fail to distinguish past infections. Molecular approaches have become increasingly relevant due to remarkable sensitivity, specificity, and flexibility in choice of samples. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction is a highly sensitive and specific tool used in referral labs for detection/assessment of parasite load in VL patients and subsequently in monitoring treatment response to antileishmanial agents. The method displays potential to provide threshold for distinguishing asymptomatics in endemic areas. Currently, improvement in VL diagnostics is required for successful decentralized (point-of-care) testing in field conditions and to detect VL-HIV co-infection. Techniques such as loop-mediated isothermal amplification offer a reliable molecular diagnostic method for field application. The diagnosis based on bioanalytics/biosensors promise frontiers for point-of-care VL detection after adequate standardization. This review summarizes the recent developments in VL diagnostics, drawing attention towards the need for standardization of the diagnostics across the affected regions."}
{"id": "21722262", "title": "Evaluation of rK28 antigen for serodiagnosis of visceral Leishmaniasis in India.", "content": "Evaluation of rK28 antigen for serodiagnosis of visceral Leishmaniasis in India. Antibody detection is a safely applied method at the wide scale in diagnosis of visceral Leishmaniasis (VL). In order to further advance serodiagnosis, the rK28 antigen has been recently introduced as a candidate for diagnosis of VL. We evaluated the sensitivity and specificity of the rK28 antigen in a micro-ELISA format in comparison to the rk39 antigen. The test was conducted on 252 parasitologically confirmed VL cases, 103 endemic healthy controls, 95 non-endemic healthy controls, 88 other infectious disease and 53 follow-up cases. Of 252 parasitologically confirmed VL cases, 251 cases were reported positive by rK28 antigen, yielding 99.6% sensitivity (95% CI, 0.97-0.99), which was similar to the sensitivity of rK39 ELISA (99.6%) (95% CI, 0.97-0.99). Specificity of the rK28 antigen in non-endemic and endemic healthy controls was 100% (95% CI 0.96-1) and 94.17% (95% CI, 0.88-0.97), respectively. In 88 different diseases, specificity was 95.45% (95% CI, 0.84-0.96). With the rK39 antigen, specificity of non-endemic and endemic controls and different diseases was 100% (95% CI 0.96-1), 92.23% (95% CI 0.85-0.96) and 96.59% (95% CI 0.90-0.98), respectively. Our results show that rK39 and rK28 antigens have similar sensitivity and specificity and rK28 can also be used as a serodiagnostic tool in the endemic population of Bihar."}
{"id": "21710347", "title": "Performance of rK39 immunochromatography and freeze-dried direct agglutination tests in the diagnosis of imported visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Performance of rK39 immunochromatography and freeze-dried direct agglutination tests in the diagnosis of imported visceral leishmaniasis. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is one of the neglected tropical diseases that require a global policy for integrated control programs. The disease is fatal if untreated, affects \u223c500,000 persons/year, and is most prevalent in poor countries. Treatment is expensive and carries a risk of toxicity. Therefore, sensitive and specific diagnosis of VL is crucial to avoid under- or overdiagnosis. Selecting an appropriate serological diagnostic test is an issue of controversy and depends on geographic location. The study aimed to evaluate the performance of two serological techniques: recombinant antigen K39 (rK39)-immunochromatographic (IC) lateral flow assay (InBios, USA) that uses a recombinant Leishmania antigen K39 and the specific IgG detection by direct agglutination test (DAT, for the diagnosis of imported VL in non-endemic region (Saudi Arabia). The diagnostic accuracy of the two assays was assessed using bone marrow aspiration, direct microscopic examination, and culture on NNN agar as the \"gold standard\". The bone marrow specimens from Indian, Sudanese, and Bengali patients (n\u2009=\u200998) with suspected VL features were cultured. Thirty-five specimens were positive (36%). The sensitivity and specificity of rK39-IC test were 89% (95% CI 78-99) and 92% (95% CI 85-99), respectively. DAT (with cutoff \u22651:1,600) showed comparable results (sensitivity 94%; 95% CI 87-101 and specificity 95%; 95% CI 90-100). To conclude, the performance of rK39-IC test and DAT is comparable. Both tests are moderately sensitive and specific and could be used to facilitate the global drive to eliminate this disease. The rK39-IC test is a rapid, easy-to-perform test and can be used as a point-of-care diagnostic method."}
{"id": "21533874", "title": "Leishmaniasis: new insights from an old and neglected disease.", "content": "Leishmaniasis: new insights from an old and neglected disease. Leishmaniases are a clinically heterogeneous group of diseases caused by protozoa of the genus Leishmania. There is growing evidence that the true incidence of the disease is underestimated, especially in hyperendemic regions. Moreover, climate changes together with the increasing movement of humans and animals raise concerns about the possible introduction of Leishmania infection in previously spared areas. The disease is emerging in immunocompromised patients undergoing bone marrow or solid organ transplantation or treatment with biologic drugs. Furthermore, the deployment of military troops and travel to endemic areas are associated with the observation of a growing number of patients with cutaneous disease. Improvement in diagnostic methods, both in the field and in specialized laboratories, has been obtained through the implementation of molecular amplification methods and using the rK39 antigen as the substrate. Finally, new therapeutic approaches are gaining attention, such as the use of miltefosine for cutaneous leishmaniasis and paromomycin for visceral leishmaniasis, as well as the use of various antileishmanial drugs in combination."}
{"id": "22203498", "title": "Serological monitoring of paediatric visceral leishmaniasis By IFA and ELISA methods.", "content": "Serological monitoring of paediatric visceral leishmaniasis By IFA and ELISA methods. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is endemic in all Mediterranean countries including Turkey, and children are at greater risk than adults in endemic areas. In VL patients, serological assays are considered to be sensitive for the diagnosis and/or follow up. The aim of this study was to assess the usefulness of serology for following up of childhood VL in Turkey. Sera obtained from twenty parasitologically confirmed children with VL were tested using IFAT and ELISA. The patients were monitored clinically and serologically (range: 20-500 days) during and after treatment. All VL patients were treated with meglumine antimonate. Anti-Leishmania antibodies in successfully treated VL patients showed a steep decline but, in three patients who had relapsed, an increase was detected. Significantly lower values were observed after treatment with both serological techniques. Mean ELISA optical density values before and after treatment were: 0.78 \u00b1 0.36 (0.26-1.76) and 0.38 \u00b1 0.24 (0.09-0.83) respectively, (p < 0.001) and mean IFAT values (log10 transformed titers) before and after treatment were: 3.02 \u00b1 0.90 (1.81-4.51) and 2.16 \u00b1 0.75 (1.20-3.90) respectively, (p < 0.001). ELISA and IFAT are valuable not only for diagnosis but also for monitoring of drug therapy in childhood visceral leishmaniasis as rapid and non-invasive techniques."}
{"id": "22198886", "title": "Visceral leishmaniasis in renal transplant patient.", "content": "Visceral leishmaniasis in renal transplant patient."}
{"id": "22180796", "title": "Epidemiologic aspects of an emerging focus of visceral leishmaniasis in Tbilisi, Georgia.", "content": "Epidemiologic aspects of an emerging focus of visceral leishmaniasis in Tbilisi, Georgia. Over the last 15 years, visceral leishmaniasis (VL) has emerged as a public health concern in Tbilisi, the capital of Georgia. Seroepidemiological surveys were conducted to determine the prevalence and incidence of infection in children and dogs within the main focus of VL, and to identify risk factors associated with human infection. Of 4,250 children investigated, 7.3% were positive by direct agglutination test in a baseline survey; an apparent incidence rate of 6.0% was estimated by one year follow-up. None of the seropositive children progressed to VL during the survey. Increased seropositivity at one year was predicted by presence at baseline of clustered flying insects (OR\u200a=\u200a1.49; P\u200a=\u200a0.001), perceived satisfactory sanitation (OR\u200a=\u200a1.65; P<0.001), stray dogs (OR\u200a=\u200a1.33; P\u200a=\u200a0.023), and by persistent fever during the 6 months prior to baseline survey (OR\u200a=\u200a14.2; P<0.001). Overall, 18.2% (107/588) of domestic and 15.3% (110/718) of stray dogs were seropositive by the rk39 dipstick test. Clinical VL signs were found in 1.3% of domestic and 2.9% of stray, seropositive dogs. Parasites isolated from human and dog samples were identified by PCR and phylogenetic analysis of the Leishmania 70 kDa heat-shock protein (HSP70) gene as Leishmania infantum. There is an active focus of L. infantum transmission in Tbilisi with a high prevalence of human and canine infections."}
{"id": "22144438", "title": "Characterization of novel Leishmania infantum recombinant proteins encoded by genes from five families with distinct capacities for serodiagnosis of canine and human visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Characterization of novel Leishmania infantum recombinant proteins encoded by genes from five families with distinct capacities for serodiagnosis of canine and human visceral leishmaniasis. To expand the available panel of recombinant proteins that can be useful for identifying Leishmania-infected dogs and for diagnosing human visceral leishmaniasis (VL), we selected recombinant antigens from L. infantum, cDNA, and genomic libraries by using pools of serum samples from infected dogs and humans. The selected DNA fragments encoded homologs of a cytoplasmic heat-shock protein 70, a kinesin, a polyubiquitin, and two novel hypothetical proteins. Histidine-tagged recombinant proteins were produced after subcloning these DNA fragments and evaluated by using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays with panels of canine and human serum samples. The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays with different recombinant proteins had different sensitivities (67.4-93.0% and 36.4-97.2%) and specificities (76.1-100% and 90.4-97.3%) when tested with serum samples from Leishmania-infected dogs and human patients with VL. Overall, no single recombinant antigen was sufficient to serodiagnosis all canine or human VL cases."}
{"id": "22124592", "title": "Anti-citrullinated peptide antibodies and rheumatoid factor in Sudanese patients with Leishmania donovani infection.", "content": "Anti-citrullinated peptide antibodies and rheumatoid factor in Sudanese patients with Leishmania donovani infection. The present study evaluated the presence of anti-cyclic citrullinated peptides antibodies (anti-CCP), rheumatoid factor (RF), and circulating immune complexes (CIC) in Sudanese patients infected with the Leishmania donovani parasite. Sera were collected from Leishmania infected patients (n = 116) and healthy Sudanese (n = 93). Nineteen Sudanese anti-CCP+ RA patients were included as positive controls. Levels of CIC and anti-CCP were measured by ELISA. Control plate with cyclic control peptides containing arginine instead of citrulline was used to evaluate citrulline specifi c reactivity. Among Leishmania-infected patients and anti-CCP+ RA patients, most were RF positive (86%), while the frequency of CIC positivity was higher among visceral leishmaniasis (VL) patients (VL 38%; anti-CCP+ RA 24%). When anti-CCP reactivity was analysed, 12% of VL patients were found to be positive. The levels of anti-CCP among VL patients correlated well with the CIC levels found (r = 0.65, P < 0.0001). In RA group, no association was found between CIC and anti-CCP. The possibility that anti-CCP positivity was due to cross reactions with CIC was experimentally ruled out. Contrary to what was seen in Sudanese RA sera, the CCP reactivity was not restricted to citrulline but reacted equally well with the arginine control peptide. The finding that CCP reactivity was not restricted to citrulline argues that this is more an effect of extensive inflammation and immune activation than a sign of shared pathogenic characteristics with anti-CCP arthritis. Our fi ndings stress the importance to interpret a positive CCP test carefully when evaluated in non-rheumatic conditions or in areas where such infections predominate."}
{"id": "22088188", "title": "[Visceral leishmaniasis associated hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis: report of four childhood cases].", "content": "[Visceral leishmaniasis associated hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis: report of four childhood cases]. The clinical features of four cases of visceral leishmaniasis (VL)-associated hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (VL-HLH) were retrospectively analyzed for the purpose of helping the diagnosis of secondary HLH. Clinical data of three childhood cases of VL-HLH documented in our hospital and one case diagnosed in the Capital Institute of Pediatrics was reviewed retrospectively, with particular emphasis on peculiar clinical manifestations and on clues to the diagnosis of this relatively rare disease entity. Three children were from endemic areas of VL, and the other one had lived in endemic area for one year, which was revealed by detailed history-taking. Clinically, VL-HLH is characterized by persistent fever, hepatosplenomegaly and pancytopenia, which is similar to those of HLH, and is one of the important reasons of delayed diagnosis or misdiagnosis. Based on the HLH-2004 protocol, all the four cases met the diagnostic criteria of HLH. In addition, bone marrow aspirate and immunologic detection of VL-specific antibody via rk39 dipstick test during the early disease course of VL-HLH yielded negative results. Two cases who received HLH-targeted therapy responded reasonably well, with rapid temperature normalization and spleen retraction. Nevertheless, Hb remained lower than normal, which we believed to be related to persistent red cell destruction by the invading parasite Leishmania donovani. VL, a parasitic disease caused by Leishmania donovani, which is currently endemic just in 6 provinces in China, shares similar clinical picture of HLH and is an easily ignored underlying cause of secondary HLH. We suggest that VL should be in the list of differential diagnosis for any patients with HLH who lives in or has a definite travel history to endemic areas. Repeated bone marrow studies are highly warranted to make a definite diagnosis of VL, because bone marrow aspirate or rk39 dipstick test during early disease course might yield negative results. Although VL-HLH responds quite well to HLH-tailored chemotherapy, specific therapy against VL must be given to prevent disease recurrence, and HLH-targeted chemotherapy might be discontinued to prevent chemotherapy-related toxicities."}
{"id": "22037435", "title": "[Which screening for Leishmania infantum in asymptomatic blood donors?].", "content": "[Which screening for Leishmania infantum in asymptomatic blood donors?]. Leishmaniasis is a protozoan infection endemic in Italy with a greatly underestimated prevalence. The recent documentation of parasitaemia in blood donors is a cause of concern for blood safety. Because there is no screening against leishmania, we performed a study to assess the presence of protozoa in blood donors of Siena district (Tuscany) during the seasonal activity of the vector. From June to October 2007, 162 patients were screened for Leishmania infantum by indirect immunofluorescence serology (IFAT) and PCR for kinetoplast (kDNA). No subject was positive for antibodies, while 11 samples (6.8%) were positive for kDNA. A second PCR (nested-PCR) was negative for all kDNA positive individuals and other subjects for a total of 55 samples (33% of total subjects). The sequence analysis of three samples positive for kDNA was compatible with mitochondrial DNA. Through the techniques used, we were unable to confirm the presence of leishmania in the blood of the subjects studied. The choice of the diagnostic protocol in blood donors remains an open issue as molecular analysis (kDNA) seems to suggest, in our experience, limits of specificity."}
{"id": "21991751", "title": "Serum chemokine profiles in visceral leishmaniasis, HIV and HIV/ visceral leishmaniasis co-infected Ethiopian patients.", "content": "Serum chemokine profiles in visceral leishmaniasis, HIV and HIV/ visceral leishmaniasis co-infected Ethiopian patients. The search for a correlation between chemokine levels in plasma or serum and protection from HIV infection or progression to AIDS has been attempted by a number of workers. Chemokines are also suggested to play a role in immunity to Leishmania and Leishmania co-infection with HIV. To assess plasma level of alpha chemokine (CXCL12, formerly known as SDF-1alpha) and beta chemokines (CCL3, CCL4 and CCL5, formerly known as MIP-1alpha, MIP-1beta and RANTES, respectively) in HIV Visceral Leishmaniasis (VL) and HIV/VL coinfection. Frozen serum samples from a cross sectional study were used. The samples (n = 80) were comprised of healthy controls (n = 20), HIV patients (n = 20); Visceral Leishmaniasis (VL) patients (n = 22), and HIV/VL coinfected patients (n = 18). Chemokine levels of MIP-1alpha, MIP-1beta, RANTES, and SDF-1alpha of the serum samples were determined using ELISA. MIP-1alpha and MIP-1beta expression were significantly elevated in Leishmania infected (p < 0.001) and in HIV/ VL co-infected individuals (p < 0.001) as compared to the control groups, while no significant difference was seen between HIV infected patients p > 0.05, implying that VL alone might modulate the production of these two chemokines in the case of co-infection In RANTES, however, its expression was significantly higher in HIV patients compared to controls (p = 0.002). Further assessment of serum RANTES concentration in HIV patients has shown a tendency of negative association with viral load. Higher amount of the alpha chemokine, SDF-1alpha, was detected in the HIV patients (p = 0.001) than the control group. Also a trend of positive association between SDF-1alpha and CD4 count was observed From our data we can speculate that RANTES and SDF-1alpha might be involved in the regulation of HIV; and MIP-1alpha and MIP-1beta in VL. Therefore, enhancing or suppressing the production of these chemokines might help in therapeutic intervention of VL or HIV."}
{"id": "21985818", "title": "How do health care providers deal with kala-azar in the Indian subcontinent?", "content": "How do health care providers deal with kala-azar in the Indian subcontinent? Three countries, Bangladesh, India and Nepal, set out to eliminate kala-azar by 2015. This study was aimed to document the knowledge and practices in kala-azar case management of public and private health providers in these three countries. A health care provider survey was conducted in 2007 at 4 study sites, viz., Muzaffarpur and Vaishali districts in India, Mahottari district in Nepal, and Rajshahi district in Bangladesh. Interviews were conducted with formal and informal health care providers at their home or practice. About half of the providers in India and Nepal knew the rapid diagnostic test rK39 recommended by the elimination initiative, but this was not in Bangladesh. Knowledge of the recommended first-line drug, miltefosine, was good in India and Nepal but less so in Bangladesh. Innovative tools for VL care have not yet been fully taken up by private for profit care providers in the three countries that launched a VL elimination initiative. The elimination initiative needs to address these gaps in private providers' knowledge, given their substantial share in the care of VL patients."}
{"id": "21980785", "title": "Maternal brucellosis and human pregnancy.", "content": "Maternal brucellosis and human pregnancy. Brucellosis is a worldwide zoonotic gram-negative bacterium of worldwide distribution. Its role in causing miscarriage in animals is well documented. Data on its role in human abortion are very few. This paper was carried out on selected women with abortion or history of abortion to clarify the role of brucellosis in human abortion. A total of 129 women were selected from Al-Zahraa University Hospital and other obstetric and gynecological hospitals in the vicinity of Greater Cairo. The patients were subjected to clinical, gynecological, and serodiagnosis (STAT and ELISA) of brucellosis. Also, routine urine (Nuclepore technique) and stool (Kato thick smear) was done as well as skin tests and ELISA for common hepatic parasites. The results showed that 59 had brucellosis, 27 had toxoplasmosis, 15 had fascioliasis and 29 had other cause(s) of abortion. Meanwhile, none had visceral leishmaniasis or schistosomiasis mansoni. the signs and symptoms of all patients were hepatosplenomegaly (31.1%), lower back abdominal pain (23.13%), lassitude, headache (each, 21.7%), lymphadenopathy (20.1%), vomiting (17.1%), loss of appetite, myalgia or diarrhea or constipation (each, 15.42 %), weight loss (14.6%), chest pain (13.9%), night sweating or dizziness (11.65%), fever or right sided abdominal pain (each, 10.7%), chills (7.71%), urticaria or monoarthralgia (each, 3.85%). These signs and symptoms were confusing for specific clinical picture of brucellosis. Brucellosis patients were successfully treated with a combination of Rifampicin 600 mg. once daily and Septrin 800 mg twice daily for 6 weeks. Cure was achieved clinically and serologically. Patients with toxoplasmosis or fascioliasis were also treated with Fasinex and Mirazid respectively. Other parasites were also treated."}
{"id": "21936087", "title": "[Human and canine visceral leishmaniasis in the Papsky District, Namangan Region, Uzbekistan: seroepidemiological and seroepizootological surveys].", "content": "[Human and canine visceral leishmaniasis in the Papsky District, Namangan Region, Uzbekistan: seroepidemiological and seroepizootological surveys]. In 2007 - 2008, four (Chodak, Oltinkan, Gulistan, and Chorkesar) of 9 population aggregates in the Papsky District, Namangan Region, Uzbekistan, where visceral leishmaniasis (VL) cases had been registered in the last years were selected to make seroepidemiological and seroepizootological surveys within the international project funded by INTAS grant 05-100006-8043. The surveys of the populations were conducted visiting their homesteads. These additionally included children's and health care facilities where all children aged less than 14 years were examined. On examining the children, their peripheral blood (approximately 0.1 ml) was taken on filter paper for serological assays. Canine blood was sampled from the vein. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was carried out to detect antibodies to VL pathogens. A total of 521 children were examined for two years, by applying ELISA. Five hundred and fourteen blood samples from children younger than 14 years, 162 dogs, 4 foxes, and 1 cat were tested. Testing 514 children's blood samples for VL pathogen antigen ascertained that in the 4 population aggregates there was an average of 10% VL-seropositive children, including those who were ill with VL at the moment of the examination and had been ill. The highest number of VL-seropositive samples (14.9%) was found in the settlement of Chodak. VL pathogen antibodies were detected in 26 (61.9%) of 42 dogs with the clinical signs of VL. VL-positive tests were found in 26 (21.6%) of 120 apparently healthy dogs. The samples from 4 foxes and 1 cat were negative. Immunological findings indicated that 0-3-year-old children were a group that is most susceptible to VL in the study focus of this disease. The high proportion of dogs with VL may account for the rise in infant morbidity and suggests the epizootic strain in the focus of VL in the Papsky District."}
{"id": "21931871", "title": "Serological markers of sand fly exposure to evaluate insecticidal nets against visceral leishmaniasis in India and Nepal: a cluster-randomized trial.", "content": "Serological markers of sand fly exposure to evaluate insecticidal nets against visceral leishmaniasis in India and Nepal: a cluster-randomized trial. Visceral leishmaniasis is the world' second largest vector-borne parasitic killer and a neglected tropical disease, prevalent in poor communities. Long-lasting insecticidal nets (LNs) are a low cost proven vector intervention method for malaria control; however, their effectiveness against visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is unknown. This study quantified the effect of LNs on exposure to the sand fly vector of VL in India and Nepal during a two year community intervention trial. As part of a paired-cluster randomized controlled clinical trial in VL-endemic regions of India and Nepal we tested the effect of LNs on sand fly biting by measuring the antibody response of subjects to the saliva of Leishmania donovani vector Phlebotomus argentipes and the sympatric (non-vector) Phlebotomus papatasi. Fifteen to 20 individuals above 15 years of age from 26 VL endemic clusters were asked to provide a blood sample at baseline, 12 and 24 months post-intervention. A total of 305 individuals were included in the study, 68 participants provided two blood samples and 237 gave three samples. A random effect linear regression model showed that cluster-wide distribution of LNs reduced exposure to P. argentipes by 12% at 12 months (effect 0.88; 95% CI 0.83-0.94) and 9% at 24 months (effect 0.91; 95% CI 0.80-1.02) in the intervention group compared to control adjusting for baseline values and pair. Similar results were obtained for P. papatasi. This trial provides evidence that LNs have a limited effect on sand fly exposure in VL endemic communities in India and Nepal and supports the use of sand fly saliva antibodies as a marker to evaluate vector control interventions."}
{"id": "21931201", "title": "Validation of a \u03b2-ME ELISA for detection of anti Leishmania donovani antibodies in Eastern Sudan.", "content": "Validation of a \u03b2-ME ELISA for detection of anti Leishmania donovani antibodies in Eastern Sudan. A \u03b2-mercaptoethnol (\u03b2-ME)-treated promastigote antigen of L. donovani was successfully employed in direct agglutination test (DAT) for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). The \u03b2-ME-treated antigen was further incorporated into an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay set-up (\u03b2-ME ELISA) and evaluated for VL diagnosis against outcome of reference freeze-dried DAT (FD-DAT) and rK39 strip test (RKT) commercial kits. Two-hundred and ninety-two sera from patients with high VL suspicion of whom 105 had confirmed L. donovani infection were tested. Relatively higher sensitivities of 93.3% (95% CI: 88.4-98.2) and 92.4% (95% CI: 87.3-97.5) were determined for \u03b2-ME ELISA and FD-DAT as compared to 83.8% (95% CI: 76.7-90.8) for RKT. Of 73 VL sera that scored maximum absorbance values (>0.81) in \u03b2-ME ELISA, 66 (90.4%) tested at the highest agglutination titres (>1:51200) in FD-DAT as did 56 (76.7%) also at comparable reaction intensities (3 + colour intensity) in RKT. Compared with FD-DAT (94.7%, 95% CI: 91.5-97.9) or RKT (93.0%, 95% CI: 89.3-96.6), lower specificity was estimated for \u03b2-ME ELISA (90.4%, 95% CI: 86.1-94.6). Based both on positive and negative microscopy for L. donovani in organ aspirates of all VL suspects enrolled (292), significantly higher correlation (p<0.01, 0.919) was established between \u03b2-ME ELISA and FD-DAT than between \u03b2-ME ELISA and RKT (p<0.01, 0.824). Taking into calculation the combined estimates of sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values, higher agreement (94.8%) was determined between total performance of \u03b2-ME ELISA and FD-DAT than between that of \u03b2-ME ELISA and RKT (90.7%). Based on results and merits discussed, we recommend application of this \u03b2-ME ELISA both for diagnosis of VL at laboratory level and confirmation of results obtained with DAT or RKT in the field."}
{"id": "21890159", "title": "Wild, synanthropic and domestic hosts of Leishmania in an endemic area of cutaneous leishmaniasis in Minas Gerais State, Brazil.", "content": "Wild, synanthropic and domestic hosts of Leishmania in an endemic area of cutaneous leishmaniasis in Minas Gerais State, Brazil. Domestic, synanthropic and wild hosts of Leishmania spp. parasites were studied in an area endemic for American tegumentary leishmaniasis (ATL), specifically in northern Minas Gerais State, Brazil. Domestic dogs and small forest mammals are reservoir hosts for L. (Leishmania) infantum. However, the role that these animals play in the transmission cycle of the Leishmania spp. that cause cutaneous leishmaniasis is not well known. This study evaluated 72 rodents, 25 marsupials and 98 domestic dogs found in two villages of the Xakriab\u00e1 Indigenous Territory, an area of intense ATL transmission. A total of 23 dogs (23.47%) were shown to be positive according to at least one test; 8 dogs (8.16%) tested positive in a single serological test and 15 dogs (15.31%) tested positive by IFAT and ELISA. Eleven dogs were euthanised to allow for molecular diagnosis, of which nine (81.8%) tested positive by PCR for Leishmania in at least one tissue. Seven animals were infected only with L. (L.) infantum, whilst two displayed a mixed infection of L. (L.) infantum and L. (V.) braziliensis. Isoenzymatic characterisation identified L. (L.) infantum parasites isolated from the bone marrow of two dogs. Of the 97 small mammals captured, 24 tested positive for Leishmania by PCR. The results showed that L. (V.) braziliensis, L. (L.) infantum and L. (V.) guyanensis are circulating among wild and synanthropic mammals present in the Xakriab\u00e1 Reserve, highlighting the epidemiological diversity of ATL in this region."}
{"id": "21858243", "title": "Prevalence and factors associated with Leishmania infantum infection of dogs from an urban area of Brazil as identified by molecular methods.", "content": "Prevalence and factors associated with Leishmania infantum infection of dogs from an urban area of Brazil as identified by molecular methods. Various factors contribute to the urbanization of the visceral leishmaniasis (VL), including the difficulties of implementing control measures relating to the domestic reservoir. The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence of canine visceral leishmaniasis in an urban endemic area in Brazil and the factors associated with Leishmania infantum infection among seronegative and PCR-positive dogs. A cross-sectional study was conducted in Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil. Blood samples were collected from 1,443 dogs. Serology was carried out by using two enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (Biomanguinhos/FIOCRUZ/RJ and \"in house\"), and molecular methods were developed, including PCR-RFLP. To identify the factors associated with early stages of infection, only seronegative (n\u200a=\u200a1,213) animals were evaluated. These animals were divided into two groups: PCR-positive (n\u200a=\u200a296) and PCR-negative (n\u200a=\u200a917) for L. infantum DNA. A comparison of these two groups of dogs taking into consideration the characteristics of the animals and their owners was performed. A mixed logistic regression model was used to identify factors associated with L. infantum infection. Of the 1,443 dogs examined, 230 (15.9%) were seropositive in at least one ELISA, whereas PCR-RFLP revealed that 356 animals (24.7%) were positive for L. infantum DNA. Results indicated that the associated factors with infection were family income<twice the Brazilian minimum salary (OR 2.3; 95%CI 1.4-3.8), knowledge of the owner regarding the vector (OR 1.9; 95%CI 1.1-3.4), the dog staying predominantly in the backyard (OR 2.2; 95%CI 1.1-4.1), and a lack of previous serological examination for VL (OR 1.5; 95%CI 1.1-2.3). PCR detected a high prevalence of L. infantum infection in dogs in an area under the Control Program of VL intervention. Socioeconomic variables, dog behavior and the knowledge of the owner regarding the vector were factors associated with canine visceral leishmaniasis (CVL). The absence of previous serological examination conducted by the control program was also associated with L. infantum infection. It is necessary to identify the risk factors associated with CVL to understand the expansion and urbanization of VL."}
{"id": "21765960", "title": "Evidence that lipopolisaccharide may contribute to the cytokine storm and cellular activation in patients with visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Evidence that lipopolisaccharide may contribute to the cytokine storm and cellular activation in patients with visceral leishmaniasis. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is characterized by parasite-specific immunosuppression besides an intense pro-inflammatory response. Lipopolisaccharide (LPS) has been implicated in the immune activation of T-cell deficient diseases such as HIV/AIDS and idiopathic lymphocytopenia. The source of LPS is gram-negative bacteria that enter the circulation because of immunological mucosal barrier breakdown. As gut parasitization also occurs in VL, it was hypothesized that LPS may be elevated in leishmaniasis, contributing to cell activation. Flow cytometry analysis and immunoassays (ELISA and luminex micro-beads system) were used to quantify T-cells and soluble factors. Higher LPS and soluble CD14 levels were observed in active VL in comparison to healthy subjects, indicating that LPS was bioactive; there was a positive correlation between these molecules (r\u200a=\u200a0.61;p<0.05). Interestingly, LPS was negatively correlated with CD4(+) (r\u200a=\u200a-0.71;p<0.01) and CD8(+) T-cells (r\u200a=\u200a-0.65;p<0.05). Moreover, higher levels of activation-associated molecules (HLA-DR, CD38, CD25) were seen on T lymphocytes, which were positively associated with LPS levels. Pro-inflammatory cytokines and macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) were also augmented in VL patients. Consistent with the higher immune activation status, LPS levels were positively correlated with the inflammatory cytokines IL-6 (r\u200a=\u200a0.63;p<0.05), IL-8 (r\u200a=\u200a0.89;p<0.05), and MIF (r\u200a=\u200a0.64;p<0.05). Also, higher plasma intestinal fatty acid binding protein (IFABP) levels were observed in VL patients, which correlated with LPS levels (r\u200a=\u200a0.57;p<0.05). Elevated levels of LPS in VL, in correlation with T-cell activation and elevated pro-inflammatory cytokines and MIF indicate that this bacterial product may contribute to the impairment in immune effector function. The cytokine storm and chronic immune hyperactivation status may contribute to the observed T-cell depletion. LPS probably originates from microbial translocation as suggested by IFABP levels and, along with Leishmania antigen-mediated immune suppression, may play a role in the immunopathogenesis of VL. These findings point to possible benefits of antimicrobial prophylaxis in conjunction with anti-Leishmania therapy."}
{"id": "21762596", "title": "Easy test for visceral Leishmaniasis and post-Kala-azar Dermal Leishmaniasis.", "content": "Easy test for visceral Leishmaniasis and post-Kala-azar Dermal Leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "21715587", "title": "Diagnosis of mediterranean visceral leishmaniasis by detection of leishmania antibodies and leishmania DNA in oral fluid samples collected using an Oracol device.", "content": "Diagnosis of mediterranean visceral leishmaniasis by detection of leishmania antibodies and leishmania DNA in oral fluid samples collected using an Oracol device. Current methods for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) require invasive sampling procedures such as visceral aspiration and/or blood drawing. The use of diagnostic tests using oral fluid, which is easier to collect, would be more simple and practical for VL diagnosis, especially under field conditions. Oral fluids from 37 VL patients and 40 healthy controls were collected using Oracol devices. Blood samples and oral fluid specimens from both groups were analyzed by recombinant protein K39 (rK39) enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and quantitative real-time PCR. Detection of antibodies in the oral fluid had a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 97.5%. Antibody levels measured in serum and oral fluid showed a significant positive correlation (\u03c1 = 0.655 and P = 0.01). Detection of Leishmania DNA in oral fluid had a sensitivity of 94.6% and a specificity of 90%. The median parasite load estimated in blood was 133 parasites/ml (interquartile range [IR], 10 to 1,048), whereas that in oral fluid specimens was 3 parasites/ml (IR, 0.41 to 92). However, there was no significant linear relationship between parasite loads assessed in the two biological samples (\u03c1 = 0.31 and P = 0.06). VL diagnosis based on specific antibody detection and Leishmania DNA identification using oral fluid samples was equivalent in accuracy to that using blood and therefore is promising for clinical use."}
{"id": "21708392", "title": "Evaluation of rk39 immunochromatographic test with urine for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Evaluation of rk39 immunochromatographic test with urine for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. This study evaluates commercially available rK39 immunochromatographic strips using urine for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Freshly collected urine and serum samples of 280 parasitologically confirmed VL patients and 66 endemic healthy controls (EHC), 48 nonendemic healthy controls (NEHC) and 45 different diseases were tested with rK39 strips. The sensitivity of rK39 in urine was 96.4% while the specificity was low varying from 66.7% in EHC, 77.08% in NEHC to 62.2% in different diseases. With serum, sensitivity was 100% whereas the specificity was 100%, 92.4% and 95.55% for the respective control groups. In the present format, the immunochromatographic strips cannot be used for the diagnosis of VL using urine samples."}
{"id": "21616516", "title": "Direct agglutination test (DAT): improvement of biosafety for laboratory diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Direct agglutination test (DAT): improvement of biosafety for laboratory diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. In this study, the direct agglutination test (DAT), using 2-mercaptoethanol (2-ME), kaolin or N-acetylcysteine (NAC) as sample diluents, was used to assay 89 samples from visceral leishmaniasis (VL) patients and 130 samples from patients with other diseases and healthy individuals. Maintaining a cut-off of 1:100, the DAT assays with 2-ME, kaolin or NAC presented sensitivities of 94.4%, 95.5% and 100% (P = 0.09) and specificities of 99.2%, 100% and 97.7% (P = 0.17), respectively. Based on these results, we suggest that NAC can be used as a replacement for 2-ME in the DAT, increasing biosafety in the diagnosis of VL."}
{"id": "21592669", "title": "Cryptic Leishmaniosis by Leishmania infantum, a feature of canines only? A study of natural infection in wild rabbits, humans and dogs in southeastern Spain.", "content": "Cryptic Leishmaniosis by Leishmania infantum, a feature of canines only? A study of natural infection in wild rabbits, humans and dogs in southeastern Spain. An epidemiological study was carried out to investigate asymptomatic Leishmania infantum infection by PCR and ELISA in wild rabbits, humans and domestic dogs in southeastern Spain. Seroprevalence was 0% (0/36) in rabbits, 2% (13/657) in humans and 7% (14/208) in dogs. The prevalence of PCR-positives was 0.6% (1/162) in rabbits tested in a wide range of tissue samples, 2% (8/392) in humans analysed in blood samples and 10% (20/193) and 67% (29/43) in dogs analysed in blood and lymphoid tissue samples, respectively. Results suggest that wild rabbits have a very low risk of becoming chronically infected with L. infantum, and provide further evidence that cryptic L. infantum infection is widespread in the domestic dog population and is also present in a comparatively smaller proportion of healthy humans. The epidemiological and clinical implications of these findings are discussed."}
{"id": "21550926", "title": "[Reactivity of GST-SAPA antigen of Trypanosoma cruzi against sera from patients with Chagas disease and leishmaniasis].", "content": "[Reactivity of GST-SAPA antigen of Trypanosoma cruzi against sera from patients with Chagas disease and leishmaniasis]. Serologic diagnosis of Trypanosoma cruzi infection is important due to the limited sensitivity of direct parasitologic methods for diagnosis in the indeterminate and chronic phases of disease. SAPA antigen has been used in several studies and has been shown to be a good marker for use in the diagnosis of T. cruzi infection. Chagas disease and leishmaniasis are endemic in northern Salta with overlapping zones of transmission, which frequently leads to T. cruzi-Leishmania spp. mixed infections. Diagnosis is complicated by the fact that there is significant cross-reactivity when non-specific antigens are used. We evaluated the reactivity of GST-SAPA antigen in the ELISA test (ELISA-SAPA) against sera from persons infected with T. cruzi (n = 154), leishmaniasis (n = 66), mixed infections (29), and healthy controls (n = 28) using commercial ELISA and IHA kits as reference tests. For ELISA-SAPA the sensitivity, specificity and kappa index were calculated for detection of T. cruzi infection. Among sera from patients infected with leishmaniasis, 30.5% of co-infections were detected. ELISA-SAPA sensitivity was 97.1% (confidence interval 95%: 94.5-99.9), specificity was 100% (confidence interval 95%: 99.4-100), and kappa index was 96% (confidence interval 95%: 93-99%), for detection of T. cruzi infection. Sensitivity, specificity and kappa indices have shown a high efficiency of ELISA-SAPA."}
{"id": "21540376", "title": "Case series of misdiagnosis with rK39 strip test in Indian leishmaniasis.", "content": "Case series of misdiagnosis with rK39 strip test in Indian leishmaniasis. This report presents three cases where the rK39 strip test failed to diagnose two cases of post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis and one case of visceral leishmaniasis. However, a strong clinical suspicion prompted further evaluation by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), which established the etiology. The present case series highlights the usefulness of PCR in the diagnosis of leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "21537682", "title": "Leishmania infection in humans, dogs and sandflies in a visceral leishmaniasis endemic area in Maranh\u00e3o, Brazil.", "content": "Leishmania infection in humans, dogs and sandflies in a visceral leishmaniasis endemic area in Maranh\u00e3o, Brazil. Leishmania infection in humans, dogs and sandflies was examined in the endemic visceral leishmaniasis (VL) municipality of Raposa, state of Maranh\u00e3o, Brazil. In this study, we examined Leishmania chagasi infection in the blood serum of both humans and Canis familiaris and the natural Leishmania sp. infection rate in the sandfly vector, Lutzomyia longipalpis. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, indirect immunofluorescence reaction and polymerase chain reaction were performed to detect Leishmania infections in humans, dogs and sandflies, respectively. Overall, 186 out of 986 studied human beings were infected with L. chagasi parasites, representing an infection prevalence of 18.9%. An even higher infection rate was detected in dogs, where 66 (47.8%) out of 138 were infected. Among all Lu. longipalpis captured (n = 1,881), only 26.7% were females. The Leishmania infection frequency for the vector Lu. longipalpis was 1.56%. Remarkably, all infected sandflies were found in the peridomiciliary area. Furthermore, a high incidence of asymptomatic forms of VL in the human and canine populations was observed. The results of this study suggest autochthonous transmission of L. chagasi in this endemic area for visceral leishmaniasis because infection by Leishmania sp. was identified in all important elements of the transmission chain."}
{"id": "21519710", "title": "Canine visceral leishmaniasis in the Krenak indigenous community, Resplendor, Minas Gerais State, Brazil, 2007.", "content": "Canine visceral leishmaniasis in the Krenak indigenous community, Resplendor, Minas Gerais State, Brazil, 2007. The authors conducted a cross-sectional study of the local canine population in the Krenak indigenous community to detect parasites of the genus Leishmania and identify the circulating species and the proportion of asymptomatic dogs, while investigating associations between canine infection and the dogs' sex, age, and hair length. A seroepidemiological survey was performed, including 63 dogs. All the animals underwent clinical examination to verify the presence of characteristic signs, and serum samples were taken for serological tests (ELISA, IIF). Infected dogs culled by the health service were necropsied and the material was analyzed using molecular diagnostic techniques. The cross-sectional study detected a 46% prevalence rate, and the circulating species was Leishmania (L.) chagasi. The statistical analysis showed no association between infection and the independent variables. The study generated data on the epidemiological situation with canine infection in the area, which was previously unknown."}
{"id": "21489254", "title": "Canine leishmaniosis and its relationship to human visceral leishmaniasis in Eastern Uzbekistan.", "content": "Canine leishmaniosis and its relationship to human visceral leishmaniasis in Eastern Uzbekistan. The Namangan Region in the Pap District, located in Eastern Uzbekistan is the main focus of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in Uzbekistan. In total, 28 cases of human VL were registered during 2006-2008 in this region. A study on the epidemiology of VL in this area was carried out in 2007-2008 in the villages of Chodak, Oltinkan, Gulistan and Chorkesar located at elevations of 900-1200 above sea level. A total of 162 dogs were tested for Leishmania infection. Blood was drawn for serology and PCR. When clinical signs of the disease were present, aspirates from lymph nodes and the spleen were taken. Forty-two dogs (25.9%) had clinical signs suggestive of VL and 51 (31.5%) were sero-positive. ITS-1 PCR was performed for 135 dogs using blood and tissue samples and 40 (29.6%) of them were PCR-positive. Leishmanial parasites were cultured from lymph node or spleen aspirates from 10 dogs.Eight Leishmania strains isolated from dogs were typed by multi-locus microsatellite typing (MLMT) and by multilocus enzyme electrophoretic analysis (MLEE), using a 15 enzyme system. These analyses revealed that the strains belong to the most common zymodeme of L. infantum, i.e., MON-1, and form a unique group when compared to MON-1 strains from other geographical regions. The data obtained through this study confirm the existence of an active focus of VL in the Namangan region of Uzbekistan. The fact that L. infantum was the causative agent of canine infection with typical clinical signs, and also of human infection affecting only infants, suggests that a zoonotic form of VL similar in epidemiology to Mediterranean VL is present in Uzbekistan."}
{"id": "21419708", "title": "An observational study on the current distribution of visceral leishmaniasis in different geographical zones of Iran and implication to health policy.", "content": "An observational study on the current distribution of visceral leishmaniasis in different geographical zones of Iran and implication to health policy. Visceral leishmaniasis is one of the most important parasitic diseases that is endemic in some parts of Iran. This study aimed to determine current distribution of visceral leishmaniasis in four distinct geographical zones of Iran. A cross-sectional study was conducted using direct agglutination test (DAT) on 9396 and 2559 serum samples collected from humans and domestic dogs, respectively during the period of 2007 through 2009. Altogether, 403 (4.3%) out of 9396 human serum samples collected from 4 distinct geographical locations showed anti-Leishmania antibodies with titers \u2265 1:3200. Physical examinations performed on 142 sero-positive cases with anti-Leishmania antibodies at titers of 1: 3200 to 1:102400 among whom fever (94.4%), paleness (67.6%) and hepato-splenomegaly (42.2%) were the predominant clinical signs and symptoms. The highest sero-prevalence rate (1.55%) was found in children \u2264 5 years old. Out of 2559 serum samples collected from domestic dogs, 212 (8.3%) were DAT positive (\u2265 1:320). Leishmania infantum is the principal causative agent of the disease was isolated from both infected humans and dogs in Iran. Our findings indicate that Mediterranean visceral leishmaniasis with different distribution occurs in different geographical locations of Iran."}
{"id": "21414377", "title": "A clinical trial to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of the LEISH-F1+MPL-SE vaccine for use in the prevention of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "A clinical trial to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of the LEISH-F1+MPL-SE vaccine for use in the prevention of visceral leishmaniasis. Healthy Indian adult volunteers, with or without a history of leishmaniasis, were evaluated for evidence of previous infection with Leishmania donovani based on the direct agglutination test (DAT). Three cohorts of 6 DAT-negative and 6 DAT-positive subjects were enrolled in an open-label, dose-escalating, uncontrolled clinical trial and received three injections of the LEISH-F1+MPL-SE vaccine (consisting of 5\u03bcg, 10\u03bcg, or 20\u03bcg recombinant Leishmania polyprotein LEISH-F1 antigen+25\u03bcg MPL\u00ae-SE adjuvant). The study injections were given subcutaneously on days 0, 28, and 56, and the subjects were followed through day 168 for safety and immunological endpoints. The vaccine was safe and well-tolerated in DAT-negative and DAT-positive subjects and induced T-cell production of IFN-\u03b3 and other cytokines in response to stimulation with the LEISH-F1 antigen. This clinical trial shows that the LEISH-F1+MPL-SE vaccine is safe and immunogenic in healthy subjects with and without history of previous infection with Leishmania donovani."}
{"id": "21411602", "title": "Identification and Characterization of a Novel, 37-Kilodalton Leishmania donovani antigen for diagnosis of Indian visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Identification and Characterization of a Novel, 37-Kilodalton Leishmania donovani antigen for diagnosis of Indian visceral leishmaniasis. The biggest challenge in the serological diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is to find a biomarker with a high specificity. This study was undertaken to identify novel Leishmania donovani antigens to solve the existing problem. The soluble L. donovani promastigote antigen was separated by SDS-PAGE, and a Western blot was probed with pooled sera of five subjects with confirmed VL before (n = 9 pools) and after (n = 9 pools) treatment and at the 6-month follow-up visit (n = 9 pools), healthy controls not from an area of endemicity (n = 9 pools), and healthy controls from an area of endemicity. The antibody response to the identified partially purified antigen was ascertained by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) with 70 sera from patients with parasitologically confirmed VL, 48 sera from healthy controls from an area where the disease is not endemic, 60 sera from healthy controls from an area of endemicity, and 42 sera from patients in different disease groups. The eluted protein was subjected to two-dimensional (2D) gel electrophoresis, Western blotted, and probed with sera from patients with confirmed VL and from healthy controls not from an area of endemicity. The antigenic protein was further characterized by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry. The identified protein (BHUP2) corresponds to a cytochrome c-like synthesis protein of 37 kDa. ELISA results were 94% sensitive, whereas specificities with sera from healthy controls from an area of endemicity, healthy controls not from an area of endemicity, and disease controls were 98%, 100%, and 97%, respectively. The antigen identified via a proteomics-based approach has a strong potential for further development as a diagnostic tool for VL."}
{"id": "21392021", "title": "Transfusion-transmitted visceral leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania (Leishmania) mexicana in an immunocompromised patient: a case report.", "content": "Transfusion-transmitted visceral leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania (Leishmania) mexicana in an immunocompromised patient: a case report. Transfusion-transmitted leishmaniasis is an increasing problem in areas where visceral and cutaneous leishmaniases are endemic. This article reports a case of transfusion-transmitted fatal visceral leishmaniasis (VL) caused by Leishmania (Leishmania) mexicana in a 42-year-old male resident of northwestern Colombia who after developing a terminal renal failure due to lupus nephritis received a renal transplant and multiple transfusions. Multiple intracellular Leishmania amastigotes were demonstrated in both renal biopsy and marrow aspirates. Cultures of the parasite were obtained in NNN medium and the identification of the species was done both by direct immunofluorescence and polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism. This is the first report of a VL case produced by L. (L.) mexicana in Colombia, which usually is a dermotropic species. Our report suggests that although leishmaniasis is transmitted by the bite of phlebotomine sand flies, Leishmania parasite may be transmitted by blood transfusion, complicating the clinical course of organ transplant and being fatal."}
{"id": "21353275", "title": "Urine antigen detection by latex agglutination test for diagnosis and assessment of initial cure of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Urine antigen detection by latex agglutination test for diagnosis and assessment of initial cure of visceral leishmaniasis. This prospective study evaluated the usefulness of the kala-azar latex agglutination test (KAtex) for the diagnosis and laboratory assessment of initial cure of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) (or kala-azar) patients following 30 days of sodium antimony gluconate treatment at Rajshahi Medical College Hospital (Bangladesh). KAtex detects a low molecular weight, heat-stable, carbohydrate antigen in the urine of VL patients. KAtex was performed using freshly voided urine samples obtained from 36 parasitologically confirmed cases of VL before and after treatment as well as from 40 healthy controls (20 each from kala-azar-endemic and non-endemic zones). KAtex was found to be positive in 27 (75%) of the 36 patients at diagnosis and was negative in all the controls. The diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of KAtex were 75% (95% CI 57-87%) and 100% (95% CI 89-100%), respectively. Following treatment, all 36 VL cases were negative for Leishman-Donovan bodies by splenic smear microscopy and 34 (94.4%) were negative by KAtex. This limited study suggests that KAtex is a satisfactorily sensitive, highly specific, rapid and completely non-invasive urine-based antigen detection test for the diagnosis of VL. Currently, this is the only non-invasive laboratory tool useful for the assessment of initial cure in VL patients."}
{"id": "21347452", "title": "Options for active case detection of visceral leishmaniasis in endemic districts of India, Nepal and Bangladesh, comparing yield, feasibility and costs.", "content": "Options for active case detection of visceral leishmaniasis in endemic districts of India, Nepal and Bangladesh, comparing yield, feasibility and costs. The VL elimination strategy requires cost-effective tools for case detection and management. This intervention study tests the yield, feasibility and cost of 4 different active case detection (ACD) strategies (camp, index case, incentive and blanket approach) in VL endemic districts of India, Nepal and Bangladesh. First, VL screening (fever more than 14 days, splenomegaly, rK39 test) was performed in camps. This was followed by house to house screening (blanket approach). An analysis of secondary VL cases in the neighborhood of index cases was simulated (index case approach). A second screening round was repeated 4-6 months later. In another sub-district in India and Nepal, health workers received incentives for detecting new VL cases over a 4 month period (incentive approach). This was followed by house screening for undetected cases. A total of 28 new VL cases were identified by blanket approach in the 1(st) screening round, and used as ACD gold standard. Of these, the camp approach identified 22 (sensitivity 78.6%), index case approach identified 12 (sensitivity--42.9%), and incentive approach identified 23 new VL cases out of 29 cases detected by the house screening (sensitivity--79.3%). The effort required to detect a new VL case varied (blanket approach--1092 households, incentive approach--978 households; index case approach--788 households had to be screened). The cost per new case detected varied (camp approach $21 - $661; index case approach $149 - $200; incentive based approach $50 - $543; blanket screening $112 - $629). The 2(nd) screening round yielded 20 new VL cases. Sixty and nine new PKDL cases were detected in the first and second round respectively. ACD in the VL elimination campaign has a high yield of new cases at programme costs which vary according to the screening method chosen. Countries need the right mix of approaches according to the epidemiological profile, affordability and organizational feasibility."}
{"id": "21292896", "title": "Antileishmania immunological tests for asymptomatic subjects living in a visceral leishmaniasis-endemic area in Brazil.", "content": "Antileishmania immunological tests for asymptomatic subjects living in a visceral leishmaniasis-endemic area in Brazil. The objective of this study was to evaluate the behavior of different tests used for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in asymptomatic subjects living in an endemic area. No gold standard is available for the diagnosis of asymptomatic infection with Leishmania. In continuation of a previous study, 1,017 subjects living in a VL-endemic area were clinically reevaluated. Of these, 576 had at least one positive serological test in a first assessment. About 3 years after the first evaluation, none of the subjects had progressed to clinical VL. Among this group, 246 subjects were selected, and five serological tests (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay p [ELISAp], ELISArK39, ELISArK26, indirect immunofluorescence test [IIFT] using L. amazonensis promastigote antigen, and an immunochromatographic test using rK39 antigen [TRALd]) and the Montenegro skin test (MST) were repeated. There was a significant increase in the number of subjects who tested positive in the MST, IIFT, ELISAp, and ELISArK39 in the second evaluation. For all tests, there were subjects who tested positive in the first evaluation and negative in the second evaluation. A positive result in the serological tests and MST in subjects from the endemic area studied did not indicate a risk of progression to VL and may only be temporary."}
{"id": "21220536", "title": "Combination therapy with paromomycin-associated stearylamine-bearing liposomes cures experimental visceral leishmaniasis through Th1-biased immunomodulation.", "content": "Combination therapy with paromomycin-associated stearylamine-bearing liposomes cures experimental visceral leishmaniasis through Th1-biased immunomodulation. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) caused by the parasite Leishmania donovani is a potentially fatal disease. Available limited drugs are toxic, require prolonged treatment duration, and are costly. A low-cost parenteral formulation of paromomycin sulfate (PM) has recently been approved for the treatment of VL. Monotherapy with PM runs the risk of development of resistance. Hence, efforts are needed to develop a combination therapy of PM with other drugs to shorten the duration of treatment and prolong the effective life of the drug. PM was formulated with leishmanicidal stearylamine (SA)-bearing phosphatidylcholine (PC) liposomes for low-dose therapy. In vitro and in vivo antileishmanial effects of the combination drug were determined. The immunomodulatory role of PC-SA-PM was determined using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and flow cytometry. Excluding the spleen, for which the therapeutic effect was additive, a remarkable synergistic activity toward cure and prophylaxis with a single-shot low-dose treatment with PC-SA-associated PM was achieved with BALB/c mice. PC-SA-PM showed an immunomodulatory effect on CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells for gamma interferon (IFN-\u03b3) production and downregulated disease-associated interleukin-10 (IL-10) and transforming growth factor \u03b2 (TGF-\u03b2) to almost negligible levels. Such combination chemotherapy may provide a promising alternative for the cure of leishmaniasis, with a plausible conversion of the host immune response from a disease-promoting pattern to a Th1-biased response indicative of long-term resistance."}
{"id": "21212210", "title": "Evaluation of two rK39 dipstick tests, direct agglutination test, and indirect fluorescent antibody test for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in a new epidemic site in highland Ethiopia.", "content": "Evaluation of two rK39 dipstick tests, direct agglutination test, and indirect fluorescent antibody test for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in a new epidemic site in highland Ethiopia. We assessed the performance characteristics of two rK39 immunochromatographic tests, a direct agglutination test (DAT), and an indirect immunofluorescent antibody test (IFAT) in the site of a new epidemic of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in northwestern Ethiopia. The study population was composed of 179 patients with suspected VL and 67 controls. The sensitivities of Kalazar Detect(\u00ae), DiaMed-IT Leish(\u00ae), DAT, and IFAT in 35 polymerase chain reaction-confirmed VL cases were 94.3%, 91.4%, 91.4%, and 100%, respectively, and the specificities were 98.5%, 94%, 98.5%, and 98.5%, respectively. In a Bayesian latent class analysis of all 246 specimens, the estimated sensitivities were 90.5%, 89%, 88.8%, and 96% for Kalazar Detect(\u00ae), DiaMed-IT Leish(\u00ae), DAT, and IFAT, respectively; DAT showed the highest estimated specificity (97.4%). Both rK39 immunochromatographic tests perform as well as DAT, and are suitable for VL diagnosis in first-level health centers in this area of Ethiopia."}
{"id": "21212211", "title": "Case report: Expansion of visceral leishmaniasis to the western hilly part of Nepal.", "content": "Case report: Expansion of visceral leishmaniasis to the western hilly part of Nepal. We report the first case of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) from the non-endemic western hilly region of Nepal. The patient presented with a history of high-grade fever, abdominal distension, anemia, and weight loss. The case was confirmed as VL by microscopical detection of the Leishmania species amastigote in bone marrow aspiration and by a positive result for the rK39 test. The patient was treated with 0.5-1.0 mg/kg of Amphotericin B for 14 days (total of 405 mg), and amastigotes were negative on discharge. Five months later, this patient again developed fever, abdominal distension, and anemia. Clinical and hematological examinations suggested a relapse of VL. The patient was treated with 1 mg/kg of Amphotericin B for 18 days (total of 515 mg) and was clinically improved on discharge."}
{"id": "21159922", "title": "Persistence of Leishmania donovani antibodies in past visceral leishmaniasis cases in India.", "content": "Persistence of Leishmania donovani antibodies in past visceral leishmaniasis cases in India. The persistence of anti-Leishmania donovani antibodies in past visceral leishmaniasis (VL) cases was retrospectively assessed by means of the direct agglutination test (DAT) and the rK39 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Antibody titers remained high for an extended period of time in past cases of VL. These results highlight the need to carefully elicit the history of patients with VL symptoms."}
{"id": "21074233", "title": "Diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Leishmaniasis is a vector-borne disease with up to 350 million people at risk of infection worldwide. Among its different clinical manifestations, visceral is the most severe form. Since clinical features of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) mimic several other common diseases, accurate diagnosis is crucial as the treatment is associated with significant toxicity. Invasive and risky techniques involving demonstration of the parasites in stained preparations from splenic and bone marrow aspirate is still the gold standard for VL diagnosis. Serological tests using rK39 in ELISA or rapid immunochromatographic format, Direct Agglutination Test (DAT), immunoblotting have issues related to a significant proportion of asymptomatic individuals being positive with these tests and their inability to diagnose relapses as these remain positive for several months to years after cure. PCR is the most common molecular technique successfully used for diagnosis and differentiation of species. Through this review we focus extensively on the comparative utilities of the various diagnostic tools currently available for VL, describing in depth their advantages and disadvantages, addressing the recent advances attained in the field. A simple, rapid, non invasive, accurate and cost effective marker of active VL, which can be used in field conditions, is necessary to improve diagnosis of VL."}
{"id": "20970152", "title": "Multi-centric prospective evaluation of rk39 rapid test and direct agglutination test for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil.", "content": "Multi-centric prospective evaluation of rk39 rapid test and direct agglutination test for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil. The diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is still a major problem in Brazil and several other countries where the disease is endemic. The use of an easy-to-use and interpret, sensitive, and specific method that requires no complex infrastructure or specialized professionals, such as direct agglutination test (DAT) and the rK39-based rapid immunochromatographic test may enhance the diagnosis of disease. This study evaluated the performance of a rapid test (DiaMed- IT-LEISH\u00ae) and the DAT for the diagnosis of VL in 213 parasitologically confirmed cases and 119 controls with clinical suspicion of VL and confirmation of another etiology. The sensitivities and specificities of the rapid test were 93% and 97%, respectively and those of the DAT were 90% and 96%, respectively. The positive predictive values of the rapid test and the DAT were 98% and 97%, respectively and the negative predictive values were 89% and 84%, respectively. The Kappa index showed agreement between both methods classified as substantial (0.77). This study showed that the DAT and the rapid test can be used to diagnose VL in Brazil, following a pilot study for implementation of the rapid test in the health services."}
{"id": "20850210", "title": "[Visceral leishmaniasis: an update].", "content": "[Visceral leishmaniasis: an update]. During the last decade, visceral leishmaniasis has been reconsidered in its epidemiology and strategies for diagnosis, treatment and prevention. This vectorial disease, responsible for more than 50,000 deaths each year across India, East Africa, South America, the Mediterranean area, Central Asia and China, is currently spreading over new territories. This formerly rural disease has even reached cities in South America. This spreading is caused by environmental changes due to global warming or human activity, and by the movement of workers and refugees. As a consequence, the burden of HIV/Leishmania coinfection is increasing in many developing countries even though effective antiretroviral therapy has led to a marked decrease in its incidence in Europe. The disease is now handled differently than it was 10 years ago: PCR has become the most accurate tool for diagnosis and follow-up in developed countries, and field diagnostic tools have been developed (antigenuria, rK39 dipstick). While resistance to antimoniate has appeared in India and Europe, new therapies have been evaluated such as miltefosine, the first oral therapy, or short treatment with liposomal amphotericin B. In France, liposomal amphotericin B has supplanted antimoniate meglumine because of better tolerance and shorter hospitalization duration. Protecting dogs through immunization or collars impregnated with deltamethrin proved effective to prevent zoonotic leishmaniasis due to Leishmania infantum."}
{"id": "20804432", "title": "A serological and molecular study of Leishmania infantum infection in cats from the Island of Ibiza (Spain).", "content": "A serological and molecular study of Leishmania infantum infection in cats from the Island of Ibiza (Spain). The aim of this study was to evaluate the prevalence of Leishmania infantum infection within a feline population by serologic and molecular methods and to identify associated risk factors. One hundred five cats living outdoors were studied. Sera were tested for IgG antibodies against L. infantum, Toxoplasma gondii, and feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) and for the detection of feline leukemia virus (FeLV) p27 antigen by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). L. infantum real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was performed on DNA extracted from blood. L. infantum and T. gondii seroprevalence rates were 13.2% and 55.2%, respectively. The prevalence of L. infantum by PCR was 8.7%. The total rate of L. infantum infection derived from seroreactivity and/or positive PCR was 15.4%. Serology and PCR results were positively associated, and moderate agreement (kappa\u2009=\u20090.489) was found between Leishmania ELISA and PCR. No statistical association was found between positive Leishmania PCR results and gender, clinical status, or T. gondii seropositivity. Six of the 105 cats (5.7%) displayed clinical signs compatible with feline cutaneous leishmaniosis, and 4 out of these 6 cats (66.7%) were found to have Leishmania infection by means of serology and/or PCR. Leishmania seropositivity was associated with clinical signs of feline cutaneous leishmaniosis (p\u2009=\u20090.029). The prevalence of FeLV p27 antigen was 16.2% (17/105) and of FIV antibody was 20.9% (22/105), with coinfection found in 9.5% (10/105) of the cats. Leishmania ELISA seroreactivity and positive PCR results were statistically associated with FeLV infection and with coinfection of both retroviruses but not with a positive FIV status. The high seroprevalence and molecular rates of Leishmania infection observed indicate that cats are frequently infected with L. infantum, and the association with FeLV suggests a potential role for this retrovirus in feline Leishmania infection in endemic areas."}
{"id": "21998875", "title": "Serological markers for leishmania donovani infection in Nepal: Agreement between direct agglutination test and rK39 ELISA.", "content": "Serological markers for leishmania donovani infection in Nepal: Agreement between direct agglutination test and rK39 ELISA. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is an important vector-borne disease caused by Leishmania donovani in the Indian subcontinent. The actual incidence and role of asymptomatic infections in the region are not wellknown. We used the direct agglutination test (DAT) and the rK39 ELISA as L. donovani infection markers in 10 VL endemic villages in Nepal. DAT titre distribution showed two subgroups in the population (infected and non-infected individuals), while rK39 did not. The agreement between both tests was moderate (j = 0.53; 95% CI 0.49\u20130.57). More research is needed to develop validated markers for Leishmania infection."}
{"id": "21485694", "title": "Control of the leishmaniases.", "content": "Control of the leishmaniases. This report makes recommendations on new therapeutic regimens for visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis, on the use of rapid diagnostic tests, details on the management of Leishmania-HIV coinfection and consideration of social factors and climate change as risk factors for increased spread. Recommendations for research include the furtherance of epidemiological knowledge of the disease and clinical studies to address the lack of an evidence-based therapeutic regimen for cutaneous and mucocutaneous leishmaniasis and post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL). This report not only provides clear guidance on implementation but should also raise awareness about the global burden of leishmaniasis and its neglect. It puts forward directions for formulation of national control programmes and elaborates the strategic approaches in the fight against the leishmaniases. The committee's work reflects the latest scientific and other relevant developments in the field of leishmaniasis that can be considered by member states when setting national programmes and making public health decisions."}
{"id": "21222421", "title": "Integrated visceral leishmaniasis surveillance system in primary care for children in Meshkin-Shahr district, north-western Islamic Republic of Iran.", "content": "Integrated visceral leishmaniasis surveillance system in primary care for children in Meshkin-Shahr district, north-western Islamic Republic of Iran. In 2001 a visceral leishmaniasis (VL) surveillance system was set up for children aged < or = 12 years in the primary health system in Meshkin-Shahr district of Ardebil province, north-western Islamic Republic of Iran. All cases with clinical signs and symptoms of VL and positive by the direct agglutination test were referred for physical examination and treatment. The mean annual incidence of VL decreased significantly from 1.88 before (1985-2000) to 0.77 per 1000 child population after the intervention (2001-07). In a control area with no surveillance, it increased from 0.11 to 0.23 per 1000. Early detection of VL using practical serological tests and timely treatment of cases could decrease the mortality and morbidity rates of VL in endemic areas."}
{"id": "21218736", "title": "Seroepidemiological study of visceral leishmaniasis in Booyerahmad district, south-west Islamic Republic of Iran.", "content": "Seroepidemiological study of visceral leishmaniasis in Booyerahmad district, south-west Islamic Republic of Iran. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is endemic in parts of Islamic Republic of Iran. A cross-sectional seroprevalence study was carried out in children in Booyerahmad district in the south-west of the country. Serum samples were taken from 1628 children up to 10 years old from different areas in Booyerahmad in 2005-06. AntiLeishmania antibody was detected in 50 out of 1628 children (3.1%) by direct agglutination test (antibody titre > or = 1:3200). There was no significant difference in seropositivity between the sexes (2.8% males and 3.3% females). The highest rate of infection (5.2%) was in the age group 10 years. Further studies are needed to explore the reservoirs and vectors of the disease in this region."}
{"id": "21190965", "title": "Longlasting insecticidal nets for prevention of Leishmania donovani infection in India and Nepal: paired cluster randomised trial.", "content": "Longlasting insecticidal nets for prevention of Leishmania donovani infection in India and Nepal: paired cluster randomised trial. To test the effectiveness of large scale distribution of longlasting nets treated with insecticide in reducing the incidence of visceral leishmaniasis in India and Nepal. Paired cluster randomised controlled trial designed to detect a 50% reduction in incidence of Leishmania donovani infection. Villages in Muzaffarpur district in India and Saptari, Sunsari, and Morang districts in Nepal. 13 intervention and 13 control clusters. 12\u2009691 people were included in the analysis of the main outcome (infection), and 19\u2009810 were enrolled for the secondary (disease) end point. Longlasting insecticidal nets (treated with deltamethrin) were distributed in the intervention clusters in December 2006. Infection was determined by direct agglutination test at 12 and 24 months after the intervention in those who had negative results (titre <1:1600) at baseline. The effect estimate was computed as the geometric mean of the risk ratios for seroconversion for each cluster pair (net/no net), with its 95% confidence interval. Formal tests of effect of no intervention were obtained with a paired t test. There was no significant difference in the risk of seroconversion over 24 months in intervention (5.4%; 347/6372) compared with control (5.5%; 345/6319 people) clusters (risk ratio 0.90, 95% confidence interval 0.49 to 1.65) nor in the risk of clinical visceral leishmaniasis (0.99, 0.46 to 1.40). Adjustment for covariates did not alter these conclusions. There is no evidence that large scale distribution of longlasting insecticidal nets provides additional protection against visceral leishmaniasis compared with existing control practice in the Indian subcontinent. The observed effect was small and not significant, though the confidence intervals did not exclude a 50% change in either direction. Clinical Trials NCT 2005-015374."}
{"id": "21063981", "title": "[An adult case of visceral leishmaniasis in a province of Black-Sea region, Turkey].", "content": "[An adult case of visceral leishmaniasis in a province of Black-Sea region, Turkey]. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) which is a chronic disease caused by the protozoon, Leishmania, occurs widely worldwide and it is widespread in most of the countries in the Mediterranean basin. The infection which is transmitted by a sandfly (Phlebotomus) vector, has a prolonged incubation period and insidious onset. VL generally affects children and may be fatal if not treated. In this report, a 31 years old male patient, who was the first adult VL case from Zonguldak (a province located at western Black-Sea region of Turkey) was presented. He was admitted to the hospital with two-months history of fever, chills, sweating and weight loss. There was no history of travel outside the city nor insect bites, however, he indicated that there would be unnoticed sandfly bites since sandflies were very common in the coal mines he worked. His physical examination revealed body temperatue of 39.2\u00b0C and hepatosplenomegaly, while laboratory findings yielded anemia, leucopenia, hypoalbuminemia and hypergamaglobulinemia. Erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 62 mm/h, C-reactive protein was 113 mg/L and liver transaminases were 2 to 5 folds higher than the reference values. The only pathological finding was hepatosplenomegaly in the abdominal ultrasound and computerized tomography. He was further examined to rule out infections with similar signs and symptoms, connective tissue diseases and malignancies and all were found negative. Hypercellular bone marrow were detected in the aspiration material. Bone marrow smears, bone marrow samples inoculated in NNN medium and serum samples of the patient were sent to the reference parasitology laboratory of Refik Saydam National Public Health Agency for evaluation in terms of VL. The diagnosis was confirmed by the detection of Leishmania IgG titer as 1/512 with in-house indirect immunofluorescence antibody test, by positivite rK39 Dipstick (InBios, USA) test and by the observation of Leishmania amastigote forms in the bone marrow smears. Bone marrow culture in NNN medium also revealed positive result by the determination of Leishmania promastigote forms on the 7th day. The treatment was initiated by pentavalent antimony [glucantime 1 x 10 mg/kg/day intramuscular (IM)] however, due to severe adverse effects it has switched to liposomal amphotericin B (3 mg/kg/day). The patient completely recovered without complication. In conclusion VL should be considered in the differential diagnosis of patients, even adults, with persistent fever, hepatosplenomegaly and pancytopenia, in endemic countries such as Turkey."}
{"id": "20971441", "title": "Rapid detection of human Leishmania infantum infection: a comparative field study using the fast agglutination screening test and the direct agglutination test.", "content": "Rapid detection of human Leishmania infantum infection: a comparative field study using the fast agglutination screening test and the direct agglutination test. This study aimed to evaluate the performance of a fast agglutination screening test (FAST) for serodiagnosis of human Leishmania infantum infection in Iran. FAST is based on the direct agglutination test (DAT) but combines with a higher parasite concentration and is performed with only one serum dilution. The validity of FAST for the detection of L. infantum infection in the field was compared with the direct agglutination test on 110 confirmed or patients suspected of infection with leishmaniasis, 177 healthy individuals and 41 patients with other infectious diseases who were from northwestern and southern parts of Iran. In this study, we found a 1:1600 cut-off point empirically by seeking the best correlation (90.8) between sera confirmed with visceral leishmaniasis and healthy control sera. A sensitivity of 95.4% (95% CI, 91.4-99.4) and specificity of 88.5% (95% CI, 84.2-92.8) were found with 1:1600 as a cut-off titer when DAT-confirmed cases were compared with the control groups. A good degree of agreement was found between FAST and DAT (90.8%) by Kappa analysis. FAST requires 2\u00a0h for reading the results versus the 12-18\u00a0h needed for DAT. As FAST is simple, rapid, sensitive and non-invasive and does not require a higher volume of antigens or much expertise, it can be used for screening and serodiagnosis of human L.\u00a0infantum infection."}
{"id": "20957193", "title": "Enhanced case detection and improved diagnosis of PKDL in a Kala-azar-endemic area of Bangladesh.", "content": "Enhanced case detection and improved diagnosis of PKDL in a Kala-azar-endemic area of Bangladesh. To support the Bangladesh National Kala-azar Elimination Programme (NKEP), we investigated the feasibility of using trained village volunteers for detecting post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) cases, using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for confirmation of diagnosis and treatment compliance by PKDL patients in Kanthal union of Trishal sub-district, Mymensingh, Bangladesh. In this cross-sectional study, Field Research Assistants (FRAs) conducted census in the study area, and the research team trained village volunteers on how to look for PKDL suspects. The trained village volunteers (TVVs) visited each household in the study area for PKDL suspects and referred the suspected PKDL cases to the study clinic. The suspected cases underwent physical examinations by a qualified doctor and rK39 strip testing by the FRAs and, if positive, slit skin examination (SSE), culture, and PCR of skin specimens and peripheral buffy coat were done. Those with evidence of Leishmania donovani (LD) were referred for treatment. All the cases were followed for one year. The total population of the study area was 29,226 from 6,566 households. The TVVs referred 52 PKDL suspects. Probable PKDL was diagnosed in 18 of the 52 PKDL suspect cases, and PKDL was confirmed in 9 of the 18 probable PKDL cases. The prevalence of probable PKDL was 6.2 per 10,000 people in the study area. Thirteen PKDL suspects self-reported from outside the study area, and probable and confirmed PKDL was diagnosed in 10 of the 13 suspects and in 5 of 10 probable PKDL cases respectively. All probable PKDL cases had hypopigmented macules. The median time for PKDL development was 36 months (IQR, 24-48). Evidence of the LD parasite was documented by SSE and PCR in 3.6% and 64.3% of the cases, respectively. PCR positivity was associated with gender and severity of disease. Those who were untreated had an increased risk (odds ratio\u200a=\u200a3.33, 95%CI 1.29-8.59) of having persistent skin lesions compared to those who were treated. Patients' treatment-seeking behavior and treatment compliance were poor. Improved detection of PKDL cases by TVVs is feasible and useful. The NKEP should promote PCR for the diagnosis of PKDL and should find ways for improving treatment compliance by patients."}
{"id": "20890548", "title": "[Non invasive diagnostic tools for visceral leishmaniasis: a comparison of the immunoserological tests DAT, rK26 and rK39].", "content": "[Non invasive diagnostic tools for visceral leishmaniasis: a comparison of the immunoserological tests DAT, rK26 and rK39]. Human visceral leishmaniasis is a serious public health problem in endemic countries because of its high potential lethality, particularly in children. Rapid diagnosis is essential to early treatment and control of visceral leishmaniasis. The aim was to compare three serodiagnostic tools for human visceral leishmaniasis. Three methods were compared: the rK39 dipstick (Kalazar detection test, Inbios International Inc.), ELISA rK26 and direct agglutination test (DAT) (KIT Biomedical Research). Fifty serum samples from patients positive for rK39 ELISA were compared from four endemic provinces in Venezuela: Nueva Esparta (Margarita island), Lara, Anzo\u00e1tegui and Trujillo. Additional serum samples from 17 healthy volunteers and 25 patients with other diseases were included. The rK39 ELISA served as the baseline standard method. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value and likelihood ratio were calculated for each test. All methods had a positive correlation with rK39 ELISA (p<0.0001). They showed high sensitivity and specificity. The direct agglutination test and the rK39 dipstick showed high sensitivity values, 89.7% (95% CI: 81.34.0-98.2%) and 94.2% (95% CI: 87.7-100%), respectively, and high specificity, 81.0% (95% CI: 80.0-99.5%) and 100%. The rK26 ELISA showed good specificity, 99% (95% CI: 95.2-100%), but a very low sensitivity, 37% (95% CI: 23.4-50.2%). Overall results indicated that DAT and rK39 dipstick have the highest specificity and sensitivity. Both are simple, cost-effective and field applicable tests. Therefore, they are recommended for early and accurate diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "20889872", "title": "Quantiferon-Leishmania as an epidemiological tool for evaluating the exposure to Leishmania infection.", "content": "Quantiferon-Leishmania as an epidemiological tool for evaluating the exposure to Leishmania infection. The aim of the present preliminary study was to investigate the potential of measurement of IFN-\u03b3 secretion by T cells into blood plasma using QuantiFERON assay with leishmanial antigens to determine the presence of Leishmania infection. Blood samples from cured visceral (N = 18), and cutaneous (N = 20) leishmaniasis cases, and 20 healthy controls were tested. The IFN-\u03b3 responses to Leishmania major H2B and Leishmania infantum H2B antigens were detected from the majority of treated old visceral leishmaniasis cases, but not from controls. Future studies using larger groups will be required to establish the true potential of the assay for epidemiological screening of leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "20856856", "title": "Design, development and evaluation of rK28-based point-of-care tests for improving rapid diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Design, development and evaluation of rK28-based point-of-care tests for improving rapid diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is diagnosed by microscopic confirmation of the parasite in bone marrow, spleen or lymph node aspirates. These procedures are unsuitable for rapid diagnosis of VL in field settings. The development of rK39-based rapid diagnostic tests (RDT) revolutionized diagnosis of VL by offering high sensitivity and specificity in detecting disease in the Indian subcontinent; however, these tests have been less reliable in the African subcontinent (sensitivity range of 75-85%, specificity of 70-92%). We have addressed limitations of the rK39 with a new synthetic polyprotein, rK28, followed by development and evaluation of two new rK28-based RDT prototype platforms. Evaluation of 62 VL-confirmed sera from Sudan provided sensitivities of 96.8% and 93.6% (95% CI\u200a=\u200aK28: 88.83-99.61%; K39: 84.30-98.21%) and specificities of 96.2% and 92.4% (95% CI\u200a=\u200aK28: 90.53-98.95%; K39: 85.54-96.65%) for rK28 and rK39, respectively. Of greater interest was the observation that individual VL sera with low rK39 reactivity often had much higher rK28 reactivity. This characteristic of the fusion protein was exploited in the development of rK28 rapid tests, which may prove to be crucial in detecting VL among patients with low rK39 antibody levels. Evaluation of two prototype lateral flow-based rK28 rapid tests on 53 VL patients in Sudan and 73 VL patients in Bangladesh provided promisingly high sensitivities (95.9% [95% CI\u200a=\u200a88.46-99.1 in Sudan and 98.1% [95% CI\u200a=\u200a89.93-99.95%] in Bangladesh) compared to the rK39 RDT (sensitivities of 86.3% [95% CI\u200a=\u200a76.25-93.23%] in Sudan and 88.7% [95% CI\u200a=\u200a76.97-95.73%] in Bangladesh). Our study compares the diagnostic accuracy of rK39 and rK28 in detecting active VL cases and our findings indicate that rK28 polyprotein has great potential as a serodiagnostic tool. A new rK28-based RDT will prove to be a valuable asset in simplifying VL disease confirmation at the point-of-care."}
{"id": "20838650", "title": "Pediatric visceral leishmaniasis in Albania: a retrospective analysis of 1,210 consecutive hospitalized patients (1995-2009).", "content": "Pediatric visceral leishmaniasis in Albania: a retrospective analysis of 1,210 consecutive hospitalized patients (1995-2009). Little information is available about infantile visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in Albania as regards incidence, diagnosis and management of the disease. Demographic data, clinical and laboratory features and therapeutic findings were considered in children admitted to University Hospital of Tirana from 1995 to 2009, and diagnosed as having VL. The diagnosis was based on bone-marrow microscopy/culture in 77.5% of patients, serology in 16.1%, and ex juvantibus in 6.4%. A total of 1,210 children were considered, of whom 74% came from urbanized areas. All patients were in the age range 0-14 years, with a median of 4 years. Hepatosplenomegaly was recorded in 100%, fever in 95.4% and moderate to severe anemia in 88% of cases. Concomitant conditions were frequent: 84% had bronchopneumonia; diarrhea was present in 27%, with acute manifestations in 5%; 3% had salmonellosis. First-line therapy was meglumine antimoniate for all patients, given at the standard Sb(v) dosage of 20 mg/kg/day for 21 to 28 days. Two children died under treatment, one of sepsis, the other of acute renal impairment. There were no cases of primary unresponsiveness to treatment, and only 8 (0.67%) relapsed within 6-12 months after therapy. These patients have been re-treated with liposomal amphotericin B, with successful cure. Visceral leishmaniasis in pediatric age is relatively frequent in Albania; therefore an improvement is warranted of a disease-specific surveillance system in this country, especially as regards diagnosis. Despite recent reports on decreased responses to antimonial drugs of patients with Mediterranean VL, meglumine antimoniate treatment appears to be still highly effective in Albania."}
{"id": "20814123", "title": "Surrogate markers of subtle renal injury in patients with visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Surrogate markers of subtle renal injury in patients with visceral leishmaniasis. Sudanese visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a disease of children that is characterized by fever, hepatosplenomegaly, lymphadenopathy, pancytopenia, and renal injury. Microalbuminuria (MA) and urinary retinol binding protein (urRBP) are useful markers for glomerular and tubular dysfunctions, respectively. We report the prevalence of subtle renal injury in 88 parasitologically confirmed VL patients in a cross-sectional and hospital-based study. Blood and urine were collected before treatment for hematological, biochemical profiles in addition to MA and urRBP measurement using competitive solid phase, sandwich enzyme-linked immune sorbent assay (ELISA), and immunoturbidometry. All the patients had normal serum urea and creatinine levels and no detectable urRBP. However, 40% of the patients had MA detected by ELISA, and 42% were reactive with turbidometry. The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values for MA turbidometric technique were calculated as 100%; 96%; 95% and 100%, respectively. In conclusion; subtle renal injury in VL is mainly glomerular. Turbidometry for MA measurement is a simple, inexpensive, sensitive, and specific technique with high predictive values."}
{"id": "20810810", "title": "Asymptomatic infection with visceral leishmaniasis in a disease-endemic area in bihar, India.", "content": "Asymptomatic infection with visceral leishmaniasis in a disease-endemic area in bihar, India. A prospective study was carried out in a cohort of 355 persons in a leishmaniasis-endemic village of the Patna District in Bihar, India, to determine the prevalence of asymptomatic persons and rate of progression to symptomatic visceral leishmaniasis (VL) cases. At baseline screening, 50 persons were positive for leishmaniasis by any of the three tests (rK39 strip test, direct agglutination test, and polymerase chain reaction) used. Point prevalence of asymptomatic VL was 110 per 1,000 persons and the rate of progression to symptomatic cases was 17.85 per 1,000 person-months. The incidence rate ratio of progression to symptomatic case was 3.36 (95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.75-15.01, P = 0.09) among case-contacts of VL compared with neighbors. High prevalence of asymptomatic persons and clinical VL cases and high density of Phlebotomus argentipes sand flies can lead to transmission of VL in VL-endemic areas."}
{"id": "20695748", "title": "Current diagnosis and treatment of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Current diagnosis and treatment of visceral leishmaniasis. Human visceral leishmaniasis (VL), a potentially fatal disease, is most prevalent in the Indian subcontinent, East Africa and South America. Definite diagnosis and effective treatment are the primary needs for the control of VL. Diagnosis of VL has typically relied on microscopic examination of bone marrow/splenic aspirate, but serology and molecular methods are now better alternatives. The conventional drugs for treatment of VL have limitations including unresponsiveness, relapse, specific toxicities and parenteral administration lasting for long durations. Moreover, they are less effective in HIV-VL-coinfected patients. Registration of miltefosine and paromomycin, and preferential pricing of AmBisome has offered more choices for monotherapy and combination therapy for VL. Combination therapy will increase treatment efficacy and prevent the development of resistance. In addition, active case finding and vector control strategies will also have a positive impact in the control of VL. This article critically addresses the currently available diagnostic and treatment regimens for the control of VL."}
{"id": "20689822", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of the Leishmania OligoC-TesT and NASBA-Oligochromatography for diagnosis of leishmaniasis in Sudan.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of the Leishmania OligoC-TesT and NASBA-Oligochromatography for diagnosis of leishmaniasis in Sudan. The Leishmania OligoC-TesT and NASBA-Oligochromatography (OC) were recently developed for simplified and standardised molecular detection of Leishmania parasites in clinical specimens. We here present the phase II evaluation of both tests for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL), cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) and post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) in Sudan. The diagnostic accuracy of the tests was evaluated on 90 confirmed and 90 suspected VL cases, 7 confirmed and 8 suspected CL cases, 2 confirmed PKDL cases and 50 healthy endemic controls from Gedarif state and Khartoum state in Sudan. The OligoC-TesT as well as the NASBA-OC showed a sensitivity of 96.8% (95% CI: 83.8%-99.4%) on lymph node aspirates and of 96.2% (95% CI: 89.4%-98.7%) on blood from the confirmed VL cases. The sensitivity on bone marrow was 96.9% (95% CI: 89.3%-99.1%) and 95.3% (95% CI: 87.1%-98.4%) for the OligoC-TesT and NASBA-OC, respectively. All confirmed CL and PKDL cases were positive with both tests. On the suspected VL cases, we observed a positive OligoC-TesT and NASBA-OC result in 37.1% (95% CI: 23.2%-53.7%) and 34.3% (95% CI: 20.8%-50.9%) on lymph, in 72.7% (95% CI: 55.8%-84.9%) and 63.6% (95% CI: 46.6%-77.8%) on bone marrow and in 76.9% (95% CI: 49.7%-91.8%) and 69.2% (95% CI: 42.4%-87.3%) on blood. Seven out of 8 CL suspected cases were positive with both tests. The specificity on the healthy endemic controls was 90% (95% CI: 78.6%-95.7%) for the OligoC-TesT and 100% (95% CI: 92.9%-100.0%) for the NASBA-OC test. Both tests showed high sensitivity on lymph, blood and tissue scrapings for diagnosis of VL, CL and PKDL in Sudan, but the specificity for clinical VL was significantly higher with NASBA-OC."}
{"id": "20639822", "title": "Evaluation of latex agglutination test (KAtex) for early diagnosis of kala-azar.", "content": "Evaluation of latex agglutination test (KAtex) for early diagnosis of kala-azar. Kala-azar is one of the major public health problem in Bangladesh. But the diagnosis of the problem often is difficult, unusual and time consuming, a simple, noninvasive, easy to perform, reliable and rapid diagnostic test has been a long-felt need of the clinicians. Therefore, the present study was conducted to see the sensitivity and specificity of Latex Agglutination test (KAtex) to detect leishmanial antigen from urine of kala-azar cases. The study was carried out in the department of Paediatrics, Mymensingh Medical College and Hospital, Bangladesh during July to December, 2008. A total of 100 urine samples were collected of which 50 were confirmed kala-azar cases and 50 were age and sex matched controls. Out of 50 kala-azar cases 47 showed positive result of KAtex. The test was also positive in 01 out of 30 healthy controls. None of the febrile controls was positive by KAtex. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value of the test using presence of LD bodies in splenic and/or bone marrow aspirate as gold standard were 94%, 98%, 97.91% and 94.23% respectively. KAtex is simple, noninvasive, easy to perform, rapid and reliable test for diagnosing kala-azar in endemic area and useful for small, less equipped laboratories as well as for the laboratories with better facilities."}
{"id": "20635639", "title": "In search of an ideal test for diagnosis and prognosis of kala-azar.", "content": "In search of an ideal test for diagnosis and prognosis of kala-azar. The latex agglutination test (KAtex), direct agglutination test (DAT), and the rK39 immuno-chromatographic strip test (dipstick test) were evaluated for their role in the diagnosis and prognosis of visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar) in India. Sera and urine samples from 455 subjects--150 confirmed visceral leishmaniasis cases, 160 endemic controls, 100 non-endemic controls, and 45 other febrile diseases--were included in the study. The sensitivity of the KAtex, DAT, and rK39 strip test was 87% [95% confidence interval (CI) 80-96], 93.3% (95% CI 88-100), and 98% (95% CI 93-100) respectively. The specificity of these tests was 98% (95% CI 93-100), 93% (95% CI 87-100), and 89% (95% CI 82-97) for the KAtex, DAT, and rK39 strip test respectively. Fifty cases were followed up and subjected to the KAtex, DAT, and rK39 strip test after 30 days of successful treatment. The DAT and rK39 strip test showed positive results in all the 50 cases whereas the KAtex showed no positive reaction in any case. Based on the results, it is concluded that the sensitivity and specificity of the DAT and rK39 strip test are comparable but the greater convenience of use of the strip test makes it a better tool for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in the peripheral areas of endemic regions whereas the sensitivity of the KAtex needs to be improved to promote its use as a first-line diagnostic test in the field-setting. It may be used for the prognosis of the disease as antigen becomes undetectable in urine after 30 days of the completion of the treatment. Alternatively, it can be used as an adjunct with rK39 for sero-epidemiological surveys."}
{"id": "20591081", "title": "Management of visceral leishmaniasis in rural primary health care services in Bihar, India.", "content": "Management of visceral leishmaniasis in rural primary health care services in Bihar, India. In 2005 a visceral leishmaniasis (VL) elimination initiative was launched on the Indian subcontinent, with early diagnosis based on a rapid diagnostic test and treatment with the oral drug miltefosine as its main strategy. Several recent studies have signaled underreporting of VL cases in the region. Information on treatment outcomes is scanty. Our aim was to document VL case management by the primary health care services in India. We took a random sample of all VL patients registered in rural primary health care (PHC) facilities of Muzaffarpur district, Bihar, India during 2008. Patients were traced at home for an interview and their records were reviewed. We recorded patient and doctor delay, treatment regimens, treatment outcomes and costs incurred by patients. We could review records of all 150 patients sampled and interview 139 patients or their guardian. Most patients (81%) had first presented to unqualified practitioners; median delay before reaching the appropriate primary healthcare facility was 40 days (IQR 31-59 days). Existing networks of village health workers were under-used. 48% of VL patients were treated with antimonials; 40% of those needed a second treatment course. Median direct expenditure by patients was 4000 rupees per episode (IQR 2695-5563 rupees), equivalent to almost 2 months of household income. In 2008 still critical flaws remained in VL case management in the primary health care services in Bihar: obsolete use of antimonials with high failure rates and long patient delay. To meet the target of the VL elimination, more active case detection strategies are needed, and village health worker networks could be more involved. Costs to patients remain an obstacle to early case finding."}
{"id": "20542033", "title": "Leishmania infantum chagasi: a genome-based approach to identification of excreted/secreted proteins.", "content": "Leishmania infantum chagasi: a genome-based approach to identification of excreted/secreted proteins. The parasitic protozoan, Leishmania, survives in harsh environments within its mammalian and sand fly hosts. Secreted proteins likely play critical roles in the parasite's interactions with its environment. As a preliminary identification of the spectrum of potential excreted/secreted (ES) proteins of Leishmania infantum chagasi (Lic), a causative agent of visceral leishmaniasis, we used standard algorithms to screen the annotated L. infantum genome for genes whose predicted protein products have an N-terminal signal peptide and lack transmembrane domains and membrane anchors. A suite of 181 candidate ES proteins were identified. These included several that were documented in the literature to be released by other Leishmania spp. Six candidate ES proteins were selected for further validation of their expression and release by different parasite stages. We found both amastigote-specific and promastigote-specific released proteins. The ES proteins of Lic are candidates for future studies of parasite virulence determinants and host protective immunity."}
{"id": "20527645", "title": "Sero-epidemiological study of visceral leishmaniasis in Basrah, Southern Iraq.", "content": "Sero-epidemiological study of visceral leishmaniasis in Basrah, Southern Iraq. To study selected epidemiological aspects of visceral leishmaniasis, assess direct agglutination test (DAT) as a diagnostic method and the sero-epidemiological prevalence of the disease among apparently healthy children in Basrah, Iraq. This prospective study included 146 children suspected of visceral leishmaniasis who were admitted to Basrah Maternity and Children Hospital and Basrah General Hospital from November 2004 till November 2005 and 37 serum samples that were collected from patients with different diseases considered in the differential diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. In addition, 1000 apparently healthy children were randomly selected for the sero-epidemiological survey. Direct agglutination test was done for all of them. Out of 146 suspected visceral leishmaniasis cases, 124 (84.9%) were proved by the examination of bone marrow aspirate, 132 (91.1%) were positive by direct agglutination test (DAT) and only 3 (2%) were positive by immunochromatographic strip test. The sensitivity and specificity of DAT were (100%), with a cut-off point of 1:800. In the in-patient group children less than 2 years of age were mainly affected. The highest frequency of disease was reported in July, 24 cases (18.8%). Sand flies were recorded in the environment of all sero-positive cases (100%) in each group, stray dogs and wild canines were present in (75.7% and 15.5%) in in-patients group compared to (69% and 22.5%) in sero-epidemiological group, respectively. Low maternal education was present in a significantly higher frequency among sero-positive cases. Direct agglutination test can be used as a screening tool for visceral leishmaniasis on a wide range in endemic areas, with a high sensitivity and specificity."}
{"id": "20507695", "title": "Clinical and epidemiological studies on the cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania (Leishmania) donovani in Sri Lanka.", "content": "Clinical and epidemiological studies on the cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania (Leishmania) donovani in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka is the newest reported focus of human leishmaniasis within the Indian subcontinent. Over the last 8 years, more than 2000 cases of cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL), apparently caused by Leishmania donovani (a species usually associated with the visceral form of the disease), have been passively identified in the country. The clinical profiles of 401 suspected cases of CL in Sri Lanka were recently explored and some of the cases' immunological responses were investigated, in antibody-detection assays based on the rk39 antigen. These studies were followed by cross-sectional surveys, involving active case detection, in three areas of Sri Lanka, two of them known to be at relatively high risk for CL, with the aims of estimating the local prevalences of the disease and identifying the main risk factors for its acquisition. This appears to be the first detailed report on the prevalence, risk factors and human serological response associated with human leishmaniasis in Sri Lanka. Although the data collected indicated that the transmission of the parasite causing CL was mostly outdoor (and possibly zoonotic) in the north of the country, most of the transmission in the south seemed to be peridomestic. The CL was found to affect a wide age range, in both male and female subjects. Curiously, the 24 cases of CL that were investigated in the rk39 assays gave negative results whereas the single cases of mucosal or visceral leishmaniasis that were studied were found positive for antibodies reacting with the rk39 antigen. More programmes of active case detection need to be launched across Sri Lanka before the true national burden posed by human leishmaniasis can be accurately evaluated. General awareness of leishmaniasis needs to be raised. Hopefully, continued research and disease monitoring will allow the effective control of leishmaniasis in Sri Lanka."}
{"id": "20487429", "title": "Accordance and concordance of PCR and NASBA followed by oligochromatography for the molecular diagnosis of Trypanosoma brucei and Leishmania.", "content": "Accordance and concordance of PCR and NASBA followed by oligochromatography for the molecular diagnosis of Trypanosoma brucei and Leishmania. To evaluate the repeatability and reproducibility of four simplified molecular assays for the diagnosis of Trypanosoma brucei spp. or Leishmania ssp. in a multicentre ring trial with seven participating laboratories. The tests are based on PCR or NASBA amplification of the parasites nucleic acids followed by rapid read-out by oligochromatographic dipstick (PCR-OC and NASBA-OC). On purified nucleic acid specimens, the repeatability and reproducibility of the tests were Tryp-PRC-OC, 91.7% and 95.5%; Tryp-NASBA-OC, 95.8% and 100%; Leish-PCR-OC, 95.9% and 98.1%; Leish-NASBA-OC, 92.3% and 98.2%. On blood specimens spiked with parasites, the repeatability and reproducibility of the tests were Tryp-PRC-OC, 78.4% and 86.6%; Tryp-NASBA-OC, 81.5% and 89.0%; Leish-PCR-OC, 87.1% and 91.7%; Leish-NASBA-OC, 74.8% and 86.2%. As repeatability and reproducibility of the tests were satisfactory, further phase II and III evaluations in clinical and population specimens from disease endemic countries are justified."}
{"id": "20487423", "title": "The economic impact of visceral leishmaniasis on rural households in one endemic district of Bihar, India.", "content": "The economic impact of visceral leishmaniasis on rural households in one endemic district of Bihar, India. To estimate the economic burden of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) on the rural population of one VL endemic district of Bihar, the state with 85% of India's cases. Using a survey of a stratified multistage sampling of 15 178 households with 214 individuals with VL in the previous 12 months, the study provides data on VL treatment expenditures, financing and days of work lost in the context of overall household expenditures, income sources and assets. Median household expenditures on VL treatment represent, on average, 11% of annual household expenditures and an estimated 7 months of an individual's income at the daily wage in rural Bihar. With 87% of households forced to take out loans to finance disease costs, VL can contribute to a spiral of increasing poverty. The current pattern of VL treatment, with multiple visits and treatments for a single episode of illness, significantly increases the economic burden on the household. India's National Elimination Program to make effective treatments accessible to the rural poor, if combined with expanded efforts to improve timely access to diagnosis by conducting rapid diagnostic tests closer to the community (and mobilizing the rural population to seek effective treatment earlier), can reduce VL's economic burden on India's rural households."}
{"id": "20487421", "title": "Epidemiology of Leishmania donovani infection in high-transmission foci in Nepal.", "content": "Epidemiology of Leishmania donovani infection in high-transmission foci in Nepal. Nepal reports a visceral leishmaniasis (VL) incidence of 5 per 10 000 per year on the basis of notification by health facilities, but little community-based epidemiological information exists. We report data on prevalence rates of Leishmania donovani infection in ten communities in East Nepal. Ten clusters with highest VL incidence rates were purposefully selected in Nepal. All households were mapped and socio-demographic data and data on past VL incidence were collected. An exhaustive serological survey was performed of individuals aged >2 years, by collecting finger prick blood on filter paper in November-December 2006. The samples were tested by direct agglutination, and a titre >or=1:1600 was taken as marker of infection. A generalized estimating equation (GEE) model was used to assess risk factors for Direct Agglutination Test (DAT) positivity taking into account the clustering at household and village level. The sero-survey (n = 5397) showed an infection prevalence rate of 9%, (range 5-15% per cluster) with higher prevalence in men (9.9%) than in women (8.3%) (P = 0.049). Male gender, increasing age and poverty were significant risk factors in the final GEE model. Leishmania infection rate in high-transmission areas in Nepal is associated with gender, age and socio-economic status."}
{"id": "20487420", "title": "The epidemiology of Leishmania donovani infection in high transmission foci in India.", "content": "The epidemiology of Leishmania donovani infection in high transmission foci in India. Visceral Leishmaniasis (VL) is highly prevalent in Bihar, India. India and its neighbours aim at eliminating VL, but several knowledge gaps in the epidemiology of VL may hamper that effort. The prevalence of asymptomatic infections with Leishmania donovani and their role in transmission dynamics are not well understood. We report data from a sero-survey in Bihar. Demographic and immunological surveys were carried out in July and November 2006, respectively in 16 highly VL endemic foci in Muzaffarpur district in Bihar. Household and individual information was gathered and capillary blood samples were collected on filter papers. Direct agglutination test (DAT) was used to determine infected individuals (cut-off titre 1:1600). DAT results were tabulated against individual and household variables. A multivariate generalized estimating equation (GEE) model was used to study the prevalence of serologically positive individuals taking into account the clustering at household and cluster levels. Of study subjects 18% were DAT positive, and this proportion increased with age. Women had a significantly lower prevalence than men >14 years old. Owning domestic animals (cows, buffaloes or goats) was associated with a higher risk of being DAT positive [OR 1.16 (95% CI 1.01-1.32)], but socio-economic status was not. Prevalence of leishmanial antibodies was high in these communities, but variable. Demographic factors (i.e. marriage) may explain the lower DAT positivity in women >14 years of age. Within these homogeneously poor communities, socio-economic status was not linked to L. donovani infection risk at the individual level, but ownership of domestic animals was."}
{"id": "20459877", "title": "Spatial analysis of Leishmania donovani exposure in humans and domestic animals in a recent kala azar focus in Nepal.", "content": "Spatial analysis of Leishmania donovani exposure in humans and domestic animals in a recent kala azar focus in Nepal. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a major public health problem in the Indian subcontinent where the Leishmania donovani transmission cycle is described as anthroponotic. However, the role of animals (in particular domestic animals) in the persistence and expansion of VL is still a matter of debate. We combined Direct Agglutination Test (DAT) results in humans and domestic animals with Geographic Information System technology (i.e. extraction maps and scan statistic) to evaluate the exposure to L. donovani on these 2 populations in a recent VL focus in Nepal. A Poisson regression model was used to assess the risk of infection in humans associated with, among other factors, the proportion of DAT-positive animals in the proximities of the household. The serological results showed that both humans and domestic animals were exposed to L. donovani. DAT-positive animals and humans were spatially clustered. The presence of serologically positive goats (IRR=9.71), past VL cases (IRR=2.62) and the proximity to a forest island dividing the study area (IRR=3.67) increased the risk of being DAT-positive in humans. Even if they are not a reservoir, domestic animals, and specially goats, may play a role in the distribution of L. donovani, in particular in this new VL focus."}
{"id": "20439958", "title": "Measurement of recent exposure to Phlebotomus argentipes, the vector of Indian visceral Leishmaniasis, by using human antibody responses to sand fly saliva.", "content": "Measurement of recent exposure to Phlebotomus argentipes, the vector of Indian visceral Leishmaniasis, by using human antibody responses to sand fly saliva. Antibody (IgG) responses to the saliva of Phlebotomus argentipes were investigated using serum samples from regions of India endemic and non-endemic for visceral leishmaniasis (VL). By pre-adsorbing the sera against the saliva of the competing human-biting but non-VL vector P. papatasi, we significantly improved the specificity of a P. argentipes saliva enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Using this method, we observed a statistically significant correlation between antibodies to P. argenitpes saliva and the average indoor density of female sand flies. Additionally, the method was able to detect recent changes in vector exposure when sera from VL patients were assayed before, during, and after hospitalization and protected from sand fly bites under untreated bed nets. Collectively, these results highlight the utility of antibodies to P. argentipes saliva as an important tool to evaluate VL vector control programs."}
{"id": "20378427", "title": "[Visceral childhood leishmaniasis: diagnosis and treatment].", "content": "[Visceral childhood leishmaniasis: diagnosis and treatment]. Visceral leishmaniasis is endemic in Spain. New diagnostic tools and shorter regimens of treatment are been increasingly being used in children. To analyze the clinical and epidemiological characteristics of cases of visceral leishmaniasis, to evaluate the diagnostic techniques tested and the safety and efficacy of treatments used. We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of children diagnosed with visceral leishmaniasis between January 1994 and December 2007 in a tertiary public Hospital in the South of Madrid. The diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis was based on visualization of Leishmania sp. in bone marrow aspirate or culture or positive PCR analysis of the bone marrow aspirate. Eleven immunocompetent children were identified. Median age was 21 months (range: 4 months - 13 years). Fever was present in all cases, and hepatomegaly and splenomegaly in 10 (91%). Anemia was the most frequent haematological finding (100%). A bone marrow aspirate was obtained in all cases. Leishmania amastigotes were observed in 8 (73%) cases. Leishmania DNA in the bone marrow aspirate was detected in all patients who underwent this procedure. Positive immunofluorescent-antibody test (IFAT) analysis at baseline was observed in 63% of cases tested. The threshold titer for positivity was 1/40. Urinary antigen detection test was positive in 4 out of 6 (67%) children in whom I was performed. Initial treatment consisted of meglumine antimoniate in 3 patients and liposomal amphotericin B (LAB) in 8 (73%) patients. All children had an early clinical response. Only one child treated with LAB relapsed. No severe adverse events were observed with treatment. Visceral leishmaniasis is still a common disease in our area. Clinical and laboratory findings of visceral leishmaniasis are similar to other Mediterranean area reports. PCR analysis of the bone marrow aspirate was more sensitive than traditional diagnostic techniques. Non-invasive diagnostic techniques may be used as an aid in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in children. Short course treatment of visceral leishmaniasis with liposomal amphotericin B has been safe and effective."}
{"id": "20351785", "title": "Using recombinant proteins from Lutzomyia longipalpis saliva to estimate human vector exposure in visceral Leishmaniasis endemic areas.", "content": "Using recombinant proteins from Lutzomyia longipalpis saliva to estimate human vector exposure in visceral Leishmaniasis endemic areas. Leishmania is transmitted by female sand flies and deposited together with saliva, which contains a vast repertoire of pharmacologically active molecules that contribute to the establishment of the infection. The exposure to vector saliva induces an immune response against its components that can be used as a marker of exposure to the vector. Performing large-scale serological studies to detect vector exposure has been limited by the difficulty in obtaining sand fly saliva. Here, we validate the use of two sand fly salivary recombinant proteins as markers for vector exposure. ELISA was used to screen human sera, collected in an area endemic for visceral leishmaniasis, against the salivary gland sonicate (SGS) or two recombinant proteins (rLJM11 and rLJM17) from Lutzomyia longipalpis saliva. Antibody levels before and after SGS seroconversion (n = 26) were compared using the Wilcoxon signed rank paired test. Human sera from an area endemic for VL which recognize Lu. longipalpis saliva in ELISA also recognize a combination of rLJM17 and rLJM11. We then extended the analysis to include 40 sera from individuals who were seropositive and 40 seronegative to Lu. longipalpis SGS. Each recombinant protein was able to detect anti-saliva seroconversion, whereas the two proteins combined increased the detection significantly. Additionally, we evaluated the specificity of the anti-Lu. longipalpis response by testing 40 sera positive to Lutzomyia intermedia SGS, and very limited (2/40) cross-reactivity was observed. Receiver-operator characteristics (ROC) curve analysis was used to identify the effectiveness of these proteins for the prediction of anti-SGS positivity. These ROC curves evidenced the superior performance of rLJM17+rLJM11. Predicted threshold levels were confirmed for rLJM17+rLJM11 using a large panel of 1,077 serum samples. Our results show the possibility of substituting Lu. longipalpis SGS for two recombinant proteins, LJM17 and LJM11, in order to probe for vector exposure in individuals residing in endemic areas."}
{"id": "20212344", "title": "Compararative evaluation of rK9, rK26 and rK39 antigens in the serodiagnosis of Indian visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Compararative evaluation of rK9, rK26 and rK39 antigens in the serodiagnosis of Indian visceral leishmaniasis. This study was designed for comparative evaluation of two relatively newer recombinant hydrophilic antigens, rK9 and rK26 of Leishmania chagasi along with rK39 (a 39-aminoacid-repetitive immunodominant B-cell epitope of kinesin-related antigen from L. chagasi) and crude soluble antigen (CSA) for the serodiagnosis of Indian visceral leishmaniasis (VL) patients by quantitative ELISA. In the present study a total of 80 subjects comprising of 55 confirmed VL cases and 25 endemic controls (EC) were subjected to ELISA using four different antigens, namely rK9, rK26, rK39 and CSA (derived from Leishmania donovani promastigotes). Sensitivity was as follows: 78% (95%CI 63-100%) for rK9, 38% (95%CI 28-59%) for rK26, 100% for rK39, and 80% (95% CI 65-100%) for CSA. The specificity of rK9, rK26, rK39 and CSA was found to be 84% (95%CI 61-100%), 80% (95%CI 56-100%), 96% (95%CI 75-100%) and 72% (95%CI 49-100%), respectively. rK39 was observed to be the most suitable antigen as compared to rK26 and rK9 whereas rK9 performed better than rK26. Hence rK9 antigen may either be used as an adjunct to rK39 for accurate diagnosis of VL or may be used in the absence or non-availability of rK39 antigen for the serodiagnosis."}
{"id": "20098726", "title": "Control of visceral leishmaniasis in latin america-a systematic review.", "content": "Control of visceral leishmaniasis in latin america-a systematic review. While three countries in South Asia decided to eliminate anthroponotic visceral leishmaniasis (VL) by 2015, its control in other regions seems fraught with difficulties. Is there a scope for more effective VL control in the Americas where transmission is zoonotic? We reviewed the evidence on VL control strategies in Latin America-diagnosis, treatment, veterinary interventions, vector control-with respect to entomological and clinical outcomes. We searched the electronic databases of MEDLINE, LILACS, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, from 1960 to November 2008 and references of selected articles. Intervention trials as well as observational studies that evaluated control strategies of VL in the Americas were included. While the use of rapid diagnostic tests for VL diagnosis seems well established, there is a striking lack of evidence from clinical trials for drug therapy and few well designed intervention studies for control of vectors or canine reservoirs. Elimination of zoonotic VL in the Americas does not seem a realistic goal at this point given the lack of political commitment, gaps in scientific knowledge, and the weakness of case management and surveillance systems. Research priorities and current strategies should be reviewed with the aim of achieving better VL control."}
{"id": "19962790", "title": "[Comparison of conventional and non-conventional serological tests for the diagnosis of imported Chagas disease in Spain].", "content": "[Comparison of conventional and non-conventional serological tests for the diagnosis of imported Chagas disease in Spain]. Trypanosoma cruzi infection is a major imported parasitic disease in Spain, because of the increase of immigrants from endemic areas. Since the laboratory diagnosis during the chronic phase is based on detection of anti-T. cruzi IgG antibodies, our aims were to compare 10 tests for determining anti-T. cruzi antibodies, to assess their cross-reactivity with related diseases, and to evaluate the rk39-ELISA and IFAT-Leishmania tests as tools for the differential diagnosis of leishmaniasis due to Leishmania infantum. A total of 223 sera were tested: 40 had been previously characterized by Qpanel, and 183 were obtained from the serum library of the Parasitology Department, Centro Nacional de Microbiolog\u00eda (66 chagasic, 97 healthy, 30 visceral leishmaniasis, and 30 malaria). Samples were examined using in-house IFAT and ELISA, 5 commercial ELISAs (Certest/Abbot Laboratories/BiosChile; Ortho Clinical Diagnostics; BLK Diagnostic; bioM\u00e9rieux; and Biokit), particle gel agglutination (ID-PaGIA), and two immunochromatographic assays (Operon and CTK Biotech). The last 4 tests are based in recombinant antigens (non-conventional tests). The IFAT and ELISAs showed a sensitivity of 97% to 100%. The immunochromatographic tests had somewhat lower sensitivity (92%-96%). All non-conventional tests presented a smaller number of cross-reactions. Leishmania-Rk39-ELISA did not show cross-reactivity with chagasic sera. In general, our results confirm the data obtained by other authors. The sensitivity of ELISA is higher than other tests; therefore, these techniques would be the most appropriate for screening of T. cruzi infection. A suitable approach is the combination of a test using total antigen with another based on either recombinant antigens or synthetic peptides."}
{"id": "19803542", "title": "Surveillance for antibodies to Leishmania spp. in dogs from Sri Lanka.", "content": "Surveillance for antibodies to Leishmania spp. in dogs from Sri Lanka. The global distribution of leishmaniasis is rapidly expanding into new geographic regions. Dogs are the primary reservoir hosts for human visceral leishmaniasis caused by infection with Leishmania infantum. Natural infections with other Leishmania spp. can occur in dogs, but their role as reservoir hosts for other species of Leishmania is uncertain. Leishmania donovani is traditionally considered a visceralizing anthroponotic species; however, cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by L. donovani has been reported in Sri Lanka. In the present study, sera from 114 dogs in Sri Lanka were examined for antibodies to visceralizing Leishmania spp. Sera were tested by the canine immunochromatographic strip assays based on recombinant K39 antigen. Anti-Leishmania spp. antibodies were detectable in 1 of 114 (0.9%) dogs from Sri Lanka. Nonetheless, serological evidence suggests that leishmaniasis may be an emerging zoonosis in Sri Lanka."}
{"id": "19716797", "title": "Lutzomyia migonei as putative vector of visceral leishmaniasis in La Banda, Argentina.", "content": "Lutzomyia migonei as putative vector of visceral leishmaniasis in La Banda, Argentina. Four autochthonous cases of human visceral leishmaniasis (VL) were reported in La Banda, Santiago del Estero from June 2007 to May 2008. In the vicinity of these cases there were 3/47 rK39 sero-positive dogs, and another 4 dogs with VL were reported by passive surveillance. The sero-positive dogs and infected humans lived within a 3.1 km radius. Phebotomine sand fly captures were performed twice during November/December 2007 and April 2008. In 20 of the 59 sampled sites in the areas of the human and canine cases (220 night/traps) 151 phlebotomine sand flies were collected and consisted of: Lutzomyia migonei 93%, Lutzomyia cortelezzii 5.6% and Lutzomyia neivai 1.4%. We propose that there was an enzootic cycle of VL with accidental human transmission due to L. migonei and suggest that there be a surveillance of human isolated cases of VL within the L. migonei dispersion area."}
{"id": "21591519", "title": "Disseminated histoplasmosis diagnosed on bone marrow aspirate cytology: report of four cases.", "content": "Disseminated histoplasmosis diagnosed on bone marrow aspirate cytology: report of four cases. Histoplasmosis, caused by two varieties of dimorphic fungi, Histoplasma capsulatum variant capsulatum and Histoplasma capsulatum variant duboisii is a systemic fungal infection. It has a worldwide distribution and is shown to be more prevalent in North America and Central America. Both variants occur in Africa. Disease spectrum ranges from asymptomatic primary infection to disseminated disease in immunocompromised patients. Since the upsurge of acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and despite the availability of high active anti-retroviral therapy (HAART) many patients still present with opportunistic infections of which histoplasmosis is one. Four cases are presented; two infants and two adults. All had disseminated disease with multiple organ involvement and the disease was not suspected clinically. Diagnosis was made incidentally on bone marrow aspirate cytology. The two adult cases were HIV positive, one with CD4 counts of 132 cells/microlitre and was not on HAART. The other was on HAART but the CD4 had not been determined. One of the infants tested HIV negative and the others status was unknown. A high index of suspicion is required for diagnosis as the disease may mimic tuberculosis(TB) and other causes of hepatosplenomegaly such as visceral leishmaniasis. Laboratory diagnosis includes culture, direct staining, antigen and antibody detection. Antibody detection may give false negative in the immunocompromised patient. The infection responds well to antifungal agents (amphotericin B is the drug of choice) and life long maintenance therapy may be required in AIDS especially if CD4 counts remain less than 150 cells/microlitre. Histoplasmosis should be a differential diagnosis in immunosuppressed patients with unexplained fever, weight loss, hepatosplenomegaly and chest findings especially if not responding to anti-TB treatment."}
{"id": "20054109", "title": "Qualitative and semi-quantitative comparison of an rK39 strip test and direct agglutination test for detection of anti-Leishmania donovani antibodies in the Sudan.", "content": "Qualitative and semi-quantitative comparison of an rK39 strip test and direct agglutination test for detection of anti-Leishmania donovani antibodies in the Sudan. Until now, the comparison of the rK39 strip test (RKT) and direct agglutination test (DAT) for detection of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is exclusively based on either positive or negative qualification of the reaction outcome. In this study, we compared the diagnostic performance of RKT and DAT for VL both qualitatively and semi-quantitatively. For comparison based on semi-quantitative grounds, the execution of RKT and DAT was according to the standard procedures. For comparison on semi-qualitative grounds with DAT, the RKT was applied to aliquots from positive samples that were two-fold serially diluted in saline to determine, as for the DAT, the end-point reaction in RKT. While qualitatively both RKT and DAT demonstrated comparable reliability for VL detection (sensitivity = 96% and specificity = 98.7% or 99.3%), no significant correlation (r = 0.13) could be established between intensities of their positive reactions in 25 cases studied. A negative correlation was further determined in those 25 VL cases between the positive intensities of the RKT and antibody levels measured semi-quantitatively with the same procedure (r = -0.36) or the DAT (r = -0.30). Irrespective of the low, moderate or high antibody levels measured with RKT (< or = 1:8 and 1:16-1:32 > or = 1:256) or DAT (< or = 1:25,600 and 1:51,200- 1:409,600 > or = 1:3,276,800) in patients with confirmed or unconfirmed VL infection, exclusively strong positive intensities were obtained with RKT. For further optimizing diagnosis and simultaneously assessing magnitude of immune response to L. donovani infection in Sudanese patients, the combined application of RKT and DAT is recommended."}
{"id": "20054108", "title": "Performance of latex agglutination test (KAtex) in diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Iran.", "content": "Performance of latex agglutination test (KAtex) in diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Iran. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is an endemic disease in some parts of Iran. Many techniques have been used for diagnosis of VL, among which the urine based latex agglutination test (KAtex) is a promising one. To compare three diagnostic tests of VL including KAtex, ELISA and Direct Agglutination Test (DAT) in VL patients and healthy controls in the south west of Iran. Serum (n = 29) and urine samples (n = 31) were collected from parasitologically confirmed VL patients. Control samples were obtained from healthy individuals (n = 61) and also from patients with infectious diseases other than VL. The collected serum samples were tested by DAT and ELISA using crude antigen from promastigotes of Leishmania infantum and the urine samples were tested by KAtex. Sensitivity and specificity of KAtex for diagnosis of VL was found to be 83.9% and 100%, respectively. Sensitivities of DAT and ELISA were 93.1% and 86.2% and their specificities were 100% and 90.5%, respectively. KAtex yielded a satisfactory sensitivity and specificity in diagnosis of VL in Iran and can be recommended as a rapid, field applicable and reliable test for diagnosis of VL in this region."}
{"id": "20030990", "title": "Visceral leishmaniasis in Aba-Roba, south-western Ethiopia: prevalence and incidence of active and subclinical infections.", "content": "Visceral leishmaniasis in Aba-Roba, south-western Ethiopia: prevalence and incidence of active and subclinical infections. Between August 1997 and February 2005, a prospective study of human visceral leishmaniasis (VL) was undertaken in two villages in the Konso district of south-western Ethiopia, to provide epidemiological indices of subclinical infection and active VL. Six cross-sectional surveys at 6-month intervals (ending in August 2000) were complemented by a single survey in February 2005. The prevalences and incidences of leishmanial infection and active VL, which were determined using leishmanin skin tests (LST), direct agglutination tests (DAT) and parasitological diagnosis, varied spatio-temporally and by age and gender. At baseline, when 1339 individuals were investigated, the overall prevalences of LST positivity, DAT positivity and active VL among the 1232 subjects who had not been treated previously were 30.0%, 5.4% and 0.49%, respectively. During the study, <10% of the subjects found DAT-positive at baseline progressed to active VL (with a mean of about nine cases of subclinical infection for every one of active VL). The median age of an incident VL case was 10.5 years. The highest rates of LST conversion occurred among the subjects aged 5-25 years. A subject who became LST-positive during the study was much less likely to develop active VL than the other subjects."}
{"id": "19859739", "title": "Comparison of microscopic examination, rK39, and PCR for visceral leishmaniasis diagnosis in Turkey.", "content": "Comparison of microscopic examination, rK39, and PCR for visceral leishmaniasis diagnosis in Turkey. The laboratory diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis is based on microscopic examination, culture, serological tests, and molecular methods. In this study, we examined 50 blood specimens from suspected visceral leishmaniasis patients by microscopic examination, recombinant antigen dipstick test (rK39), and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in the University of Cukurova, Faculty of Medicine, Parasitology Department in Turkey. We calculated the sensitivity-specificity and positive-negative predictive values for these diagnostic tests. We found that positive predictive value of microscopy examination, rK39 dipstick test, and PCR were 20%, 24%, and 58% for visceral leishmaniasis, respectively. When we compared polymerase chain reaction, recombinant antigen dipstick test, and microscopic examination for visceral leishmaniasis diagnosis, the polymerase chain reaction is more sensitive (100%) than recombinant antigen dipstick test and microscopy examination."}
{"id": "19852367", "title": "[An epidemiological survey of visceral leishmaniasis in Hamangou coal mine area of Korla City, Xinjiang].", "content": "[An epidemiological survey of visceral leishmaniasis in Hamangou coal mine area of Korla City, Xinjiang]. To investigate the epidemiological status of visceral leishmaniasis in Hamangou coal mine area of Korla City of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. Based on a hint of possible existence of patients, a retrospective survey was carried out house by house to find cases with suspected signs/symptoms of the disease. Meanwhile, a survey on current status was conducted, including physical examination (liver and spleen palpation) to those less than 15 years-old, leishmanin skin test and rk39 immunochromatographic strip test for part of the residents. Bone marrow smears were examined for the cases with clinical signs/symptoms and positive rk39 strip test. Sandflies were collected using routine methods in and around the area, identified, and dissected to find infection of promastigotes. Leishmanin skin test was performed in 185 people with a positive rate of 21.1% (39/185), 39 out of 140 local residents who have lived there for more than 6 years showed positive (27.9%), while all residents who have lived less than 6 years and children under 5 years old were negative. Of the 81 children under 15 years old with a negative skin test, one showed positive for rk39 strip test, and leishmania body was found in the bone marrow smear of this case, so confirmed as visceral leishmaniasis. 12 sandflies were identified as Phlebotomus alexandri, and natural infection with promastigotes was found in one sandly. The investigation confirms that visceral leishmaniasis is endemic in the Hamangou coal mine area."}
{"id": "19841736", "title": "Inaccuracy of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using soluble and recombinant antigens to detect asymptomatic infection by Leishmania infantum.", "content": "Inaccuracy of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using soluble and recombinant antigens to detect asymptomatic infection by Leishmania infantum. One of the most important drawbacks in visceral leishmaniasis (VL) population studies is the difficulty of diagnosing asymptomatic carriers. The aim of this study, conducted in an urban area in the Southeast of Brazil, was to evaluate the performance of serology to identify asymptomatic VL infection in participants selected from a cohort with a two-year follow-up period. Blood samples were collected in 2001 from 136 cohort participants (97 positive and 39 negatives, PCR/hybridization carried out in 1999). They were clinically evaluated and none had progressed to disease from their asymptomatic state. As controls, blood samples from 22 control individuals and 8 patients with kala-azar were collected. Two molecular biology techniques (reference tests) were performed: PCR with Leishmania-generic primer followed by hybridization using L. infantum probe, and PCR with specific primer to L. donovani complex. Plasma samples were tested by ELISA using three different antigens: L. infantum and L. amazonensis crude antigens, and rK39 recombinant protein. Accuracy of the serological tests was evaluated using sensitivity, specificity, likelihood ratio and ROC curve. The presence of Leishmania was confirmed, by molecular techniques, in all kala-azar patients and in 117 (86%) of the 136 cohort participants. Kala-azar patients showed high reactivity in ELISAs, whereas asymptomatic individuals presented low reactivity against the antigens tested. When compared to molecular techniques, the L. amazonensis and L. infantum antigens showed higher sensitivity (49.6% and 41.0%, respectively) than rK39 (26.5%); however, the specificity of rK39 was higher (73.7%) than L. amazonensis (52.6%) and L. infantum antigens (36.8%). Moreover, there was low agreement among the different antigens used (kappa<0.10). Serological tests were inaccurate for diagnosing asymptomatic infections compared to molecular methods; this could lead to misclassification bias in population studies. Therefore, studies which have used serological assays to estimate prevalence, to evaluate intervention programs or to identify risk factors for Leishmania infection, may have had their results compromised."}
{"id": "19815868", "title": "Vector incrimination of sand flies in the most important visceral leishmaniasis focus in Iran.", "content": "Vector incrimination of sand flies in the most important visceral leishmaniasis focus in Iran. The prevalence, host preference, and rate of Leishmania spp. infection of sand fly species are important parameters for incrimination of parasite vectors. We applied polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) methods to detect Leishmania spp. parasites and blood meals within individual sand flies in the most important visceral leishmaniasis (VL) focus in northwestern Iran. Leishmania spp. minicircles (kinetoplast DNA) were found in 14 (0.9%) of 1,569 female specimens. Sequence analysis of 650 basepairs of an internal transcribed spacer ribosomal DNA gene identified L. infantum/L. donovani in 12 specimens and L. adleri-like parasites in 2 specimens. Nine (64.3%) of 14 of the Leishmania spp.-positive sand flies were Phlebotomus perfeliewi transcaucasicus. Blood meal identification of host DNA within sand flies by PCR-based and ELISA methods showed that 30% and 28%, respectively, were positive for human blood. Results of this study showed that P. perfeliewi transcaucasicus is the most prevalent, infected, and anthropophagic sand fly and plays a major role in VL transmission in the region studied."}
{"id": "19801786", "title": "Cloning and expression of Leishmania major superoxide dismutase B1: A potential target antigen for serodiagnosis of Leishmaniasis.", "content": "Cloning and expression of Leishmania major superoxide dismutase B1: A potential target antigen for serodiagnosis of Leishmaniasis. Leishmaniasis- a neglected public health problem- is a group of diseases affecting an estimated 12 million people worldwide. In the present study, recombinant Leishmania major superoxide dismutase B1 (rLmSODB1) has been utilized as a potential antigen for the serodiagnosis of human cutaneous (CL) and visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in the endemic regions of southern part of Iran. Additionally, the sensitivity and specificity of ELISA-based serodiagnosis using rLmSODB1 and the soluble Leishmania antigen (SLA) were compared. For the first time, rLmSODB1 has been cloned successfully and used for ELISA-based serodiagnosis. Sera from 30 CL and 24 VL cases were included in this study. Additional studies were also done for the evaluation of cross-reactivity using sera from 41 endemic controls including normal endemic donors (n=20), systemic lupus erythematosus patients (n=5), rheumatoid arthritis patients (n=5), and patients with tuberculosis (n=11). Analysis indicated that rLmSODB1 was recognized by 62.5% and 13.3% of sera from patients with VL and CL, showing a sensitivity of 72.7% and 53.6%, respectively. However 95.8% of VL and 30% of CL sera reacted with SLA, revealing sensitivities of 96% and 58.8%, respectively. Additionally, from 41 sera collected either from healthy subjects or patients affected with other diseases, 97.5% were negative with SLA or rLmSODB1 (specificity 97.6%). These results show that rLmSODB1 almost does not react with sera from patients with tuberculosis and autoimmune diseases and may be considered as a candidate antigen for the specific immunodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "19759231", "title": "Antigenemia in patients with mediterranean visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Antigenemia in patients with mediterranean visceral leishmaniasis. Antigenemia in patients with Mediterranean visceral leishmaniasis (MVL) due to Leishmania infantum was retrospectively assessed by sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Circulating Leishmania antigens, partially in free form, were in evidence in 53% of serum samples from immunocompetent individuals with MVL. Following successful therapy, antigenemia decline as measured by ELISA was more pronounced than antibody decrease."}
{"id": "19635870", "title": "Evaluation of Leishmania species reactivity in human serologic diagnosis of leishmaniasis.", "content": "Evaluation of Leishmania species reactivity in human serologic diagnosis of leishmaniasis. The sensitivities and specificities of IgG-ELISA and IgG flow cytometry based techniques using different Leishmania species were determined using sera collected from 40 cutaneous or visceral leishmaniasis patients. The flow cytometry technique, using promastigote parasite forms, performed better than total soluble extract IgG-ELISA. At the species level, the use of Leishmania amazonensis and Leishmania major as antigens in enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) decreased the overall sensitivity. To assess the specificity of these tests, sera from malaria, toxoplasmosis, amoebiasis, schistosomiasis, and leprosy patients were used. We also included sera from Leishmania non-infected endemic individuals. The cutaneous species displayed a decreased specificity in both assays. Although more sensitive, flow cytometry using promastigote parasite forms generally presented lower levels of specificity when compared with total extract of IgG-ELISA. Overall, the results of the study show the potential of IgG flow cytometry for the diagnosis of leishmaniasis. Although highly sensitive, a refinement of the flow cytometry method should be performed to improve the overall specificity."}
{"id": "19635482", "title": "Anti-fixed Leishmania chagasi promastigotes IgG antibodies detected by flow cytometry (FC-AFPA-IgG) as a tool for serodiagnosis and for post-therapeutic cure assessment in American visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Anti-fixed Leishmania chagasi promastigotes IgG antibodies detected by flow cytometry (FC-AFPA-IgG) as a tool for serodiagnosis and for post-therapeutic cure assessment in American visceral leishmaniasis. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a systemic infection, caused by an intracellular protozoan parasite belonging to the Leishmania donovani complex. The diagnosis of VL is complex because most clinical features are shared with other commonly occurring febrile hepatosplenic diseases that can be endemic along with VL. A number of serological devices are available but still require improvement mainly due to residual post-therapeutic serology and the cross-reactivity with other Trypanosomatidae protozooses. This study intended to describe and evaluate the performance of an indirect immunofluorescence assay referred as flow cytometry anti-fixed Leishmania chagasi promastigote IgG antibodies (FC-AFPA-IgG) for serodiagnosis of VL and assessment of post-therapeutic cure. The sera reactivity is reported as the percentage of positive fluorescent parasite (PPFP) along the titration curve. The analysis of sera titration curve indicated the sera dilution 1/32,000 and the PPFP=25% as the cut-off to segregate positive and negative results. Using these parameters, the FC-AFPA-IgG displayed outstanding sensitivity and specificity for diagnosis and post-therapeutic cure assessment purposes. The inter-test reproducibility of FC-AFPA-IgG was also verified, considering two independent Analysts and validated the results obtained by FC-AFPA-IgG. Moreover, the comparison between FC-AFPA-IgG and the conventional serologic test (ELISA) showed that besides the statistically analogous results with strong positive correlation the FC-AFPA-IgG displayed higher performance indexes. Further analysis demonstrated that while cross-reactivity was observed in 8% of samples tested by ELISA, no cross-reactivity was detected by FC-AFPA-IgG. Together, the findings presented in this study showed the potential of FC-AFPA-IgG in both diagnosis and post-therapeutic cure assessment of VL."}
{"id": "19623643", "title": "Improvement of the newly developed latex agglutination test (Katex) for diagnosis of visceral lieshmaniasis.", "content": "Improvement of the newly developed latex agglutination test (Katex) for diagnosis of visceral lieshmaniasis. Different methods are available for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL), among them the urine-based antigen detection assay, latex agglutination test (Katex), is a recently developed one. The main drawback of the test is false-positive reactivity in some of healthy individuals. The false positivity of the test can be removed by boiling the urine sample for 5 min before testing. In this study an attempt was made to improve Katex by removing unpleasant boiling process, which also decreases field applicability of the test. False-positive and true-positive urine samples were collected from VL patients and healthy individuals. Both samples were then treated by reagents including, sodium dodecyl sulfate, trichloroacetic acid, dithiothreitol (DTT), sulphosalicylic acid and also heating at 56 degrees C. Findings of this study showed that DTT pretreatment significantly reduced the rate of false-positive reactivity of Katex where 73% of false-positive urine samples changed to negative after DTT treatment. However, the DTT treatment reduced the rate of true positivity by 14%. These data indicate that DTT can be used to eliminate nonspecific reactivity in the Katex. This will improve the performance of Katex and make it a more convenient and field applicable test."}
{"id": "19623158", "title": "Cutaneous leishmaniasis.", "content": "Cutaneous leishmaniasis. Leishmaniasis is an increasingly prevalent, major world health problem caused by infection with a protozoan which is transmitted by sand fly bites. It is endemic in 88 countries on 4 countries. More than 90% of visceral leishmaniasis cases occur in Bangladesh, Brazil, India and Sudan. Although Bangladesh is one of four countries those bearing the most burden of visceral leishmaniasis, cutaneous leishmaniasis is rare in Bangladesh. Cases of cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) are usually imported to Bangladesh from other endemic countries. A patient from an endemic area of cutaneous leishmaniasis, a non-healing nodulo-ulcerative lesion with \"volcanic crater\" on exposed part of the body, constant dermal infiltration with lymphocytes, histiocytes and plasma cells and demonstration of intracellular parasites in lesional skin establish the diagnosis of cutaneous leishmaniasis. We here represent a case of cutaneous leishmaniasis in an overseas worker, returned from Saudi Arabia. He presented with multiple asymptomatic nodulo-ulcerative lesions on exposed part of the body. The patient's clinical history, morphology of lesions, laboratory analysis and histopathological examination of lesional skin were consistent with cutaneous leishmaniasis, a rare disease for Bangladesh. Cutaneous leishmaniasis may arise as a health problem among people returned from the Middle-East. Our findings of high titre (>1:64000) direct agglutination test (DAT) in cutaneous leishmaniasis may be an additional point of further study."}
{"id": "19578629", "title": "Increased levels of IL-10, IL-12, and IFN- in patients with visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Increased levels of IL-10, IL-12, and IFN- in patients with visceral leishmaniasis. Visceral leishmaniasis remains a serious public health problem in developing countries. Cytokines have a crucial role in the pathogenesis of this disease. We evaluated plasma levels of IL-10, IL-12 and IFN- in 32 patients with active visceral lieshmaniasis, in 29 siblings of the patients and in 23 normal individuals in an endemic area to look for correlations between the clinical outcome of infection and the plasma cytokine levels. An analysis was made with a skin test and a quantitative sandwich enzyme immunoassay. Data were analyzed with the Mann Whitney test and the Kruskal Wallis test. The cytokine levels were significantly higher in the patients than in the control groups. We concluded that normalization of the plasma level of IFN- can serve as a reliable parameter for considering the patient as cured."}
{"id": "19561376", "title": "Expression of recombinant heat-shock protein 70 of MCAN/IR/96/LON-49, a tool for diagnosis and future vaccine research.", "content": "Expression of recombinant heat-shock protein 70 of MCAN/IR/96/LON-49, a tool for diagnosis and future vaccine research. Heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) is present in all organisms studied so far, and is a major immunogen in infections caused by pathogens including Leishmania spp. The aim of this study was to clone and express HSP70 from L. infantum strain MCAN/IR/96/LON-49 and evaluate antibody response against HSP70 in visceral leishmaniasis (VL). The L. infantum HSP70 gene segment was amplified by specific primers. It was cloned into pTZ57R vector and subcloned into pET32a (+) expression vector. The new construct was transformed in the E.coli Rosetta strain, and HSP70 protein was expressed in the presence of 1 mM IPTG and purified using a HiTrap chelating column. Antibody responses against HSP70 were determined by ELISA in 37 patients with visceral leishmaniasis and 63 healthy controls. Expression of HSP70 protein was confirmed using SDS-PAGE electrophoresis and dot blot with an anti-His tag antibody. There was no difference between the sequence of nucleotides of the HSP70 gene in the present study and other reported sequences. The ELISA results indicated that the sera of 81.1% (30/37) of the patients and 6.3% (5/63) of controls reacted to L. infantum HSP70. The conservative nature of the HSP70 molecule is an advantage in vaccine studies, because of minor differences (6%) between the nucleotide sequences and consequently the similarity in amino acid sequences in various strains of L. infantum. It could therefore be used in vaccine research against leishmaniasis and also as a tool for serodiagnosis."}
{"id": "19556562", "title": "Comparative study of serologic tests for the diagnosis of asymptomatic visceral leishmaniasis in an endemic area.", "content": "Comparative study of serologic tests for the diagnosis of asymptomatic visceral leishmaniasis in an endemic area. Serologic tests have been widely used for the diagnosis of asymptomatic visceral leishmaniasis. This study evaluated five serologic tests used for the diagnosis of asymptomatic infection: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using promastigote antigen (ELISAp), ELISA using recombinant K39 (ELISA rK39), and K26 (ELISA rK26) antigens, an indirect immunofluorescence test using Leishmania (Leishmania) amazonensis promastigote antigen (IIFT), and an immunochromatographic test using rK39 antigen (TRALd). As a reference regarding the performance of the tests, patients with classic visceral leishmaniasis originating from Minas Gerais, Brazil (N = 36), were defined as the positive group and samples of healthy individuals from nonendemic areas (Argentina) (N = 127) were used as negative controls. Patients with other diseases such as cutaneous leishmaniasis (N = 53) and malaria (N = 56) were also studied to evaluate the chance of cross-reactivity in these tests. Finally, subjects from an area endemic for visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil (Porteirinha, northern Minas Gerais) (N = 1241) were screened for asymptomatic infection with Leishmania and Chagas disease. The sensitivity of the serologic tests was 50% (18/36), 66.7% (24/36), 69.4% (25/36), 83.3% (30/36), and 88.9% (32/36) for ELISAp, ELISA rK26, ELISA rK39, IIFT, and TRALd, respectively. Specificity, calculated using the truly negative group, was 96% (122/127) for TRALd, 97.6% (124/127) for ELISAp and IIFT, and 100% (127/127) for ELISA rK39 and rK26. Positivity in at least one test employing recombinant antigen was observed in 24 (45%) patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis and 47 (82.4%) with malaria. In the visceral leishmaniasis-endemic area, the positivity of the serologic tests ranged from 3.9% to 37.5%. The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) tests using recombinant antigens were more frequently positive in subjects with a history of exposure to human or canine visceral leishmaniasis (ELISArK39: 14.6% [149/1017] versus 37.5% [84/224]; ELISA rK26: 12.7% [129/1017] versus 21.4% [48/224], P < 0.001 for both). Kappa agreement was low, with a maximum value of 0.449 between ELISAp and IIFT. In addition, among the 112 IIFT-positive subjects, 75 (67%) also presented positive serology for Chagas disease. In conclusion, IIFT and TRALd presented the best performance to diagnose classic cases of visceral leishmaniasis in an endemic area. Cross-reactivity of the tests with Chagas disease, cutaneous leishmaniasis, and malaria should be taken into account. However, the differences in the positivity of the tests used, together with the low agreement between results, do not permit to select the best test for the diagnosis of asymptomatic Leishmania infection."}
{"id": "19515836", "title": "Novel noninvasive method for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis by rK39 testing of sputum samples.", "content": "Novel noninvasive method for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis by rK39 testing of sputum samples."}
{"id": "19499327", "title": "Disease-associated glycosylated molecular variants of human C-reactive protein activate complement-mediated hemolysis of erythrocytes in tuberculosis and Indian visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Disease-associated glycosylated molecular variants of human C-reactive protein activate complement-mediated hemolysis of erythrocytes in tuberculosis and Indian visceral leishmaniasis. Human C-reactive protein (CRP), as a mediator of innate immunity, removed damaged cells by activating the classical complement pathway. Previous studies have successfully demonstrated that CRPs are differentially induced as glycosylated molecular variants in certain pathological conditions. Affinity-purified CRPs from two most prevalent diseases in India viz. tuberculosis (TB) and visceral leishmaniasis (VL) have differential glycosylation in their sugar composition and linkages. As anemia is a common manifestation in TB and VL, we assessed the contributory role of glycosylated CRPs to influence hemolysis via CRP-complement-pathway as compared to healthy control subjects. Accordingly, the specific binding of glycosylated CRPs with erythrocytes was established by flow-cytometry and ELISA. Significantly, deglycosylated CRPs showed a 7-8-fold reduced binding with erythrocytes confirming the role of glycosylated moieties. Scatchard analysis revealed striking differences in the apparent binding constants (10(4)-10(5) M(-1)) and number of binding sites (10(6)-10(7)sites/erythrocyte) for CRP on patients' erythrocytes as compared to normal. Western blotting along with immunoprecipitation analysis revealed the presence of distinct molecular determinants on TB and VL erythrocytes specific to disease-associated CRP. Increased fragility, hydrophobicity and decreased rigidity of diseased-erythrocytes upon binding with glycosylated CRP suggested membrane damage. Finally, the erythrocyte-CRP binding was shown to activate the CRP-complement-cascade causing hemolysis, even at physiological concentration of CRP (10 microg/ml). Thus, it may be postulated that CRP have a protective role towards the clearance of damaged-erythrocytes in these two diseases."}
{"id": "19491428", "title": "Sample survey for indigenous cases of kala-azar in Assam by rk39 dipstick test.", "content": "Sample survey for indigenous cases of kala-azar in Assam by rk39 dipstick test."}
{"id": "19478251", "title": "Field evaluation of rK39 test and direct agglutination test for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in a population with high prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus in Ethiopia.", "content": "Field evaluation of rK39 test and direct agglutination test for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in a population with high prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus in Ethiopia. Accuracy of an rK39 rapid diagnostic test (DiaMed-IT-Leish ) for visceral leishmaniasis (VL) was compared with splenic aspiration and the direct agglutination test (DAT) in a population with a high prevalence of infection with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in Ethiopia. There were 699 patients clinically suspected of having VL (153 parasitologically confirmed, 482 DAT confirmed, and 130 DAT negative), and 97 DAT-negative controls. A total of 84% were tested for HIV and 34% were HIV positive. Sensitivity of the rK39 test in parasitologically confirmed VL patients was 84% (77% in HIV positive and 87% in HIV negative; P = 0.25). Sensitivity of the DAT was higher (94%; P = 0.01), 89% in HIV-positive patients and 95% in HIV-negative patients; P = 0.27). Specificity of the rK39 test was 99% in DAT-negative controls and 92% in DAT-negative patients clinically suspected of having VL. A diagnostic algorithm combining DAT and the rK39 test had a sensitivity of 98% in HIV-positive VL patients and 99% in HIV-negative VL patients. Despite the lower sensitivity in a population with a high prevalence of HIV, the DiaMed-IT-Leish rK39 test enables decentralization of diagnosis. Patients clinically suspected of having VL who show negative results on the rK39 antigen test should undergo follow-up DAT testing, especially if they are HIV positive."}
{"id": "19475352", "title": "Unusual presentations of Visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Unusual presentations of Visceral leishmaniasis. We report 3 cases of Visceral leishmaniasis, who presented with unusual clinical manifestations. One child was diagnosed as hemophagocytic syndrome; another masqueraded with features of leukemoid changes alongwith hemophagocytosis and trilineage myelodysplasia; the third case presented with pyothorax. All the three patients showed amastigote forms of Leishmania donovani and positive serology (rk39 antigen). They showed complete clinical, hematological and parasitological resolution with Amphotericin B therapy."}
{"id": "19464528", "title": "Decrease of the incidence of human and canine visceral leishmaniasis after dog vaccination with Leishmune in Brazilian endemic areas.", "content": "Decrease of the incidence of human and canine visceral leishmaniasis after dog vaccination with Leishmune in Brazilian endemic areas. Leishmune, the first prophylactic vaccine licensed against canine visceral leishmaniasis (CVL), has been used in Brazil since 2004, where seropositive dogs are sacrificed in order to control human visceral leishmaniasis (VL). We demonstrate here that vaccination with Leishmune does not interfere with the serological control campaign (110,000 dogs). Only 1.3% of positivity (76 among 5860) was detected among Leishmune uninfected vaccinees. We also analyzed the possible additive effect of Leishmune vaccination over dog culling, on the decrease of the incidence of CVL and VL in two Brazilian endemic areas, from 2004 to 2006. In Ara\u00e7atuba, a 25% of decline was seen in CVL with a 61% decline in human cases, indicating the additive effect of Leishmune vaccination of 5.7% of the healthy dogs (1419 dogs), on regular dog culling. In Belo Horizonte (BH), rising curves of canine and human incidence were observed in the districts of Barreiro, Venda Nova and Noroeste, while the canine and human incidence of Centro Sul, Leste, Nordeste, Norte, Pampulha and Oeste, started to decrease or maintained a stabilized plateau after Leishmune vaccination. Among the districts showing a percent decrease of human incidence (-36.5%), Centro Sul and Pampulha showed the highest dog vaccination percents (63.27% and 27.27%, respectively) and the lowest dog incidence (-3.36% and 1.89%, respectively). They were followed by Oeste, that vaccinated 25.30% of the animals and experienced an increase of only 12.86% of dog incidence and by Leste and Nordeste, with lower proportions of vaccinees (11.72% and 10.76%, respectively) and probably because of that, slightly higher canine incidences (42.77% and 35.73%). The only exception was found in Norte district where the reduced human and canine incidence were not correlated to Leishmune vaccination. Much lower proportions of dogs were vaccinated in Venda Nova (4.35%), Noroeste (10.27%) and Barreiro (0.09%) districts, which according to that exhibited very increased canine incidences (24.48%, 21.85% and 328.57%, respectively), and pronounced increases in human incidence (14%, 4% and 17%, respectively). The decrease of canine (p=-0.008) and human incidences (p=-0.048) is directly correlated to the increase of the number of vaccinated dogs, confirming the additive control effect of Leishmune vaccination over dog culling, reducing the parasite reservoir, protecting dogs and, in this way, reducing the risk of transmission of VL to humans and becoming a new effective control tool."}
{"id": "19457530", "title": "Improvement of direct agglutination test (DAT) for laboratory diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil.", "content": "Improvement of direct agglutination test (DAT) for laboratory diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil. We previously standardized the direct agglutination test (DAT) to detect anti-Leishmania chagasi promastigote antibodies (DAT-LPC) with good sensitivity and specificity for diagnosing visceral leishmaniasis (VL). In this paper, we present a technical upgrade by introducing some modifications into the antigen preparation. This antigen was evaluated in DAT (DAT-Mod) using 61 sera samples from VL patients and 96 samples from patients with other diseases. The DAT-Mod presented a cut-off of 1:100, satisfactory reproducibility (VC <5.8), sensitivity of 93.4%, specificity of 96.9%, and diagnostic efficiency of 95.5%. The improvement in antigen preparation reduced inter-batch variations and resulted in a high test performance."}
{"id": "19452168", "title": "Rapid detection of Leishmania infantum infection in dogs: a comparative study using fast agglutination screening test (FAST) and direct agglutination test (DAT) in Iran.", "content": "Rapid detection of Leishmania infantum infection in dogs: a comparative study using fast agglutination screening test (FAST) and direct agglutination test (DAT) in Iran. Canine visceral leishmaniasis (CVL) is not only a veterinary problem but has also a serious public health importance. Rapid detection of CVL is highly important for control of human visceral leishmaniasis in Iran. This study was aimed to compare the fast agglutination screening test (FAST) with direct agglutination test (DAT) as a standard serological test for the detection of anti-Leishmania antibodies on dog serum samples. DAT and FAST antigens were prepared in the School of Public Health, Tehran University of Medical Science. Altogether, 73 serum samples from Leishmania infantum infection dogs and 74 sera from healthy controls were collected from human VL/CVL endemic and non-endemic areas of Iran, respectively. All the sera were evaluated with both FAST and DAT techniques. A sensitivity of 98.60% (95% CI, 98.57-98.62) and specificity of 78.70% (95 CI%, 69.20-88.20) were found at a 1:160--(cut-off) titer when DAT confirmed cases were compared with healthy control. A good degree of agreement was observed between FAST and DAT (86.8%) by kappa analysis (p < 0.01). In conclusion, this study showed that FAST is very practical and simple diagnostic tool for the sero-diagnosis of CVL in endemic areas of Iran."}
{"id": "19445946", "title": "6-Br-5methylindirubin-3'oxime (5-Me-6-BIO) targeting the leishmanial glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) short form affects cell-cycle progression and induces apoptosis-like death: exploitation of GSK-3 for treating leishmaniasis.", "content": "6-Br-5methylindirubin-3'oxime (5-Me-6-BIO) targeting the leishmanial glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) short form affects cell-cycle progression and induces apoptosis-like death: exploitation of GSK-3 for treating leishmaniasis. Indirubins known to target mammalian cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) and glycogen synthase kinase (GSK-3) were tested for their antileishmanial activity. 6-Br-indirubin-3'-oxime (6-BIO), 6-Br-indirubin-3'acetoxime and 6-Br-5methylindirubin-3'oxime (5-Me-6-BIO) were the most potent inhibitors of Leishmania donovani promastigote and amastigote growth (half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) values < or =1.2 microM). Since the 6-Br substitution on the indirubin backbone greatly enhances the selectivity for mammalian GSK-3 over CDKs, we identified the leishmanial GSK-3 homologues, a short (LdGSK-3s) and a long one, focusing on LdGSK-3s which is closer to human GSK-3beta, for further studies. Kinase assays showed that 5-Me-6-BIO inhibited LdGSK-3s more potently than CRK3 (the CDK1 homologue in Leishmania), whilst 6-BIO was more selective for CRK3. Promastigotes treated with 5-Me-6-BIO accumulated in the S and G2/M cell-cycle phases and underwent apoptosis-like death. Interestingly, these phenotypes were completely reversed in parasites over-expressing LdGSK-3s. This finding strongly supports that LdGSK-3s is: (i) the intracellular target of 5-Me-6-BIO, and (ii) involved in cell-cycle control and in pathways leading to apoptosis-like death. 6-BIO treatment induced a G2/M arrest, consistent with inhibition of CRK3 and apoptosis-like death. These effects were partially reversed in parasites over-expressing LdGSK-3s suggesting that in vivo 6-BIO may also target LdGSK-3s. Molecular docking of 5-Me-6-BIO in CRK3 and 6-BIO in human GSK-3beta and LdGSK-3s active sites predict the existence of functional/structural differences that are sufficient to explain the observed difference in their affinity. In conclusion, LdGSK-3s is validated as a potential drug target in Leishmania and could be exploited for the development of selective indirubin-based leishmanicidals."}
{"id": "19392902", "title": "Epidemiology and diagnostics of visceral leishmaniasis in Serbia.", "content": "Epidemiology and diagnostics of visceral leishmaniasis in Serbia. A retrospective epidemiological and diagnostic study of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) was carried out during the period 2001-2007 and included patients suspected of VL who had been diagnosed at the Parasitological Laboratory at the Institute for Infectious and Tropical Diseases, Belgrade. Diagnosis of VL was confirmed by microscopic examination of Giemsa-stained bone marrow (BM) smears. BM smears from 134 patients were examined; 22 cases of VL were diagnosed, the majority of which involved individuals who had been on holiday at the Montenegrian sea coast. The sensitivity of the initial BM smears was inadequate; this required the application of a serological test, adapted for routine use, for the diagnosis of VL."}
{"id": "19377416", "title": "Sensitivity, specificity and predictive values of immunochromatographic strip test in diagnosis of childhood kala-azar.", "content": "Sensitivity, specificity and predictive values of immunochromatographic strip test in diagnosis of childhood kala-azar. In Bangladesh, the total population at risk for kala-azar exceeds 20 million (18%) living in 88 Thana (19%) of 27 districts (42%). A confirmatory diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar) is done by demonstration of the parasite (LD body) in organ aspirates or tissue biopsy sample, an invasive procedure with relatively low sensitivity. To assess the diagnostic usefulness of ICT for antibody against the leishmanial antigen rK39 & its feasibility for use under field conditions (rural areas). An experimental study conducted during January, 2003 to July, 2003 in pediatrics department of MMCH including 60 confirmedly diagnosed KA cases & 60 controls having diseases other than KA. One drop of peripheral blood is applied to the nitrocellulose strip & 3 drops of test buffer is added to the dried blood. Observing 2 visible bands indicates presence of IgG anti-K39. The rK39 strip test was positive in 57 out of 60 confirmed KA case diagnosed by LD body demonstration in splenic or bone marrow aspirate. The estimated sensitivity was 95%. One control diagnosed as other than KA had positive strip test but negative aspirate smear. The estimated specificity of the strip test was 98.3%. The predictive value of a positive result is 98.3% & that of a negative result is 93.5%. rK39 strip test is highly sensitive & specific in our situation & it can be used as a simple & the best method for diagnosis of KA in rural areas."}
{"id": "19346379", "title": "Relapse of visceral leishmaniasis after miltefosine treatment in a Nepalese patient.", "content": "Relapse of visceral leishmaniasis after miltefosine treatment in a Nepalese patient. We report the first case of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) relapse in a healthy individual after complete miltefosine treatment. The patient attended hospital with a history of fever for 2 months, splenomegaly, hepatomegaly, and weight loss. The case was confirmed as VL by microscopical detection of Leishmania parasites in a bone marrow specimen and by a positive result for the immunochromatography-based test targeting the Leishmania donovani rK39 antibody. A polymerase chain reaction (PCR) specific for the Leishmania kinetoplast minicircle gene was positive, and subsequent sequencing of the PCR-amplified product confirmed that this case was a L. donovani infection. The patient was treated with miltefosine for 28 days, during which time the response was good, and the Leishman-Donovan body (LD body) was negative on discharge. Ten months later, however, this patient again developed high fever and splenomegaly, and LD bodies and rK39 antibody were positive, thus indicating a relapse of VL. The patient was subsequently treated with 1 mg/kg of amphotericin B for a total of 14 days and recovered completely."}
{"id": "19346375", "title": "Cross-sectional and longitudinal epidemiologic surveys of human and canine Leishmania infantum visceral infections in an endemic rural area of southeast Brazil (Pancas, Espirito Santo).", "content": "Cross-sectional and longitudinal epidemiologic surveys of human and canine Leishmania infantum visceral infections in an endemic rural area of southeast Brazil (Pancas, Espirito Santo). In an endemic rural area of southeast Brazil, surveys confirmed that dogs serve as peridomestic reservoirs of Leishmania infantum. It is likely that the lack of efficient control is because presently used diagnostic tests miss positive dogs. Overall, 57% of the dogs had specific antibodies, but the canine infection was not uniformly fatal and many seropositive dogs remained asymptomatic or even spontaneously recovered. Furthermore, 42% of the human residents became leishmanin-positive reactors and 47% had positive serology at the initial survey, but our estimates also point at a high recovery rate among the infected population with time. The delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) reaction to Leishmania was a good indicator of resistance to infection in this particular epidemiologic situation. The lack of any significant differences in infection rates by gender or age indicate that all of the population was at an equal risk of infection and most people were infected in the peridomestic setting."}
{"id": "19276810", "title": "Parasitic lung infections.", "content": "Parasitic lung infections. Global climate change and population explosion leading to changes in natural ecosystem and travel across the continents have resulted in an increase in the transmission of parasites to human beings. This review focuses on recent advancements in parasitic lung infections. Invasive parasitic diseases including lung infections are increasingly being reported in patients with immunodeficiency syndromes. A recombinant kinesin-related antigen of Leishmania donovani has been validated with ELISA using urine samples for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Pyruvate kinase deficiency has been shown to provide protection against Plasmodium falciparum infection. Intravenous artesunate is an alternative drug for the treatment of severe malaria. The best way to protect from malaria is the use of long-lasting insecticide-treated bednets. Biennial treatment with praziquantel has been found to be cost-effective treatment for control of infection with Schistosoma haematobium. Pulmonary paragonimiasis can be diagnosed by fine needle aspiration biopsy of pulmonary nodules. Strongyloides stercoralis hyperinfection can mimic accelerated idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Migratory nodular shadows with halos are important chest computed tomographic findings in human toxocariasis. Patients with immunodeficiency syndromes (HIV infection, organ transplantation and immunosuppressive drugs, including corticosteroids) should be evaluated for early detection of parasitic lung infections."}
{"id": "19270279", "title": "Longitudinal seroepidemiologic study of visceral leishmaniasis in hyperendemic regions of Bihar, India.", "content": "Longitudinal seroepidemiologic study of visceral leishmaniasis in hyperendemic regions of Bihar, India. We conducted a seroepidemiologic study of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in hyperendemic communities in Bihar, India, to determine its seroprevalence. A direct agglutination test (DAT) and rK39 antigen strip test were used as serologic tests. Capillary blood samples were collected on filter papers from 870 healthy persons (574 and 296 from households with or without VL, respectively). Of these persons, 230 (26.43%) were positive by DAT (titer > or =1:1,600) and 120 (13.79%) were positive by the rK39 antigen strip test. During a two-year follow-up, 25 persons developed VL; 1 and 8 persons were positive by the rK39 strip test and DAT, respectively, and 1 was positive by both tests. Fifteen (2.57%) persons who were seronegative at baseline also developed VL. Disease occurred more among persons living in the same household (24 of 25). However, there was no significant difference in disease conversion among children (5-15 years of age) and adults (> 15 years of age). Seropositivity among asymptomatic persons is not a predictor for development of VL."}
{"id": "19257843", "title": "Recombinant K39 immunochromatographic test for diagnosis of human leishmaniasis.", "content": "Recombinant K39 immunochromatographic test for diagnosis of human leishmaniasis. A new recombinant K39 immunochromatographic test (ICT) was compared with the immunofluorescent antibody assay (IFA) for the rapid serological diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in Apulia, Southern Italy. A total of 264 individuals were tested, including 19 patients with VL (three of which were HIV positive), 67 individuals with suspected VL, 40 healthy controls and 138 patients with other diseases. The ICT was positive in all 19 patients with VL and negative in sera from the remaining individuals. Both the sensitivity and specificity of ICT was 100%. The ICT also worked well in HIV-Leishmania co-infected patients. Antibodies to Leishmania detected by the IFA and ICT remained at detectable levels for up to 12-24 months. A positive reaction by the ICT was detectable at a serum dilution of up to 1:20,480, indicating that a strong immunoresponse is mounted against the recombinant K39 antigen. In conclusion, the ICT is highly sensitive, specific, rapid, noninvasive and cost effective (euro8.43 for ICT and euro12 for IFA) in the diagnosis of VL in areas of low VL endemicity."}
{"id": "19237180", "title": "Presence of antibodies against Leishmania chagasi in haemodialysed patients.", "content": "Presence of antibodies against Leishmania chagasi in haemodialysed patients. In the last decades there has been an increase in cases of visceral leishmaniasis complicating the post-transplant phase, mainly following kidney transplantation. The aim of this study was to evaluate the reactivity of haemodialysed patients using IFAT. Blood samples of 310 individuals from Natal, RN, Brazil, were collected and analysed. Data regarding blood transfusion, cause of end-stage renal disease and duration of haemodialysis were also analysed. In total, 69 patients (22.3%) were positive by IFAT. This study suggests that antibody detection should be performed in this group of patients since they are possible candidates for kidney transplantation."}
{"id": "19232657", "title": "Prevalence of Leishmania infection in adult HIV/AIDS patients treated in a tertiary-level care center in Brasilia, Federal District, Brazil.", "content": "Prevalence of Leishmania infection in adult HIV/AIDS patients treated in a tertiary-level care center in Brasilia, Federal District, Brazil. In order to estimate the magnitude of Leishmania/HIV co-infection, patients with HIV/AIDS at the Brasilia University Hospital, DF, Brazil were used as subjects in a cross-sectional study. One hundred and sixty-three patients were enrolled, seven of whom had visceral leishmaniasis (VL). One hundred and twelve patients (68.7%) were men; 155 (95.1%) had been exposed to HIV infection through unprotected sex. The median age was 37 years (range: 20-74) and the median CD4+ lymphocyte count was 314 cells/microl (range: 2-1600). Symptomatic patients underwent bone marrow evaluations through direct examination of Giemsa-stained films, parasite culture and PCR assay. Blood samples were evaluated by means of an indirect immunofluorescent antibody test (IFAT), an ELISA using a soluble antigen of L. chagasi (ELISA), an ELISA with the rK39 antigen (ELISA-rK39) and a PCR targeted to the kDNA region and to the internal transcribed spacer 1 of the rDNA gene. The proportion of positive results was 2.4% for the IFAT, 12.3% for the ELISA and 4.9% for the rK39 tests. The estimated prevalence was 16%. The PCR in the blood was positive in three patients (1.8%). The prevalence of Leishmania spp. infection is high among HIV patients attending this Brazilian center suggesting that they should be routinely investigated for VL infection."}
{"id": "19228350", "title": "PCR and direct agglutination as Leishmania infection markers among healthy Nepalese subjects living in areas endemic for Kala-Azar.", "content": "PCR and direct agglutination as Leishmania infection markers among healthy Nepalese subjects living in areas endemic for Kala-Azar. To compare a PCR assay and direct agglutination test (DAT) for the detection of potential markers of Leishmania infection in 231 healthy subjects living in a kala-azar endemic focus of Nepal. The sample was composed of 184 (80%) persons without any known history of KA and not living in the same house as known kala-azar cases (HNK), 24 (10%) Healthy Household Contacts (HHC) and 23 (10%) past kala-azar cases which had been successfully treated (HPK). PCR and DAT positivity scores were, respectively: HNK, 17.6% and 5.6%; HHC, 12.5% and 20.8%; HPK, 26.1% and 95.7%. The ratio PCR-positives/DAT-positives was significantly higher in HNK (ratio = 3.1) than in HHC (ratio = 0.6, P = 0.036) and in HPK (ratio = 0.2, P = 0.012). The ratio PCR-positives/DAT-positives did not significantly differ between HHC (ratio = 0.6) and HPK (ratio = 0.2, P = 0.473). The positive agreement index between PCR and DAT in HNK was 5%; in HHC, 0%; in HPK, 43%. Our study highlights the specific character of PCR and DAT for the exploration of Leishmania asymptomatic infections. PCR is probably more informative for very recent infections among HNK, while DAT provides more information among HHC and HPK, a feature likely related to the power of serology to track less recent infections."}
{"id": "19172032", "title": "The rK39 immunochromatic dipstick testing: a study for K39 seroprevalence in dogs and human leishmaniasis patients for possible animal reservoir of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis in endemic focus of Satluj river valley of Himachal Pradesh (India).", "content": "The rK39 immunochromatic dipstick testing: a study for K39 seroprevalence in dogs and human leishmaniasis patients for possible animal reservoir of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis in endemic focus of Satluj river valley of Himachal Pradesh (India). The newly recognized endemic focus of leishmaniasis in Satluj river valley of Himachal Pradesh (India) has both localized cutaneous leishmaniasis (LCL) and visceral leishmaniasis (VL) predominantly caused by Leishmania donovani. Rapid rK39 immunochromatographic dipstick test detects circulating antibodies to recombinant K39 antigen of L. donovani-infantum complex and is highly specific/sensitive in diagnosing symptomatic or asymptomatic infection in humans and dogs. The sera from two VL patients and 13 LCL patients, and 31 dogs were subjected to rK39 immunochromatographic dipstick testing with an aim to identify possible animal reservoir for leishmaniasis in this endemic focus. The positive rapid rK39 immunochromatographic dipstick test in 100% VL and 31.8% LCL patients, and 6.5% dogs suggests that both VL and LCL in this focus are apparently being caused by L. donovani-infantum and that reservoir infection is perhaps being chiefly maintained in asymptomatic dogs. However, it needs corroborative evidence in the form of in-vitro parasite cultivation and/or PCR studies for confirmation. A more elaborate study is recommended."}
{"id": "19141840", "title": "Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for superoxide dismutase-excreted antigen in diagnosis of sylvatic and Andean cutaneous leishmaniasis of Peru.", "content": "Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for superoxide dismutase-excreted antigen in diagnosis of sylvatic and Andean cutaneous leishmaniasis of Peru. A superoxide dismutase excreted by promastigote forms of L. (Viannia) peruviana (SODe-Lp), L. (Viannia) brazilensis (SODe-Lb), and L. (L.) amazonensis (SODe-La) is tested to evaluate its potential value as a diagnostic tool of mucocutaneous and Andean cutaneous leishmaniasis. We used 45 sera with mucocutaneous leishmaniasis (SL) and 68 with Andean cutaneous leishmaniasis (ACL). SODe-Lp antigen was recognized by 94% of the serum from ACL patients, and the SODe-Lb antigen was recognized by 93% of the serum from SL patients. Meanwhile, the result for SL and ACL patients with SODe-La antigen was 69% and 43% and SODe-Li was 11% and 9%, respectively. This suggest that antibodies to SODe-Lp undergo further response in patients with ACL and the antibodies to SODe-Lb do so preferentially in patients with SL. The SODe ELISA may be useful in endemic areas for discriminative assays between patients with different forms of leishmaniases and those with other clinical conditions."}
{"id": "19097841", "title": "Identification of Old World Leishmania spp. by specific polymerase chain reaction amplification of cysteine proteinase B genes and rapid dipstick detection.", "content": "Identification of Old World Leishmania spp. by specific polymerase chain reaction amplification of cysteine proteinase B genes and rapid dipstick detection. We used the cysteine proteinase B (cpb) gene family of the trypanosomatid genus Leishmania as a target to develop rapid, specific, and easy-to-use polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests to discriminate Leishmania infantum, Leishmania donovani, Leishmania tropica, Leishmania aethiopica, and Leishmania major. Identification of all 5 Old World species and validation of intraspecies variability are features lacking in other species-specific PCRs. Amplicon analysis was done on agarose gels and was further simplified by using an oligochromatography dipstick to detect L. infantum and L. donovani products. Because the analytical sensitivity is lower than that of certain other species- and genus-specific PCRs, our assays are especially valuable for use on cultured isolates or directly on cryostabilates. As such, they can be implemented by research and health centers having access to culturing, DNA isolation, and PCR."}
{"id": "19070876", "title": "Immunochromatographic rK39 strip test in the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Tunisia.", "content": "Immunochromatographic rK39 strip test in the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Tunisia. The performance of the rK39 strip test in the diagnosis of Tunisian visceral leishmaniasis (VL) was evaluated and compared with that of immunofluorescent antibody test (IFAT). A total of 929 sera, including 574 from VL patients, 54 from cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) patients, 42 from patients with other protozoan diseases, 152 from patients with non-parasitic diseases and 107 from healthy controls, were used in the study. The sensitivity and specificity of the rK39 strip test were 87.1 and 94.4%, respectively. Sixteen CL sera showed positive results, suggesting that the rK39 strip test is not restricted to Leishmania donovani complex detection. IFAT was comparatively more sensitive (98.9%) but slightly less specific (90.7%). Despite cross-reactivity shown by CL sera, the rK39 strip test can be recommended for the routine diagnosis of VL in Tunisia, as VL and CL are distinct clinical entities."}
{"id": "19059724", "title": "Distinct antigen recognition pattern during zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis in humans and dogs.", "content": "Distinct antigen recognition pattern during zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis in humans and dogs. Leishmania infantum is a causative agent of endemic zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in regions of South America and the Mediterranean. Dogs are the major reservoirs for L. infantum in these regions, and control of disease in dogs could have a significant impact on human disease. Although dogs share many symptoms of VL with humans as a result of L. infantum infection, they also show some unique clinical manifestations, which are often a combination of visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis, suggesting different mechanisms of disease development in dogs and humans. Here, we compare antibody responses of dogs and humans with VL to various defined leishmanial antigens. Parasite lysate and K39, the two most commonly used antigens for serodiagnosis of VL, detected the highest levels of antibodies in both humans and dogs with VL, whereas the recognition patterns of these antigens were distinct between the hosts. Among other defined antigens tested, LmSTI1 and CPB detected higher levels of antibodies in dogs and humans, respectively. These results indicate there is a difference between humans and dogs in antigen recognition patterns during VL. We infer that different strategies may need to be used in development of vaccines and diagnostics for humans and for dogs. In addition, we show a correlation between antibody titers to several antigens and severity of clinical symptoms during canine VL."}
{"id": "19036393", "title": "Visceral leishmaniasis is preventable in a highly endemic village in West Bengal, India.", "content": "Visceral leishmaniasis is preventable in a highly endemic village in West Bengal, India. In 2004, following a cluster of kala-azar cases in Chatrakhali, West Bengal, India, we screened and treated this endemic village for leishmaniasis infection. In 2005, following new reports of kala-azar, we screened the village again and conducted a retrospective cohort study (exposure period: August 2004 to July 2005). We defined an incident case of leishmaniasis as a new seropositive sample (>or=1:1600 dilution in a direct agglutination test) in a person seronegative in 2004. We obtained information about potential risk factors and calculated the relative risk (RR) of infection for exposure to these factors. One hundred and fifty (20%) of the 751 residents acquired leishmaniasis in 1 year. Factors associated with infection included residing in homes with mud walls (RR 4.3), dampness in the home (RR 2.5), proximity to bodies of water (RR 2.5) and livestock ownership (RR 2.4). Sleeping dressed (RR 0.4), or under a bed net (RR 0.5) or in a cot (RR 0.6) were associated with a lower risk. High rates of infection indicated that transmission persisted in this community. Poor housing conditions were associated with a higher risk, while personal protection measures against vectors were effective. Major housing improvement and personal protection efforts are needed to protect this vulnerable population from leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "19022464", "title": "Epidemiology of paediatric visceral leishmaniasis in Hebron district, Palestine.", "content": "Epidemiology of paediatric visceral leishmaniasis in Hebron district, Palestine. Seventy-six cases of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) were reported from the Hebron district of the West Bank, Palestine between 1993 and 2007. All cases were in children less than 9 years old (median age 2 years). The average number of cases was 5.06/year and the average annual incidence was 3.02/100000 children. Ribosomal internal transcribed spacer 1 (ITS1) PCR-RFLP was performed using DNA extracted from two cultures and 36 archived Giemsa-stained slides from VL patients. Leishmania infantum was revealed as the causative agent of VL in the focus. Isoenzyme analysis identified two isolates as zymodeme MON-1. A serological survey of 455 children screened for serum anti-Leishmania antibodies revealed 8.4% seropositivity. Seropositivity was highest for children in households of previous VL cases [odds ratio (OR) 7.5; 95% CI 3.17-17.61; P<0.001] and among people who had domestic dogs and/or other animals (OR 2.4; 95% CI 1.19-4.68; P=0.017). No difference was seen between males and females (P=0.073). A preliminary survey of sand fly distribution showed the abundance of two putative vector species: Phlebotomus syriacus (45%) and Ph. tobbi (10%). The focus of VL in Hebron district was shown to follow the epidemiological pattern of paediatric disease characteristic of the Mediterranean region."}
{"id": "19011572", "title": "Visceral Leishmaniasis presenting with intestinal failure: a case report and literature review.", "content": "Visceral Leishmaniasis presenting with intestinal failure: a case report and literature review. We describe an unusual case of visceral Leishmaniasis affecting the gastrointestinal tract in a young immunocompetent patient whose only recent foreign travel was a trip to Mexico 9 months previously. She presented insidiously with diarrhoea, weight loss and developed subacute intestinal failure. Interestingly, she lacked most of the typical features of acute infection, including visceromegaly, fevers and hypergammaglobulinaemia. Atypical visceral involvement involving the gastrointestinal tract is well recognized in HIV coinfection, but very rare in immunocompetent patients. Repeated microscopy and culture of endoscopic biopsies failed to identify Leishmania parasites. Serological tests - direct agglutination test and anti-K39 antibody tests - were negative. This case highlights a very rare presentation of the condition with the absence of other visceral involvement and diagnosis being eventually made solely on polymerase chain reaction of rectal tissue, with a subsequent excellent response to therapy with intravenous liposomal amphotericin."}
{"id": "19008139", "title": "Polyclonal hypergammaglobulinemia and high smooth-muscle autoantibody titers with specificity against filamentous actin: consider visceral leishmaniasis, not just autoimmune hepatitis.", "content": "Polyclonal hypergammaglobulinemia and high smooth-muscle autoantibody titers with specificity against filamentous actin: consider visceral leishmaniasis, not just autoimmune hepatitis. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) remains a public health problem in most countries bordering the Mediterranean basin. Its diagnosis is challenging and often delayed, as the main clinical picture is often indistinguishable from that of other infectious and non-infectious diseases. Herein, we report two unusual cases of VL that presented with several characteristics of autoimmune hepatitis (AIH). Neither patient had a history of fever, only generalized symptoms accompanied by polyclonal hypergammaglobulinemia, cytopenias, signs of portal hypertension, elevated transaminases, and high titers of antinuclear and smooth-muscle autoantibodies (SMA) with reactivity against filamentous actin (F-actin), which has been recognized as specific to AIH. A clinical diagnosis of AIH was considered, but a bone marrow biopsy was performed before a liver biopsy to exclude a primary bone marrow disease. The biopsy led to the diagnosis of VL. The diagnosis was further confirmed by IgG antibodies against Leishmania spp. using ELISA and PCR-based assays. Treatment with amphotericin in the first case and pentamidine in the second (because of a severe reaction to amphotericin) was effective. From the clinical point of view, it should be emphasized that, in cases with high titers of anti-F-actin AIH-specific SMA accompanied by polyclonal hypergammaglobulinemia, the possibility of AIH should be cautiously differentiated from VL; this distinction is of paramount importance because initiation of immunosuppression for AIH treatment would be detrimental to a patient with underlying leishmaniasis. Therefore, in such cases and in areas where the disease is still present, it seems rational to exclude VL before starting any immunosuppressive therapy."}
{"id": "18939898", "title": "Survey of dogs from Vietnam for antibodies to visceralizing Leishmania spp.", "content": "Survey of dogs from Vietnam for antibodies to visceralizing Leishmania spp. Cases of visceral leishmaniasis, one of the most neglected tropical diseases, are increasing globally. Dogs are considered an important reservoir host for visceral leishmaniasis in people. The first cases of human visceral leishmaniasis in Vietnam have recently been reported. Blood samples were collected from 41 dogs in rural Vietnam. Sera were examined for antibodies to visceralizing Leishmania spp. by canine immunochromatographic strip assays based on recombinant K39 antigen. Antibodies to Leishmania spp. were not detected in any of the dogs tested. Results from this study suggest that rural dogs are not likely to be involved in the emergence of human visceral leishmaniasis in Vietnam."}
{"id": "18804826", "title": "Canine visceral leishmaniasis in urban and rural areas of Northeast Brazil.", "content": "Canine visceral leishmaniasis in urban and rural areas of Northeast Brazil. The purpose of this study was to determine the clinical and laboratory profiles of canine leishmaniasis in two distinct areas. Dogs from urban and rural areas were examined. The population studied in the metropolitan area included 54 dogs. Of these, 20 (37%) animals did not present with any signs suggestive of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Among these, only eight were confirmed negative by ELISA (rK39 and CE) and 12 dogs, clinically negative for leishmaniasis, were seropositive by ELISA (rK39 and CE). Thinness, conjunctivitis and onychogryphosis were the most frequent clinical signs in the urban areas, followed by crusty lesions, alopecia, ulcerated lesions, hyperkeratosis and exfoliation. In the metropolitan area human VL cases occurred mainly in 1991, 1992, 1999 and 2000. In the rural areas the ELISA rK39 test detected a seroprevalence of 11.3% and ELISA CE (Leishmania crude extract) of 20.6%. Thirty-nine dogs were examined 6 months after the first visit. Serological exams using rK39 antigen showed seroconversion of only one dog, whereas Leishmania CE showed seroconversion of 13 (33.4%) dogs. In this rural environment 83.3% of the positive dogs were asymptomatic. Lutzomyia intermedia and Lu. longipalpis were the most predominant sandfly vector species. Amastigotes were identified in spleen and liver fragments of symptomatic necropsied animals. PCR amplification of DNA isolated from promastigote culture indicated that the species was Leishmania chagasi. This finding suggests that delayed diagnosis and euthanasia of potentially infectious animals may occur with an increased transmission risk to sandflies and subsequently to humans."}
{"id": "18786847", "title": "False-positive results of a rapid K39-based strip test and Chagas disease.", "content": "False-positive results of a rapid K39-based strip test and Chagas disease. The definitive diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) requires invasive procedures with demonstration of amastigotes in tissue or promastigotes in culture. Unfortunately, these approaches require laboratory materials not available in poor countries where the disease is endemic. The correct diagnosis of VL is important, and made more difficult by the fact that several common tropical diseases such as malaria, disseminated tuberculosis, and enteric fever share the same clinical presentation. Serological tests have been developed to replace parasitological diagnosis in the field. A commercially available K39-based strip test for VL has been developed for this purpose. The endemic area of leishmaniasis in Brazil overlaps the endemic area of Chagas disease, a disease that can cause false-positive serological test results. The aim of this study was to evaluate the incidence of false-positive exams using a rapid test for VL in patients with Chagas disease. A rapid test based on the recombinant K39 antigen of Leishmania was used in: (1) 30 patients with confirmed Chagas disease, (2) 30 patients with a serological diagnosis of Chagas disease by ELISA, indirect immunofluorescence, indirect hemagglutination, and chemiluminescence, (3) 30 healthy patients from a non-endemic area as the control group, (4) 30 patients with confirmed VL, and (5) 20 patients with proved cutaneous leishmaniasis. The sensitivity and specificity of the rapid strip test were 100% when compared with healthy volunteers and those with confirmed Chagas disease. One false-positive result occurred in the group with Chagas disease diagnosed by serological tests (specificity of 96%). The rapid test based on recombinant K39 is a useful diagnostic assay, and a false-positive result rarely occurs in patients with a serological diagnosis of Chagas disease."}
{"id": "18774151", "title": "Detection of Leishmania kDNA in human serum samples for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Detection of Leishmania kDNA in human serum samples for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. The performance of PCR to detect Leishmania kDNA in serum for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) was assessed in serum samples from 65 patients with VL, 17 non-infected individuals and 17 patients with other febrile hepatosplenic diseases. Serum PCR showed a sensitivity of 85%, specificity of 100% and efficiency of 90%. The sensitivity values obtained for blood PCR (97%) and rK39 ELISA (95%) were significantly higher (P=0.01) than the values observed for L. chagasi ELISA (88%) and serum PCR (85%), whilst no difference was observed among the specificity rates obtained with rK39 ELISA (94%; P=0.47) and L. chagasi ELISA (85%; P=0.06). This work suggests that the use of serum samples may be an alternative for the diagnosis of VL when peripheral blood samples are not available or require significant operational efforts."}
{"id": "18761342", "title": "Cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania infantum transmitted by Phlebotomus tobbi.", "content": "Cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania infantum transmitted by Phlebotomus tobbi. Transmission of cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) caused by Leishmania infantum was studied in South Anatolia, Turkey. Small, non-ulcerating lesions prevailed and patients were negative in rK39 tests for antibody detection for human visceral leishmaniasis (VL). The most abundant sand fly species, Phlebotomus tobbi, was found positive for Leishmania promastigotes with a prevalence of 1.4% (13 out of 898 dissected females). The isolated strains were identical with those obtained from patients with CL and were typed as L. infantum. Phylogenetic analysis revealed similarity to MON-188 and a clear difference from the MON-1 clade. Blood-meal identification showed that P. tobbi feeds preferentially on cattle and humans. This finding, the high number of CL patients and relative scarcity of dogs in the focus, suggests that the transmission cycle could be anthroponotic."}
{"id": "19209783", "title": "Anti-leishmanial polyclonal antibodies to assess the performance characteristics of leishmanial antigen detection ELISA.", "content": "Anti-leishmanial polyclonal antibodies to assess the performance characteristics of leishmanial antigen detection ELISA. The polyclonal antibodies raised in rabbits against amastigote antigen extract were purified and fractionated, and IgG class antibodies and from the same antibodies, a peroxidase conjugate (labeled antibodies) reagent were prepared. The antibodies and the labeled antibodies were analyzed for efficacy of the homologous extracted antigens by capture ELISA. The titration curves of the anti-amastigote IgG antibody against extracted antigens showed that both free antibody and corresponding labeled antibody reacted with the original amastigote antigens. Further analysis involved the interaction between the antibody and two leishmanial stages; mammalian amastigote & infective promasitgote by immunoflourescene technique. The strong interaction was not only with surface antigenic components of the stages but also with their internal components. Capture-ELISA system was done to detect specific leishmanial antigens in urine and sera from visceral leishmaniasis patients (VL). Most of the urine samples were positive (90% sensitivity) for leishmanial antigens without cross-reactivity (100% specificity) with any other tested samples from heterologous parasitic infections. But, only 61% sensitivity and 53% specificity were obtained when the capture ELISA was done to detect the specific leishmanail antigens in sera from VL."}
{"id": "19082273", "title": "Asymptomatic infection in family contacts of patients with human visceral leishmaniasis in Tr\u00eas Lagoas, Mato Grosso do Sul State, Brazil.", "content": "Asymptomatic infection in family contacts of patients with human visceral leishmaniasis in Tr\u00eas Lagoas, Mato Grosso do Sul State, Brazil. The Brazilian city of Tr\u00eas Lagoas, Mato Grosso do Sul State, has experienced an urban outbreak of visceral leishmaniasis since 2000. In 2002, due to the increase in the number of cases, 46 families with cases of visceral leishmaniasis were studied to verify the prevalence of asymptomatic infection in household contacts. Indirect immunofluorescence and ELISA showed a 36.4% positive infection rate. There were no cases of symptomatic disease among these contacts. There was no statistically significant difference in gender or age. Median age was 21 years, and the 10-19-year age bracket was the most heavily affected (23%). As for family characteristics, no differences were observed in schooling or family income; most families (58.7%) owned their homes, which were built of masonry (97.8%) and had adequate infrastructure. All the families reported what were probably phlebotomine sand flies in the peridomicile. In conclusion, asymptomatic visceral leishmaniasis infection is frequent and occurs in both males and females, regardless of age."}
{"id": "19052290", "title": "Positive rK39 serologic assay results in US servicemen with cutaneous leishmaniasis.", "content": "Positive rK39 serologic assay results in US servicemen with cutaneous leishmaniasis. The rK39 test is a serologic assay for the rapid diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Serum from a North American cohort of 59 otherwise asymptomatic soldiers with cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) was tested with the rK39 dipstick and ELISA assays, and 10.2% and 28.8% had positive results, respectively. CL is associated with a reactive rK39 assay result in some patients without clinical evidence of VL."}
{"id": "19052289", "title": "Detection of Leishmania infantum kinetoplast DNA in the whole blood of asymptomatic individuals by PCR-ELISA and comparison with other infection markers in endemic areas, southern Iran.", "content": "Detection of Leishmania infantum kinetoplast DNA in the whole blood of asymptomatic individuals by PCR-ELISA and comparison with other infection markers in endemic areas, southern Iran. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), caused by Leishmania infantum, is endemic in southern Iran. To detect asymptomatic individuals, we used kinetoplast DNA (kDNA) polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-ELISA methods on 388 blood samples of healthy persons in two endemic loci and compared the results with the leishmanin skin test (LST) and the immunofluorescent antibody test (IFAT). kDNA PCR, LST, and IFAT were positive in 95 (24.5%), 132 (34%), and 212 (54.6%) cases, respectively. Fifty-five (21.4%) individuals that were LST negative were PCR positive. All PCR-positive individuals had a titer of >or=1:20, whereas 45% of those that were IFAT positive were PCR positive. For a reliable index of prevalence rate of infection, LST alone is not sufficient and needs to be accompanied by PCR-ELISA. The high rate of kDNA-positive results may indicate the possibility of humans being a reservoir and source of transmission. In endemic areas, kDNA PCR-ELISA is not a reliable test for the diagnosis of active VL."}
{"id": "18985567", "title": "[Seroprevalence of visceral leishmaniasis in stray dogs in Kocaeli].", "content": "[Seroprevalence of visceral leishmaniasis in stray dogs in Kocaeli]. Dogs are the most important reservoir of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). A male child who lives in K\u00f6sek\u00f6y in Kocaeli was diagnosed with VL. Since this child had never been outside Kocaeli, serum samples of 65 stray dogs were analyzed for canine VL using the indirect fluorescence antibody test (IFAT) and ELISA. Two dogs (3.07%) tested positive with both ELISA and IFAT. Leishmania amastigotes were observed in the lymph aspiration material from one of them. Growth was observed in NNN medium inoculated with lymph aspiration material from the other dog. This was the first study investigating canine VL prevalence in our city and plans were made for control of the disease."}
{"id": "18948879", "title": "A comparative study of antigen and antibody detection in visceral leishmaniasis using serum and urine-based ELISA.", "content": "A comparative study of antigen and antibody detection in visceral leishmaniasis using serum and urine-based ELISA. An antigen-based ELISA system was evaluated for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Urine samples from confirmed VL cases were tested by the system in comparison with urine samples from patients with non-VL infectious disease and patients with non-infectious diseases. Antigen was detected in urine of 21 out of 35 (60%) of VL cases. No cross reaction was found with samples from healthy individuals except in 3 samples from non-VL infectious diseases. Two samples from cutaneous leishmaniasis patient and one from patient with toxoplasmosis. The results obtained with the antigen-based ELISA were compared to those obtained with direct agglutination test (DAT), an antibody-based ELISA and indirect immunofluorescent antibody (IFA) revealed that the antigen-based ELISA is comparable in terms of specificity (91.2%; 95% CI=75.2-97.7%) but with a lower sensitivity (60%; 95% CI=42.2-75.6%). These results suggest that the antigen detection in urine by the noninvasive antigen-based ELISA system might offer a useful method for diagnosis of VL."}
{"id": "18840751", "title": "Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to detect urinary antibody against recombinant rKRP42 antigen made from Leishmania donovani for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to detect urinary antibody against recombinant rKRP42 antigen made from Leishmania donovani for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. We recently reported the production of the recombinant kinesin-related protein of Leishmania donovani with a molecular weight of 42 kd (rKRP42) and the value of the antigen in serum-based ELISA for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). In this study, the rKRP42 antigen was validated with ELISA using urine samples (rKRP42 urine ELISA). The urine-based ELISA showed 94% sensitivity (108 positives among 115 VL samples) and 99.6% specificity (239 negatives among 240 non-VL samples). The sensitivity and specificity are almost similar to our previous results by ELISA with acetone-treated L. donovani promastigote antigen and direct agglutination test, both methods being done by use of urine samples. A comparison of the rKRP42 urine ELISA with the commercially available urinary antigen detection kit (KAtex) using 108 VL samples showed much higher sensitivity of the ELISA (96.3%) than KAtex (55.6%). The use of the rKRP42 antigen with urine samples will facilitate epidemiologic studies."}
{"id": "18819654", "title": "Microscopic evaluation of renal changes in experimental canine visceral leishmaniosis after chemo- and immunotherapy.", "content": "Microscopic evaluation of renal changes in experimental canine visceral leishmaniosis after chemo- and immunotherapy. Visceral Leishmania (VL) with diverse clinical manifestation is prevalent and remains a major public health problem in Iran. This study was performed in Ahwaz, Khozestan province southwest to increase immune system and to reduce of the renal lesions. Treatment of dogs with visceral leishmaniosis is basically the same as the treatment of human. However, cure is not usually achieved, leaving the sacrifice of animal as the only feasible choice. The goal of this work was to test the therapeutic efficacy of N-methyl glutamic antimoate (glucnime), Mycobacterium vaccae adjuvant (SRL 172), alone and in association with L. major promastigote and the latter compound in association to glucantime, in dog with visceral leishmaniasis. In this trial 18, mixed bred dogs with different ages, receiving amastigte promastigote of L. infantum intravenously were used. They were monitored for 6 months. Serologic assays (Elisa, Dot and IFAT) were performed on blood samples of each animal. The animals were divided into six groups, each having 3 dogs: Group 1: receiving 100 mg kg(-1) day(-1) Glucantime for 30 days, IM. Group 2: Receiving 3 mg dog(-1) (0.1 mL) of Mycobacterium vaccae adjuvant suspension intradermaly. Group 3: receiving L. major promastigote plus M. vaccae adjuvant each of them 0.1 mL intradermaly by one month intervals for 3 months. Group 4: receiving Glucantime in association L. major promastigote plus M. vaccae adjuvant with previous doses. Group 5: Receiving no treatment. Group 6: was control group with no infection and treatment. In microscopic evaluation following lesions have been shown in kidney: Chronic, interstitial nephritis, sever glomerulosclerosis, membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis and also non suppurative nephritis were the lesions in 5 groups. The prescription of Mycobacterium vaccae adjurant was able to reduce the number of parasites in the macrophages of liver and spleen in this round of treatment."}
{"id": "18817598", "title": "Asymptomatic human carriers of Leishmania infantum: possible reservoirs for Mediterranean visceral leishmaniasis in southern Iran.", "content": "Asymptomatic human carriers of Leishmania infantum: possible reservoirs for Mediterranean visceral leishmaniasis in southern Iran. Over the last decade, the incidence of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) has increased in many districts of the province of Fars, in southern Iran. Recent epidemiological reports indicate that asymptomatic human infections with Leishmania infantum (the causative agent of VL throughout the Mediterranean basin) occur more frequently in Iran than was previously believed. Between 2004 and 2006, blood samples were collected from 802 apparently healthy subjects from communities, in the north-west and south-east of Fars province, where VL cases had been recorded. Each of these samples was tested for anti-Leishmania antibodies, in direct agglutination tests (DAT), and for L. infantum kinetoplast DNA, in PCR-based assays. Of the 426 subjects from north-western Fars, eight (1.9%) were found seropositive and 68 (16.0%) PCR-positive. The corresponding values for the 376 subjects from south-eastern Fars were lower, with five (1.3%) seropositive and 32 (8.5%) PCR-positive. Of the 100 PCR-positive subjects, 18 (18.0%) each lived in a household in which there had been a case of VL, and six (6.0%) had had VL themselves (in each case, more than a year before the blood sampling for the present study). Although 21 of the PCR-positives have now been followed-up for at least 18 months, none has developed symptomatic VL. Since positivity in the PCR-based assay probably indicated the presence of L. infantum amastigotes in the peripheral blood of 12.5% of the subjects, it is clear that asymptomatic human carriers of L. infantum are quite common in the study areas and probably act as reservoirs in the transmission of the parasite, to humans and to dogs, by sandflies."}
{"id": "18813406", "title": "Assessment of the direct agglutination test, fast agglutination screening test, and rK39 dipstick test for the sero-diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Syria.", "content": "Assessment of the direct agglutination test, fast agglutination screening test, and rK39 dipstick test for the sero-diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Syria. To evaluate the performances of 3 serological assays (direct agglutination test [DAT], fast agglutination screening test [FAST], recombinant protein [rK39] dipstick) test for use in primary care, for the diagnosis visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in Syria. We utilized 267 serum samples obtained during 2007 from patient groups confirmed and suspected VL, confirmed cutaneous leishmaniasis, toxoplasmosis from endemic areas in Syria and control samples, and applied the 3 serological tests in the Damascus University, Damascus and Health laboratories at the same time, on these samples. Our data show that the tests were very sensitive, where the DAT was the most specific followed by FAST, then rK39 dipstick. Our study confirmed that all the tests performed well, and proved to be very important sero-diagnosis tools for visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "18803606", "title": "Prophylactic efficacy of high-molecular-weight antigenic fractions of a recent clinical isolate of Leishmania donovani against visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Prophylactic efficacy of high-molecular-weight antigenic fractions of a recent clinical isolate of Leishmania donovani against visceral leishmaniasis. T-cell mediated immune responses are key determinants to the natural course of infection caused by intracellular parasites such as Leishmania. Thus, T-cell activating proteins of these microbes continue to generate active interest particularly in view of their possible role in the design and development of newer and more effective vaccines. We have recently reported the presence of T-cell immunostimulatory antigens with the high-molecular-weight (MW) fractions (134-64.2 kDa) of whole Leishmania donovani antigen (strain 2001), which stimulated variable amounts of IFN-gamma, IL-12 and IL-10 in exposed immune individuals. The present study was undertaken to further evaluate these high-MW antigenic fractions (MW range >100-60 kDa) for potential protective efficacy. The high-MW region of the parasite was resolved into five antigenic fractions (Prep A-E) using continuous elution gel electrophoresis. Prior to in vivo protection studies in hamsters, these fractions were used to evaluate in vitro cellular responses in eight Leishmania-exposed individuals and treated cured hamsters. The protective efficacy of prep (A + B), C, D and E in combination with BCG was evaluated in inbred hamsters using standard immunization protocol. Proliferative responses were seen in all eight of eight exposed individuals to prep D [median stimulation index (SI): 5.2 (range 3.9-7.1)] and E [median SI: 5.6 (range 4.4-8.2)], five of eight individuals to prep B and prep C and three of eight to prep A [median SI: 0.2 (range 0.1-7.2)]. The median proliferative responses to prep D and prep E were significantly higher than to fraction prep A; (P < 0.05) but not to prep B and prep C. However, prep A-E induced equivalent levels of IFN-gamma, IL-10 and IL-12 cytokines. Fractions D and E also exhibited marked parasite inhibition in spleen (52.5% and 73.7%) and liver (65% and 80.2%) as compared with prep (A + B) (23% in spleen and 24% in liver) and prep C (38% in spleen and 24% in liver). Prep D and prep E vaccinated animals showed higher in vitro stimulatory responses (mean SI: 6.6 and 8.8) and nitric oxide (NO) induction (mean NO levels: 6.4 and 10.7 mug/ml) against whole cell extract as compared with other groups. The protection also correlated with presence of suppressed Leishmania-specific IgG levels in prep D and prep E immunized hamsters. These studies indicate the presence of immunostimulatory and protective molecules in 60-80 kDa region of L. donovani, which may be further exploited for developing a subunit vaccine."}
{"id": "18642507", "title": "Pediatric visceral leishmaniasis diagnosis in Tunisia: comparative study between optimised PCR assays and parasitological methods.", "content": "Pediatric visceral leishmaniasis diagnosis in Tunisia: comparative study between optimised PCR assays and parasitological methods. There has been a steady increase of visceral leishmaniasis during the past 20 years in Tunisia. In this study, we assess the value of two optimised PCR versus those of classical methods for the diagnosis of human visceral leishmaniasis. 106 samples were collected from 53 cases of pediatric visceral leishmaniasis. Peripheral blood and bone marrow samples were analysed both by parasitological methods (direct examination, leukocytoconcentration (LCC) and culture) and by PCR methods with two primer pair (R221/R332 and Lei 70L/Lei 70R). We diagnosed visceral leishmaniasis in all patients: 44 cases were diagnosed by culture (83%), 42 by direct examination of bone marrow (79%), 17 by LCC (32%), and 53 positive cases with both PCR assays (R221/R332 and/or Lei 70L/Lei 70R) (100 %). Regarding each PCR assay, for blood samples, the difference between the sensitivities of PCR Lei 70L/Lei 70R (86,8%) and PCR R221/R332 (17 %) is statistically significant with p-value 0.025. For bone marrow, the sensitivities of the two PCR methods were respectively 96,2% (Lei 70L/Lei 70R) and 75,5% (R221/R332). On the whole, PCR Lei 70L/Lei 70R was more effective than PCR R221/R332 and conventional methods for the two biological samples. Moreover, the requirement of less invasive sample using blood has the advantage of being repeatable for screening and for post therapeutic monitoring."}
{"id": "18632926", "title": "Rapid immunochromatographic strip test for detection of anti-K39 immunoglobulin G antibodies for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Rapid immunochromatographic strip test for detection of anti-K39 immunoglobulin G antibodies for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. InBios International has developed an immunochromatographic rapid strip for the detection of visceral leishmaniasis that requires minimal equipment and only a small amount of blood to run a test. We compared the InBios rapid strip test with the CDC immunofluorescent antibody assay, and the agreement, sensitivity, and specificity were 98%, 90%, and 100%, respectively."}
{"id": "18611387", "title": "Observations on the feeding habits of Lutzomyia longipalpis (Lutz & Neiva, 1912) (Diptera: Psychodidae: Phlebotominae) in Campo Grande, an endemic area of visceral leishmaniasis in Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil.", "content": "Observations on the feeding habits of Lutzomyia longipalpis (Lutz & Neiva, 1912) (Diptera: Psychodidae: Phlebotominae) in Campo Grande, an endemic area of visceral leishmaniasis in Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil. Sand flies were captured weekly with CDC light traps from December 2003 to November 2005 in three areas of Campo Grande, in the Brazilian state of Mato Grosso do Sul. These areas incorporated two patches of remnant forest and five houses. The blood meals of engorged female sand flies were identified using the avidin-biotin system of immunoenzymatic ELISA capture. Most (327/355) of the females analysed were Lutzomyia longipalpis, of which 66.4% reacted with human blood, 64.8% with that of birds and 8.9% with that of dogs. Females that had taken human blood predominated in the residential areas and two forest patches. The following combinations of blood were also detected for L. longipalpis in some of the samples analysed: bird+human (43.4%), bird+human+dog (6.1%). The combination bird+human+dog+pig was also found for Nyssomyia whitmani. Dogs and pigs appear to have little attractiveness for L. longipalpis. The results obtained demonstrate the eclecticism and high anthropophily of L. longipalpis and raise new questions with regard to the importance of dogs in VL epidemiology and the possible role of man as a source of infection for sand flies."}
{"id": "18606766", "title": "Evaluation of direct agglutination test, rk39 Test, and ELISA for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Evaluation of direct agglutination test, rk39 Test, and ELISA for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. The study reports an evaluation of the direct agglutination test (DAT) with use of promastigote/amastigote antigen, rk39 strip test, and ELISA for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Out of 94 clinically suspected VL patients, 16 (17%) were seropositive by all the techniques; in addition, 6 were positive in rk39 strip test and ELISA. On retrospective analysis, out of 16 positive by all the techniques, 11 (69%) had demonstrable Leishmania donovani (LD) bodies in their bone marrow samples, while in 5 bone marrow was not examined. Out of 6 that were positive by ELISA and rk39 strip test, 2 had myelofibrosis and 4 had chronic myeloid leukemia. On the basis of bone marrow aspirate positivity, the sensitivity and specificity of DAT were 100% while those of rk39 strip test and ELISA were 100% and 87%, respectively. The study suggests that DAT appears to be the best technique for the serodiagnosis of VL."}
{"id": "18592839", "title": "Can visceral leishmaniasis be eliminated from Asia?", "content": "Can visceral leishmaniasis be eliminated from Asia? Data on the burden of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in Indian sub-continent are vital for elimination programme planners for estimating resource requirements, effective implementation and monitoring of elimination programme. In Indian sub-continent, about 200 million population is at risk of VL. Nearly 25,000-40,000 cases and 200-300 deaths are reported every year, but these are grossly underestimates. Recent well-designed multicentric studies identified VL burden of 21 cases/10,000 among sampled population in Indian sub-continent (Bangladesh, India and Nepal). This estimates 4,20,000 cases per 200 million risk population clearly indicating that the disease is highly under-reported. Chemical and environmental vector control studies show that the indoor residual spraying (IRS) and long-lasting insecticidal nets (LLINs) are effective and significantly reduce sandfly densities. The findings documented from different sources revealed that some gaps and weakness in existing policies for introducing VL vector control interventions. Our studies emphasize the need of integrated vector management with both IRS and LLIN vector control interventions. Active case detection with rK39 strip test as diagnostic tool is the key element for detection of VL cases. The use of oral drug miltefosine for the treatment after assessing feasibility at community level is important. Kala-azar elimination in Indian sub-continent is possible if elimination programmes ensure access to health care and prevention of kala-azar for people at risk with particular attention to the poorest and marginalized groups. The evidence-based policy should be designed that motivates to implement the programmes, which will be cost-effective. Maintaining the acceptable level of incidence requires public awareness, vector control, appropriate diagnosis and treatment. The five pillars of VL elimination strategies identified are: early diagnosis and complete treatment; integrated vector management and vector surveillance; effective disease surveillance through passive and active case detection; social mobilization and building partnerships; and clinical and operational research which need to be re-enforced to effective implementation."}
{"id": "18561868", "title": "Development and evaluation of Leishmania infantum rK26 ELISA for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Iran.", "content": "Development and evaluation of Leishmania infantum rK26 ELISA for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Iran. The purpose of this study was to prepare recombinant K26 antigen from Leishmania infantum and evaluate its performance by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in endemic regions of Iran. The results were compared with those obtained by direct agglutination test (DAT) and whole cell ELISA using crude parasite antigen. Of 93 sera from patients with confirmed VL, 90 sera were positive with rK26 ELISA (sensitivity=96.8%), whereas 85 sera were positive with DAT (sensitivity=91.4%) and 89 sera were positive with whole cell ELISA (sensitivity=95.7%). Of 130 subjects who either had other infectious diseases (n=30) or were healthy (n=100), rK26 ELISA were negative in all cases (specificity=100%), whereas DAT were negative in 116 cases (specificity=89.2%) and whole cell ELISA was negative in 114 cases (specificity=87.7%). The results of this study indicate that the rK26 ELISA is more sensitive and specific than conventional methods and could be used for reliable diagnosis of VL caused by Leishmania infantum."}
{"id": "18545832", "title": "Serological reactivity of different antigenic preparations of Leishmania (Leishmania) amazonensis and the Leishmania braziliensis complex.", "content": "Serological reactivity of different antigenic preparations of Leishmania (Leishmania) amazonensis and the Leishmania braziliensis complex. Total antigen from Leishmania (Leishmania) amazonensis and isolates from the Leishmania braziliensis complex, along with their respective antigenic fractions obtained by affinity chromatography on concanavalin-A-Sepharose and jacalin-agarose columns evaluated using immunoenzymatic ELISA assay. For this, serum samples from 229 patients were used, grouped as American tegmental leishmaniasis (n masculine=58), visceral leishmaniasis (n masculine=28), Chagas disease (n masculine=49), malaria (n masculine=32), tuberculosis (n masculine=13) and healthy volunteers (n masculine=49). Samples from American tegmentary leishmaniasis showed higher reactivity with antigens isolated from the Leishmania braziliensis complex than with antigens from Leishmania amazonensis (p<0.001). ELISA assays showed a sensitivity range from 60% to 95% with antigens isolated from the Leishmania braziliensis complex. There was marked nonspecific reactivity among serum samples with the use of antigenic fractions binding with concanavalin-A and jacalin from both Leishmania complexes, in comparison with other antigens (p<0.001). The results presented in this study suggest that the use of homologous antigens increases the efficiency of anti-Leishmania immunoglobulin detection, which may be very valuable for diagnostic purposes."}
{"id": "18512088", "title": "Leishmaniases in Northern Greece: seroprevalence of the infection and incidence of the disease during the period 2001-2006.", "content": "Leishmaniases in Northern Greece: seroprevalence of the infection and incidence of the disease during the period 2001-2006. Increasing risk factors are making leishmaniases a growing public health concern for many countries around the world. The aim of this study was to assess the seroprevalence of Leishmania infantum infection in the general population and in HIV infected subjects of Northern Greece, bordering the Mediterranean basin where leishmaniasis is endemic. The clinical cases of the disease during the last 6 years (2001-2006) are also presented. A low frequency of L. infantum antibodies was found by IFA and ELISA in 1,525 healthy individuals (2.8%), aged 18-80 years, living in the 16 prefectures of Northern Greece (Macedonia and Thrace regions), and in 167 HIV positive subjects (0.6%). Fifty-seven clinical cases were diagnosed in the same area and an approximate annual incidence of 0.34/100,000 was estimated. No endemic foci were identified and the cases of the disease were sporadic. Most presented with the visceral form (VL), few with the cutaneous, and one with VL-HIV co-infection. A significant shift in the age of people at risk was observed, with children less affected than adults (children/adults ratio: 0.36). No relevant data from previous studies are available to demonstrate a possible change of the infection in Northern Greece. The results of this study could be used as a reference for leishmaniasis surveillance in the area."}
{"id": "18458307", "title": "Leishmania infantum DNA detection in urine from patients with visceral leishmaniasis and after treatment control.", "content": "Leishmania infantum DNA detection in urine from patients with visceral leishmaniasis and after treatment control. A urine-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay was validated for diagnosis of human visceral leishmaniasis (VL), taking advantage of the accessibility of urine samples. Leishmania infantum DNA presence was examined in 17 urine samples from 17 patients with VL during a clinical episode and in 55 urine samples from 17 patients with VL monitored after treatment at different intervals. Fifty-nine urine samples from 59 controls with no history of VL were also studied. The urine-PCR test was positive in 15/17 samples obtained during the episode (sensitivity, 88%). None of the controls tested were urine-PCR positive (specificity, 100%). During the monitoring period, 25% of the samples gave a positive urine-PCR. Results were compared with other diagnostic methods, such as urine antigen detection and peripheral blood-PCR and culture, with good concordance during the clinical episode and differences in the follow-up period. This study suggests that urine-PCR is sensitive for diagnosis and may be useful to monitor treatment efficacy."}
{"id": "18444568", "title": "[Investigation of Leishmania infantum seropositivity in HIV/AIDS patients].", "content": "[Investigation of Leishmania infantum seropositivity in HIV/AIDS patients]. In recent years an increase in the rate of detection of HIV and Leishmania co-infections has been reported from many countries especially countries in Southern Europe. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is sporadically detected in some parts of Turkey. Although the natural transmission is via sandfly bites, VL may be transmitted by needle sharing of intravenous drug addicts or by blood transfusion in HIV/AIDS patients. The aim of this study was to investigate the presence of specific antibodies against Leishmania infantum, which is the causative agent of VL, in the sera of HIV/AIDS patients. A total of 79 HIV/AIDS patients (61 male, 18 female; mean age: 30 +/- 2 years) with confirmed diagnosis by HIV Reference Laboratory of Refik Saydam Hygiene Center between the years of 2004-2006, were included in the study. L. infantum antibodies were searched by fast agglutination screening test (FAST), direct agglutination test (DAT), indirect immunofluorescent antibody test (IFAT) and rK39 dipstick assay. Only one serum sample (1.2%) was found to be seropositive by all of the serological tests (> 1/100 by FAST, 1/3200 by DAT, 1/256 by IFAT, and specific bands for L. infantum by rK39 dipstick test), while the remaining samples were negative with all of the methods. The seropositive serum was from a 49 years-old heterosexual male, living on the Mediterranean cost and has had acquired the HIV infection by sexual contact. He has no history of intravenous drug use but he had experienced blood transfusion. Since the seropositive serum sample was collected 2-3 weeks after the transfusion, the transmission of L. infantum was thought to be during blood transfusion, however it could also be acquired via a previous sandfly bite. In conclusion although the rate of L. infantum seropositivity was low in HIV/AIDS patients in our study, the possibility of HIV/Leishmania co-infections should be considered."}
{"id": "18444567", "title": "[Investigation of anti-Leishmania seroprevalence by different serologic assays in children inhabiting in the northwestern part of Turkey].", "content": "[Investigation of anti-Leishmania seroprevalence by different serologic assays in children inhabiting in the northwestern part of Turkey]. Human visceral leishmaniasis (VL) caused by Leishmania infantum in Mediterranean region is still an important public health problem in those countries including Turkey. The asymptomatic presentation of the infection in most of the cases leads to difficulties in the diagnosis and prevention of the spread of infection. The aim of this study was to investigate the seroprevalence of anti-Leishmania antibodies in children inhabiting in the northwestern part of Turkey. A total of 572 healthy children (260 girls, 312 boys) aged between 1-17 years old (mean age: 8.1 years) inhabiting in Eskisehir, Bilecik, Kutahya and Afyon provinces and their counties were included to the study with the informed consent obtained from their families. All serum samples were screened by a commercial ELISA (Leishmania Ab Panel, Cypress Diagnostics, Belgium), two in-house ELISA (with whole antigens and rK39 antigen) tests and an in-house indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFAT). The sera yielding a positive result by commercial ELISA, have been re-evaluated with rK39 dipstick test. Of 572 children, 5.2% (n = 30) were found positive with commercial ELISA, 3.8% (n = 22) with IFAT, 4.7% (n = 27) with in-house whole ELISA, and 3.6% (n = 21) with in-house rK39 ELISA. Of 30 commercial ELISA positive sera, 19 (63.3%) gave positive result also by dipstick test. This difference was attributed to the use of multiple antigens belonging to different Leishmania species in commercial ELISA test. The number of children who were seropositive with all of the tests were 15 (2.6%) and with at least three of the tests were 24 (4.2%). Most (76.7%) of the 30 seropositive children with commercial ELISA were found to be inhabiting in Iscehisar town of Afyon province (n = 16) and Sogut town of Bilecik province (n = 7) where canine VL was also endemic. Our results also indicated that 93.3% (28/30) of seropositive children were living in the rural parts of the study region. Thirty seropositive children were followed-up for one year, but none of them have exhibited clinical findings of VL. As a result, the rate of anti-Leishmania seropositivity (5.2% with at least one test, and 4.2% with at least three tests) in healthy children in the study area should not be ignored, and prevention strategies should be undertaken since our previous study have also showed that the rate of VL in dogs was high and the vector Phlebotomus species were determined in these areas of Turkey."}
{"id": "18385358", "title": "A novel exo-antigen-based ELISA for the detection of canine leishmaniasis.", "content": "A novel exo-antigen-based ELISA for the detection of canine leishmaniasis. Dogs which are infected with leishmania parasites serve as major reservoir hosts for zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis. The incidence of zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis is rising in many countries. This may be associated with the continuing drift of people and their pets from rural areas into peri-urban settings, particularly at the fringe of large cities. At the same time, there is evidence of adaptation of sand fly vectors to these urban settings. This has created an alarming situation because, even though domestic and stray dogs may be infected, many remain asymptomatic but are still highly infectious to the sand fly vectors and thus pose a serious threat to human health. Over half of the infected dogs have asymptomatic infections and current assays are not sensitive enough under field conditions to distinguish asymptomatic from symptomatic dogs. There is an urgent need for a specific and sensitive screening tool for use in the field. We have previously demonstrated that promastigote exo-antigen-based ELISAs can be used in the specific diagnosis of human visceral leishmaniasis (HVL). A cocktail of exo-antigens prepared from three species (L. infantum, L. donovani, and L. major) was used to develop and optimize a canine ELISA assay. Serum samples from dogs with a variety of pathological conditions but living in a non-leishmania endemic area were used as negative controls and their reactivity was used to determine a cut-off value for the ELISA. Samples from dogs residing in a leishmania endemic area were tested in parallel using direct agglutination (DAT), immunofluorescence (IFAT), and ELISA. The ELISA results correlated closely (100%) with the clinical symptoms, and were elevated in one asymptomatic dog. This sample was also found to be positive by IFAT. Based on its sensitivity and specificity, the cocktail exo-antigen-based ELISA may prove useful, even at 1:2,000 serum dilutions, for screening dogs in different geographical regions of the world."}
{"id": "18367879", "title": "[Serological screening for Leishmania infantum in asymptomatic blood donors and HIV+ patients living in an endemic area].", "content": "[Serological screening for Leishmania infantum in asymptomatic blood donors and HIV+ patients living in an endemic area]. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is endemic in Sicily (48 new cases in 2004, of which nine were in Agrigento). In southern Europe between 25-70 per cent of adult VL cases are related to HIV infection. The HIV cases have a high risk (1.5-9%) of developing VL either as a new infection or as the revival of a latent infection. We therefore carried out serologic screening to detect antibodies against L. infantum by IFAT in 1449 blood donors in Agrigento and the surrounding area (May-December 2005) and in 120 HIV+ in western Sicily, all of whom were asymptomatic and had no history of VL. L. DNA was assessed by nested PCR in blood samples of some seropositive donors. Of the 1449 blood donors, 11 (0.75%) were positive by IFAT and three of them were also positive in PCR. L. infantum seropositivity is most probably the expression of recent infection because the clearance of serum antibodies is rather fast (6-12 months) after VL. This is why blood donation by Leishmania seropositive donors, whether positive or negative by PCR, could constitute an infection risk especially for immunosuppressed recipients, who should receive deleukocyted blood. Moreover it could be useful to monitor HIV/Leishmania coinfection cases to avoid the risk of slatentization of L. infection when CD4+ levels are very low."}
{"id": "18367221", "title": "Combined diagnostic methods identify a remarkable proportion of asymptomatic Leishmania (Leishmania) chagasi carriers who present modulated cytokine profiles.", "content": "Combined diagnostic methods identify a remarkable proportion of asymptomatic Leishmania (Leishmania) chagasi carriers who present modulated cytokine profiles. Peripheral blood samples of 138 co-habitants from 25 families with recently diagnosed cases of visceral leishmaniasis in the Metropolitan Region of Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil, were analyzed by indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFAT), rK39 and Leishmania chagasi Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA), intradermal skin-test and Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) over a 12-month period. The cumulative positivity was significantly higher by PCR (29.7%) than by IFAT, rK39 ELISA, L. chagasi ELISA and intradermal skin-test (5.1%, 6.5%, 14.5% and 2.9%, respectively). In addition, the cytokine profile was measured in 16 of the 138 volunteers, of whom eight were asymptomatic carriers and eight were non-infected co-habitants. The innate immunity cells from asymptomatic carriers displayed, upon in vitro antigenic stimulation, a modulated increase in cytokine synthesis that was distinct from that observed in non-infected volunteers. This study suggests that the identification of a large proportion of asymptomatic carriers is facilitated when more than one diagnostic method is applied and that a mixed pattern of immune response is correlated with clinical status of asymptomatic individuals. These observations suggest also that asymptomatic infection by L. chagasi is a frequent event and that control programs could benefit by including this indicator in their interventions."}
{"id": "18351544", "title": "Visceral leishmaniasis as a rare cause of granulomatosis hepatitis: a case report.", "content": "Visceral leishmaniasis as a rare cause of granulomatosis hepatitis: a case report. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is one of the parasitic infections causing different pathogeneses of various systems including intraabdominal solid organs. L. donovani and L.infantum, particularly in Turkey, have been diagnosed in systemic infections. In the present case study, a 43-year-old woman with left upper abdominal pain, persistent fever and splenic pathology according to the radiological findings was investigated. Laboratory findings showed elevated liver function tests and anemia while radiological studies revealed splenomegaly, and nodular infiltration and laceration of the spleen. Because of enlarged intraabdominal lymph nodes observed during surgery, a lymph node biopsy and a liver biopsy were also performed along with the splenectomy. Results from the pathological examination of the spleen were nonspecific and the liver biopsy confirmed a diagnosis of granulomatosis hepatitis. Further examination of the hepatic granulomatosis including parasitic evaluation and serological evaluation with the rK39 dipstick test revealed VL. In conclusion, in cases of visceral organ pathology accompanied by persistent fever, and hematological disorders, parasitic infections, particularly VL, should be considered in the differential diagnosis."}
{"id": "18318942", "title": "HIV infection, visceral leishmaniasis and Guillain-Barr\u00e9 syndrome in the same patient: a case report.", "content": "HIV infection, visceral leishmaniasis and Guillain-Barr\u00e9 syndrome in the same patient: a case report."}
{"id": "18318933", "title": "A community-based, comparative evaluation of direct agglutination and rK39 strip tests in the early detection of subclinical Leishmania donovani infection.", "content": "A community-based, comparative evaluation of direct agglutination and rK39 strip tests in the early detection of subclinical Leishmania donovani infection. In the Indian state of Bihar, the sensitivities and specificities of direct agglutination tests (DAT) and rK39 test strips for the detection of Leishmania donovani infection in humans were explored and found to be generally good (92%-100%). When 172 asymptomatic individuals [16 'case-contacts' who lived in the same households as past or current, confirmed cases of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) and 156 other subjects from neighbouring households] were tested, the same 36 (21%) individuals, including all 16 'case-contacts', were found seropositive using each type of test. When followed-up after 3 months, 18 of the individuals who had been found seropositive in the baseline survey remained seropositive, and eight (44%) of these had developed symptomatic VL, with amastigotes in their splenic aspirates. Seven (44%) of the 16 'case-contacts' but only one (5%) of the other 20 subjects found seropositive at baseline went on to develop VL within 3 months. Although the strip test appeared slightly better than DAT for predicting the development of VL in the 172 subjects, either type of test may be very useful for the early detection of asymptomatic L. donovani infection and thus the identification of those at relatively high risk of developing VL."}
{"id": "18285726", "title": "Antigen detection from urine of Kala-azar cases by latex agglutination test.", "content": "Antigen detection from urine of Kala-azar cases by latex agglutination test. A recently developed Latex agglutination method known as \"KATEX\" for detecting leishmanial antigen in urine of Kala-azar patients was evaluated on 97 Kala-azar cases and 35 controls in the department of Microbiology, Mymensingh Medical College during the period from March' 2004 to February' 2005. The method yielded sensitivity as 100% and 82.8% in 33 confirmed and 64 ICT positive cases respectively. Since 8.6% controls showed antigen positive results, so specificity of KATEX was calculated as 91.4%. KATEX methods for antigen detection in urine should be used as an early immuno-diagnostic test as it has yielded high sensitivity. But interpretation of a positive test must be made cautiously having correlation with clinical findings as because it becomes false positive in Kala-azar free person. Further elucidation of KATEX method including larger population from community giving particular emphasis on its prognostic use was strongly recommended."}
{"id": "18262531", "title": "A suspected new species of Leishmania, the causative agent of visceral leishmaniasis in a Thai patient.", "content": "A suspected new species of Leishmania, the causative agent of visceral leishmaniasis in a Thai patient. A suspected new species of Leishmania is described as the causative agent of the third reported case of autochthonous visceral leishmaniasis in a Thai man living in Southern Thailand. The results of PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism and sequence analysis of the internal transcribed spacer 1 of ssrRNA and the mini-exon genes were different from those of previously reported Leishmania species. A direct agglutination test (DAT) revealed that antibody against Leishmania infection was detected in nine domestic cats. No potential vectors could be identified. A large-scale epidemiological survey of leishmaniasis should be urgently conducted since visceral leishmaniasis is considered an emerging disease of public health concern in Thailand."}
{"id": "18184669", "title": "Risk factors of visceral leishmaniasis in East Africa: a case-control study in Pokot territory of Kenya and Uganda.", "content": "Risk factors of visceral leishmaniasis in East Africa: a case-control study in Pokot territory of Kenya and Uganda. In East Africa, visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is endemic in parts of Sudan, Ethiopia, Somalia, Kenya and Uganda. It is caused by Leishmania donovani and transmitted by the sandfly vector Phlebotomus martini. In the Pokot focus, reaching from western Kenya into eastern Uganda, formulation of a prevention strategy has been hindered by the lack of knowledge on VL risk factors as well as by lack of support from health sector donors. The present study was conducted to establish the necessary evidence-base and to stimulate interest in supporting the control of this neglected tropical disease in Uganda and Kenya. A case-control study was carried out from June to December 2006. Cases were recruited at Amudat hospital, Nakapiripirit district, Uganda, after clinical and parasitological confirmation of symptomatic VL infection. Controls were individuals that tested negative using a rK39 antigen-based dipstick, which were recruited at random from the same communities as the cases. Data were analysed using conditional logistic regression. Ninety-three cases and 226 controls were recruited into the study. Multivariate analysis identified low socio-economic status and treating livestock with insecticide as risk factors for VL. Sleeping near animals, owning a mosquito net and knowing about VL symptoms were associated with a reduced risk of VL. VL affects the poorest of the poor of the Pokot tribe. Distribution of insecticide-treated mosquito nets combined with dissemination of culturally appropriate behaviour-change education is likely to be an effective prevention strategy."}
{"id": "18177681", "title": "Presence of anti-Lepp12 antibody: a marker for diagnostic and prognostic evaluation of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Presence of anti-Lepp12 antibody: a marker for diagnostic and prognostic evaluation of visceral leishmaniasis. The diagnostic potential of recombinant Lepp12 (rLepp12) antigen cloned from Leishmania infantum was assessed in L. donovani infections by Western blotting. Ninety-two serum samples, including 30 patients with active kala-azar (KA), 17 post-treated KA patients (KA-PT), 20 post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) patients and 25 controls, were analysed for rLepp12, rK39 and DAT positivity. All KA samples taken at pre-treatment stage were positive for Lepp12 antibodies. Seventeen of these were evaluated post treatment (KA-PT), 10 of which were found to be negative. Nine of these 10 negative cases corresponded to clinically cured patients with regressed spleen. Seven post-treatment cases were rLepp12-positive; all of them corresponded to patients who were considered clinically cured but continued to have an enlarged spleen (> or =5 cm). The majority of PKDL patients (18/20) were found to be seronegative by immunoblot test using rLepp12 antigen. The rLepp12-based Western blot diagnosed 100% of patients with visceral disease, whilst none of the control cases were found to be reactive to rLepp12. rLepp12 protein provides a useful reagent for highly sensitive and specific diagnosis of KA. Additionally, rLepp12 appears to have potential as a prognostic marker for the infection."}
{"id": "18160087", "title": "Comparative evaluation of direct agglutination test, rK39 and soluble antigen ELISA and IFAT for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Comparative evaluation of direct agglutination test, rK39 and soluble antigen ELISA and IFAT for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Five serological tests for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) were compared: a direct agglutination test (DAT) based on freeze-dried antigen (DAT-fd); a locally produced DAT (DAT-LPC); an IgG ELISA against rK39 (ELISA-rK39); an IgG ELISA for Leishmania chagasi (ELISA-L. chagasi); and an IgG IFAT against L. chagasi. Serum samples from 88 patients with VL, 20 non-infected individuals and 85 patients with others infectious diseases were evaluated. The sensitivity rates were: DAT-fd, 96.6%; DAT-LPC, 95.5%; ELISA-rK39, 88.6%; ELISA-L. chagasi, 89.8%; and IFAT, 92.0% (P>0.05). The specificity for the control groups varied from 53.3% to 100%. DAT-fd had the highest efficiency (97.4%), followed by DAT-LPC (91.7%) and ELISA-rK39 (90.7%). Our data suggest that DAT-fd, DAT-LPC and ELISA-rK39 are useful tests for the diagnosis of VL and could replace IFAT as the routine diagnostic test in Brazil."}
{"id": "18067978", "title": "The major surface protease (MSP or GP63) in the intracellular amastigote stage of Leishmania chagasi.", "content": "The major surface protease (MSP or GP63) in the intracellular amastigote stage of Leishmania chagasi. The Leishmania spp. protozoa have an abundant surface metalloprotease called MSP (major surface protease), which in Leishmania chagasi is encoded by three distinct gene classes (MSPS, MSPL, MSPC). Although MSP has been characterized primarily in extracellular promastigotes, it also facilitates survival of intracellular amastigotes. Promastigotes express MSPS, MSPL, and two forms of MSPC RNAs, whereas amastigotes express only MSPL RNA and one MSPC transcript. We confirmed the presence of MSPC protein in both promastigotes and amastigotes by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). More than 10 MSP isoforms were visualized in both amastigotes and promastigotes using two-dimensional immunoblots, but amastigote MSPs migrated at a more acidic pI. Promastigote MSPs were N-glycosylated, whereas most amastigote MSPs were not. Immuno-electron microscopy showed that two-thirds of the promastigote MSP is distributed along the cell surface. In contrast, most amastigote MSP localized at the flagellar pocket, the major site of leishmania endocytosis/exocytosis. Biochemical analyses indicated that most amastigote MSP is soluble in the cytosol, vesicles or organelles, whereas most promastigote MSP is membrane-associated and GPI anchored. Activity gels and immunoblots confirmed the presence of a novel proteolytically active amastigote MSP of higher Mr than the promastigote MSPs. Furthermore, promastigote MSP is shed extracellularly whereas MSP is not shed from axenic amastigotes. We conclude that amastigotes and promastigotes both express multiple MSP isoforms, but these MSPs differ biochemically and localize differently in the two parasite stages. We hypothesize that MSP plays different roles in the extracellular versus intracellular forms of Leishmania spp."}
{"id": "17942129", "title": "Diagnostic tests for kala-azar: a multi-centre study of the freeze-dried DAT, rK39 strip test and KAtex in East Africa and the Indian subcontinent.", "content": "Diagnostic tests for kala-azar: a multi-centre study of the freeze-dried DAT, rK39 strip test and KAtex in East Africa and the Indian subcontinent. Three diagnostic tests for visceral leishmaniasis (VL), the freeze-dried direct agglutination test (FD-DAT), the rK39 dipstick and a urine latex antigen test (KAtex), were evaluated for use in primary care in East Africa and the Indian subcontinent. Clinical suspects were prospectively recruited and tissue, blood and urine samples were taken. Direct microscopic examination of tissue smear, and FD-DAT, rK39 and KAtex were performed. Sensitivity and specificity with 95% credible intervals were estimated using Bayesian latent class analysis. On the Indian subcontinent both the FD-DAT and the rK39 strip test exceeded the 95% sensitivity and 90% specificity target, but not so in East Africa. Sensitivity of the FD-DAT was high in Ethiopia and Kenya but lower in Sudan, while its specificity was below 90% in Kenya. Sensitivity of the rK39 was below 80% in the three countries, and its specificity was only 70% in Ethiopia. KAtex showed moderate to very low sensitivity in all countries. FD-DAT and rK39 can be recommended for clinical practice on the Indian subcontinent. In East Africa, their clinical use should be carefully monitored. More work is needed to improve existing formats, and to develop better VL diagnostics."}
{"id": "18441999", "title": "[Establishment and evaluation of colloid gold labeled immunochromatographic strip test for rapid diagnosis of malaria].", "content": "[Establishment and evaluation of colloid gold labeled immunochromatographic strip test for rapid diagnosis of malaria]. To establish and evaluate a gold immunochromatographic strip test for detection and differentiation of Plasmodium vivax and P. falciparum. The monoclonal antibodies, F4H12, G4C9 and D8F7, were conjugated with colloid gold as detecting reagent; monoclonal antibody B2G10 (against P. vivax/ P. falciparum) and D6A7 (only against P. falciparum) were immobilized on nitrocellulose in proper position. Blood samples from 107 febrile patients from endemic area of malaria and 17 patients with visceral leishmaniasis were used for evaluating the specificity. Blood samples of malaria patients (110 with P. vivax and 54 with P. falciparum) were used for evaluating the sensitivity. 5 samples out of 107 febrile patients and 17 patients with visceral leishmaniasis showed false positive reaction with a specificity of 96.0% (119/124), all the 17 samples from patients with visceral leishmaniasis were negative. 164 blood samples of malaria patients showed a sensitivity of 92.3% (153/164), 92.7% (102/110)and 94.4% (51/ 54) for patients infected with P. vivax or P. falciparum, respectively. The immunochromatographic strip test based on antigen-capturing is a sensitive, specific, simple and rapid assay for malaria diagnosis."}
{"id": "18320110", "title": "The direct agglutination test as an alternative method for the diagnosis of canine and human visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "The direct agglutination test as an alternative method for the diagnosis of canine and human visceral leishmaniasis. Visceral leishmaniasis is the most severe clinical form of leishmaniasis and is often fatal without proper treatment. Therefore, early and accurate diagnosis is important, but often difficult in endemic areas. The aim was to evaluate a direct agglutination test as a potential visceral leishmaniasis diagnostic method in endemic areas of Venezuela. The performance of the direct agglutination test, based on freeze-dried Leishmania donovani antigen was evaluated under laboratory conditions using serum samples of humans and dogs from several Venezuelan visceral leishmaniasis endemic areas: Nueva Esparta (Margarita Island), Lara, Anzo\u00e1tegui and Trujillo Status. The study included confirmed visceral leishmaniasis patients (n=30), visceral leishmaniasis suspected subjects (n=4), healthy controls (n=19) and patients with other confirmed diseases (n=20). In addition, 24 serum samples from dogs with confirmed visceral leishmaniasis and 18 healthy control dogs were tested. All serum samples of visceral leishmaniasis patients, either active or recovered, were positive. They showed anti-L. donovani titers above 1:1600. Three out of four suspected visceral leishmaniasis cases were also positive, while serum samples from endemic controls and patients with other diseases had titers lower than 1:800. A sensitivity of 100% was obtained for all threshold levels under consideration and 100% specificity at the threshold titer of 1:800 (95% confidence interval: 91-100%). A 93% sensitivity (95% confidence interval: 76-99%) was observed in dog samples, with 100% specificity (95% confidence interval: 79-100%) at the threshold titer of 1:200. The direct agglutination test seems suitable for use in epidemiological studies and for serological diagnosis of human visceral leishmaniasis and canine visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "18165520", "title": "Human asymptomatic infection in visceral leishmaniasis: a seroprevalence study in an urban area of low endemicity. Preliminary results.", "content": "Human asymptomatic infection in visceral leishmaniasis: a seroprevalence study in an urban area of low endemicity. Preliminary results. Many aspects of the human asymptomatic visceral leishmaniasis (VL) remain not elucidated, and moreover, almost all the data come from highly endemic areas. The recent appearance of American VL (AVL) in the northeastern region of the state of S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil, offered a good opportunity for further understanding. We present the preliminary results from a seroprevalence study on AVL in humans in Ara\u00e7atuba, S\u00e3o Paulo. This was a cross-sectional survey on a random sample of the population (one-stage simple random sampling) in two areas, using rK39 dipstick tests. The sex ratios and age distributions in the two areas were comparable. Detectable antibodies were found in 23 subjects (20%) in area A1 and in 6 subjects (4.8%) in area A2. There was no significant difference in age distribution of seropositivity between the areas. We observed a difference in asymptomatic infection rates between the two areas, possibly associated with socioeconomic levels and transmission intensity."}
{"id": "17942614", "title": "Use of a newly developed beta-mercaptoethanol enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to diagnose visceral leishmaniasis in patients in eastern Sudan.", "content": "Use of a newly developed beta-mercaptoethanol enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to diagnose visceral leishmaniasis in patients in eastern Sudan. Corroboration of serology results is essential for restricting the risk of inappropriate antileishmanial prescription. A direct agglutination test (DAT) and a recently developed beta-mercaptoethanol-modified enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (beta-ME ELISA) based on the use of antigen prepared as described for the DAT were applied to 416 sera from two Sudanese populations with and without clinical evidence of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Of 285 sera with the lowest antileishmanial DAT titers (</=1:100 to 1:1,600), 270 (94.7%) scored comparable minimum beta-ME ELISA absorbance values (</=0.1 to 0.26). In 117 sera that demonstrated the highest DAT titers (1:12,800 to >/=1:25,600), 86 (73.5%) scored maximum (0.81 to >/=1.35) and 30 (25.6%) medium (0.27 to 0.80) beta-ME ELISA absorbance values. VL diagnosis was established for 142 (44.1%) patients in the VL-symptomatic group (n = 322), based on positive microscopy for Leishmania donovani in lymph node aspirates or positive DAT (titer, >/=1:3,200). Of the 125 sera from the symptomatic patients for whom microscopy was positive for VL, 111 (88.8%) had comparable positive DAT and beta-ME ELISA readings. In all 17 sera from the symptomatic DAT-positive patients for whom leishmaniasis was not established by microscopy but who responded favorably to antileishmanial therapy, absorbance values (>/=0.27) indicative of VL were obtained by beta-ME ELISA. Of 197 symptomatic patients for whom microscopy was negative for VL, 172 (87.3%) tested negative in beta-ME ELISA and 180 (91.4%) in DAT. Based on the high reliability demonstrated here for VL detection, beta-ME ELISA fulfills the requirement of confirming DAT results in patients manifesting suspected VL."}
{"id": "17935072", "title": "Human anti-saliva immune response following experimental exposure to the visceral leishmaniasis vector, Lutzomyia longipalpis.", "content": "Human anti-saliva immune response following experimental exposure to the visceral leishmaniasis vector, Lutzomyia longipalpis. Experiments in animals verified that phlebotomine saliva enhances Leishmania infection, and vaccination with saliva prevents disease. We have shown that individuals from an endemic area of visceral leishmaniasis displayed robust antibody responses to saliva from the vector Lutzomyia longipalpis, which correlated with anti-parasite cell-mediated immunity. Here, we explored human anti-saliva responses following exposure to sand flies, using an in vivo bite model in which normal volunteers were exposed four times to 30 laboratory-reared Lu. longipalpis. Following the third exposure, normal volunteers developed diverse dermatological reactions at the site of insect bite. Serum from normal volunteers displayed high levels of anti-salivary gland sonicate IgG1, IgG4 and IgE as well as several salivary gland proteins. Furthermore, following in vitro stimulation with salivary gland sonicate, there was an increased frequency of CD4(+)CD25(+) and CD8(+)CD25(+) T cells as well as IFN-gamma and IL-10 synthesis. Strikingly, 1 year after the first exposure, PBMC from the volunteers displayed recall IFN-gamma responses that correlated with a significant reduction in infection rates using a macrophage-lymphocyte autologous culture. Together, these data suggest that human immunization against sand fly saliva is feasible and recall responses are obtained even 1 year after exposure, opening perspectives for vaccination in man."}
{"id": "17896607", "title": "Profile of fatal visceral leishmaniasis at an Indian tertiary care center.", "content": "Profile of fatal visceral leishmaniasis at an Indian tertiary care center. Visceral leishmaniasis is a highly morbid and incapacitating infection, which usually presents with prolonged fever, weight loss and hepato-splenomegaly. Despite the availability of effective treatment, the disease can have a high mortality even at referral centers. A case series of fatal visceral leishmaniasis, encountered during a prospective, two year period is presented. All the patients died due to multisystem organ failure. However, delayed diagnosis due to atypical manifestations was an important factor contributing to the fatal outcome of the patients. Instead of relying solely on the classical clinical features of visceral leishmaniasis, simple laboratory findings like pancytopenia, altered albumin/globulin ratio and appositive aldehyde and rK 39 dipstick tests can help in making an early diagnosis even in atypical cases, thereby reducing the mortality of visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "17882997", "title": "Use of rK39 for diagnosis of post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis in Nepal.", "content": "Use of rK39 for diagnosis of post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis in Nepal. A recently developed nitrocellulose-based dipstick test, rK39, has been widely used for the diagnosis of kala-azar. In this study, we evaluated its use for the diagnosis of post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL). We also investigated the time taken by patients to develop PKDL after apparent cure of kala-azar (visceral leishmaniasis, VL) and the time taken by patients to come to the hospital after the appearance of symptoms of PKDL. A majority of patients developed the disease within three years after the apparent cure of kala-azar (KA). A majority of patients sought treatment within five years after the onset of PKDL. The amastigotes of Leishmania donovani bodies (LDBs) were demonstrated in 70, 20, and 20% of slit-skin smears (SSS) prepared, respectively, from nodular, papular, and macular forms. The presence of highest density (6+) LDBs in the SSS of 20% of nodular PKDL patients indicated that they may have acted as reservoir in the community. Other reservoirs are not known in Nepal. Only 8% cases were detected by aldehyde test. Although this test is obsolete it is still used in rural parts of Nepal. The dipstick (rK39) was 96% sensitive and 100% specific to diagnose PKDL. Its positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and diagnostic efficacy were 100, 91, and 97% respectively. Due to the advantage of cost compared with the direct agglutination test (DAT), and being easy to use and store in field conditions, rK39 is a good tool to diagnose PKDL in rural situations. All the PKDL patients were cured of the disease after treatment by SAG."}
{"id": "17761525", "title": "Serodiagnosis of anthroponotic cutaneous leishmaniasis (ACL) caused by Leishmania tropica in Sanliurfa Province, Turkey, where ACL Is highly endemic.", "content": "Serodiagnosis of anthroponotic cutaneous leishmaniasis (ACL) caused by Leishmania tropica in Sanliurfa Province, Turkey, where ACL Is highly endemic. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the validity of the conventional enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and the Western blotting test for the diagnosis of anthroponotic cutaneous leishmaniasis (ACL) using serum samples obtained from 51 patients with parasitologically proven nontreated CL (NonT-CL patients) and 62 patients under treatment for CL (UT-CL patients). Additionally, 29 serum samples obtained from patients with parasitologically and serologically proven visceral leishmaniasis (VL) were also used as positive controls, and serum samples from 43 blood donors were used as negative controls. All sera were diluted to the same dilution (1/100). Leishmania infantum MON-1 was used as the antigen in the conventional ELISA. The sera of 27 (93.1%) of 29 VL patients were seropositive by ELISA, while the sera of 40 (78.4%) of 51 NonT-CL patients and 43 (69.3%) of 62 UT-CL patients were seropositive by the conventional ELISA. The absorbance values of the CL patients' sera were significantly lower than the absorbance values of the VL patients' sera. Bands between 15 and 118 kDa were detected in two groups of CL patients. Among all bands, the 63-kDa band was found to be more sensitive (88.5%). When we evaluated the Western blotting results for the presence of at least one of the diagnostic antigenic bands, the sensitivity was calculated to be 99.1%. By using serological tests, a measurable antibody response was detected in most of the CL patients in Sanliurfa, Turkey. It is also noted that this response can be changed according to the sizes, types, and numbers of lesions that the patient has. The Western blot test was found to be more sensitive and valid than the conventional ELISA for the serodiagnosis of ACL. In some instances, when it is very difficult to demonstrate the presence of parasites in the smears, immunodiagnosis can be a valuable alternative for the diagnosis of ACL."}
{"id": "17761496", "title": "Demonstration of agglutinating anti-Leishmania antibodies in lymph node aspirate for confirmation of kala-azar serodiagnosis.", "content": "Demonstration of agglutinating anti-Leishmania antibodies in lymph node aspirate for confirmation of kala-azar serodiagnosis."}
{"id": "17703152", "title": "Diagnostic efficacy of Aldehyde test in late cases of Kala-azar.", "content": "Diagnostic efficacy of Aldehyde test in late cases of Kala-azar. This case control study was carried out in the Paediatric wards of Mymensingh Medical College Hospital for a period of one year from April 2002 to March 2003 to determine the sensitivity, specificity and predictive values of Aldehyde test in the diagnosis of Kala-azar. A total of seventy five febrile cases of Kala-azar from Paediatric wards were enrolled in the study and Seventy five controls having splenomegaly with or without fever were also included from the same source. Aldehyde test was done in both cases and controls. Diagnosis of Kala-azar was confirmed by demonstration of Leish-man-Don-o-van body (LD) in bone marrow or splenic aspirates. Out of 75 parasitologically proven cases of Kala-azar, AT was positive in 56 cases. The sensitivity irrespective of duration of illness was 74.6%. We found sensitivity of AT increases with the duration of illness where AT was sensitive in 34.7% cases having fever for less than 3 months, 90.90% with fever for 3 months to less than 6 months and 100% with fever for 6 months or more in duration. Specificity of AT was calculated as 96% with positive and negative predictive values of 94.9% and 79.1% respectively. So AT is a very sensitive and specific test with high positive and negative predictive values. Considering the cost, availability, simplicity, sensitivity, and specificity we would recommend the Aldehyde test as an important diagnostic tool for field diagnosis of Kala-azar especially after three months of febrile illness."}
{"id": "17652852", "title": "Comparison of serological methods (ELISA, DAT and IFA) for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis utilizing an endemic strain.", "content": "Comparison of serological methods (ELISA, DAT and IFA) for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis utilizing an endemic strain. The causative agent of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in Iran is Leishmania infantum (L. infantum) (Mediterranean type) and its major reservoir host is the dog. To compare the serological methods including direct agglutination test (DAT), indirect immunofluorescent-antibody test (IFA) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for serodiagnosis of endemic strain of L. infantum. 61 blood samples from VL patients referred to Shiraz hospitals and 49 blood samples from control group were collected. Native strain of the parasite isolated from a VL patient from the region was cultured and characterized. Antigens from this L. infantum parasite were used in ELISA and IFA system. Anti-Leishmania antibody was detected in 43 (70.5%), 49 (80.3%) and 51(83.6%) cases using DAT, IFA and ELISA, respectively. Based on these results, sensitivity and specificity of DAT was found to be 70.5% and 100%, respectively. Sensitivities of IFA and ELISA in diagnosis of VL were 80.3% and 83.6% and their specificity was 90.5%. Results of this study showed that DAT and ELISA have the highest specificity and sensitivity in diagnosis of VL. DAT is a simple, cost-effective and field applicable test. Thus, it can be recommended for early and accurate diagnosis of VL, especially in regions where malaria, brucellosis and tuberculosis are prevalent."}
{"id": "17639705", "title": "[Asymptomatic Leishmania infection in human population of Wenxian County, Gansu Province].", "content": "[Asymptomatic Leishmania infection in human population of Wenxian County, Gansu Province]. To analyze the status of Leishmania infantum asymptomatic infection in human population of a Kala-azar endemic area in Wenxian County, Gansu Province, and to evaluate the tests used. Blood samples were tested by PCR using two pairs of primers, RV1-RV2 and K13A-K13B, for detecting Leishmania-specific DNA. ELISA and rK39-dipstick were used to detect Leishmania-specific antibodies. The positive rate of PCR, ELISA and rK39-dipstick was 30.9%(83/269). 24.2%(65/269) and 0 (0/269) respectively. The prevalence of asymptomatic infection of L. infantum in humans is high in the area. PCR test based on RV1-RV2 and K13A-K13B primer pairs is a sensitive and specific method for detecting the asymptomatic infection."}
{"id": "17624385", "title": "Field evaluation of FD-DAT, rK39 dipstick and KATEX (urine latex agglutination) for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in northwest Ethiopia.", "content": "Field evaluation of FD-DAT, rK39 dipstick and KATEX (urine latex agglutination) for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in northwest Ethiopia. Three novel diagnostic tests for visceral leishmaniasis (VL), namely FD-DAT, rK39 dipstick and KATEX, were evaluated under field conditions using 101 clinical cases suspected of having VL enrolled in a trial either by active (63 patients) or passive (38 patients) surveillance. VL was confirmed in 49 patients: 35 by both aspirate smear microscopy and NNN culture, 10 by NNN culture alone and 4 by aspirate smear microscopy alone. Based on tests performed in the field, sensitivity for FD-DAT, rK39 dipstick and KATEX was determined to be 95.3% (95% CI 82.9-99.2%), 71.7% (95% CI 56.3-83.5%) and 57.4% (95% CI 42.3-71.4%), respectively. Similarly, the specificity was determined to be 62.7% (95% CI 48.1-75.5%), 82.4% (95% CI 68.6-91.1%) and 84.3% (95% CI 70.9-92.5%), respectively. A higher sensitivity of KATEX (73.9% vs. 41.7%) and higher specificity of FD-DAT (100.0% vs. 48.6%) were demonstrated under passive case detection compared with active case detection. FD-DAT is recommended for confirmation of VL diagnosis in hospital settings, whereas its use in the field will be limited to exclude VL in clinical suspects. The sensitivity of KATEX and rK39 dipstick tests needs to be improved to promote their use as first-line diagnostic tests in the field setting of northwestern Ethiopia."}
{"id": "17620636", "title": "First case of indigenous visceral leishmaniasis from central India.", "content": "First case of indigenous visceral leishmaniasis from central India. Visceral leishmaniasis is endemic in the eastern states of India, but central India remains free of leishmaniais. This report describes the first indigenous case of visceral leishmaniasis in a seven-year-old girl from central India. The child presented with fever for 10 days and was diagnosed by bone marrow examination, serology using rKE16 and rK39 antigens, and a polymerase chain reaction specific for the kinesin gene. Sequencing of the immunodominant region of the kinesin gene of the parasite showed four tandem repeats, each 117 basepairs. The first tandem repeat of this strain had 97% homology with the corresponding first tandem repeat of the Leishmania donovani KE16 strain and 92% homology with the L. chagasi BA-2 strain. The second, third, and fourth tandem repeats had 97%, 98%, and 99% homology, respectively, with the L. donovani KE16 strain, and 89%, 96%, and 92% homology, respectively, with the L. chagasi BA-2 strain. This case shows that more than one genetic variant of L. donovani is circulating in various parts of India."}
{"id": "17571750", "title": "Utility of K39 strip test in visceral leishmaniasis (VL) and HIV co-infected patients: an early report from Eastern India.", "content": "Utility of K39 strip test in visceral leishmaniasis (VL) and HIV co-infected patients: an early report from Eastern India."}
{"id": "17552117", "title": "Kala-azar control, Uganda.", "content": "Kala-azar control, Uganda."}
{"id": "17539239", "title": "Autochthonous visceral leishmaniasis: a report of a second case in Thailand.", "content": "Autochthonous visceral leishmaniasis: a report of a second case in Thailand. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a rare disease in Thailand. Only one previous case has been reported in which transmission was likely autochthonous. We conducted an investigation of a case of VL, which included serological and symptom surveys of people who lived near the case in Nan Province and Bangkok, serological surveys of domestic animals in his home village and sand fly surveys in his home village and in Bangkok. No humans interviewed met our case definition for possible VL. One hundred thirty-one villagers were seronegative for Leishmania antibodies. We found three cows and one cat that had positive direct agglutination tests for Leishmania spp, but we were unable to confirm current infection by PCR. Sand fly surveys showed that most of the flies were of the Sergentomyia genus, which has not previously been reported as a competent vector in Thailand. Nonetheless, we conclude, based on the patient's lack of travel outside Thailand and the presence of seropositive domestic animals in his home village, that he was most likely infected by the bite of a sand fly in Thailand. We believe this is the second case of autochthonously transmitted VL in Thailand."}
{"id": "17521094", "title": "The utility of exoantigens for detection of Leishmania infections.", "content": "The utility of exoantigens for detection of Leishmania infections. Exoantigens released by Leishmania promastigotes were the subject of a workshop held in Mombasa, Kenya. Investigators from the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research (Silver Spring, Maryland) met with scientists from government and academic institutes and industry to review the current global status of leishmaniasis and to explore the potential role of exoantigens in the detection of Leishmania in the vertebrate host and arthropod vector. Some encouraging data, particularly in the immunodiagnosis of leishmaniasis, were shared. The participants concluded that the meeting provided a unique opportunity for investigators working on various aspects of the problem to network and to forge productive collaborations that could potentially lead to the development of more-effective tools to counter this persistent and expanding threat. They recommended periodic meetings to assess interval progress, to revise timelines, and to set achievable goals. The meeting also highlighted the importance of Leishmania infection in the 21st century, with more movement of people from disease-endemic to non-disease-endemic countries. Increased incidence and geographic spread of leishmaniasis emphasize the need for better and more reliable detection methods. Exoantigen-based diagnostic devices hold promise in this direction."}
{"id": "17518946", "title": "Atypical cutaneous leishmaniasis cases display elevated antigen-induced interleukin-10.", "content": "Atypical cutaneous leishmaniasis cases display elevated antigen-induced interleukin-10. In humans, Leishmania chagasi parasites can produce subclinical infections, atypical cutaneous leishmaniasis (ACL) and visceral leshmaniasis that is potentially fatal if not treated in a timely fashion. L. chagasi parasites that cause both ACL and visceral disease appear to be genetically similar, which suggests that host factors such as the immune response play an important role in controlling infection. We evaluated the immunologic response in ACL using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of 37 subjects divided into three groups: (i) active ACL cases, (ii) asymptomatic cases and (iii) persons with no history of Leishmania infection. The supernatants of stimulated PBMCs were analysed for production of IL-10, IFN-gamma and IL-2. Robust production of IL-10 in response to Leishmania stimulation was observed in active ACL cases, compared to low levels in asymptomatic cases and negative controls. Serum IgE levels, measured by ELISA, were not significantly different among the three groups. In addition, ACL cases displayed depressed levels of all cytokines in response to mitogen. Thus, this first characterization of the immune response in ACL suggests a role for IL-10 as well as partial immunosuppression."}
{"id": "17516404", "title": "Clinical use of polymerase chain reaction performed on peripheral blood and bone marrow samples for the diagnosis and monitoring of visceral leishmaniasis in HIV-infected and HIV-uninfected patients: a single-center, 8-year experience in Italy and review of the literature.", "content": "Clinical use of polymerase chain reaction performed on peripheral blood and bone marrow samples for the diagnosis and monitoring of visceral leishmaniasis in HIV-infected and HIV-uninfected patients: a single-center, 8-year experience in Italy and review of the literature. To overcome some of the limitations of conventional microbiologic techniques, polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based assays are proposed as useful tools for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. A comparative study using conventional microbiologic techniques (i.e., serologic testing, microscopic examination, and culture) and a Leishmania species-specific PCR assay, using peripheral blood and bone marrow aspirate samples as templates, was conducted during an 8-year period. The study cohort consisted of 594 Italian immunocompetent (adult and pediatric) and immunocompromised (adult) patients experiencing febrile syndromes associated with hematologic alterations and/or hepatosplenomegaly. Identification of the infecting protozoa at the species level was directly obtained by PCR of peripheral blood samples, followed by restriction fragment-length polymorphism analysis of the amplified products, and the results were compared with those of isoenzyme typing of Leishmania species strains from patients, which were isolated in vitro. Sixty-eight patients (11.4%) had a confirmed diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Eleven cases were observed in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-uninfected adults, 20 cases were observed in HIV-infected adults, and the remaining 37 cases were diagnosed in HIV-uninfected children. In the diagnosis of primary visceral leishmaniasis, the sensitivities of the Leishmania species-specific PCR were 95.7% for bone marrow aspirate samples and 98.5% for peripheral blood samples versus sensitivities of 76.2%, 85.5%, and 90.2% for bone marrow aspirate isolation, serologic testing, and microscopic examination of bone marrow biopsy specimens, respectively. None of 229 healthy blood donors or 25 patients with imported malaria who were used as negative control subjects had PCR results positive for Leishmania species in peripheral blood samples (i.e., specificity of Leishmania species-specific PCR, 100%). PCR and restriction fragment-length polymorphism analysis for Leishmania species identification revealed 100% concordance with isoenzyme typing in the 19 patients for whom the latter data were available. PCR assay is a highly sensitive and specific tool for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in both immunocompetent and immunocompromised patients and can be reliably used for rapid parasite identification at the species level."}
{"id": "17506280", "title": "[Mediterranean leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania infantum. Update on the utility of the IT-Leish and ID-Pagia leishmaniasis tests].", "content": "[Mediterranean leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania infantum. Update on the utility of the IT-Leish and ID-Pagia leishmaniasis tests]. The purpose of this article is to update information about Mediterranean leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania infantum in man and about the canine reservoir. Special emphasis is placed on laboratory diagnosis tests for Mediterranean visceral leishmaniasis (MVL) in humans. In addition two rapid diagnostic tests for human leishmaniasis are compared based on indirect immunofluorescence and Western blot. Findings show that the overall sensitivity of the two tests in immunocompetent and immunodepressed patients ranged from 54% to 97%, a specificity of 97%, with positive predictive value ranging from 75% to 97% and a negative predictive value of around 95%. For diagnosis of cutaneous leishmaniasis, positivity of these tests in one case out of 2 underscores the predictive value of a positive test."}
{"id": "17488915", "title": "The epidemiology of visceral leishmaniasis and asymptomatic leishmanial infection in a highly endemic Bangladeshi village.", "content": "The epidemiology of visceral leishmaniasis and asymptomatic leishmanial infection in a highly endemic Bangladeshi village. We examined the epidemiology of kala-azar and asymptomatic leishmanial infection measured by serologic and leishmanin skin test results in a Bangladeshi community. In a subset, we measured serum retinol, zinc and C-reactive protein (CRP). Kala-azar and seroconversion incidence were 15.6 and 63.1 per 1,000 person-years, respectively. Proximity to a previous kala-azar case increased the likelihood of both kala-azar and asymptomatic infection. Bed net use protected against kala-azar (rate ratio = 0.35, P < 0.01), but not subclinical infection (rate ratio = 1.1, P = 0.82). Kala-azar patients were younger (P < 0.001) and reported lower red meat consumption (P < 0.01) than asymptomatic seropositive individuals. Retinol and zinc levels were lower in current kala-azar patients and those who later developed kala-azar compared with uninfected and asymptomatically infected subjects. The CRP levels were higher in kala-azar patients compared with the other two groups. Low red meat intake and poor zinc and retinol status may characterize a group at higher risk of symptomatic disease."}
{"id": "17488913", "title": "Short report: production of recombinant kinesin-related protein of Leishmania donovani and its application in the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Short report: production of recombinant kinesin-related protein of Leishmania donovani and its application in the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. To detect IgG antibody in the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL), a recombinant antigen rK39, which is part of a Leishmania chagasi kinesin-related protein, has been used successfully and showed high sensitivity and specificity. We report production of a recombinant protein rKRP42, which is part of an L. donovani kinesin-related protein and a homolog of rK39, and its application in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the diagnosis of VL. When rKRP42 and rK39 were compared, amino acid sequence analysis showed 89.3% identity and 98.7% homology, with rKRP42 having 39 more amino acids than rK39. The ELISA using rKRP42 showed a sensitivity of 94.6% (70 positive samples among 74 from VL patients) and a specificity of 99.3% (148 negative samples among 149 samples from Japanese controls), whereas the sensitivity of the commercial rK39 dipstick test was 93.2% (69 positive samples among 74 from patients with VL). The rKRP42 is a promising new antigen in developing immunodiagnostic methods for VL."}
{"id": "17445130", "title": "Exposure to mixed asymptomatic infections with Trypanosoma cruzi, Leishmania braziliensis and Leishmania chagasi in the human population of the greater Amazon.", "content": "Exposure to mixed asymptomatic infections with Trypanosoma cruzi, Leishmania braziliensis and Leishmania chagasi in the human population of the greater Amazon. Lack of conservation of the Amazon tropical rainforest has imposed severe threats to its human population living in newly settled villages, resulting in outbreaks of some infectious diseases. We conducted a seroepidemiological survey of 1100 inhabitants of 15 villages of Pa\u00e7o do Lumiar County, Brazil. Thirty-five (3%) individuals had been exposed to Trypanosoma cruzi (Tc), 41 (4%) to Leishmania braziliensis (Lb) and 50 (4.5%) to Leishmania chagasi (Lc) infections. Also, 35 cases had antibodies that were cross-reactive against the heterologous kinetoplastid antigens. Amongst these, the Western blot assays revealed that 11 (1%) had Tc and Lb, that seven (0.6%) had Lc and Tc, and that 17 (1.6%) had Lb and Lc infections. All of these cases of exposures to mixed infections with Leishmania sp, and eight of 11 cases of Tc and Lb were confirmed by specific PCR assays and Southern hybridizations. Two cases had triple infections. We consider these asymptomatic cases showing phenotype and genotype markers consistent with mixed infections by two or more kinetoplastid flagellates a high risk factor for association with Psychodidae and Triatominae vectors blood feeding and transmitting these protozoa infections. This is the first publication showing human exposure to mixed asymptomatic kinetoplastid infections in the Amazon."}
{"id": "17426171", "title": "Utility of lymph node aspiration in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Sudan.", "content": "Utility of lymph node aspiration in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Sudan. We evaluated lymph node aspiration (LNA) as a simple diagnostic procedure for visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Lymph node aspiration was compared with the direct agglutination test (DAT) using a diagnostic titer > or = 1:6,400 in 7,880 suspected VL patients in eastern Sudan. Compared with DAT, LNA had a sensitivity of 65.1% (95% confidence interval = 63.5-66.6%). Parasite density in LNA correlated strongly with DAT titers (P < 0.0001), and low parasite density accounted for 78.1% of positive LNA results with DAT titers < 1:6,400 (n = 782). Risk factors predictive of a positive LNA result were an age of 1-29 years, male sex, a hemoglobin level < 10.0 g/dL, a DAT titer > or = 1:800, and a location with a higher prevalence of VL. Lymph node and splenic aspirations were similarly accurate as tests of cure after treatment of 50 VL patients in southern Sudan. Pre-treatment LNA results were negative in 20 cases of severe post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "17404324", "title": "Circulating immune complexes (IC) and IC-induced levels of GM-CSF are increased in sudanese patients with acute visceral Leishmania donovani infection undergoing sodium stibogluconate treatment: implications for disease pathogenesis.", "content": "Circulating immune complexes (IC) and IC-induced levels of GM-CSF are increased in sudanese patients with acute visceral Leishmania donovani infection undergoing sodium stibogluconate treatment: implications for disease pathogenesis. Infection with Leishmania donovani is associated with IL-10 as well as with GM-CSF. Immune complexes (IC) exert important functions by stimulation of monocytes/macrophage-mediated production of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines in rheumatic diseases. In this investigation, we have explored IC-induced cytokine production during Leishmania infection. Sera from 43 patients with visceral leishmaniasis (VL), 17 patients with post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis, and 20 healthy Sudanese controls were precipitated with polyethylene glycol (PEG). The PEG precipitates were added to serum-free PBMC for 20 h,whereupon supernatant levels of IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-10, IL-1 receptor antagonist protein, TNF-alpha, TNF receptor p75, and GM-CSF were investigated using ELISA. Circulating levels of C1q-binding IC were also measured in the serum samples. PEG precipitates from Leishmania-infected patients induced significantly higher levels of GM-CSF (p = 0.0037) and IL-10 (p < 0.0001), as well as of IL-6 (p < 0.0001) and IL-1 receptor antagonist (p = 0.0238) as compared with PEG precipitates from controls. Patients with acute VL as well as VL patients receiving sodium stibogluconate treatment displayed significantly increased levels of PEG precipitate-induced GM-CSF. The induction of GM-CSF by circulating IC was especially prominent in acute VL patients receiving sodium stibogluconate treatment; ANOVA revealed significant interaction between disease activity and treatment for PEG precipitate-induced levels of GM-CSF (disease activity, p = 0.0006; treatment, p = 0.0005; interaction, p = 0.0046). Parallel associations were determined for C1q-binding immune complexes, but not for any cytokine other than GM-CSF. The importance of IC-induced GM-CSF in leishmaniasis warrants further study."}
{"id": "17319595", "title": "Investigation of asymptomatic visceral leishmaniasis cases using western blot in an endemic area in Turkey.", "content": "Investigation of asymptomatic visceral leishmaniasis cases using western blot in an endemic area in Turkey. In Turkey, Leishmania infantum is responsible for human visceral leishmaniasis (VL), which is seen mainly in the Aegean, Mediterranean, and Central Anatolia Regions. This study aimed to determine asymptomatic infections in an endemic area of VL in Turkey using the western blot technique. A total of 82 persons including children and adults were chosen randomly in Denizli province which is one of the endemic sites for VL. Serum samples were collected and screened using indirect immunofluorescent test (IFAT), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and western blot (WB). One year later, 35 of the 82 persons were sampled and screened serologically for the second time. Seven out of 82 samples were found to be positive by western blot analysis with the presence of 14 and/or 18 kDa bands. Two of these seven sera were also positive by IFAT, but only one of these two was positive by ELISA. Only one person showing seropositivity with all three tests had clinical symptoms and was diagnosed as VL with the presence of amastigotes in bone marrow aspirate. Because six people, including the one found to be seropositive in all two tests, had no clinical symptoms, they were accepted as asymptomatic carriers. The ratio of asymptomatic infection was calculated as 7.41% (6/81) in the region. In the second sampling, the western blot revealed antibodies against the same antigens in all seven subjects. Our findings showed that the presence of antibodies against 14 and 18 kDa antigens are important for the diagnosis of symptomatic and asymptomatic infections. Western blot was found to be effective in the detection of asymptomatic persons in the epidemiological studies in endemic areas."}
{"id": "17300637", "title": "Comparative evaluation of parasitology and serological tests in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in India: a phase III diagnostic accuracy study.", "content": "Comparative evaluation of parasitology and serological tests in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in India: a phase III diagnostic accuracy study. In this phase III trial for diagnostics for visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in India, we compared parasitological diagnosis with several serological tests: direct agglutination test (freeze dried; DAT-FD), rK-39 strip test, rK-26 strip test and a latex agglutination test for antigen detection in urine (KAtex) in 452 subjects from the endemic regions of Bihar, India. The subjects were segregated into four categories: 230 confirmed patients, 52 probable cases, 70 non-cases and 100 healthy endemic controls. The first two groups were used for estimating sensitivity, the latter two for specificity. Sensitivity of DAT-FD was 98.9%, rK-39: 98.9%, KAtex: 67.0% and rK-26: 21.3%. Sensitivity of DAT-FD on blood taken on filter paper (DAT-FDF) was 99.3%, which was comparable with that using serum. Specificity of serological tests was comparable and high (DAT-FD and DAT-FDF: 94%, rK-39 strip test: 97%, KAtex: 99% and rK-26 strip test: 100%). The classical 'gold standard' parasitological demonstration in splenic smear performed poorly as it missed 18.4% of cases that benefited from VL treatment. Reproducibility of the serological tests between field and central laboratories was excellent (kappa = 1.0, 0.99, 0.96 and 0.94 respectively for microscopy, DAT-FD, rK-39 strip test and rK-26 strip test). A high degree of agreement was observed between DAT-FD and rK-39 strip test (kappa = 0.986). Although DAT-FD and rK-39 strip test were highly sensitive with excellent specificity, the ease of use of the latter makes it most suitable for the diagnosis of VL in the field conditions."}
{"id": "17257811", "title": "Serum markers of rheumatoid arthritis in visceral leishmaniasis: rheumatoid factor and anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide antibody.", "content": "Serum markers of rheumatoid arthritis in visceral leishmaniasis: rheumatoid factor and anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide antibody. Rheumatoid factor (RF) has been described in visceral leishmaniasis (VL). However, there is no report of RF-isotype or other rheumatoid arthritis (RA) autoantibody in VL. This work investigated RF and anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide antibody (CCP-Ab) in sera from 35 inhabitants from a VL area: 15 from healthy persons (HIEA); 10 from VL patients (VL), and 10 from subjects cured of VL (CVL). The controls were represented by sera from 15 healthy individuals (HI) and from 10 RA patients from a VL free area. IgM-RF was investigated by immunoturbidimetry, while IgA-RF and CCP-Ab by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Increased RF-IgM production was found in 9 out of 10 sera from both VL and RA groups (median level 100 and 182IU/ml respectively); in three out of CVL-sera (level 94IU), and in only one HIEA-serum (level 58IU). IgA-RF was only detected in RA-sera (5/10, 50%), while CCP-Ab was found in three VL and in four RA sera (median level 36.5U and 161.5U respectively). A strong correlation was observed between RF-IgM and VL in endemic area (P<0.0001). We concluded that an increased IgM-RF production associated with sporadic and moderate CCP-Ab synthesis is an autoimmune characteristic of VL."}
{"id": "17257310", "title": "Molecular dissection and expression of the LdK39 kinesin in the human pathogen, Leishmania donovani.", "content": "Molecular dissection and expression of the LdK39 kinesin in the human pathogen, Leishmania donovani. In this study we show for the first time the intracellular distribution of a K39 kinesin homologue in Leishmania donovani, a medically important parasite of humans. Further, we demonstrated that this motor protein is expressed in both the insect and mammalian developmental forms (i.e. promastigote and amastigotes) of this organism. Moreover, in both of these parasite developmental stages, immunofluorescence indicated that the LdK39 kinesin accumulated at anterior and posterior cell poles and that it displayed a peripheral localization consistent with the cortical cytoskeleton. Using a molecular approach, we identified, cloned and characterized the first complete open reading frame for the gene (LdK39) encoding this large (> 358 kDa) motor protein in L. donovani. Based on these observations, we subsequently used a homologous episomal expression system to dissect and express the functional domains that constitute the native molecule. Cell fractionation experiments demonstrated that LdK39 was soluble and that it bound to detergent-extracted cytoskeletons of these parasites in an ATP-dependent manner. The cumulative results of these experiments are consistent with LdK39 functioning as an ATP-dependent kinesin which binds to and travels along the cortical cytoskeleton of this important human pathogen."}
{"id": "17223963", "title": "Elevated levels of soluble non-classical major histocompatibility class I molecule human leucocyte antigen (HLA)-G in the blood of HIV-infected patients with or without visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Elevated levels of soluble non-classical major histocompatibility class I molecule human leucocyte antigen (HLA)-G in the blood of HIV-infected patients with or without visceral leishmaniasis. The non-classical class I major histocompatibility complex molecules human leucocyte antigen (HLA)-G have been shown to play a role in HIV persistence, but no data are available on the expression of the soluble forms HLA-G5 and sHLA-G1 in HIV-infected patients with and without opportunistic infections. The soluble HLA-G isoform was measured with an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method in plasma from 94 subjects: 31 HIV-1-seropositive, 17 with visceral leishmaniasis (VL), seven with both VL and HIV-1 infection and 39 healthy HIV-seronegative subjects. Between groups, the frequency of sHLA-G positivity was statistically different: 81% of HIV-infected patients were positive, as were 57% of HIV-Leishmania infantum co-infected patients, 35% of HIV-seronegative patients with VL and 3% of healthy controls. Levels of the soluble forms of the immunomodulatory molecules HLA-G are elevated during HIV infection. In HIV-Leishmania co-infected patients, sHLA-G secretion could contribute to the tolerogenic environment and to Leishmania immune evasion."}
{"id": "16887159", "title": "Antibodies against Lutzomyia longipalpis saliva in the fox Cerdocyon thous and the sylvatic cycle of Leishmania chagasi.", "content": "Antibodies against Lutzomyia longipalpis saliva in the fox Cerdocyon thous and the sylvatic cycle of Leishmania chagasi. Sera of 11 wild Cerdocyon thous foxes from an endemic area for American visceral leishmaniasis were tested for the presence of antibodies against salivary gland homogenates (SGH) of Lutzomyia longipalpis. All foxes had higher levels of anti-Lu. longipalpis SGH antibodies than foxes from non-endemic areas, suggesting contact between foxes and the vector of visceral leishmaniasis. Sera of humans and dogs living in the same area were also tested for reactivity against Lu. longipalpis SGHs and had a lower proportion of reactivity than foxes. Antibodies against Leishmania chagasi were not detected in any of the foxes, but three foxes showed the presence of parasites in the bone marrow by direct examination, PCR or by infecting the vector. Both humans and dogs had higher levels of anti-Le. chagasi IgG antibodies than C. thous. The finding of an antibody response against saliva of Lu. longipalpis among C. thous together with the broad distribution of the vector in resting areas of infected foxes suggests that the natural foci of transmission of Le. chagasi exists independently of the transmission among dogs and humans."}
{"id": "16580229", "title": "A strategy for identifying serodiagnostically relevant antigens of Leishmania or other pathogens in genetic libraries.", "content": "A strategy for identifying serodiagnostically relevant antigens of Leishmania or other pathogens in genetic libraries. Different individuals, when infected with the same parasite, rarely produce antibodies against the same set of antigens. Indeed, unless a particular antigen happens to be recognized by antibodies in all individuals, the use of a single antigen in the serodiagnosis of parasitic diseases leads, invariably, to false-negative results. A straightforward method for pin-pointing, in genetic libraries, the precise antigens that would increase serodiagnostic assay sensitivities is presented. The method is based on the utilization of sera that produced false-negative results against previously available antigens. Employing this false-negative serum-selection methodology for the identification of new Leishmania infantum recombinant antigens (rAgs), the sensitivity of a dipstick assay for anti-Leishmania antibodies in a panel of sera from patients with visceral leishmaniasis was increased from 83.3% to 98.1%, without affecting its specificity, by the inclusion of a fifth and a sixth L. infantum rAg."}
{"id": "18603960", "title": "Elimination of visceral leishmaniasis in Nepal: pipe-dreams and possibilities.", "content": "Elimination of visceral leishmaniasis in Nepal: pipe-dreams and possibilities. Visceral Leishmaniasis (VL) re-emerged in the Indian subcontinent in the mid-1970s after an almost complete absence in the previous fifteen or so years. The disease was first noted in Nepal in 1978 and, since 1980, it has been reported regularly in increasing numbers. Elimination of visceral leishmaniasis by 2015 has been identified as regional priority program in the level of high political commitment. The objectives of this study are the comprehensive assessment of information related to VL on the basis of past research studies conducted in Nepal, and an assessment of the prospects of control measures. This was time line comprehensive VL epidemiological assessment study based on the research conducted by main author during the past ten years. During the period the studies were conducted using cross sectional, case control and exploratory study design. The statistical analysis was done using qualitative and quantitative methods. In our study in the visceral leishmaniasis endemic district, Siraha, in the population of 112,029, a total of 996 clinically suspected cases were reported (with fever of long duration and splenomegaly, with no malaria) during 1998-2002. In all, 283 subjects were found positive for visceral leishmaniasis by rK39 and 284 had positive bone marrow. There was no detectable difference in the density of Phlebotomus argentipes between high, and moderate incidence village development committees (VDC: the smallest administrative unit), but collections in the low incidence areas (in winter) were negative. P. argentipes was never numerous (maximum 4.4 females collected per man-hour), and was much less common than P. papatasi. Peaks of abundance were recorded in the March and September collections. We have found that the numbers of reported cases of visceral leishmaniasis in Nepalese villages was unaffected by indoor residual spray (IRS) indicated by parallel trends in case numbers by time series analysis in treated and untreated villages. A series of maps through ten years clearly showed that the infection can move rapidly between villages, and it is impossible to predict where transmission will occur from year to year. If maximum benefit in relation to cost is the goal, it may be preferable to put all possible efforts into active case detection (ACD) with free treatment. ACD should involve the network of Village Health Workers or Female Community Health Volunteers and the rK39 dipstick test at health centre level. Surveillance of disease and vector, communication for behavioural impacts and insecticide spraying should be important component of elimination program. If IRS is to be a part of the intervention, it is essential that it is carried out effectively, both in areas where the disease has been reported and in neighbouring areas. Integrated vector management need to be monitored for its application and effectiveness for VL elimination."}
{"id": "17176343", "title": "Visceral leishmaniasis in southeastern Nepal: a cross-sectional survey on Leishmania donovani infection and its risk factors.", "content": "Visceral leishmaniasis in southeastern Nepal: a cross-sectional survey on Leishmania donovani infection and its risk factors. To document the frequency of Leishmania donovani infection at community level in a highly endemic region in southeastern Nepal, and to assess socioeconomic and environmental risk factors. A random cross-sectional population survey was held in two visceral leishmaniasis (VL) foci in Morang District in April to May 2003, enrolling individuals 2 years or older and residing in the endemic area for at least 12 months. Leishmania infection was defined as a direct agglutination test (DAT) titre equal to or higher than 1:3200. Risk factors were identified by logistic regression. The direct agglutination test was positive in 7.5% (95% CI: 5.1-10.8) and the leishmanin skin test (LST) in 13.2% (95% CI: 9.9-17.2) of the 373 study participants. No case of current kala-azar was found, but 5.1 % (95% CI: 3.1-7.8) reported having suffered from VL. Independent risk factors for Leishmania infection were proximity of the house to ponds [odds ratio (OR) 3.7, 95% CI: 1.6-8.5], family size (OR 4.4, 95% CI: 1.6-12.6), age > or =15 years (OR 5.5, 95% CI: 1.2-25.0) and house constructed in mud (OR 3.0, 95% CI: 1.1-7.6). Bednets, not impregnated and in poor condition, were used by 95.2% (95% CI: 92.3-97.0) of the population, but did not show any protective effect. This study shows that there is a serious problem of transmission of VL in this area of Nepal. The risk factors identified are linked with the socioeconomic level and the environment. The population would benefit from a community intervention to improve the environmental and housing conditions in the villages."}
{"id": "17176341", "title": "Comparative evaluation of freeze-dried and liquid antigens in the direct agglutination test for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (ITMA-DAT/VL).", "content": "Comparative evaluation of freeze-dried and liquid antigens in the direct agglutination test for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (ITMA-DAT/VL). The direct agglutination test (DAT) for visceral leishmaniasis (VL) with liquid (LQ) antigen is known to be only moderately reproducible because of inter-observer and batch-to-batch variability as well as its sensitivity to temperature and shaking during transport. We evaluated a DAT with freeze-dried (FD) antigen and compared it with the LQ antigen version. Blood samples of clinical VL suspects and healthy endemic controls were collected in Sudan, Nepal and India. Both test versions were performed in duplicate in the respective countries and in the reference laboratory. Interbatch variability and stability tests were conducted and agreement was examined within and between centres on a dichotomic scale by Cohen's kappa as well as on a continuous scale through Bland-Altman plots. The FD antigen remains fully active even after storage at 45 degrees C for 24 months. Using a cut-off titre of 1:6400, the agreement between the FD and the LQ formats was excellent. The major advantages of FD antigen are its better stability at higher temperatures and its longer shelf life, which make it much more suitable than the LQ version for use in the field."}
{"id": "17160317", "title": "Diagnosing human asymptomatic visceral leishmaniasis in an urban area of the State of Minas Gerais, using serological and molecular biology techniques.", "content": "Diagnosing human asymptomatic visceral leishmaniasis in an urban area of the State of Minas Gerais, using serological and molecular biology techniques. A population-based cross-sectional study was set up in Sabar\u00e1 country, Southeastern Brazil, to identify asymptomatic human visceral leishmaniasis in an urban area of low disease prevalence. Blood was collected on filter paper (n=1,604 inhabitants) and examined by indirect immunofluorescent test, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and immunochromatographic strip test. The prevalence rates of infection ranged from 2.4 to 5.6% depending on the test used. One year later, venous blood was collected in a subset of 226 participants (102 seropositive and 124 seronegative). The tests performed were IFAT, ELISA, rk39-ELISA, polymerase chain reaction and hybridization with Leishmania donovani complex probe. No clinical signs or symptoms of leishmaniasis were observed. Using hybridization as a reference test, the sensitivity and specificity of serology were respectively: 24.8 and 71% (ELISA); 26.3 and 76.3% (rk-39); 30.1 and 63.4% (IFAT). Due to disagreements, different criteria were tested to define the infection and hybridization should be considered in epidemiological studies."}
{"id": "17100627", "title": "Toll-like receptor-positive cells and recognition of pathogens: how human myeloid dendritic cells respond to in vitro infection with Leishmania infantum.", "content": "Toll-like receptor-positive cells and recognition of pathogens: how human myeloid dendritic cells respond to in vitro infection with Leishmania infantum. Dendritic cells (DCs), instructed by the priming signals from microbial factors, can produce interleukin (IL)-12p70 and promote T helper (Th)1 proliferation and interferon (IFN)-gamma production. This event seems to be critical for the containment of infections caused by intracellular pathogens, even including Leishmania infection. In the present in vitro study we have investigated: 1) phagocytic capacities and IL-12 production by human monocyte-derived DCs and macrophages (M\u00d8s), infected with Leishmania infantum promastigotes; 2) IFN-gamma production by human CD4+ T cells co-incubated with DCs or macrophages pulsed with live promastigotes. Monocyte-derived myeloid DCs and M\u00d8s from healthy donors were infected with live metacyclic Leishmania infantum (MON-1) promastigotes, previously opsonized with 5% autologous serum, at 1:4 cell/parasite ratio. Percentage and index of phagocytosis were calculated after 2, 24 and 48 h of incubation. IL-12 production was evaluated by an ELISA in supernatants from 48 h Leishmania-infected or lipopolysaccharides (LPS)-stimulated DCs and M\u00d8s, also in the presence of phytohemagglutinin-activated or inactivated CD4+ T cells. For IFN-gamma production, CD4+ T cells were repeatedly stimulated with DCs or M\u00d8s, pulsed with live Leishmania promastigotes or activated with LPS. The number of IFN-gamma-secreting cells was evaluated by an ELISpot assay. Results showed that M\u00d8s have a higher phagocytic capacity towards L. infantum promastigotes than DCs. Moreover, unlike M\u00d8s, Leishmania-infected DCs were able to release IL-12p70; this production significantly increased in the presence of activated CD4+ T cells. Finally, DCs pulsed with live parasites and added to autologous CD4+ T cells induced a higher number of IFN-gamma-secreting cells than M\u00d8s, thus indicating their ability to polarize Th cells toward the Th1 subset. These data indicate that DCs are able to promote protective Th1 immune responses in our experimental model of Leishmania infantum infection, thus representing the grounds for initiating immunoterapeutic and vaccinal strategies."}
{"id": "17050814", "title": "Use of noninvasive markers to detect Leishmania infection in asymptomatic human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients.", "content": "Use of noninvasive markers to detect Leishmania infection in asymptomatic human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) caused by Leishmania infantum is a common disease in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected people in the Mediterranean basin. However, most such cases are asymptomatic, and little information about the prevalence of these infections in HIV-infected individuals is available. The aim of this study was to assess the prevalence of subclinical infection and the relationship between several Leishmania infection markers by noninvasive methods in asymptomatic HIV-infected patients from Southern Spain. Ninety-two HIV-infected patients, who were consecutively attended at the participant hospitals in 2004, were invited to participate in this study. These patients were asymptomatic and without any history of cutaneous or visceral leishmaniasis. Leishmania kinetoplast DNA (kDNA) was amplified from peripheral blood samples from 28 (30.4%) of these HIV-infected subjects. Sera from three (3.5%) patients tested positive for Leishmania by an enzyme-linked immunoassay. Two patients (2.4%) showed a specific 16-kDa band by Western blotting. In contrast, none of the patients showed a positive agglutination of urine. The leishmanin skin test was positive for four (4.3%) patients. None of the patients with a PCR-positive result showed a positive reaction by enzyme-linked immunoassay or by specific bands in Western blotting or had a positive leishmanin skin test. In conclusion, L. infantum kDNA was detected in a large proportion of asymptomatic HIV-infected patients, although a demonstrable cellular or humoral immune response to this parasite was not shown. Conversely, Leishmania antigen in urine was not detected in these patients."}
{"id": "17038704", "title": "Immunologic tests in patients after clinical cure of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Immunologic tests in patients after clinical cure of visceral leishmaniasis. The results of five serologic tests (ELISA using promastigote antigen [ELISAp] and recombinant K39 [ELISArK39] and K26 [ELISArK26] antigens, indirect immunofluorescence test using promastigote antigen [IIFT], and immunochromatographic tests using the rK39 antigen [TRALd]) and of the Montenegro skin test (MST) were analyzed in 41 individuals treated for kala-azar and living in Porteirinha, Minas Gerais, Brazil. The tests were carried out 1 week to 12 years after specific treatment. All MSTs during the 8 months after treatment were negative, whereas after 1 year, 28 (84.8%) were positive. Negativity in all serologic tests was observed for 11 (26.8%) of the 41 individuals, whereas positivity in at least one test was observed for 70.3% of subjects evaluated > or = 2 years after treatment. With respect to each exam, positivity was 38.0% for TRALd, 61.9% for ELISA rK39, 47.6% for ELISA rK26, 38.0% for ELISAp, and 40.5% for IIFT. None of the individuals presented recurrence of the disease during the 4 years of follow-up. The tests were repeated in 24 of the 41 individuals, after some time, and the results were the same in 33.3% of the cases. We conclude that serological tests for kala-azar might continue to be positive after treatment of the disease, although this does not indicate a poor prognosis or a poor therapeutic response."}
{"id": "17037697", "title": "Evaluation of rK39 strip test for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in infants.", "content": "Evaluation of rK39 strip test for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in infants. This study estimated the sensitivity and specificity of the rK39 strip test compared with the immunofluorescent antibody test and microscopy of bone marrow aspirate smears (the gold standard) in 47 children with suspected visceral leishmaniasis. A control group of children with other diagnoses (tuberculosis, toxoplasmosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, malaria or cutaneous leishmaniasis) were also tested to check false positive results. The sensitivity and specificity of the strip test were 82.4% and 100% and that of immunofluorescent antibody were 100% and 92.7%. The rK39 strip test is reliable where there is no access to laboratory facilities."}
{"id": "17023436", "title": "Serological tests for visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Serological tests for visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "17005782", "title": "Evaluation of a glycerol-preserved antigen in the direct agglutination test for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis at rural level in eastern Sudan.", "content": "Evaluation of a glycerol-preserved antigen in the direct agglutination test for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis at rural level in eastern Sudan. Three-hundred and eight patients with suspected visceral leishmaniasis (VL) were received at Doka Hospital (eastern Sudan) during the period September 2004 to October 2005. The sensitivity and specificity of a glycerol-preserved (GP) antigen for VL diagnosis was assessed against the results of repeated lymph node aspiration and readings from a direct agglutination test (DAT) employing standard formaldehyde-fixed (FF) or freeze-dried (FD) antigen. Despite 13 months of storage at ambient temperature (28-47 degrees C), the GP antigen mean titres obtained from these 308 patients were no different from those that were FD (P=0.945) and stored under similar conditions, but were significantly different (P=0.019) from those that were FF and kept continuously at the optimum temperature for storage (4-8 degrees C). Taking the parasitological result as the gold standard and using a pre-established titre of 1 : 3200 as the DAT cut-off, the GP antigen revealed a sensitivity (91/105, 86.7 %) and specificity (187/203, 92.1 %) comparable to that of FD antigen (92/105, 87.6 %, and 188/203, 92.6 %, respectively) and FF antigen (94/105, 89.5 %, and 188/203, 92.6 %, respectively). At a titre range of 1 : 400-1 : 800, statistically determined as the optimum cut-off for the three antigens, sensitivities of 92.4, 90.5 and 96.2 % and specificities of 90.6, 90.1 and 88.7 % were achieved for the GP, FD and FF antigens, respectively, at a peripheral hospital. Regardless of the antigen preparation used, DAT results obtained in the peripheral hospital were highly reproducible in the central laboratory in Omdurman (weighted kappa: GP=0.957, FD=0.979 and FF=0.936). With a diagnostic reliability comparable to formaldehyde fixation and stability under ambient conditions similar to freeze drying, glycerol preservation, by virtue of its high potential for reproduction, meets the requirements for the management of VL in developing countries."}
{"id": "17000724", "title": "Leishmania chagasi T-cell antigens identified through a double library screen.", "content": "Leishmania chagasi T-cell antigens identified through a double library screen. Control of human visceral leishmaniasis in regions where it is endemic is hampered in part by limited accessibility to medical care and emerging drug resistance. There is no available protective vaccine. Leishmania spp. protozoa express multiple antigens recognized by the vertebrate immune system. Since there is not one immunodominant epitope recognized by most hosts, strategies must be developed to optimize selection of antigens for prevention and immunodiagnosis. For this reason, we generated a cDNA library from the intracellular amastigote form of Leishmania chagasi, the cause of South American visceral leishmaniasis. We employed a two-step expression screen of the library to systematically identify T-cell antigens and T-dependent B-cell antigens. The first step was aimed at identifying the largest possible number of clones producing an epitope-containing polypeptide by screening with a pool of sera from Brazilians with documented visceral leishmaniasis. After removal of clones encoding heat shock proteins, positive clones underwent a second-step screen for their ability to cause proliferation and gamma interferon responses in T cells from immune mice. Six unique clones were selected from the second screen for further analysis. The corresponding antigens were derived from glutamine synthetase, a transitional endoplasmic reticulum ATPase, elongation factor 1gamma, kinesin K39, repetitive protein A2, and a hypothetical conserved protein. Humans naturally infected with L. chagasi mounted both cellular and antibody responses to these proteins. Preparations containing multiple antigens may be optimal for immunodiagnosis and protective vaccines."}
{"id": "16914648", "title": "Beta-mercaptoethanol-modified ELISA for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Beta-mercaptoethanol-modified ELISA for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Following antigen preparation procedures similar to those of the direct agglutination test (DAT), an IgG ELISA employing intact beta-mercaptoethanol (beta-ME)-treated Leishmania donovani promastigotes was developed. The performance of the beta-ME ELISA thus developed was assessed in patients with confirmed visceral leishmaniasis (VL), revealing slightly lower sensitivity (39/40=97.5%) than that of the DAT (40/40=100%). When challenged with sera of individuals with non-VL conditions, including leukaemia and African trypanosomiasis, the specificity of the beta-ME ELISA was 100% (158/158), compared to 98.8% (156/158) for DAT. In an endemic population (n=145) manifesting a clinical suspicion of VL, results obtained with the beta-ME ELISA were highly concordant with those of DAT, both in the seropositive (65/68=95.6%) and seronegative (77/80=96.3%) groups. Furthermore, the incorporated intact antigen demonstrated higher sensitivity in ELISA (16/18=88.9%) than the water-soluble equivalent (13/18=72.2%). The stability of the formaldehyde-fixed antigen (2 months at 4 degrees C) in beta-ME ELISA, as well as the option for direct testing of whole-blood samples and visual reading of results (within 2 h, compared to 18 h for DAT), advocate the simultaneous application of the technique with DAT for confirmation of VL in laboratories with limited facilities."}
{"id": "16894000", "title": "Use of immunoglobulin g avidity to determine the course of disease in visceral and post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis patients.", "content": "Use of immunoglobulin g avidity to determine the course of disease in visceral and post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis patients. In the present study, anti-Leishmania immunoglobulin G (IgG) avidity was used to estimate the approximate time of disease manifestation. Significant differences (P < 0.0001) were found between the levels of anti-rKE-16 IgG avidity in leishmaniasis patients with recent and chronic diseases. More than 76% of patients with an illness duration of less than 6 months had avidity of less than 70%, 94% of patients had less than 80% avidity, and all (100%) patients with illness of more than 6 months had avidity values higher than 70%. The study showed that avidity could successfully be used to pinpoint the duration of leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "16882683", "title": "A meta-analysis of the diagnostic performance of the direct agglutination test and rK39 dipstick for visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "A meta-analysis of the diagnostic performance of the direct agglutination test and rK39 dipstick for visceral leishmaniasis. To compare the performance of the direct agglutination test and rK39 dipstick for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Medline, citation tracking, January 1986 to December 2004. Selection criteria Original studies evaluating the direct agglutination test or the rK39 dipstick with clinical visceral leishmaniasis as target condition; adequate reference classification; and absolute numbers of true positive, true negative, false positive, and false negative observations available or derivable from the data presented. 30 studies evaluating the direct agglutination test and 13 studies evaluating the rK39 dipstick met the inclusion criteria. The combined sensitivity estimates of the direct agglutination test and the rK39 dipstick were 94.8% (95% confidence interval 92.7% to 96.4%) and 93.9% (87.7% to 97.1%), respectively. Sensitivity seemed higher and more homogenous in the studies carried out in South Asia. Specificity estimates were influenced by the type of controls. In phase III studies carried out on patients with clinically suspected disease, the estimated specificity of the direct agglutination test was 85.9% (72.3% to 93.4%) and of the rK39 dipstick was 90.6% (66.8% to 97.9%). The diagnostic performance of the direct agglutination test and the rK39 dipstick for visceral leishmaniasis is good to excellent and seem comparable."}
{"id": "16825347", "title": "Comparison of new diagnostic tools for management of pediatric Mediterranean visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Comparison of new diagnostic tools for management of pediatric Mediterranean visceral leishmaniasis. New techniques are available for diagnosing leishmaniasis, but their efficacy in the identification of pediatric visceral leishmaniasis (VL) has not been compared with that of traditional methods. Blood, bone marrow, and urine samples were taken from 25 children with VL during their first clinical episode, 22 days after the start of treatment with liposomal amphotericin B (3 mg/kg/day on 6 days over a 10-day period), and when a relapse was suspected during follow-up. The results obtained suggest that antibody detection techniques, the antigen detection in urine (KAtex kit), and Leishmania nested PCR (LnPCR) analysis of the blood could be used for diagnosis of the first clinical episode. After treatment, clinical improvement was associated with negativization of Novy-MacNeal-Nicolle culture and microscopy of bone marrow aspirate, KAtex test, and LnPCR blood analysis results. Interestingly, LnPCR analysis of the bone marrow aspirate showed that sterile cure was not achieved in eight patients, two of which suffered a relapse within 10 to 20 weeks. All of the new noninvasive techniques tested showed high diagnostic sensitivity. However, LnPCR analysis of the bone marrow was the most sensitive; this test was able to detect the persistence of parasites and predict potential relapses."}
{"id": "16792672", "title": "Soluble CD26/CD30 levels in visceral leishmaniasis: markers of disease activity.", "content": "Soluble CD26/CD30 levels in visceral leishmaniasis: markers of disease activity. Leishmania infantum is the causative agent of zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis (VL). If untreated the disease could be fatal; however, in some cases the infection can run a subclinical course. In subclinical infections a Th1-response predominates, while Th2-responses and/or probably Treg cells are related to unfavourable outcome of the disease in active VL. In the present study we determined the levels of soluble (s) CD26 and CD30 co-stimulatory molecules in sera from patients with active VL, asymptomatic individuals and healthy volunteers. Results showed a significant difference in both sCD26 and sCD30 between infected cases and normal individuals (P < or = 0.001). However, there was no significant difference in sCD26 levels between asymptomatic cases and patients, although the difference was not significant. sCD30 levels were significantly higher in VL patients than asymptomatic cases (P < or = 0.001). These findings suggest a possible association between sCD26 and sCD30 levels and the clinical manifestation of L. infantum infection."}
{"id": "16790767", "title": "Cloning, characterization, and serodiagnostic evaluation of Leishmania infantum tandem repeat proteins.", "content": "Cloning, characterization, and serodiagnostic evaluation of Leishmania infantum tandem repeat proteins. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a form of leishmaniasis, which is caused by infection with the protozoan parasite Leishmania, and is often fatal unless it is treated. Rapid and accurate diagnosis of VL is important for effective treatment. Here we report the cloning of previously undescribed tandem repeat (TR) proteins of Leishmania infantum and an evaluation of VL patient antibody responses to the corresponding proteins. By screening an L. infantum expression library with sera from human VL patients or infected hamsters, we identified 43 genes encoding B-cell antigens. Surprisingly, 19 of the 43 genes (44%) were TR proteins, and that percentage was significantly higher than that for genes picked randomly from the database. We then expressed the TR regions of LinJ16.1750, LinJ22.1590, and LinJ33.2870 and the entire LinJ28.2310 protein. These recombinant proteins were all recognized by Sudanese VL patient sera in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Recombinant LinJ16.1750 (rLinJ16.1750) showed the best performance among these antigens in terms of both sensitivity and specificity. Serological evaluation revealed that 97% (34 of 35) of Sudanese VL patients had significantly elevated antibody levels to rLinJ16.1750. Furthermore, when eight of the patient sera which had low reactivities to rK39 were tested with the novel recombinant antigens, some of the sera showed stronger antibody responses to these antigens than to rK39. Our results suggest that TR regions from the novel L. infantum proteins identified in this study are immunodominant B-cell epitopes and may represent good candidates for serodiagnosis of VL."}
{"id": "16778325", "title": "Prevalence of visceral leishmania & HIV co-infection in Nepal.", "content": "Prevalence of visceral leishmania & HIV co-infection in Nepal."}
{"id": "16778314", "title": "Visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar): challenges ahead.", "content": "Visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar): challenges ahead. Indian visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a parasitic disease caused by a haemoflagellete Leishmania donovani and transmitted by the bite of sand fly Phlebotomus argentipes. It affects various age groups. In India about 1,00,000 cases of VL are estimated to occur annually; of these, the State of Bihar accounts for over than 90 per cent of the cases. Diagnosis of VL typically relies on microscopic examination of tissue smears but serology and molecular methods are better alternatives currently. Notwithstanding the growing incidence of resistance, pentavalent antimony complex has been the mainstay for the treatment of VL during the last several decades. The second line drugs such as amphotericin B, lipid formulations of amphotericin B, paromomycin and recently developed miltefosine are the other alternatives. In spite of significant development in various areas of Leishmania research, there is a pressing need for the technological advancement in the understanding of immune response, drug resistance and the pathogenesis of leishmaniasis that could be translated into field applicable and affordable methods for diagnosis, treatment, and control of the disease."}
{"id": "16778312", "title": "Challenges in the diagnosis of post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis.", "content": "Challenges in the diagnosis of post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis. Post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) is a dermatosis that occurs as a sequel of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Elimination of VL requires detection and treatment of PKDL, necessarily because of its capacity to serve as a reservoir for the causative parasite, Leishmania donovani. Diagnosis of PKDL presents a challenge due to low parasite burden in the lesions. In this article we have reviewed the recent advances in the development of immunological and molecular methods for diagnosis of PKDL."}
{"id": "16778310", "title": "The epidemiology of visceral leishmaniasis in Bangladesh: prospects for improved control.", "content": "The epidemiology of visceral leishmaniasis in Bangladesh: prospects for improved control. The parasitic disease kala-azar (visceral leishmaniasis, VL) was first described in 1824 in Jessore district, Bengal (now Bangladesh). Epidemic peaks were recorded in Bengal in the 1820s, 1860s, 1920s, and 1940s. After achieving good control of the disease during the intensive vector control efforts for malaria in the 1950s-1960s, Bangladesh experienced a VL resurgence that has lasted to the present. Surveillance data show an increasing trend in incidence since 1995. Research in recent years has demonstrated the utility of non-invasive diagnostic modalities such as the direct agglutination test and rapid tests based on the immune response to the rK39 antigen. In common with its neighbours India and Nepal, VL in Bangladesh is anthroponotic. Living in proximity to a kala-azar case is the strongest risk factor for disease, while consistent use of bed nets in the summer months and the presence of cattle are protective. Shortages of first-line antileishmanial drugs and insecticide for indoor spraying programmes have hindered VL treatment and vector control efforts. Effective control of VL will require activities to improve availability and access to diagnostic testing and antileishmanial drugs, enhanced surveillance for kala-azar, post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis and VL treatment failures, and increased coverage and efficacy of vector control programmes."}
{"id": "16778304", "title": "Pre- & post-treatment evaluation of immunological features in Indian visceral leishmaniasis (VL) patients with HIV co-infection.", "content": "Pre- & post-treatment evaluation of immunological features in Indian visceral leishmaniasis (VL) patients with HIV co-infection. The risk of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) co-infection in patients with visceral leishmaniasis (VL) or kala-azar in endemic areas has posed a major challenge in control programmes. We undertook this study to identify the high risk groups vulnerable to Leishmania-HIV co-infection in VL endemic State of Bihar, India. Further, immunological responses were also evaluated in these patients before and after treatment for VL to see the immune impairment associated with CD4 T cell count. A total of 1511 subjects attending Voluntary Counselling and Testing Centre (VCTC) at Patna, Bihar were included in this study. VL was confirmed by splenic or bone marrow aspirates testing for parasite. HIV states was confirmed by two kits. Immunological parameters (CD4, CD8, IFN-gamma, IL-4) were studied in co-infection patients. Of the 280 (18.53%) HIV-positive individuals, eight were diagnosed serologically and pathologically as VL patients co-infected with HIV. The humoral and cellular immune responses were evaluated in 18 Indian VL patients with (n = 8) or without HIV (n = 10) and 10 HIV seropositive subjects. Among the eight confirmed cases of VL, false negative direct agglutination test (DAT) result was observed in two who had HIV co-infection (sensitivity 80%), while none in 10 other VL cases who were HIV negative (sensitivity 100%). A very low CD4 cell count was observed in VL cases that had HIV co-infection compared to HIV negative VL or controls. All VL cases with or without HIV infection had lower Th1/Th2 ratio compared to controls. VL patients with or without HIV infection responded well to anti-leishmanial/anti-retroviral therapy with considerable degree of immunological reconstitution. A different immune response was noticed in patients with co-infection of HIV and Leishmania. Anti-leishmanial drug treatment led to improvement in immunological response in co-infected patients. Further studies need to be done to see the effect of combined therapy for VL and HIV on immunological parameters in these patients."}
{"id": "16699647", "title": "[Blood meals identification of Lutzomyia (Lutzomyia) longipalpis (Lutz & Neiva, 1912) e Lutzomyia (Lutzomyia) almerioi (Galati & Nunes, 1999) by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay biotin-avidin].", "content": "[Blood meals identification of Lutzomyia (Lutzomyia) longipalpis (Lutz & Neiva, 1912) e Lutzomyia (Lutzomyia) almerioi (Galati & Nunes, 1999) by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay biotin-avidin]. Lutzomyia longipalpis and Lutzomyia almerioi, phlebotomine species from the fauna of Serra da Bodoquena, in the State of Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil, have been studied, particularly due to the fact of their abundance and occurrence, the Guaicurus settlement, focus of human tegumentary and canine visceral leishmaniasis. In researches that are being carried out in this settlement for identifying the vectors of these parasitosis, 83 engorged females belonging to the species Lutzomyia longipalpis and Lutzomyia almerioi were captured with automatic light traps from 2002 up to 2004 in the peridomiciliary environment of the Guaicurus settlement (hennery). The aim of this study was the investigation on bird feeding habit of females of both the phlebotomine species by the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay technique, comparing the reactivity during the period from 2002 up to 2004. Of the 57 samples of Lutzomyia longipalpis and 26 of Lutzomyia almerioi that have been tested, 72% from Lutzomyia longipalpis and 96% from Lutzomyia almerioi were reactive, which justifies the feeding habit study in the region as a prevention measure and the institution of an epidemiological survey."}
{"id": "16501764", "title": "[Comparative study about the specific antileishmania of immunoglobulin G and E as markers of infection and illness among dwellers of a visceral leishmaniasis endemic area in S\u00e3o Luis, MA].", "content": "[Comparative study about the specific antileishmania of immunoglobulin G and E as markers of infection and illness among dwellers of a visceral leishmaniasis endemic area in S\u00e3o Luis, MA]. Comparative study regarding IgG and IgE anti-leishmania as markers of infection and illness among residents of a visceral leishmaniasis visceral leishmaniasis endemic area, S\u00e3o Luis, MA in the period from May 1999 to May 2000. All the 1,016 individuals younger than 16 years old were tested for the presence of IgG by ELISA. A total of 174 (17.1%) children revealed a positive IgG test and 4 children showed symptoms of classical visceral leishmaniasis during the time of the survey: 85 IgE anti-leishmania ELISA tests with positivity of 43.5% were realized. In this sample, all 7 children with past-visceral leishmaniasis in the sample were IgG positive and 4 (57.1%) were IgE positive, even after a 7 year post treatment period. Three children with current visceral leishmaniasis were evaluated, and all of them were positive for both tests. The detection of antileishman IgE antibodies presented as a good marker for infection by Leishmania chagasi in endemic areas but not as a disease marker."}
{"id": "16487322", "title": "Leishmania donovani cyclin 1 (LdCyc1) forms a complex with cell cycle kinase subunit CRK3 (LdCRK3) and is possibly involved in S-phase-related activities.", "content": "Leishmania donovani cyclin 1 (LdCyc1) forms a complex with cell cycle kinase subunit CRK3 (LdCRK3) and is possibly involved in S-phase-related activities. Expression of Leishmania donovani cyclin 1 (LdCyc1) mRNA during the cell cycle of promastigotes is S-phase specific. Here, we show that the LdCyc1 protein is periodically expressed and the activity of its associated kinase varies during the cell cycle in line with its expression pattern. In addition, we have shown that LdCRK3, homologous to CRK3 from L. mexicana, is the cognate Cdk partner of LdCyc1 and that the activity of the complex is inhibited specifically by heat stable factor(s) from the parasite."}
{"id": "16417715", "title": "Phlebotomus (Paraphlebotomus) alexandri: a probable vector of Leishmania infantum in Iran.", "content": "Phlebotomus (Paraphlebotomus) alexandri: a probable vector of Leishmania infantum in Iran. The incidence of human visceral leishmaniasis (VL) caused by Leishmania infantum, which is endemic in several parts of Iran, has recently increased in the Nourabad-Mamassani district of Fars province, in the south of the country. Between 2003 and 2005, 12,688 sandflies were caught in this focus, using CDC miniature light traps, sticky traps and aspirators, in an attempt to identify the main vector of L. infantum. When 120 of the parous, female Phlebotomus (Paraphlebotomus) alexandri caught were individually checked for Leishmania infection, in an assay based on PCR and kinetoplast minicircle primers (LINR4 and LIN17), five (4.2%) of the flies were found to be infected with L. infantum. Thirty-nine (32.5%) of the 120 blood-fed Ph. alexandri checked in an ELISA were found positive for human blood. Since Ph. alexandri was the third-most common species caught (representing over 17% of the total catch), was clearly anthropophilic, and was not infrequently infected with L. infantum, it is probably an important vector in the Nourabad-Mamassani focus. Although other sandfly species have been found naturally infected with promastigotes in Iran, Ph. alexandri is the first that has been proven to harbour L. infantum in the country."}
{"id": "16407349", "title": "Evaluation of a new recombinant K39 rapid diagnostic test for Sudanese visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Evaluation of a new recombinant K39 rapid diagnostic test for Sudanese visceral leishmaniasis. A new rK39 rapid diagnostic dipstick test (DiaMed-IT-Leish) was compared with aspiration and a direct agglutination test (DAT) for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in 201 parasitologically confirmed cases, 133 endemic controls, and in 356 clinical suspects in disease-endemic and -epidemic areas in Sudan. The sensitivity of the rK39 test in parasitologically confirmed VL cases was 90%, whereas the specificity in disease-endemic controls was 99%. The sensitivity of the DAT was 98%. In clinically suspected cases, the sensitivity of the rK39 test was 81% and the specificity was 97%. When compared with the diagnostic protocol based on the DAT and aspiration used by M\u00e9decins sans Fronti\u00e8res in epidemic situations, the positive predictive value was 98%, and the negative predictive value was 71%. This rK39 rapid diagnostic test is suitable for screening as well as diagnosis of VL. Further diagnostic work-up of dipstick-negative patients with clinically suspected VL is important. The ease and convenience of the dipstick test will allow decentralization and improved access to care in disease-endemic areas in Sudan."}
{"id": "16398754", "title": "Sero-epidemiological study of kala-azar in a village of Varanasi district, India.", "content": "Sero-epidemiological study of kala-azar in a village of Varanasi district, India. To evaluate five kala-azar serological tests for field use. Serological survey in Pandit Ka Purva village in Varanasi district, India, using Sia water test, aldehyde test, direct agglutination test (DAT), micro-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and dot-ELISA. The total population of the village was 518, 67 of whom showed typical clinical and parasitological features of kala-azar, including seven who died. The age distribution of kala-azar cases showed significant differences, being highest among the 45-54-year age group. The disease was more prevalent among males. Serum samples were collected from 498 persons (96% of total population) including 67 kala-azar cases and 40 disease controls (malaria, TB, leprosy, typhoid). Ten 10 serum samples from healthy controls living in endemic area were also collected. The test sensitivities were: Sia water test, 85.0%; aldehyde test, 62.7%; DAT, 94.0%; micro-ELISA, 91.0% and dot-ELISA, 97.0%. The test specificities were: Sia water test 92.5%, aldehyde test, 93.2%, DAT, 96.7; micro-ELISA, 97.6% and dot-ELISA, 98.4%. The dot-ELISA is highly sensitive and specific, cheap, and easy to interpret with the naked eye, making it a powerful screening test for the surveillance and diagnosis of Indian kala-azar at field level."}
{"id": "16398753", "title": "Field validity, reproducibility and feasibility of diagnostic tests for visceral leishmaniasis in rural Nepal.", "content": "Field validity, reproducibility and feasibility of diagnostic tests for visceral leishmaniasis in rural Nepal. To assess the field accuracy, reproducibility and feasibility of the formol gel test (FGT), the urine latex agglutination test (KAtex) and a rK39 antigen-based dipstick for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in rural Nepal. Patients with clinical suspicion of VL were recruited at Rangeli District Hospital (DH), a 15-bed government hospital located in south-eastern Nepal. FGT, KAtex and rK39 dipstick tests were performed on site and later repeated at a reference kala-azar diagnostic laboratory to assess reproducibility. Diagnosis of VL was confirmed by either a positive bone marrow aspirate examination or a positive direct agglutination test (DAT titre > or = 1:3200) in patients who later responded to anti-leishmanial therapy. Of 155 patients initially recruited, 142 (85 with VL and 57 with another diagnosis) were included in the study. The sensitivity of the rK39 dipstick [89%; 95% confidence interval (CI): 81-94] was significantly higher than that of the KAtex (57%; 95% CI: 46-67) and the FGT (52%; 95% CI: 41-62). All three tests had a specificity of at least 90%. Agreement was higher for the rK39 dipstick (kappa = 0.87) than for the FGT (0.68) and the KAtex (0.43). All tests required < or = 20 min of actual work and < or = 40 min to obtain the results. The rK39 dipstick was easy to do, more accurate and reproducible than other rapid diagnostic tests for VL in a DH of rural Nepal. It should be integrated into the field diagnostic algorithm of VL in this region and mechanisms to secure its availability should be found."}
{"id": "16325874", "title": "Serological diagnosis of Indian visceral leishmaniasis: direct agglutination test versus rK39 strip test.", "content": "Serological diagnosis of Indian visceral leishmaniasis: direct agglutination test versus rK39 strip test. We evaluated the direct agglutination test (DAT), using freeze-dried (FD) and aqueous (AQ) antigen, and the rK39 immunochromatographic strip test in the diagnosis of Indian visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Sera from 508 subjects (150 parasitologically confirmed patients with VL, 100 and 153 healthy controls drawn from non-endemic and endemic regions, respectively, and 105 patients with other diseases presenting with fever and/or splenomegaly) were tested. The sensitivity of the tests were as follows: DAT (FD), 96% (95% CI 91-98); DAT (AQ), 97% (95% CI 93-99); rK39 strip test, 99% (95% CI 95-100). The specificity of DAT (FD), DAT (AQ) and rK39 strip tests were 85% (95% CI 81-88), 87% (95% CI 83-91) and 89% (95% CI 86-92), respectively. A significant correlation (high degree of agreement) was observed between all tests (kappa>0.80). We conclude that the sensitivity of FD antigen is comparable to that of AQ antigen. Similarly, the rK39 strip test is as sensitive as the DAT, but the strip test's greater convenience of use makes it a better tool for diagnosis of VL in peripheral areas of endemic regions."}
{"id": "16287909", "title": "Sero-epidemological survey on canine visceral leishmaniasis and the distribution of sandfly vectors in northwestern Turkey: prevention strategies for childhood visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Sero-epidemological survey on canine visceral leishmaniasis and the distribution of sandfly vectors in northwestern Turkey: prevention strategies for childhood visceral leishmaniasis. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) caused by Leishmania infantum, is an endemic disease in Aegean and Mediterranean Regions among humans and dogs. In this study, a sero-epidemiological survey for VL and cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL), which both are sporadically reported in the region, were carried out in the villages of Eskisehir, Afyon, and Bilecik cities. The study was designed according to the location of the sporadic cases of VL and CL, and blood samples of 111 dogs were randomly collected. Lymph node aspiration samples were taken from dogs that have popliteal lymphadenopathy. Sand flies were also collected using CDC light traps in the several localities. The sera samples were screened using IFAT, ELISA, rk39 ELISA and dip-stick tests for anti-Leishmania antibodies. A total of 15 (13.51 per cent) dogs out of 111 were found to be seropositive by at least one of the tests. The seropositivity ratios among dogs were found to be 27.5 per cent (8/29), 9.09 per cent (4/44) and 7.8 per cent (3/38) in Afyon, Bilecik and Eskisehir cities respectively. Leishmania amastigotes were detected in 4 of the 14 lymph node aspiration samples (eight seronegative, six seropositive), and all of them were seropositive dogs. One year later, two of the dogs were found to be dead and the other two were severely ill. Among the 179 collected Phlebotomus specimens from, Phlebotomus major was found to be abundant (35.7 per cent) and the other species were P. simici (28.5 per cent), P. similis (34.7 per cent) and P. alexandri (1.1 per cent). In the study area, canine VL is more spread than human VL. Because dogs are playing an important role for VL in Mediterranean Basin, and development of appropriate control measures will be necessary for childhood VL."}
{"id": "16203020", "title": "Field evaluation of a fast anti-Leishmania antibody detection assay in Ethiopia.", "content": "Field evaluation of a fast anti-Leishmania antibody detection assay in Ethiopia. A fast agglutination screening test (FAST) for the detection of Leishmania antibodies in human serum samples was evaluated under harsh field conditions in northern Ethiopia. Test performance was compared with a standard serological test, namely the direct agglutination test (DAT), and with parasitology. In total, 103 suspected cases were recruited for the study. Based on parasitological examination, 49 patients were confirmed of having visceral leishmaniasis (VL) and the other 54 suspected cases were parasitologically negative. Field evaluation of FAST was possible in blood samples of 89 patients. FAST had 4 false negative results and 13 false positive results. DAT had 2 false negative results and 20 false positive results. A good degree of agreement (86.9%) was observed between FAST and DAT (kappa value 0.73). In this field-based evalauation, the sensitivity and specificity of FAST were found to be 91.1% (95% CI 77.9-97.1) and 70.5% (95% CI 54.6-82.8), respectively, compared with 95.3% (95% CI 82.9-99.2) and 62.3% (95% CI 47.9-74.9) for DAT. FAST had a high predictive value of a negative test, demonstrating that FAST could be utilised to exclude rapidly non-VL patients from a large population of suspects with fever and splenomegaly in endemic areas."}
{"id": "16198385", "title": "Atypical American visceral leishmaniasis caused by disseminated Leishmania amazonensis infection presenting with hepatitis and adenopathy.", "content": "Atypical American visceral leishmaniasis caused by disseminated Leishmania amazonensis infection presenting with hepatitis and adenopathy. Leishmania amazonensis is widely recognised as a cause of cutaneous leishmaniasis in Latin America, but it can also disseminate to produce atypical visceral leishmaniasis with hepatitis and lymphadenopathy. The patient, an 8-year-old Brazilian boy, presented with a febrile illness and hepatosplenomegaly, elevated liver enzymes and generalised adenopathy. Serological tests using antigens of L. chagasi, the typical cause of visceral leishmaniasis in Latin America, were inconclusive. Leishmania amazonensis was eventually isolated in a culture of a lymph node. The patient recovered fully after treatment with meglumine antimoniate. As this case illustrates, L. amazonensis produces a spectrum of disease that includes atypical American visceral leishmaniasis with evidence of hepatocellular injury and generalised lymphadenopathy."}
{"id": "16172002", "title": "Cloning, expression, and purification of a novel recombinant antigen from Leishmania donovani.", "content": "Cloning, expression, and purification of a novel recombinant antigen from Leishmania donovani. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a major health problem in the tropical and subtropical regions of the world. The conventional methods for diagnosis of Old World Visceral leishmaniasis are difficult, insensitive, and hazardous. There is no recombinant antigen from old world Leishmania species which can be commercially used for rapid diagnosis. There is an urgent need for a less invasive and accurate method. Here, we report a recombinant antigen from Indian Leishmania donovani for its diagnosis. The kinesin gene of a L. donovani clinical isolate (KE16) from India was PCR amplified for cloning and the immunodominant domain was expressed in Escherichia coli. This recombinant protein or Ld-rKE16 was evaluated for serodiagnosis of Indian kala-azar by ELISA. The recombinant antigen was found to be 100% sensitive and specific for Old World VL cases from India, Pakistan, China, and Turkey. The antigen showed no cross-reactivity with sera from other endemic diseases or healthy controls. The expressed Ld-rKE16 antigen is highly specific and sensitive for diagnosing visceral and post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis and is ready for commercialization."}
{"id": "16519257", "title": "Management of visceral leishmaniasis: Indian perspective.", "content": "Management of visceral leishmaniasis: Indian perspective. Diagnosis and treatment of Indian visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is extremely unsatisfactory. For diagnosis, demonstration of parasites in splenic/marrow smears remains the gold standard, though k39 rapid strip test is a useful method in regions where access to parasite demonstration is difficult. pentavalent antimony remains the mainstay for the treatment of all forms of leishmaniasis globally; however, development of large-scale antimony resistance in Bihar has necessitated search for alternative drugs. Amphotericin B is the most effective, though toxic, drug for patients with refractory VL. Lipid formulations of amphotericin B, though safe and effective, are too expensive to be useful for poor patients of this region. These hold advantage as large quantity of the drug can safely be given over a short period of time, thus leading to a decrease in the hospital stay to a few days instead of several weeks. Oral miltefosine, an alkyl phospholipid, has recently been approved and marketed in India for the treatment of VL. Miltefosine cures 94% patients with VL if given in a daily dose of 50-100 mg for 28 days. Most common adverse events are mild vomiting and diarrhea. Paromomycin, an amino glycoside, is undergoing a pivotal phase-III clinical trial, and is likely to be approved and available to patients with VL at an affordable cost. To protect the already scarce inventory of antileishmanial drugs, it is time that combination chemotherapy is introduced for the treatment of VL in India."}
{"id": "16517998", "title": "Evaluation of a rapid immunochromatographic test for diagnosis of kala-azar & post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis at a tertiary care centre of north India.", "content": "Evaluation of a rapid immunochromatographic test for diagnosis of kala-azar & post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis at a tertiary care centre of north India. Definitive diagnosis of kala-azar requires demonstration of parasites by diagnostic protocols based on invasive organ aspirations. We evaluated in the present study the diagnostic utility of an immunochromatographic test (ICT) for detection of anti- rK-39 antibodies for the non-invasive diagnosis of kala-azar and post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) at a tertiary care centre of north India. The study was conducted in the Department of Microbiology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, from July 2003 to October 2004. Of the 120 samples tested, 57 were found to be positive by ICT; of which, 51 were diagnosed as kala-azar and 6 as PKDL. The controls included individuals from endemic (50) and non endemic (19) areas with malignancies, haemolytic disorders, chronic liver diseases, hypersplenism, portal hypertension, metabolic disorders and sarcoidosis. In addition, 47 sera from confirmed cases of tuberculosis, malaria, typhoid, filariasis, leptospirosis, histoplasmosis, toxoplasmosis, invasive aspergillosis, amoebic liver abscess, AIDS, leprosy, cryptococcosis, strongyloidiasis, cyclosporosis, patients having collagen vascular diseases and hypergammaglobulinaemia were also tested to check the specificity of the test. Of the 51 cases with kala-azar 43 were males, children accounted for 25 per cent of these cases. All had fever of duration ranging from <1 month to 1.5 yr (median 4.5 months). All PKDL patients (n=6, 4 males) gave a history of having suffered from kala-azar in the past, and their slit skin test smears were microscopically positive for Leishman-Donovan (LD) bodies. The strip test was positive in all the cases of kala-azar and PKDL (estimated sensitivity 100%), all control sera were negative by the ICT (specificity 100%). The rK-39 ICT is a highly sensitive and specific test, and may be suitable for a rapid, cost-effective and reliable field diagnosis of kala-azar and PKDL."}
{"id": "16517995", "title": "Rapid & reliable diagnostic tests for visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Rapid & reliable diagnostic tests for visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "16410935", "title": "[Observations on the use of TESA blot for the serological diagnosis of Chagas' disease].", "content": "[Observations on the use of TESA blot for the serological diagnosis of Chagas' disease]. TESA blot was compared with indirect hemagglutination, indirect immunofluorescence and ELISA tests. In sera from 30 participants infected with Trypanosoma cruzi, and in 30 non infected the four techniques produced entirely equivalent results, all positive and all negative, respectively. In cases admitted to be inconclusive or in visceral leishmaniasis, frequent false positives were detected. However, TESA blot contributed with the least proportion of them."}
{"id": "16410865", "title": "[Prevalence of infection by Leishmania chagasi using ELISA (rK39 and CRUDE) and the Montenegro skin test in an endemic leishmaniasis area of Maranh\u00e3o, Brazil].", "content": "[Prevalence of infection by Leishmania chagasi using ELISA (rK39 and CRUDE) and the Montenegro skin test in an endemic leishmaniasis area of Maranh\u00e3o, Brazil]. A prospective study was undertaken in 1,520 children less than 15 years of age in S\u00e3o Jos\u00e9 de Ribamar, Maranh\u00e3o, Brazil, from June 1994 to January 1995, to evaluate the prevalence and characteristics (socioeconomic, environmental, and behavioral) associated with infection by Leishmania chagasi. Montenegro skin test (MST) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA-rK39 and CRUDE) test were used to detect infection. The statistical analysis used the chi2 test with Yates correction and a p value less than 0.05 was considered statistically significant. Prevalence of infection was 61.7% as measured by MST, 19.4% according to ELISA (rK39), and 19.7% by ELISA (CRUDE). Association was detected between leishmaniasis in the family, water supply, application of insecticide, and infection by L. chagasi using MST. No association with infection by L. chagasi was detected using ELISA rK39 or CRUDE. More effective control measures are needed to reduce prevalence and to detect asymptomatic cases in this high percentage of infected children."}
{"id": "16339064", "title": "Application of an improved method for the recombinant k 39 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to detect visceral leishmaniasis disease and infection in Bangladesh.", "content": "Application of an improved method for the recombinant k 39 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to detect visceral leishmaniasis disease and infection in Bangladesh. Several serology-based immunoassays are used to diagnose visceral leishmaniasis (VL), a chronic protozoan parasitic disease caused by the Leishmania donovani complex. These tests are primarily designed to diagnose the most severe clinical form of VL, known as kala-azar. However, leishmanial infection is frequently asymptomatic and may manifest only as a positive serologic response or positive leishmanin skin test. We modified a previously described enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) that detects patient antibodies reactive with the recombinant Leishmania protein K39 (rK39) to confirm suspected kala-azar and to detect asymptomatic infection in a community study in Bangladesh. With the inclusion of a standard curve on each ELISA plate, the rK39 ELISA was more repeatable (kappa coefficient of agreement=0.970) and more reliable compared to the original method (kappa=0.587, P<0.001). The cutoff point for a positive antibody response was chosen based on the 99th percentile of the ELISA distribution for the negative-control sera. However, we found that sera from all patients with active kala-azar yielded values more than twice the magnitude of this cutoff. Using receiver-operator characteristic curves, we determined a second cutoff value predictive of kala-azar. Using these criteria, the sensitivity and specificity of the modified ELISA for kala-azar were 97.0% and 98.9%, respectively, for sera from our study population. We hypothesize that individuals with antibody levels greater than the 99th percentile of the negative controls but less than the cutoff point for kala-azar have asymptomatic leishmanial infections."}
{"id": "16333084", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of two rK39 antigen-based dipsticks and the formol gel test for rapid diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in northeastern Uganda.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of two rK39 antigen-based dipsticks and the formol gel test for rapid diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in northeastern Uganda. The development of an accurate, practical, and affordable diagnostic test is essential to improve the management of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in remote health centers. We evaluated the Formol Gel test (FGT) and two rK39 antigen-based dipsticks, the DUAL-IT L/M, and the Kalazar Detect for VL diagnosis in Amudat Hospital in Uganda. The DUAL-IT L/M was also evaluated for the diagnosis of malaria. All patients clinically suspect of VL were prospectively included in the study between October 2003 and March 2004. The gold standard used to define a VL case was a positive spleen aspirate or a direct agglutination test titer of >1:12,800 with an appropriate clinical response to antileishmanial therapy. A total of 131 VL and 112 non-VL patients were included in the analysis. The DUAL IT L/M was found to be more sensitive than the Kalazar Detect: 97% (95% confidence interval [95%CI] = 92 to 99%) versus 82% (95%CI = 74 to 87%). The Kalazar Detect and the DUAL IT L/M were highly specific (99% [95%CI = 95 to 100%] and 97% [95%CI = 92 to 99%], respectively). The FGT lacked both sensitivity (66% [95%CI = 57 to 73%]) and specificity (90% [95%CI = 83 to 94%]). The sensitivity of the DUAL IT L/M for malaria was only 57% (95%CI = 37 to 76%). The two rK39 dipsticks can be used for diagnostic confirmation of VL in this region. The DUAL-IT L/M without its malaria diagnostic component (DiaMed-IT LEISH) will be adopted as first-line test for VL in Uganda."}
{"id": "16297287", "title": "Usefulness of the direct agglutination test in the early detection of subclinical Leishmania donovani infection: a community-based study.", "content": "Usefulness of the direct agglutination test in the early detection of subclinical Leishmania donovani infection: a community-based study. The value of a direct agglutination test (DAT) in the detection of subclinical infections with Leishmania donovani has recently been investigated in the Indian state of Bihar, after the sensitivity and specificity of the test had been determined. When used to screen sera from 108 parasitologically confirmed cases of visceral leishmaniasis, 50 patients with active, non-leishmanial infection, and 641 healthy controls living close to, or distant from, an endemic area, the test was found to be 91.7% sensitive and 100% specific if a titre of 1:800 was used as the threshold for seropositivity. During a longitudinal clinical study in a rural, VL-endemic area of the Indian state of Bihar, the test was used, with 1:800 set as the threshold titre, to determine the baseline prevalence of infection with L. donovani among villagers who, though showing no symptoms of VL, had recently been febrile for at least 2 weeks. The 234 subjects of this study were either VL-case contacts [i.e. members of households in which there were active or cured VL cases (N=78)] or the members of control households with no cases or history of the disease (N=156). The results of DAT at the start of the study indicated that 49 (20.9%) of the subjects--29 (37.2%) of the VL-case contacts and 20 (12.8%) of the other subjects--were seropositive and therefore probably had subclinical infections with L. donovani. During the subsequent 9 months of follow-up, however, only eight of the subjects found seropositive at the start of the study--seven (24.1%) of the seropositive case contacts but only one (5.0%) of the other seropositives--developed symptomatic VL, all by month 6 of the follow-up. Compared with their neighbours, therefore, individuals who shared households with active or cured cases of VL appeared at greater risk not only of L. donovani infection (indicating focal transmission) but also of developing symptomatic disease once infected. Curiously, among the seropositive case contacts, those from the households that harboured active cases of VL at the baseline survey were less likely to develop symptomatic VL during the 9 months of follow-up than those from households that harboured only cured cases (18.8% v. 30.8%). The wide-spread use of DAT could allow the detection and early treatment of latent L. donovani infections and so contribute to the elimination of VL, at least as a public-health problem, from India."}
{"id": "16226116", "title": "Detection of Leishmania infantum kinetoplast DNA in laryngeal tissue from an immunocompetent patient.", "content": "Detection of Leishmania infantum kinetoplast DNA in laryngeal tissue from an immunocompetent patient. Mucosal leishmaniasis of the upper respiratory tract is usually associated with the visceral form or is found in immunosuppressed individuals. This report presents a case of isolated mucosal leishmaniasis in an immunocompetent patient, whose diagnosis mainly rested on histology and positive polymerase chain reaction result for Leishmania donovani in the laryngeal tissue. A 59-year-old man, who never lived outside Italy, showed a subglottic mucosal polypoid-like lesion. The typical morphological picture and positive polymerase chain reaction result for L donovani by DNA extracted from laryngeal biopsy specimens allowed the diagnosis of mucosal leishmaniasis. Specific amphotericin B therapy was started, resulting in clinical and endoscopic improvement. Increased knowledge about the histological and molecular tissue analysis of Leishmania enhances the diagnostic testing for mucosal leishmaniasis, as primary mucosal leishmaniasis may occur in both immunosuppresed and immunocompetent patients who travel to or reside in areas endemic for Leishmania."}
{"id": "16210482", "title": "Potential of direct agglutination test based on promastigote and amastigote antigens for serodiagnosis of post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis.", "content": "Potential of direct agglutination test based on promastigote and amastigote antigens for serodiagnosis of post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis. Post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) is a dermal complication, a sequel to kala-azar. Diagnosis of PKDL presents a challenge due to the low parasite burden in the lesions. The direct agglutination test (DAT) based on promastigote and amastigote antigens of Leishmania donovani of indigenous isolates was developed to diagnose PKDL, and the results were compared with those of the rk39 strip test. The sensitivities of DAT for antileishmanial antibody detection, based on promastigote and amastigote antigens at a cutoff titer of 1:800 were 98.5% and 100%, respectively, with corresponding specificities of 96.5% and 100%. DAT could correctly detect 100% polymorphic cases and 95.4% macular PKDL cases. In comparison, the rk39 strip test was able to correctly diagnose 95.6% of polymorphic and 86.0% macular PKDL cases. DAT based on axenic amastigote antigen provided 100% sensitivity and specificity, making it particularly useful for macular PKDL cases, which are often missed by the rk39 strip test. Thus, DAT provides a simple, reliable, and inexpensive test for PKDL diagnosis with potential applicability in field conditions."}
{"id": "16210478", "title": "Recombinant leishmania antigens for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Recombinant leishmania antigens for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Serological tests with crude or recombinant Leishmania antigens are important tools for the diagnosis of leishmania infection. However, these tests are not markers of active visceral leishmaniasis (VL), since antibodies to these markers are often observed in individuals with subclinical L. chagasi infection and they do not fall shortly after therapy. In this study, levels of immunoglobulin G (IgG) against three recombinant Leishmania antigens (rH2A, KMP11, and the \"Q\" protein) were evaluated in sera from individuals with subclinical L. chagasi infection and in patients with VL pre- and posttherapy. The sensitivity of the serological test for diagnosis of VL was 100% with all three antigens. The titers of IgG fell significantly after therapy. While most of the individuals with subclinical L. chagasi infection had antibodies to rH2A and the \"Q\" protein, only 1 out of 15 individuals had antibodies to KMP11. These data indicate that KMP11 may be used to discriminate L. chagasi infection from active VL and may serve as a marker of response to therapy."}
{"id": "16209934", "title": "Serological screening for Leishmania infantum in asymptomatic blood donors living in an endemic area (Sicily, Italy).", "content": "Serological screening for Leishmania infantum in asymptomatic blood donors living in an endemic area (Sicily, Italy). The purpose of our study was to assess whether Leishmania infantum parasitemia occurs in asymptomatic Leishmania-seropositive subjects. Samples from 500 blood donors were tested using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Anti-Leishmania antibodies were not found in any sample. Our findings suggest that the risk of L. infantum transmission by blood transfusion in Sicily is very low."}
{"id": "16177384", "title": "Identification of new antigens in visceral leishmaniasis by expression cloning and immunoblotting with sera of kala-azar patients from Bihar, India.", "content": "Identification of new antigens in visceral leishmaniasis by expression cloning and immunoblotting with sera of kala-azar patients from Bihar, India. Sera of kala-azar patients from Bihar, India, were used to identify Leishmania donovani antigens encoded by a phage expression library. Ten antigens were identified, five of which have not been described as leishmania antigens before. The antigens specifically react with sera of leishmania-infected patients but not of toxoplasma- or plasmodium-infected patients."}
{"id": "16103587", "title": "Detection of leishmanial antigen in the urine of patients with visceral leishmaniasis by a latex agglutination test.", "content": "Detection of leishmanial antigen in the urine of patients with visceral leishmaniasis by a latex agglutination test. Diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is usually done by demonstration of parasites in tissue smears. However, obtaining these smears may be risky, painful, and difficult. Antibody-based diagnostics are limited by their inability to predict active disease. In this study, a new latex agglutination test (KAtex), which detects parasite antigen in freshly voided and boiled urine, was evaluated in patients with VL before the start (n = 382) and at the end of treatment (n = 273); 185 healthy controls from leishmaniasis-endemic region were also studied. The KAtex result was positive in 87% (95% confidence interval [CI] = 83.3-90.3). However, at the end of treatment only 3% (95% CI = 1.6-6.2) patients were positive. The specificity of the test was 99% and 2 of 185 healthy controls tested positive. Positive and negative predictive values were 0.994 and 0.788, respectively. KAtex is a promising test, and in a simplified and improved format it could be applied meaningfully in the diagnosis of VL."}
{"id": "16048642", "title": "Host humoral immune response to Leishmania lipid-binding protein.", "content": "Host humoral immune response to Leishmania lipid-binding protein. SUMMARY We report on the use of Leishmania donovani lipid-binding proteins (LBPs) as antigens capable of being recognized by serum from immunocompetent patients from southern Spain suffering from visceral leishmaniasis and from Peruvian patients with localized cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania braziliensis. The absorbance found by immunoenzymatic techniques gave significantly different results for the serum samples from patients with and without leishmaniasis. Specificity by ELISA testing was 93.2% and sensibility 100%. Dot blots from human patient serum samples or naturally infected dogs from Spain gave similarly significant results. All the human serum samples from individuals with visceral leishmaniasis and the Leishmania-positive canine samples recognized two bands, with molecular weights of 8 and 57 kDa. The serum from individuals with cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by L. braziliensis recognized an additional band of 16 kDa. We discuss the role of Leishmania FABP and compare the immunological reactions found with serum samples from other protozoan infections such as toxoplasma and Chagas as well as bacterial infections such as tuberculosis and syphilis."}
{"id": "15995268", "title": "Challenges in the management of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Challenges in the management of visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "15986599", "title": "Influence of phospholipid composition on the adjuvanticity and protective efficacy of liposome-encapsulated Leishmania donovani antigens.", "content": "Influence of phospholipid composition on the adjuvanticity and protective efficacy of liposome-encapsulated Leishmania donovani antigens. In this study, we evaluate the effect of phospholipid on the adjuvanicity and protective efficacy of liposome vaccine carriers against visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in a hamster model. Liposomes prepared with distearyol derivative of L-alpha-phosphatidyl choline (DSPC) having liquid crystalline transition temperature (Tc) 54 C were as efficient as dipalmitoyl (DPPC) (Tc 41 C) and dimyristoyl (DMPC) (Tc 23 C) derivatives in their ability to entrap Leishmania donovani membrane antigens (LAg) and to potentiate strong antigen-specific antibody responses. However, whereas LAg in DPPC and DMPC liposomes stimulated inconsistent delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) responses, strong DTH was observed with LAg in DSPC liposomes. The heightened adjuvant activity of DSPC liposomes corresponded with 95% protection, with almost no protectivity with LAg in DPPC and DMPC liposomes, 4 mo after challenge with L. donovani. These data demonstrate the superiority of DSPC liposomes for formulation of L. donovani vaccine. In addition, they demonstrate a correlation of humoral and cell-mediated immunity with protection against VL in hamsters."}
{"id": "15885803", "title": "Antibodies against a Leishmania infantum peroxiredoxin as a possible marker for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis and for monitoring the efficacy of treatment.", "content": "Antibodies against a Leishmania infantum peroxiredoxin as a possible marker for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis and for monitoring the efficacy of treatment. Diagnosis of leishmaniasis is frequently based on serological methods, such as direct agglutination, immunofluorescence tests and ELISA assays with Leishmania total extracts, as antigen, however due to highly inconclusive results, more reliable tests are needed. In the present study, the prevalence of antibodies to a number of recombinant proteins (LmSIR2, LmS3a, LimTXNPx, LicTXNPx and LiTXN1) highly conserved among Leishmania species, were evaluated by ELISA in Leishmania infantum infected children from an endemic area of Portugal. We found that sera from children patients had antibodies against the different recombinant proteins, LicTXNPx presented the highest immuno-reactivity compared to the other and the most often recognized in the case of acute visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Moreover, in children treated with meglumine antimoniate or amphotericin B, antibodies against some of the recombinant proteins declined, whereas conventional serology using crude extracts showed little or no difference between the pre- and post-treatment values. The highest reduction was observed in the case of antibodies against the LicTXNPx protein. These results suggest that the antibodies against LicTXNPx might be a useful constituent of a defined serological test for the diagnosis and the monitoring of the therapeutic response in VL. The monitoring and follow-up in a large-scale field trials of such marker in areas where leishmaniasis is endemic will lend support to this."}
{"id": "15879027", "title": "Development of recombinant chimeric antigen expressing immunodominant B epitopes of Leishmania infantum for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Development of recombinant chimeric antigen expressing immunodominant B epitopes of Leishmania infantum for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Wild canids and domestic dogs are the main reservoir of zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis (VL) caused by Leishmania infantum (syn.: Leishmania chagasi). Serological diagnosis of VL is therefore important in both human and dog leishmaniasis from a clinical and epidemiological point of view. Routine diagnosis of VL is traditionally carried out by immunofluorescent antibody test (IFAT), which is laborious and difficult to standardize and to interpret. In the last decade, however, several specific antigens of Leishmania infantum have been characterized, allowing the development of a recombinant-based immunoassay. Among them, the whole open reading frame encoding K9 antigen, the gene fragment encoding the repetitive sequence of K26, and the 3'-terminal gene fragment of the kinesin-related protein (K39sub) were previously evaluated as diagnostic markers for canine leishmaniasis and proved to be independent in their antibody reactivity. Since sensitivity of serological test is usually higher in multiple-epitope format, in this study the relevant epitopes of K9, K26, and K39 antigens were joined by PCR strategy to produce the chimeric recombinant protein. The resulting mosaic antigen was found highly expressed in Escherichia coli and efficiently purified by affinity chromatography. Antigenic properties of this recombinant antigen were evaluated by indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using a panel of human and dog sera previously characterized by parasitological and/or serological techniques. Chimeric ELISA showed 99% specificity in both human (n = 180) and canine (n = 343) control groups, while sensitivity was higher in canine VL (96%, n = 213) than in human VL (82%, n = 185). Accordingly, concordance between IFAT and canine chimeric ELISA (k = 0.95, 95% confidence interval = 0.93 to 0.98) was higher than between IFAT and human chimeric ELISA (k = 0.81, 95% confidence interval = 0.76 to 0.87). Results suggest the potential use of this new antigen for routine serodiagnosis of VL in both human and canine hosts."}
{"id": "15860091", "title": "The burden of the Leishmania chagasi/infantum infection in a closed rural focus of visceral leishmaniasis in Lara state, west-central Venezuela.", "content": "The burden of the Leishmania chagasi/infantum infection in a closed rural focus of visceral leishmaniasis in Lara state, west-central Venezuela. A prospective study was conducted in El Brazilar, Curarigua, Lara State, Venezuela, a small rural focus of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) to investigate the burden and the evolution of Leishmania infection in the human and canine population. The incidence of the disease from February 1998 to February 2002 was recorded and two cross-sectional surveys using the leishmanin skin test (LST) and immunofluorescent antibody test (IFAT) were carried out. The dipstick test with recombinant r-K39 antigen was also applied in 2002. The incidence of the disease per year among the population (n=118) during the period of study was 0.004. The rate of new infections per year was 0.07 [95% confidence interval (95% CI): 0.15-1.09]. The overall prevalence of infection measured by LST was not significantly higher in 2002 (43.2%) than in 1998 (28.3%), but it was with IFAT [16.3%vs. 4.6%; odds ratio (OR): 4.01; 95% CI: 1.03-22.78; P=0.022] which would indicate an increasing transmission. The dipstick test only detected infection in children up to 10 years (19.4%). Prevalence in dogs was not significantly different in 2002 (57%) vs. 1998 (33%). The parasite was isolated from dogs and identified by a polymerase chain reaction based on telomeric sequences as Leishmania chagasi/infantum."}
{"id": "15845279", "title": "Epidemiological aspects of canine visceral leishmaniosis in the Islamic Republic of Iran.", "content": "Epidemiological aspects of canine visceral leishmaniosis in the Islamic Republic of Iran. An epidemiological study to examine the sero-prevalence of zoonotic visceral leishmaniosis (ZVL) among domestic and wild canines in endemic foci of Iran was carried out during 1999-2003 to assess the distribution of the disease and the possible association between infection in dogs, wild canines and people. Anti-leishmanial antibodies were detected by the direct agglutination test (DAT). Parasitological study was performed for all captured wild canines and were detected in some of the seropositive dogs with specific clinical signs (n=107). Serum samples (n=1568) were collected from domestic dogs in villages that are known endemic foci of human visceral leishmaniosis (HVL). Wild canine sera were collected from jackals (Canis aureus, n=10), foxes (Vulpes vulpes, n=10) and wolves (Canis lupus, n=10). Of the 1568 serum sampled collected from domestic dogs, 222 (14.2%) were positive by DAT (1:320 and above). No statistically significant difference was found between male (15.2%) and female (11.8%) sero-prevalence (P=0.083). Dogs of 8 years and above showed the highest sero-prevalence (40.6%). Only 23.9% of the seropositive domestic dogs had clinical signs. Parasitology and serology tests that were performed in 30 wild canines showed 10% these animals were infected by Leishmania infantum. Ten out of 11 Leishmania spp. isolated from the dogs and wild canines were identified as L. infantum and one other as L. tropica by molecular and biochemical techniques. For the first time in Iran, L. infantum and L. tropica were isolated from viscera of both a wolf and a domestic dog."}
{"id": "15833054", "title": "Applications of molecular methods for Leishmania control.", "content": "Applications of molecular methods for Leishmania control. This article reviews the recent advances made in the field of human leishmaniasis. Special emphasis is placed upon the application of various molecular tools for accurate and rapid diagnosis, understanding the mechanisms of drug resistance and identification of vaccine candidates. The focus will be on the major role played by recombinant antigens in the immunoserodiagnosis and progress of the Leishmania genome project, which has enabled researchers to design better PCR primers and molecular probes for microarrays. A special interest is placed on the recombinant antigen (rK39) cloned from the Leishmania chagasi kinesin gene and a very recently cloned recombinant antigen (KE16) from the Old World Leishmania donovani species with high sensitivity and specificity. Advances made in the specific PCR primer designed to diagnose and differentiate various species and strains of Leishmania causing visceral and post-kala-azar-dermal leishmaniasis have been covered. Molecular methods (e.g., DNA and protein microarrays) applied to understanding the pathobiology of the parasite, mechanism of host invasion, drug interaction and drug resistance to develop effective therapeutic molecules, gene expression profiling studies that have opened doors to understand many host-parasite relations, effective therapy and vaccine candidates are extensively covered in this review."}
{"id": "15817953", "title": "Diagnosis & management of leishmania/HIV co-infection.", "content": "Diagnosis & management of leishmania/HIV co-infection. Leishmaniasis, a globally prevalent parasitic disease occurs in three forms viz., visceral, cutaneous and mucocutaneous, transmitted by the bite of infected female Phlebotomus sandflies. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) has 100 per cent fatality rate, if left untreated. India has the largest burden of this disease. HIV infection is also increasing worldwide and several reports indicate rising trend of VL/ HIV co-infection, modifying the traditional anthroponotic pattern of VL transmission. Both VL and HIV tend to lower the cell mediated immunity (CMI) resulting in poor drug response and opportunistic infections involving gastrointestinal, cutaneous, respiratory tract and central nervous system (CNS) may occur. Diagnosis of such co-infected cases is quite difficult. However, newer tests like nested PCR, rk39 immunochromatographic test etc., can be of help. Response to different antileishmanial drugs like sodium antimony gluconate (SAG), amphotericin B is far from satisfactory. However, a new oral drug miltefosine has been found to be promising. Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) need to be given for management of HIV infection along with treatment of other opportunistic infections."}
{"id": "15784182", "title": "Specific human antibodies do not inhibit Trypanosoma cruzi oligopeptidase B and cathepsin B, and immunoglobulin G enhances the activity of trypomastigote-secreted oligopeptidase B.", "content": "Specific human antibodies do not inhibit Trypanosoma cruzi oligopeptidase B and cathepsin B, and immunoglobulin G enhances the activity of trypomastigote-secreted oligopeptidase B. Trypanosoma cruzi expresses oligopeptidase B and cathepsin B that have important functions in the interaction with mammalian host cells. In this study, we demonstrated that sera from both chagasic rabbits and humans have specific antibodies to highly purified native oligopeptidase B and cathepsin B. Levels of antibodies to cathepsin B were higher than those observed to oligopeptidase B by absorbance values recorded upon ELISA. We next showed that 90% and 30% of sera from individuals with mucocutaneous leishmaniasis have antibodies that recognize oligopeptidase B and cathepsin B as antigens, respectively. In addition, 55% and 40% of sera from kala-azar patients have antibodies to oligopeptidase B and cathepsin B, respectively. Sera from malaria patients did not recognize the proteases as antigens. Despite high levels of specific antibodies, sera from T. cruzi-infected patients did not inhibit the activities of either oligopeptidase B or cathepsin B. Furthermore, sera or IgG purified from either infected or non-infected individuals enhanced the enzymatic activity of the secreted oligopeptidase B. Oligopeptidase B secreted by trypomastigotes and cathepsin B released upon parasite lysis retain their enzymatic activities and may be associated with Chagas' disease pathogenesis by hydrolyzing host proteins and inducing host immune responses."}
{"id": "15750095", "title": "Leishmania promastigote membrane antigen-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and immunoblotting for differential diagnosis of Indian post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis.", "content": "Leishmania promastigote membrane antigen-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and immunoblotting for differential diagnosis of Indian post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis. Diagnosis of post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL), caused by Leishmania donovani, is difficult, as the dermal lesions are of several types and resemble those caused by other skin diseases, especially leprosy. Since the disease generally appears very late after the clinical cure of kala-azar in India, it is also difficult to correlate PKDL with a previous exposure to L. donovani. Very few attempts have been made so far to diagnose PKDL serologically, and the diagnostic methods vary in their sensitivities and specificities. Diagnosis of PKDL through sophisticated PCR methods, although highly sensitive, has limited practical use. We have developed a serodiagnostic method using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to detect specific immunoglobulin (Ig) isotypes and IgG subclass antibodies in the sera of Indian PKDL patients. Our assay, which uses L. donovani promastigote membrane antigens, was 100% sensitive for the detection of IgG and 96.7% specific for the detection of IgG and IgG1. Optical density values for individual patients, however, demonstrated wide variations. Western blot analysis based on IgG reactivity could differentiate patients with PKDL from control subjects, which included patients with leprosy, patients from areas where kala-azar is endemic, and healthy subjects, by the detection of polypeptides of 67, 72, and 120 kDa. The recognition patterns of the majority of serum samples from patients with PKDL were also distinct from those of the serum samples from patients with visceral leishmaniasis (VL), at least for a 31-kDa polypeptide. To further differentiate patients with PKDL from those with active and cured VL, we analyzed the specific titers of the Ig isotypes and IgG subclasses. High levels of IgG, IgG1, IgG2, and IgG3 antibodies significantly differentiated patients with PKDL from patients cured of VL. The absence of antileishmanial IgE and IgG4 in patients with PKDL differentiated these patients from those with active VL. These results imply intrinsic differences in the antibodies generated in the sera from patients with PKDL and VL."}
{"id": "15741546", "title": "A recombinant cysteine proteinase from Leishmania (Leishmania) chagasi suitable for serodiagnosis of American visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "A recombinant cysteine proteinase from Leishmania (Leishmania) chagasi suitable for serodiagnosis of American visceral leishmaniasis. A recombinant protein, rLdccys1, which was produced by expression of the gene encoding a 30 kDa cysteine proteinase from Leishmania (Leishmania) chagasi, was used for detection of antibodies in sera from patients with active visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Analysis of the predicted amino acid sequence of rLdccys1 showed that it contains all the characteristics of a cysteine proteinase. The ability of the protein to react with sera from humans with VL was also shown by Western blotting. The sensitivity for detection of specific antibodies to L. (L.) chagasi bodies using rLdccys1, L. (L.) chagasi promastigote lysates, and amastigote lysates was 80%, 98%, and 99%, respectively. No cross-reactivity between rLdccys1 and Chagas disease was observed, and there was little positive reactivity with sera from patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis and tuberculosis, compared with promastigote and amastigote extracts. Our findings indicate that rLdccys1 from L. (L.) chagasi constitutes a potential tool for the diagnosis of American VL."}
{"id": "15716053", "title": "Serological and entomological survey in a zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis focus of North Central Anatolia, Turkey: Corum province.", "content": "Serological and entomological survey in a zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis focus of North Central Anatolia, Turkey: Corum province. In the present study, we aimed to carry out an epidemiological and entomological survey on a visceral leishmaniasis (VL) focus located on the northern central part of Anatolia, Turkey. Five villages of Corum province, where five confirmed cases of human visceral leishmaniasis (HVL) (one patient/village) were reported between June 1998 and August 2001 were included in the study. A total of 625 children and 131 dogs were sampled and the physical examination was carried out by authorized physicians and veterinarians. An indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFAT) was performed by standard procedures for human and dog sera, while the direct agglutination test (DAT) was only performed for dog sera. Sand fly collection was performed in three villages by CDC miniature light traps. Hepatosplenomegaly and hepatomegaly were detected in two and eight children, respectively. The seropositivity rate among children was found to be 0.16% (1/625) in the region. The seroprevalence of canine infection in these five villages ranged between 0.0% and 28.26%. In two villages, named Ahlatcik and Asagifindikli, no seropositive dogs were found. A total of 1218 sand flies were collected throughout the study. Six species of Phlebotomus were identified: P. transcaucasicus, P. neglectus, P. halepensis, P. tobbi, P. papatasi, and P. jacusieli. P. transcaucasicus was found to be the predominant species in Cevizli (47.44%; 343/723) and Ucoluk (79.95%; 351/439) villages, while P. tobbi was abundant in Kucukerikli (42.85%; 24/56)."}
{"id": "15713447", "title": "Leishmania donovani: identification of novel vaccine candidates using human reactive sera and cell lines.", "content": "Leishmania donovani: identification of novel vaccine candidates using human reactive sera and cell lines. Leishmaniasis is a complex of diseases caused by protozoan parasites belonging to the genus Leishmania. The development of specific resistance against re-infection after cure suggests that a vaccine approach is feasible. Various studies in humans and experimental animals strongly suggest that Th1 type of cell-mediated immune response is important for protection against the disease. A defined antigen that could elicit a specific T-cell-mediated immune response in the host would be an ideal candidate for the vaccine against this parasite. In order to select a candidate antigen, we established a screening system to identify the recombinant clone, expressing antigen having T-cell epitopes from a cDNA library. We screened the library using an established Leishmania specific cell line (LSCL) from a naive healthy human subject. The cell line with predominantly CD4+ cells behaved in a Leishmania specific manner. Fifty-two immuno-reactive clones were screened against the LSCL in vitro and we identified three cDNA clones expressing recombinant antigens that could induce proliferation of these cells to produce INFgamma. The protective efficacy of one of these recombinant proteins was investigated in a hamster model of experimental visceral leishmaniasis and showed protection against a virulent challenge. The identified antigens might be potential candidates for vaccine against Leishmania."}
{"id": "15550258", "title": "A new PCR-ELISA for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in blood of HIV-negative subjects.", "content": "A new PCR-ELISA for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in blood of HIV-negative subjects. The PCR-ELISA represents a promising advance for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in blood samples. However, the method has been validated mostly with HIV-positive patients who are known to have high levels of parasitaemia. We developed a new PCR-ELISA assay for specific detection of Leishmania in patients' blood and validated it in Nepalese subjects with clinically suspected VL, almost all of whom were HIV-negative. For blood samples, PCR-ELISA was more sensitive (83.9%) than conventional PCR (73.2%), and demonstrated 100% and 87.2% specificity when using healthy controls who had never travelled to a VL-endemic area and controls from a VL-endemic area as references, respectively. We have demonstrated the ability of PCR-ELISA to detect parasites in blood of HIV-negative patients. The method could be used for epidemiological as well as clinical purposes, as it reduces the need for traumatic bone marrow sampling and risky spleen aspiration."}
{"id": "15801067", "title": "Diagnostic performance of anti-beta2 glycoprotein I and anticardiolipin assays for clinical manifestations of the antiphospholipid syndrome.", "content": "Diagnostic performance of anti-beta2 glycoprotein I and anticardiolipin assays for clinical manifestations of the antiphospholipid syndrome. The objective of the present study was to analyse the performance of the tests for detection of anti-beta2 glycoprotein I (beta2 GP I) and anticardiolipin (aCL) antibodies for identification of clinical manifestations of the antiphospholipid syndrome (APS). Patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) as well as carriers of infectious diseases such as Kala-azar, syphilis and leptospirosis were studied. Particular interest was given to the presence of clinical complications related to APS. Anticardiolipin and anti-beta2 GP I antibodies were searched using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assay. Clinical manifestations of APS were observed in 34 of the 152 patients (22.3%) with SLE and no patient with infectious disease had such manifestations. Antibodies to cardiolipin in moderate or high levels and anti-beta2 GP I were detected in 55 of 152 (36.1%) and 36 of 152 (23.6%) patients with SLE, respectively, and in 2 of 30 (6.6%) and 16 of 30 (53.3%) patients with Kala-azar, in 9 of 39 (23%) and 6 of 34 (17.6%) patients with leptospirosis, and 14 of 74 (18.9%) and 8 of 70 (11.4%) cases of syphilis, respectively. The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), negative predictive value (NPV) and likelihood ratio (LR) of the anti-beta2 GP I test for the identification of the clinical manifestation of APS were, respectively, 29% [95% confidence interval (CI) = 24%-34%], 78% (95% CI = 73-83%), 15% (95% CI = 11-19%), 89% (95% CI = 85-93%) and 1.38. Regarding the aCL assay, the figure was 29% (95% CI = 24-34%), 76% (95% CI = 71-81%), 14% (95% CI = 10-18%), 89% (95% CI = 86-92%) and 1.26. As the validity and performance of the anti-beta2 GP I assay were similar to the aCL in demonstrating the presence of clinical phenomena associated with APS and due to the difficulties in performing as well as the lack of standardisation of the anti-beta2 GP I test, we suggest that the test for aCL should continue to be the first one performed when the presence of APS is suspected."}
{"id": "15761608", "title": "Subclinical form of the American visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Subclinical form of the American visceral leishmaniasis. The subclinical form of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) shows nonspecific clinical manifestations, with difficulties being frequently met in its clinical characterization and diagnostic confirmation. Thus, the objective of the present study was to define the clinical-laboratory profile of this clinical form. A cohort study was conducted in the state of Maranh\u00e3o, Brazil, from January/1998 to December/2000, with monthly follow-up of 784 children aged 0-5 years. Based on the clinical-laboratory parameters reported in the literature, four categories were established, with the children being classified (according to their clinical-evolutive behavior) as asymptomatic (N = 144), as having the subclinical form (N = 33) or the acute form (N = 12) or as subjects \"without VL\" (N = 595). Multiple discriminant analysis demonstrated that the combination of fever, hepatomegaly, hyperglobulinemia, and increased blood sedimentation rate (BSR) can predict the subclinical form of VL as long as it is not associated with splenomegaly or leukopenia. Subjects with the subclinical form did not show prolonged or intermittent evolution or progression to the acute form of VL. Subclinical cases have a profile differing from the remaining clinical forms of VL, being best characterized by the combination of fever, hepatomegaly, hyperglobulinemia, and increased BSR."}
{"id": "15715249", "title": "Diagnostic value of rK39 dipstick in zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis in Turkey.", "content": "Diagnostic value of rK39 dipstick in zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis in Turkey. K39 is a repetitive immunodominant epitope in a kinesin-related protein expressed predominantly in the amastigotes of visceral Leishmania spp. Enzyme immunoassays of patient's sera with recombinant K39 (rK39) proved to be highly specific and sensitive for diagnosis of active visceral leishmaniasis (VL, kala-azar). The same assays in dipstick format were also found effective for diagnosis of both human VL (HVL) and canine VL (CanVL) in most endemic areas of these diseases. Fifty-eight human patients and 22 dogs, clinically suspected of kala-azar, were screened with rK39 dipstick in comparison with the conventional methods of diagnosis, i.e., microscopic examinations of bone marrow and lymph node aspirates and immunofluorescent antibody tests (IFAT), respectively. Sixteen patients and 12 dogs were found to be rK39 dipstick positive. The results were corroborated with those of parasitological examinations, except 1, rK39-positive but smear-negative, case in each group. IFAT of the 2 discordant cases gave positive results. The rK39 dipstick is thus reliable for diagnosis of both HVL and canVL cases in Turkey."}
{"id": "15543418", "title": "Antileishmanial IgG and IgE antibodies recognize predominantly carbohydrate epitopes of glycosylated antigens in visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Antileishmanial IgG and IgE antibodies recognize predominantly carbohydrate epitopes of glycosylated antigens in visceral leishmaniasis. The specificity of human antileishmanial IgG and IgE antibodies to glycosylated antigens of Leishmania chagasi was evaluated. An ELISA was performed with soluble leishmanial antigen (SLA) and a panel of 95 sera including samples from patients with subclinical infection (SC) and visceral leishmaniasis (VL), subjects cured of visceral leishmaniasis (CVL), and from healthy individuals from endemic areas (HIEA). Antileishmanial IgG were verified for 18 (40%) of 45 SC subjects (mean absorbance of 0.49 +/- 0.17). All nine sera from VL patients had such antibody (0.99 +/- 0.21), while 11 (65%) of 17 CVL individuals were seropositive (0.46 +/- 0.05). Only three (12%) of 24 HIEA controls reacted in IgG-ELISA. Antileishmanial IgE was detected in 26 (58%) of 45 SC patients (0.35 +/- 0.14), and in all VL patients (0.65 +/- 0.29). These antibodies were also detected in 13(76%) of 17 CVL subjects (0.42 +/- 0.14) while all HIEA controls were seronegative. There was no correlation between antileishmanial IgG and IgE antibody absorbances. Mild periodate oxidation at acid pH of SLA carbohydrates drastically diminished its antigenicity in both IgG and IgE-ELISA, affecting mainly the antigens of 125, 102, 94, and 63 kDa as demonstrated by western immunoblotting."}
{"id": "15517072", "title": "Leishmania infantum heat shock protein 83 for the serodiagnosis of tegumentary leishmaniasis.", "content": "Leishmania infantum heat shock protein 83 for the serodiagnosis of tegumentary leishmaniasis. The serologic assay is an important tool in the diagnosis of leishmaniasis. One of the most commonly used tests is enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Since total Leishmania promastigotes are used as antigen in the routine assay, false-positive reactions are frequent due to cross-reaction with sera from other diseases, mainly Chagas' disease. Therefore, an antigen that determines less cross-reactivity has been pursued for the serodiagnosis of leishmaniasis. In the present study we analyzed the use of recombinant Leishmania infantum heat shock protein (Hsp) 83 in ELISA for the serodiagnosis of cutaneous (N = 12) and mucocutaneous leishmaniasis (N = 14) and we observed the presence of anti-L. infantum Hsp 83 antibodies in all samples as well as anti-Leishmania total antigen antibodies. When cross-reactivity was tested, chronic Chagas' disease patients (N = 10) did not show any reactivity. Therefore, we consider this L. infantum Hsp 83 to be a good antigen for routine use for serodiagnosis of tegumentary leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "15501518", "title": "Efficacy of human beta-casein fragment (54-59) and its synthetic analogue compound 89/215 against Leishmania donovani in hamsters.", "content": "Efficacy of human beta-casein fragment (54-59) and its synthetic analogue compound 89/215 against Leishmania donovani in hamsters. The characteristic feature of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is the profound impairment of immune system of the infected host, which contributes significantly to the partial success of antileishmanial chemotherapy. Since in VL, cure is the combinatorial effect of drug and immune status of the host, the rationale approach towards antileishmanial chemotherapy would be to potentiate the immune functioning of the host to extract desired results. Towards this direction several rationally designed analogues of human beta-casein fragment (54-59) were evaluated for their ability to stimulate the non-specific resistance in hamsters against Leishmania donovani infection. By virtue of being derived from the food protein casein derivatives may be devoid of unwanted side effects associated with the substances of microbial origin, e.g. muramyl dipeptide (MDP). Out of this one peptide Val-Glu-Gly-Ile-Pro-Tyr (compound 89/215) had been reported to have such activity. In this communication, the prophylactic and therapeutic efficacy of the peptide along with its natural sequence has been evaluated in detail against experimental VL in hamsters. Their use as an adjunct to chemotherapy was also explored. Human beta-casein fragment, compound 89/215 and MDP were tested in vivo at various dose levels wherein compound 89/215 showed superiority over MDP at 3 mg/kg x 2 given intraperitoneally (i.p.). Compound 89/215 sensitized peritoneal macrophages acquired considerable resistance and only 24% of the cells were found infected in comparison to control peritoneal macrophages where 76.4% of the cells were found infected. Similarly, the efficacy of sodium antimony gluconate (SAG) in hamsters pretreated with compound 89/215 enhanced significantly (P < 0.001). This peptide also exhibited considerably good therapeutic efficacy when evaluated either alone or in combination with SAG in established infection of L. donovani."}
{"id": "15482407", "title": "Evaluation of the direct agglutination test based on freeze-dried Leishmania donovani promastigotes for the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Sudanese patients.", "content": "Evaluation of the direct agglutination test based on freeze-dried Leishmania donovani promastigotes for the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Sudanese patients. The direct agglutination test (DAT) based on freeze-dried (FD) Leishmania donovani antigen was evaluated for the serodiagnosis of kala-azar in a rural setting in eastern Sudan. The performance of the FD-DAT was compared with standard liquid antigen (LQ) by testing serum samples and blood samples collected on filter paper of microscopically and PCR-confirmed VL patients, apparently healthy endemic controls and patients with other relevant infectious diseases for the region. In the present study, the FD-DAT had a sensitivity of 96.8% and a specificity of 96.2%. The LQ-DAT had a sensitivity of 91.0% and a specificity of 96.6%. A high degree of agreement (97.3%; r-value 0.94) was observed between the FD-DAT and the LQ-DAT, as well as between the FD-DAT performed on serum samples and corresponding blood samples collected on filter paper (agreement 97.8%; r-value 0.79). The FD-DAT is very suitable as diagnostic test for kala-azar in remote rural conditions as it is sensitive, specific and stable. The antigen is affordable, reproducible and available, which contributes to the sustainability of the DAT as a diagnostic test for VL."}
{"id": "15454691", "title": "Identification of 9-O-acetylated sialoglycans on peripheral blood mononuclear cells in Indian Visceral Leishmaniasis.", "content": "Identification of 9-O-acetylated sialoglycans on peripheral blood mononuclear cells in Indian Visceral Leishmaniasis. Although the existence of O -acetylated sialic acids is well known, it is only in recent years that steady refinement of analytical techniques have enabled detailed mapping of their structural diversity [1]. Fluorimetric analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of patients with Visceral Leishmaniasis (VL) showed six fold increase in the percentage of surface 9-O-acetylated sialoglycoconjugates (9-O-AcSGs) as compared to normal human donors. Using Achatinin-H, a 9-O-acetyl sialic acid- binding lectin, an enhanced presence of 9-O-AcSGs in an alpha2 --> 6 linkage was demonstrated by flow cytometry; abolition of its binding by pretreatment with a recombinant 9-O-acetylesterase corroborated the presence of this glycotope. Western blotting of PBMC from VL patients indicated the presence of five O-acetylated sialoglycans corresponding to 144, 65, 56, 36 and 19 kDa as compared to 144 and 36 kDa in normal individuals. Taken together our data indicates that during active disease, there is an overexpression of 9AcSGs on the surface of PBMC of VL patients, thus opening up new research avenues wherein the expression of this biomarker could be exploited to monitor the clinical status of VL patients."}
{"id": "15380274", "title": "Purification, characterization of O-acetylated sialoglycoconjugates-specific IgM, and development of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for diagnosis and follow-up of indian visceral leishmaniasis patients.", "content": "Purification, characterization of O-acetylated sialoglycoconjugates-specific IgM, and development of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for diagnosis and follow-up of indian visceral leishmaniasis patients. The surface expression of 9-O-acetylated sialic acid (9-OAcSA) is elevated on hematopoietic cells and erythrocytes of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) patients. In this study, we show that VL patients contain elevated levels of IgM antibodies directed against 9-O-acetylated sialoglycoconjugates (9-OAcSG). These antibodies were affinity purified with bovine submaxillary protein as the affinity matrix containing the terminal epitope, 9-OAcSAalpha2-6GalNAc. They also bound to 9-OAcSGs on hematopoietic cells of patients with VL and to epitopes in the cytosol of Leishmania donovani promastigotes. A novel enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was employed that showed 4-fold higher anti-OAcSG titers in VL patients (n=38), mean +/- S.E.M. being 0.83 +/- 0.09 vs. 0.21 +/- 0.04 detected in normal donors (n=20) and patients with cross-reactive diseases such as malaria (n=4) or tuberculosis (n=4). Assay specificity and sensitivity was 100% and 92%, respectively, whereas positive and negative predictive values were 100% and 90%, respectively. Significantly, anti-OAcSG titers declined 30 days after completion of anti-leishmanial treatment, indicating that monitoring of anti-9-OAcSGs may be a valuable alternative toward increasing the efficiency of diagnosis and follow-up of VL."}
{"id": "15334256", "title": "Improving methods for epidemiological control of canine visceral leishmaniasis based on a mathematical model. Impact on the incidence of the canine and human disease.", "content": "Improving methods for epidemiological control of canine visceral leishmaniasis based on a mathematical model. Impact on the incidence of the canine and human disease. The mathematical model described by Dye (1996) condemned the epidemiological canine visceral leishmaniasis control campaign, considering it non-efficient. Using this model, we mathematically demonstrate that the control is not efficient, only at low kappa values (rate at which latent and infectious dogs are lost by the destruction program) which match the canine seropositivity observed in the field by the immunofluorescency (IF) blood eluates analysis. With higher k values, corresponding to IF (kappa = 0.07) or ELISA (kappa = 0.25) results in sera samples, the number of infectious dogs declines to a Ro =1 or Ro =0, respectively, interrupting the transmission and the advancement of epidemics. We also experimentally demonstrate that the dog removal, following the results of IF of sera, instead of eluates lead to a 57% (p < 0.005) decrease in canine cases and 87.5% (p < 0.005) in human cases. Our mathematical and experimental results indicate that the control campaign become more efficient by enhancing the sensitivity of the diagnostic assay."}
{"id": "15305704", "title": "[The serodiagnosis of parasitic infections].", "content": "[The serodiagnosis of parasitic infections]. Recently, the term of clinical immunoparasitology has been coined to indicate the application of immunological methods to the laboratory diagnosis of parasitic infections. In particular, serological diagnosis (indirect diagnosis) is useful especially in the cases of toxocarosis, trichinellosis, echinococcosis, cysticercosis, toxoplasmosis, amoebic abscess, some filariasis, visceral leishmaniasis, schistosomiasis. When possible, for infections caused by protozoa or helminths, the \"gold standard\" is represented by direct diagnosis performed by microscopic and/or macroscopic observation of the parasite. In any case, immunological results must be interpreted in consideration of the clinical picture of the patient and confirmed possibly by finding the parasite or its genome, even using molecular methods. Furthermore, since the presence of specific antibodies can reveal an acquired infection, but not necessarily a disease, it is particularly helpful, in addition to a qualitative evaluation, a quantitative one, by determining the serum antibody titre. After recovery, the antibody levels decrease, however, they may persist for long periods, for this reason they do not help in evaluating the treatment outcome. Interpretation of serological results may be difficult when the patients originate from areas where the suspected infection is endemic, in that case, a serum positivity could reflect an old exposition to the parasite, therefore it is not related to the present clinical status. Furthermore, serology may frequently result falsely negative in not immunocompetent subjects (organ transplanted, HIV positive individuals, premature babies, diabetics). Clinicians can interpret correctly the serological results only if the Parasitology laboratory inform them about the significant diagnostic values, the sensitivity and the specificity of the test in use. At present time, many diagnostic kits for immunoparasitology are commercially available, and industries are developing newer and newer ones (which are not always validated). In relation to this aspect, it should be helpful, for each of parasitic infection, to establish reference centers, not only to control the quality of commercial kits, but also as a reference point to those laboratories which use \"in house\" kits. To this regard, the recent establishment of a European Centre for Control of Infectious Diseases will help. The antigen characteristics (crude, E/S, recombinant, synthetic) for assays searching for antibodies (IHA, IFA, EIA, WB) of different classes, the controls to choose for these assays, the specimen requirements will be discussed. The recent findings on the serological diagnosis of intestinal protozoa infections, malaria, leishmaniasis, echinococcosis, cysticercosis, trichinellosis, toxocariasis, schistosomiasis, strongyloidiasis will be presented."}
{"id": "15262002", "title": "Assessment of an optimized dog-culling program in the dynamics of canine Leishmania transmission.", "content": "Assessment of an optimized dog-culling program in the dynamics of canine Leishmania transmission. In Brazil, zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis (ZVL) control programs based on the mass elimination of seropositive dogs have failed to reduce the number of leishmaniasis cases. However, these programs have been done under sub-optimal conditions. We studied a cohort of dogs in an urban area in Brazil to determine, whether a dog-culling program optimized with: (i) replacement of a relatively low-sensitivity indirect immune-fluorescent test on blood eluate by a more sensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay on serum blood samples; (ii) shortening of the time interval from serodiagnosis to removal of dogs; (iii) screening a high proportion of the dog population could reduce the incidence of canine Leishmania infection (CLI). The study ran from December 1997 to July 2000, with four follow-up assessments performed at approximately 8-month intervals. All dogs seropositive for anti-Leishmania antibodies were promptly eliminated. A large number of new dogs immigrated to the study area throughout the study period. They comprised 43.8-49.8% of the cohort at each follow-up assessment, and upto 15% of them already had Leishmania infection. Overall, 42 news cases of CLI were identified, for a crude incidence rate of 11.8 cases per 100 dog-years (95% CI 8.6-15.6). In the first, second, third and fourth follow-up assessments the incidence rates were 8.2 (95% CI 3.0-17.9), 12.2 (95% CI 6.3-21.2), 16.4 (95% CI 8.5-28.6) and 13.6 (95% CI 7.1-23.8), respectively. There was no statistically significant change in these rates throughout the study period. Our results suggest that dog-culling programs do not reduce the incidence of CLI, even with an optimized intervention. Possible reasons for this failure include: currently available serologic methods lack sufficient sensitivity and/or specificity to accurately identify all infected dogs warranting removal in order to prevent Leishmania transmission; destroyed dogs are immediately replaced by susceptible puppies, and quite often, by already infected dogs; and other reservoirs may be involved in maintaining canine infection. Further efforts on ZVL control should be directed to developing new strategies or to testing control methods already in place with properly designed trials."}
{"id": "15225352", "title": "Visceral leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania infantum in a Spanish patient in Argentina: What is the origin of the infection? Case report.", "content": "Visceral leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania infantum in a Spanish patient in Argentina: What is the origin of the infection? Case report. The question \"Where have you been?\" is a common one asked by doctors in Northern Europe and America when faced with clinical symptoms not typical of their country. This question must also arise in the clinics of developing countries in which non-autochthonous cases such as the one described here can appear. Important outbreaks of Leishmania infantum have been recorded in the last decade in several Latin American countries but its presence has not yet been recorded in Argentina. We report the first case of visceral leishmaniasis owing to L. infantum in this country. A 71-year-old Spanish woman who has been living in Mendoza, Argentina, during the last 40 years presented with a history of high fever and shivering, anemia, leukopenia and splenomegaly over two years. Argentinian doctors did not suspect visceral leishmaniasis even when the histological analysis revealed the presence of \"intracytoplasmatic spheroid particles compatible with fungal or parasitic infection\". After a serious deterioration in her health, she was taken to Spain where she was evaluated and visceral leishmaniasis was established. Specific identification of the parasite was done by PCR-ELISA, isoenzyme electrophoresis and RAPD-PCR. We would like to point out that: i) cases such as the one described here, which appear in non-endemic areas, can pass unnoticed by the clinical physician. ii) in countries in which these introduced cases reside, in-depth parasitological studies are required into vectors and possible reservoirs to rule out the rare case of local infection and, once infection has taken place, to ensure that this does not spread by anthroponotic transmission or a competent reservoir."}
{"id": "15189464", "title": "Evaluation of a urinary antigen-based latex agglutination test in the diagnosis of kala-azar in eastern Nepal.", "content": "Evaluation of a urinary antigen-based latex agglutination test in the diagnosis of kala-azar in eastern Nepal. We evaluated the diagnostic accuracy as well as the reproducibility of the urine latex agglutination test 'KAtex' in the diagnosis of kala-azar in patients recruited at a tertiary care centre in Dharan, Nepal, between November 2000 and January 2002. All patients presenting with fever of 2 weeks or more and splenomegaly were consecutively enrolled. Bone marrow and--if negative--spleen aspirates were examined for Leishmania donovani. Serum and urine samples were taken in duplicate for the Direct Agglutination Test (DAT) and KAtex. The reference laboratory determined sensitivity and specificity of KAtex. Reproducibility between both laboratories was assessed. KAtex was performed on urine from 155 parasitologically confirmed kala-azar and 77 non-kala-azar cases (parasitology and DAT-negative). KAtex showed a sensitivity of 47.7% (74/155, 95% CI: 39.7-55.9) and a specificity of 98.7% (76/77, 95% CI: 93.0-100.0). Reproducibility of KAtex showed a kappa of 0.684 (P < 0.001, n = 232). KAtex evaluation showed high specificity, low sensitivity and moderate reproducibility. A urine test for kala-azar could become a real breakthrough in kala-azar management if its reproducibility and sensitivity could be further improved."}
{"id": "15125515", "title": "Detection of circulating antigens in sera from visceral leishmaniasis patients using dot-ELISA.", "content": "Detection of circulating antigens in sera from visceral leishmaniasis patients using dot-ELISA. The anti-amastigote IgG antibodies were raised in rabbits purified and fractionated using the standard methods. From the same anti-amastigote IgG antibodies, a peroxidase conjugate reagent was prepared. Initially, the anti-amastigote IgG antibodies and their corresponding peroxidase conjugate reagents were analyzed with respect to their ability to recognise the homologous antigens. Thirty five serum samples from visceral leishmaniasis patients (VLP) were examined using dot-ELISA. In addition, thirty seven serum samples from either non-infected individuals or from patients infected with heterologous organisms were used to define the sensitivity and specificity of the test. Circulating antigens in 35 serum samples from VLP were successfully identified using dot-ELISA giving 100% sensitivity. With exception of serum samples from patients with Plasmodium vivax which shown cross-reactivity with Leishmania donovani antigens, the test appeared to be specific for the detection of circulating leishmanial antigens. Cross-reactivity was not observed with P. faciparum or Brucellosis."}
{"id": "15078273", "title": "Epidemiological study of kala-azar by direct agglutination test in two rural communities of eastern Nepal.", "content": "Epidemiological study of kala-azar by direct agglutination test in two rural communities of eastern Nepal. We conducted a sero-epidemiological study of kala-azar in two endemic communities (Kasaini and Gidhaniya) situated in the Terai (plain) of eastern Nepal. Direct agglutination test (DAT) was used as a serological test for screening. Capillary blood samples were collected by filter paper method from 601 (96%) people of a total population of 628 in Kasaini and from 482 (94%) people of 515 in Gidhaniya. Positive DAT titres (1:2000) were found in 66 (6.09%) of 1083 sera tested. The male-female sero-prevalence ratio was 1.44:1 and the age group of 15 years and above was most affected. Among the bone marrow aspirates collected from 66 DAT seropositive cases, only 19 were positive for Leishmania donovani (LD bodies). Of the 47 DAT seropositive but LD bodies' negative cases, three were clinically active cases of kala-azar. Another nine developed clinical symptoms of kala-azar during 6 months follow-up and 23 were cases that had received prior treatment for kala-azar (within 1 year). The results of this study show the potential of the DAT on filter paper as a screening test for the surveillance of kala-azar at a community level."}
{"id": "15071070", "title": "Noninvasive method for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis by a latex agglutination test for detection of antigens in urine samples.", "content": "Noninvasive method for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis by a latex agglutination test for detection of antigens in urine samples."}
{"id": "14971702", "title": "Direct agglutination test with urine samples for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Direct agglutination test with urine samples for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. A new direct agglutination test (DAT) for use with urine samples for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) has been developed and compared with the conventional DAT with serum samples and our previously reported enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) with urine samples (urine ELISA). The new DAT, in which anti-human IgG was used as enhancing antibody, was tested with urine samples from 75 VL patients and 225 non-VL patients and healthy people. The sensitivity of the new DAT (90.7%), was almost the same as that of the conventional DAT (91.0%) and the urine ELISA (93.3%). The specificity of the new DAT (96.4%) was nearly identical with that of the urine ELISA (97.3%). A urine-based DAT has several advantages over the conventional DAT: sample collection is non-invasive and it can process larger numbers of samples with smaller amounts of antigen."}
{"id": "14971701", "title": "A comparative study of the effectiveness of diagnostic tests for visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "A comparative study of the effectiveness of diagnostic tests for visceral leishmaniasis. We compared the validity of pancytopenia, the formol-gel test (FGT), the indirect fluorescence antibody test (IFAT), the direct agglutination test (DAT), and the rK39 dipstick test as diagnostic criteria for visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in Nepal. Between September 2000 and January 2002, 310 clinical suspects had a bone marrow aspirate, and if negative, a spleen aspirate smear examined for Leishmania donovani. Sensitivity and specificity of all tests were determined compared with parasitology and by latent class analysis (LCA). Compared with parasitology, the sensitivities of the other tests were as follows: pancytopenia = 16.3% (95% confidence interval [CI] = 11.3-22.5%), FGT = 39.9% (95% CI = 32.7-47.4%), IFAT = 28.4% (95% CI = 22.0-35.5%), DAT = 95.1% (95% CI = 90.8-97.7%), and the rK39 dipstick test = 87.4% (95% CI = 81.7-91.9%). Sensitivity estimates obtained by LCA were similar, but specificity estimates were substantially higher (DAT = 93.7% versus 77.8%; rK39 dipstick test = 93.1% versus 77.0%). The DAT or the rK39 dipstick test can replace parasitology as the basis of a decision to treat VL in Nepalese peripheral health services."}
{"id": "14964810", "title": "Detection of Leishmania infantum cryptic infection in asymptomatic blood donors living in an endemic area (Eivissa, Balearic Islands, Spain) by different diagnostic methods.", "content": "Detection of Leishmania infantum cryptic infection in asymptomatic blood donors living in an endemic area (Eivissa, Balearic Islands, Spain) by different diagnostic methods. The extent of cryptic leishmaniasis in blood donors from a Spanish endemic area, (Eivissa Island) was studied using various immunological and parasitological methods. Sera from 656 blood donors were analysed: 16 (2.4%) were positive by ELISA and 50 (7.6%) by Western blot. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and buffy coat (BC) samples, were analyzed by culture and nested-PCR. DNA of L. infantum was amplified in 27 (22.1%) of 122 PBMC. Parasites were isolated in 3 (4.5%) of 67 BC cultures and the strains were identified as L. infantum zymodeme MON-28. No parasites were isolated in PBMC culture. After 12 months, a second blood sample was obtained from 18 blood donors who were positive by nested-PCR in the first extraction; nine of them remained positive. Delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) tests on 15/67 donors (22.3%) were positive. Comparison of results obtained by ELISA, WB and DTH; ELISA, WB and nested-PCR and nested-PCR and BC culture showed a significant association (Pearson test, P < 0.05). L. infantum zyodeme MON-28 was identified in three strains isolated from asymptomatic donors, which suggests a low virulence capacity of these strains. The detection of Leishmania DNA in a high number of asymptomatic subjects supports the need to monitor it in blood donors endemic areas."}
{"id": "14959824", "title": "Expression cloning.", "content": "Expression cloning. Expression cloning involves the selection of specific polypeptides, generated from a cDNA or genomic DNA library, based on certain characteristics of the expressed proteins, such as antibody or ligand binding, recognition by T-cells, function, or complementation of cell defects. Here we describe the detailed construction of a genomic, random shear lambda expression library, adsorption of anti Escherichia coli antibody from antiserum, the screening of an expression library with specific antisera, and the cloning of genes with potential use in the diagnosis of infectious disease. This approach has been used successfully by our laboratory for the discovery of antigenic components of diagnostics and vaccines for several infectious agents including: Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Anaplasma phagocytophila (formerly Ehrlichia spp. or E. phagocytophila), Babesia microti, Trypanosoma cruzi, Leishmania chagasi, and Chlamydia spp."}
{"id": "14742530", "title": "Characterization of immunoglobulin G and its subclass response to Indian kala-azar infection before and after chemotherapy.", "content": "Characterization of immunoglobulin G and its subclass response to Indian kala-azar infection before and after chemotherapy. Serologic parameters of kala-azar were evaluated by Western blot analysis. Sera from kala-azar patients with confirmed diagnoses were screened for immunoglobulin G (IgG) and IgG subclass-specific reactivity against Leishmania donovani membrane antigen (LAg). Heterogeneous LAg-specific IgG reactivity with numerous proteins with molecular masses ranging from 18 to 190 kDa was observed. Though the individual band patterns were varied, seven polypeptides of approximately 31, 34, 51, 63, 72, 91, and 120 kDa were immunoreactive with all the sera tested from kala-azar patients. The band patterns of the immunoblots of sera from patients after treatment and clinical cure with sodium antimony gluconate revealed a decrease in the frequency of the bands. Still, recognition of the 63- and 120-kDa bands was 100%, and the 55- and 91-kDa fractions were recognized in 93% of the sera from cured individuals. Among the IgG subclasses, IgG1 reacted with the greatest number of polypeptides. The 63-kDa protein was again detected by all of the IgG subclasses of all the sera tested. Other fractions recognized by the subclasses of more than 70% of the serum samples included those of 47, 51, 55, and 78 kDa. Following treatment, 63- and 51-kDa bands were the most reactive with the IgG subclasses. LAg-associated cross-reaction with other reference human antisera revealed a mild reactivity of the 63-kDa polypeptide with some of the serum samples from leprosy, malaria, typhoid, tuberculosis, and healthy controls. Western blot analysis of LAg entrapped in liposomes, strong vaccine candidates against experimental visceral leishmaniasis, revealed a more restricted band pattern. The 63-kDa fraction revealed by all pre- and posttreatment sera showed almost negligible levels of cross-reaction with sera from patients with other diseases or from healthy controls. These observations provide insight into induced immunity during kala-azar infection for future application."}
{"id": "14704640", "title": "Diagnosis of symptomatic kala-azar by polymerase chain reaction using patient's blood.", "content": "Diagnosis of symptomatic kala-azar by polymerase chain reaction using patient's blood. Detection of Leishmania parasite in patients by classical methods at the early stage of infection is limited. Several studies have shown that polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is more effective for the diagnosis of visceral Leishmaniasis (VL) in clinical samples. The purpose of this study was to develop a simple, specific and sensitive PCR-based assay for detecting VL caused by any species of the genus Leishmania. We examined blood samples from twenty suspected kala-azar patients by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using Leishmania specific primers. The results of the PCR-based procedure were compared with those of the Leishman-Donovan (LD) body test, immunodiffusion assay (IDA), and direct agglutination test (DAT). Out of the twenty samples, only five were found to be positive using all four tests. However, twelve samples were positive using the PCR assay, and among these only ten samples were found to be positive by LD body test of bone marrow smears. The results clearly indicated that, unlike the LD body test routinely used for diagnosis of kala-azar, the PCR assay is 100% sensitive. This method is very useful for primary screening of blood samples of patients suffering from kala-azar-like symptoms, especially in endemic areas."}
{"id": "14689054", "title": "Serum cytokine profile in the subclinical form of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Serum cytokine profile in the subclinical form of visceral leishmaniasis. The factors determining the development or not of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) have not been completely identified, but a Leishmania-specific cellular immune response seems to play a fundamental role in the final control of infection. Few studies are available regarding the production of cytokines in the subclinical form of VL, with only the production of IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha known. The aim of the present study was to identify immunological markers for the oligosymptomatic or subclinical form of VL. A prospective cohort study was conducted on 784 children aged 0 to 5 years from an endemic area in the State of Maranh\u00e3o, Brazil, between January 1998 and December 2001. During 30 consecutive months of follow-up, 33 children developed the oligosymptomatic form of the disease and 12 the acute form. During the clinical manifestations, serum cytokine levels were determined in 27 oligosymptomatic children and in nine patients with the acute form using a quantitative sandwich enzyme immunoassay. In the subclinical form of VL, variable levels of IL-2 were detected in 52.3% of the children, IL-12 in 85.2%, IFN-gamma in 48.1%, IL-10 in 88.9%, and TNF-alpha in 100.0%, with the last two cytokines showing significantly lower levels than in the acute form. IL-4 was not detected in oligosymptomatic individuals. Multiple discriminant analysis used to determine the profile or combination of cytokines predominating in the subclinical form revealed both a Leishmania resistance (Th1) and susceptibility (Th2) profile. The detection of both Th1 and Th2 cytokine profiles explains the self-limited evolution accompanied by the discrete alterations observed for the subclinical form of VL."}
{"id": "16117959", "title": "A neglected disease of humans: a new focus of visceral leishmaniasis in Bakool, Somalia.", "content": "A neglected disease of humans: a new focus of visceral leishmaniasis in Bakool, Somalia. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) was observed in children in Bakool region, Somalia, an area where VL has not been reported before. We describe the extent of the problem in this war- and famine-stricken area. A retrospective analysis was done of all cases admitted to a VL treatment centre between July 2000 and August 2001. Patients with longstanding fever, splenomegaly and a positive direct agglutination test (DAT; titre > 1:3200) were treated as suspected VL cases. A rapid epidemiological and entomological assessment was performed in the area. Species identification was attempted from blood samples by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of cysteine proteinase B genes. In 1 year, 230 serologically-positive cases were diagnosed as VL, and response to therapy was good in 91.6% of the 225 treated with sodium stibogluconate. Parasitological confirmation was attempted and obtained in 2 cases. Parasites were found to be most similar to Sudanese and Ethiopian reference strains of the Leishmania donovani complex. In a serological survey of 161 healthy displaced persons, 15% were positive by the leishmanin skin test and 3 (2%) were positive by the DAT. The sandfly captures showed Phlebotomus martini and P. vansomerenae. VL seems to be a longstanding and serious health problem in Bakool region. Food insecurity might have contributed to the emergence and detection of VL in this area."}
{"id": "15748082", "title": "Visceral leishmaniasis in the Syrian Arab Republic: early detection using rK39.", "content": "Visceral leishmaniasis in the Syrian Arab Republic: early detection using rK39. Leishmaniasis causes significant morbidity and mortality in areas where it is endemic. A seroprevalence survey was conducted in 2 endemic villages in Daraa, Syrian Arab Republic, where 80 out of 345 children (23.2%) tested positive for visceral leishmaniasis (VL) using rK39 dipstick test. Only 10 cases were symptomatic (12.5%), and 27.5% were positive by ELISA test. All the sera (N = 138) obtained from the control village were negative. Of the rK39 initially positive cases, 52 had seroconverted to negative 9 months later, 55 remained ELISA negative, and none developed the full-blown disease. Being faster and less expensive than other diagnostic tests, rK39 is a rapid, sensitive and specific diagnostic tool for symptomatic cases of VL in remote areas with poor accessibility to health services."}
{"id": "15748081", "title": "Field evaluation of latex agglutination test for detecting urinary antigens in visceral leishmaniasis in Sudan.", "content": "Field evaluation of latex agglutination test for detecting urinary antigens in visceral leishmaniasis in Sudan. A latex agglutination test to detect urinary antigens for visceral leishmaniasis (VL) was studied. In 204 patients with suspected VL, KAtex had a sensitivity of 95.2% with good agreement with microscopy smears but poor agreement with 4 different serology tests. It was also positive in 2 confirmed VL cases co-infected with HIV. In all K4tex-positive confirmed cases actively followed up after treatment, the test became negative 1 month after completion of treatment. While IC4tex had a specificity of 100% in healthy endemic and non-endemic controls, the direct agglutination test (DAT) was positive in 14% of the KAtex-negative healthy endemic controls. KAtex is a simple addition to the diagnostics of VL particularly at field level and as a complementary test for the diagnosis of VL in smear-negative cases with positive DAT results."}
{"id": "15719773", "title": "[Evaluation of a rapid test using recombinant k39 antigen in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil ].", "content": "[Evaluation of a rapid test using recombinant k39 antigen in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil ]."}
{"id": "14725337", "title": "Antigenaemia and antibody response to Leishmania donovani stage-specific antigens and rk39 antigen in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients.", "content": "Antigenaemia and antibody response to Leishmania donovani stage-specific antigens and rk39 antigen in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients. In order to define the possible markers for the early diagnosis of asymptomatic visceral leishmaniasis in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected individuals, the antigenaemia and antibody response to stage-specific Leishmania donovani and rk39 antigens is assessed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and immunoreactivity to stage-specific antigens analysed by Western blot. Serum samples from two out of 100 HIV-infected individuals were found positive for antigenaemia, antibody response to stage-specific L. donovani antigens and rk39 antigen, and one sample was also positive for antigenaemia and antibody response to L. donovani antigens, while antibody detection to rk39 antigen was not carried on this sample. Additionally, one sample was found positive for amastigote antigenaemia and antibody response to amastigote antigen, while in this patient promastigote antigenaemia and antibody response to promastigote L. donovani and rk39 antigen could not be detected. One sample was found positive for antigenaemia, antibody response to amastigote antigen and negative for antibody response to promastigote antigen, while in this patient response to rk39 antigen was borderline. Although antibody response to rk39 antigen could be detected in 9/88 (10%) HIV-infected individuals, in six of these nine patients neither antigenaemia nor antibody response to stage-specific L. donovani antigens could be detected. All 10 confirmed visceral leishmaniasis and HIV-negative control patients had positive antigenaemia and antibody response to L. donovani amastigote and promastigote antigens, while all the normal healthy individuals were negative. The study indicated that detection of antibody response to rk39 antigen, amastigote antigenaemia and antibody response to amastigote antigen may prove to be better markers than detection of promastigote antigenaemia, antibody response to promastigote antigen and immunoblot reactivity."}
{"id": "14678639", "title": "The biological diagnosis of leishmaniasis in HIV-infected patients.", "content": "The biological diagnosis of leishmaniasis in HIV-infected patients. This review emphasises the particular difficulties encountered in confirming a suspected case of cutaneous or visceral leishmaniasis when that case is co-infected with HIV. HIV infection appears to have a more profound impact on the development of visceral leishmaniasis than on the evolution of the purely cutaneous disease. The various techniques available for immunological, parasitological and molecular diagnosis are presented and evaluated. The value of serodiagnosis for the detection of antileishmanial antibodies is in part dependent on the antigens used. Western blots may have a use not only in diagnosis but also in predicting the cases of HIV infection that are at most risk of developing symptomatic leishmaniasis. The presence of leishmanial parasites may still only be demonstrated incontrovertibly by the microscopical examination of smears or the culture of blood or biopsy samples. The use of cultures not only permits diagnosis but also detailed study of the parasites. The potential use of PCR in diagnosis is explored and related to other possible tests. A recommended, standardized procedure for the diagnosis of leishmaniasis in HIV-infected patients is presented."}
{"id": "14651134", "title": "K39 strip test--easy, reliable and cost-effective field diagnosis for visceral leishmaniasis in India.", "content": "K39 strip test--easy, reliable and cost-effective field diagnosis for visceral leishmaniasis in India. A firm diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) requires demonstration of the parasite in splenic or bone marrow aspirate. The aim of this prospective study was to assess the usefulness of K39 strip test as a noninvasive method of diagnosing visceral leishmaniasis under field conditions by testing serum antibody to the leishmanial antigen K39. One drop of serum/blood was applied to the sample application pad on the test strip, which was diluted with 2 drops of chase buffer solution. The development of two visible red lines indicates the presence of IgG anti-K39. In the first phase of the study (2001), a total of 200 patients (Active VL-70, ex-VL-30, healthy endemic control-20 and patients with other tropical diseases-80) were tested with the K39 strip test at the School of Tropical Medicine, Kolkata. In the second phase of the study (2002), the test was applied in a remote tribal area of West Bengal where an epidemic of VL had occurred. Thirty-two patients were identified in 207 villagers of the affected area; all of them were tested with the K39 strip test. In the first phase, all VL and ex-VL cases gave positive results (100%). Ten percent of the healthy endemic controls were positive. The test results were negative in all other prevalent tropical diseases (100%). The estimated sensitivity of the test was 100% and the specificity was 98.18%. In the second phase of the study, all 32 patients of the epidemic were shown to be positive. All patients were treated with sodium stibogluconate injections and they recovered uneventfully. K39 strip test is ideal for rapid reliable field diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. The test has high sensitivity and specificity but it remains positive long after treatment (up to 3 years)."}
{"id": "14651132", "title": "Diagnosis of kala-azar--an important stride.", "content": "Diagnosis of kala-azar--an important stride."}
{"id": "14629770", "title": "Use of glycerol as an alternative to freeze-drying for long-term preservation of antigen for the direct agglutination test.", "content": "Use of glycerol as an alternative to freeze-drying for long-term preservation of antigen for the direct agglutination test. The potential of glycerol for long-term preservation of the direct agglutination test (DAT) antigen was evaluated at a fluctuating laboratory temperature of 25-37 degrees C and at constant temperatures of 37 and 45 degrees C for a period of 222 days. DAT titres recorded for the three antigen aliquots preserved in 50% (v/v) glycerol and stored at 25-37, 37 or 45 degrees C at 11 time intervals were within the same range of the control antigen kept at 4 degrees C. Performance of the glycerol-preserved antigen stored at 45 degrees C was compared with that of a freeze-dried version on 24 visceral leishmaniasis (VL) and 54 non-VL patients. For all non-VL patients, a maximum DAT titre of 1/800 was recorded for either of the two antigens. For all VL patients, in comparison with the freeze-dried, the glycerol-preserved antigen always had equal or higher titre; in 16 of the 24 VL sera tested, the latter antigen scored three- to sixfold higher titres. As this glycerol preservation method is economical and easy to perform, it has better potential for wider-scale application than freeze-drying."}
{"id": "14619969", "title": "Immune complex antigens as a tool in serodiagnosis of kala-azar.", "content": "Immune complex antigens as a tool in serodiagnosis of kala-azar. The 63 kDa surface antigen of Leishmania promastigotes is one of the most important virulent factors in establishing the host parasite relationship. This glycoprotein is revealed by surface iodination study as well as by metabolic labeling and immunoblot methods. In search of this specific antigen for serodiagnosis, immune complexes (ICs) were isolated from kala-azar patient sera and analysed by SDS-PAGE and Western immunoblotting. The immunoblot of kala-azar IC with patient sera, anti-promastigote sera and anti gp63 sera detected the major antigen of 55 kDa. This recognition suggests that 55 kDa antigen and gp63 have common antigenic epitope(s). Normal IC did not react with anti gp63 sera indicating absence of this antigen in normal IC. To confirm the parasitic origin of the 55 kDa antigen of kala-azar IC, in vitro IC was formed with parasite antigen and acid dissociated kala-azar IC antibody. This indicated the antigenic similarity of the 55 kDa antigen and gp63 antigen of the parasite. This also suggested that the former antigen may have been processed from gp63. In summary, identification of parasite antigen (55 kDa) in IC of kala-azar patients' sera may be useful in developing a serodiagnostic assay of visceral leishmaniasis. Several other antigens are visualized in kala-azar IC when developed with patient sera. But specificity and efficacy of these antigens have not yet been evaluated in serodiagnosis of the disease."}
{"id": "14613628", "title": "Detection of antileishmanial IgG antibodies and Leishmania-specific antigens in sera from Yemeni patients with visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Detection of antileishmanial IgG antibodies and Leishmania-specific antigens in sera from Yemeni patients with visceral leishmaniasis. As part of an attempt to develop an effective method for the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL), the sera from 43 Yemeni cases of the disease were screened both for antileishmanial IgG antibodies and for Leishmania-specific antigens. Indirect ELISA and capture ELISA were used to test each serum for the antibodies and antigens, respectively. Sera from patients with diseases other than leishmaniasis (29 for the antibody-detection assays and 42 for the antigen-detection) and from apparently healthy volunteers were also tested. For each type of assay, the threshold for seropositivity was set three standard deviations above the mean absorbance value for the sera from the healthy volunteers. Thirty-seven of the 43 VL sera were found positive for Leishmania-specific IgG antibodies and 37 were found positive for Leishmania-specific antigens. The sensitivities of the antibody- and antigen-detection assays were both therefore 86%. The overall specificity of the antibody-detection ELISA (67%) was, however, slightly higher than that of the capture-ELISA (64%)."}
{"id": "14600129", "title": "Parasite detection in patients with post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis in India: a comparison between molecular and immunological methods.", "content": "Parasite detection in patients with post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis in India: a comparison between molecular and immunological methods. To evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of serological, immunohistochemical, and molecular methods in the diagnosis of post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL). Twenty five patients with confirmed PKDL and 25 controls were included in the study. G2D10, a monoclonal antibody against Leishmania, was used for the immunohistochemical (IHC) staining of lesion sections to visualise anti-Leishmania donovani antibodies. The diagnostic usefulness of IHC was compared with enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) with a recombinant (rk39) antigen, and a species specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay, amplifying a kinetoplast minicircle DNA sequence. IHC detected 22 of 25 PKDL cases, giving a sensitivity of 88%. The diagnostic sensitivity of both the ELISA and PCR tests was higher (96%). All of the 25 controls examined were negative in PCR, indicating 100% specificity of the test, whereas ELISA showed 96% specificity. IHC with G2D10 significantly enhances the sensitivity of detection of PKDL over routine haematoxylin and eosin staining. ELISA with a recombinant antigen is an economical and practical assay. PCR is the most sensitive and specific diagnostic method for PKDL. The tests described would facilitate the recognition of patients with PKDL, enabling timely treatment, which would contribute greatly to the control of kala-azar."}
{"id": "14519328", "title": "Lactating females Syrian hamster (Mesocricetus auratus) show protection against experimental Leishmania infantum infection.", "content": "Lactating females Syrian hamster (Mesocricetus auratus) show protection against experimental Leishmania infantum infection. The Syrian hamster (Mesocricetus auratus) is the best animal model for human leishmaniosis, an emergent disease that causes 400,000 new cases every year. The main objective of this assay was to prove the relationship between female lactation, which implies hyperprolactinaemia (IFN-gamma, IL-12, IL-2 and TNF-alpha elevated), and leishmaniosis (IFN-gamma, IL-12, IL-2 and TNF-alpha diminished). The results demonstrate the clear implication of lactation in immune response. The infected lactating females did not show any symptoms of sickness, a 24 g mean increase was noticed, throughout the assay they were negative in the indirect diagnosis test (Direct Agglutination Test (DAT)), and in the direct diagnosis tests (N-N-N isolation, tissue impressions)."}
{"id": "12965912", "title": "Enzyme-linked immunoassay using recombinant trans-sialidase of Trypanosoma cruzi can be employed for monitoring of patients with Chagas' disease after drug treatment.", "content": "Enzyme-linked immunoassay using recombinant trans-sialidase of Trypanosoma cruzi can be employed for monitoring of patients with Chagas' disease after drug treatment. trans-Sialidase is an enzyme present on the surface of Trypanosoma cruzi and is an important antigen recognized by sera from patients with Chagas' disease. In the present study we investigated whether the benznidazole treatment of patients with Chagas' disease induced changes in the reactivity of serum toward a recombinant form of trans-sialidase in order to develop an assay for monitoring of patients after treatment for Chagas' disease, which is needed at Chagas' disease control centers. By using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay containing a recombinant protein corresponding to the catalytic domain of trans-sialidase, we found that the antigen had a high specificity for sera from untreated patients with Chagas' disease. Sera from healthy individuals or patients with active visceral leishmaniasis minimally cross-reacted with the antigen. Anti-trans-sialidase immunoglobulin was detected in 98% of 151 untreated patients with Chagas' disease. Of these, 124 patients were treated for 60 days with benznidazole (5 mg/kg of body weight/day), and their sera were assayed for reactivity with the recombinant trans-sialidase. By using this methodology, three groups of patients could be established. The first group (60 patients), which was considered to have been successfully treated, showed no reactivity after treatment. The second group (46 patients) still showed signs of infection, and after treatment their sera recognized trans-sialidase, but with reduced titers. The third group (18 patients) was considered to be resistant to drug treatment, and their sera presented identical reactivities before and after treatment. These results suggest that determination of the absence of antibodies to recombinant trans-sialidase in treated patients by the present assay is indicative of treatment success, while the presence of antibodies may indicate the persistence of infection. Therefore, this method may be useful for the diagnosis and monitoring of patients undergoing benznidazole treatment."}
{"id": "12894040", "title": "Immunochromatographic (rK39) strip test in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Bangladesh.", "content": "Immunochromatographic (rK39) strip test in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Bangladesh. Immunochromatographic strip test (ICT strip test) for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis was evaluated in this study in the context of a case-control study. A total sixty consecutive cases of kala-azar admitted in all four Medicine Units of Mymensingh Medical College Hospital during the period of May 2002 to February 2003 was included here. Parasitological confirmation was done by demonstration of leishmania donovani bodies in bone marrow or splenic aspiration in all cases. A total 120 controls was taken of which sixty were asymptomatic endemic controls with no previous history of kala-azar and sixty were admitted patients suffering from diseases other than kala-azar (malaria, tuberculosis, enteric fever and chronic liver disease). ICT strip test for kala-azar was done in all cases and controls. Only 2 of the confirmed kala-azar cases were negative and the remaining 58 cases were positive for ICT strip test which gives the sensitivity of this test 96.6%. Among the controls, 118 were negative for ICT strip test and two of the asymptomatic controls were positive for this test with no clinical evidence of kala-azar. So, the estimated specificity of ICT strip test is 98.3%. The predictive value for a negative result was 98.3% and for a positive result was 96.6%. The ICT strip test is easy, quick, requires no technical facilities with higher sensitivity and specificity entails it to be the ideal test for the diagnosis of kala-azar in field level."}
{"id": "12894039", "title": "Epidemiological characteristics of sixty five cases of Kala-azar attending to a laboratory in Mymensingh.", "content": "Epidemiological characteristics of sixty five cases of Kala-azar attending to a laboratory in Mymensingh. To find out the epidemiological characteristics of the patients with Kala-azar attending to a pathology laboratory at Mymensingh we studied retrospectively in a total of 65 patients. These patients were suspected to be Kala-azar as they were suffering from usually chronic fever, anaemia and splenomegaly. They were referred for serological detection of anti-k39 Leishmanial antibody by Immunochromatographic test (ICT) method. ICT positive cases were included for study. Majority cases were suffering from fever of more than 3 months (40%). Out of 65 patients 43 (66.15%) were males and 22 (33.85%) were females with a M:F ratio 2:1. Patients of 10 or less then 10 years of age were 17 (26.15%), in 11-20 years 23 (35.38%), in 21-30 years 13 (20.00%), in 31-40 years 5 (7.69%), in 41-50 years (6.15%) and in more than 50 years 3 (4.62%). Distribution of patients in different districts were: Mymensingh 54 (83.08%), Tangail 5 (7.69%), Jamalpur (4.62%), Netrokona 1 (1.54%) and Kishorgonj 1 (1.54%). In Mymensingh district patients were distributed as following Upazilla:Trishal 22 (40.74%), Fulbaria 11 (20.37%), Mymensingh Sadar 7 (12.96%), Gaforgaon 7 (12.96%),Bhaluka 5 (9.96%), Fulpur 1 (1.85%) and Nandail 1 (1.85%). Patients were found to scattered among different Unions of the affected Upazillas. The details addresses of the Kala-azar patients are recorded in authors computer databases. This may help in the further study regarding pathogenesis, reservoir and vectors of Leishmania in endemic areas. It may also helps in the community based study of Kala-azar. Present study supports that Kala-azar is still prevailing in the south-western region of greater Mymensingh in Bangladesh of which males and the adolescents are more affected."}
{"id": "12880591", "title": "Expression of cysteine proteinase type I and II of Leishmania infantum and their recognition by sera during canine and human visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Expression of cysteine proteinase type I and II of Leishmania infantum and their recognition by sera during canine and human visceral leishmaniasis. In this study, the mature domains of type I (CPB) and type II (CPA) cysteine proteinases (CPs) of Leishmania infantum were expressed and their immunogenic properties defined using sera from active and recovered cases of human visceral leishmaniasis and sera from infected dogs. Immunoblotting and ELISA analysis indicated that a freeze/thaw extract of parasite antigens showed similar and intensive recognition in both active cases of human and dog sera but lower recognition in recovered human individuals. The total IgG of actively infected human sera was higher than in recovered cases when rCPs were used as antigen. In contrast to dog sera, both active and recovered human cases have higher recognition toward rCPB than rCPA. Furthermore, the asymptomatic dogs in contrast to the symptomatic cases exhibited specific lymphocyte proliferation to both crude antigens and rCPs."}
{"id": "12806462", "title": "[Montenegro intradermoreaction after the test sequential repetitions in Porteirinha, Minas Gerais State, Brazil].", "content": "[Montenegro intradermoreaction after the test sequential repetitions in Porteirinha, Minas Gerais State, Brazil]. With the purpose of evaluating the response of sequential applications of Montenegro intradermoreaction (IDRM), we have repeated four times the test in the inhabitants of an endemic area for kala-azar, that resulted negative 3-4 years ago. Firstly, we have repeated three IDRM in those who remained negative, with a 60-day interval among them. In the second stage, we have performed a last reaction in all participants of the study. From the total of 49 individuals with prior negative IDRM, 19 (38.8%) have positivated the test in some of the times, 17 (34.7%) have given up the study and 13 (26.5%) remained with a negative result in all the applications. In the second stage, the repetition of IDRM has shown that from the 14 positive in some of the tests, 8 remained like this and 6 have become negative. Our results confirm the possibility of late hypersensitivity induction in some individuals as a consequence of IDRM application."}
{"id": "12804153", "title": "Epidemiological aspects of human and canine visceral leishmaniasis in Venezuela.", "content": "Epidemiological aspects of human and canine visceral leishmaniasis in Venezuela. To report recent data on the distribution of human and canine visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in Venezuela, and to highlight problems associated with effective control measures. We report the number of cases, incidence rate, age and sex distribution, and mortality rates for human VL (HVL) for the period of 1995 through 2000, based on National Registry of Leishmaniasis data. We carried out serological studies on a total of 3 025 domestic dogs from the 12 states in Venezuela reporting cases of human VL in this 1995-2000 period and also from the state of Yaracuy, where cases were reported earlier during the decade of the 1990s. From 1995 through 2000, 242 cases of HVL were reported from 12 states, in various sections of Venezuela. There was a relatively stable national incidence rate of 0.2 cases per 100 000 persons per year. Of the 242 cases, 26.0% were from Margarita Island, one of the three islands that make up the state of Nueva Esparta (Margarita Island was the only one of the Nueva Esparta islands that had HVL cases). Over the 1995-2000 period, the annual incidence rates for Nueva Esparta ranged from 1.7 to 3.8 cases per 100 000 population. Males in Venezuela were more frequently affected (59.5%) than were females (40.5%). In terms of age, 67.7% of the VL patients were </= 4 years of age, and 80.6% were younger than 15 years. The mortality rate among the persons with VL was 7.85% during the 1995-2000 period. Serological screening with rK39 antigen of 1 217 dogs from Margarita Island found a 28.5% positivity rate (testing of dogs was not done on the two other islands of Nueva Esparta). In contrast, the rate was 2.8% in the 1 808 samples from dogs from 12 states on the mainland. Human and canine VL are unevenly distributed in Venezuela. The distribution may reflect such factors as differences among the states in human population density, vector density, and the presence or absence of other trypanosomatidae. Particularly high infection rates in very young children as well as in domestic dogs occur in semiurban communities of Nueva Esparta, where other human-infecting trypanosomatidae have not been reported. Control measures related to limiting canine infection might contribute to disease control where VL infections are frequent. Reducing VL mortality requires increased awareness among medical professionals of the possibility of VL in the differential diagnosis of hepato-splenic syndromes, particularly in children."}
{"id": "12764443", "title": "Human mixed infections of Leishmania spp. and Leishmania-Trypanosoma cruzi in a sub Andean Bolivian area: identification by polymerase chain reaction/hybridization and isoenzyme.", "content": "Human mixed infections of Leishmania spp. and Leishmania-Trypanosoma cruzi in a sub Andean Bolivian area: identification by polymerase chain reaction/hybridization and isoenzyme. Parasites belonging to Leishmania braziliensis, Leishmania donovani, Leishmania mexicana complexes and Trypanosoma cruzi (clones 20 and 39) were searched in blood, lesions and strains collected from 28 patients with active cutaneous leishmaniasis and one patient with visceral leishmaniasis. PCR-hybridization with specific probes of Leishmania complexes (L. braziliensis, L. donovani and L. mexicana) and T. cruzi clones was applied to the different DNA samples. Over 29 patients, 8 (27.6%) presented a mixed infection Leishmania complex species, 17 (58.6%) a mixed infection Leishmania-T. cruzi, and 4 (13.8%) a multi Leishmania-T. cruzi infection. Several patients were infected by the two Bolivian major clones 20 and 39 of T. cruzi (44.8%). The L. braziliensis complex was more frequently detected in lesions than in blood and a reverse result was observed for L. mexicana complex. The polymerase chain reaction-hybridization design offers new arguments supporting the idea of an underestimated rate of visceral leishmanisis in Bolivia. Parasites were isolated by culture from the blood of two patients and lesions of 10 patients. The UPGMA (unweighted pair-group method with arithmetic averages) dendrogram computed from Jaccard's distances obtained from 11 isoenzyme loci data confirmed the presence of the three Leishmania complexes and undoubtedly identified human infections by L. (V.) braziliensis, L. (L.) chagasi and L. (L.) mexicana species. Additional evidence of parasite mixtures was visualized through mixed isoenzyme profiles, L. (V.) braziliensis-L. (L.) mexicana and Leishmania spp.-T. cruzi. The epidemiological profile in the studied area appeared more complex than currently known. This is the first report of parasitological evidence of Bolivian patients with trypanosomatidae multi infections and consequences on the diseases' control and patient treatments are discussed."}
{"id": "12739806", "title": "Evaluation of excretory/secretory Fasciola (Fhes) antigen in diagnosis of human fascioliasis.", "content": "Evaluation of excretory/secretory Fasciola (Fhes) antigen in diagnosis of human fascioliasis. No doubt, human fascioliasis is an increasing worldwide zoonotic liver fluke. Clinically, human fascioliasis has to be differentially diagnosed from many hepatic diseases as acute & chronic hepatitis, schistosomiasis mansoni, visceral toxocariasis, visceral leishmaniasis, hepatic amoebiasis, biliary tract diseases and others. The parasitological diagnosis based on the demonstration of the eggs in stool, duodenal contents or bile is usually unsatisfactory due to false passage of eggs, ectopic fascioliasis, and failure of immature worm to maturation. So, ELISA-Fhes antigen (Fasciola hepatica excretory/secretory) and IHAT were evaluated in the immunodiagnosis of parasitologically proven cases of human fascioliasis compared with proven cases of human schistosomiasis mansoni and parasite-free individuals. ELISA-Fhes gave 100% sensitivity and 100% specificity. On the other hand, IHAT was less sensitive and less specific."}
{"id": "12685638", "title": "Performance of recombinant K39 antigen in the diagnosis of Brazilian visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Performance of recombinant K39 antigen in the diagnosis of Brazilian visceral leishmaniasis. This study evaluated the performance of recombinant K39 (rK39) antigen in a immunochromatographic format (strip test) and a crude antigen enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in the diagnosis of Brazilian visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in 128 consecutive patients with parasitologically proven infections (by microscopy and/or culture). For each patient, a medical history was obtained and a complete physical examination was performed. Controls included 10 healthy volunteers and 50 patients with other diseases: malaria (10), leprosy (9), Chagas' disease (10), tuberculosis (10), and cutaneous leishmaniasis (11). The sensitivities of the rK39 antigen strip test and the ELISA were 90% and 89%, respectively, while the specificities were 100% and 98%, respectively. Our study confirms the accuracy of the rK39 antigen strip test in the diagnosis of VL in a high prevalence population."}
{"id": "12659975", "title": "Leishmania model for microbial virulence: the relevance of parasite multiplication and pathoantigenicity.", "content": "Leishmania model for microbial virulence: the relevance of parasite multiplication and pathoantigenicity. Leishmanial mechanisms of virulence have been proposed previously to involve two different groups of parasite molecules. One group consists of largely surface and secretory products, and the second group includes intracellular molecules, referred to as 'pathoantigens'. In the first group are invasive/evasive determinants, which protect not only parasites themselves, but also infected host cells from premature cytolysis. These determinants help intracellular amastigotes maintain continuous infection by growing at a slow rate in the parasitophorous vacuoles of host macrophages. This is illustrated in closed in vitro systems, e.g. Leishmania amazonensis in macrophage cell lines. Although individual macrophages may become heavily parasitized at times, massive destruction of macrophages has not been observed to result from uncontrolled parasite replication. This is thus unlikely to be the direct cause of virulence manifested as the clinical symptoms seen in human leishmaniasis. Of relevance is likely the second group of immunopathology-causing parasite 'pathoantigens'. These are highly conserved cytoplasmic proteins, which have been found to contain Leishmania-unique epitopes immunologically active in leishmaniasis. How these intracellular parasite antigens become exposed to the host immune system is accounted for by periodic cytolysis of the parasites during natural infection. This event is notable with a small number of parasites, even as they grow in an infected culture. The cytolysis of these parasites to release 'pathoantigens' may be inadvertent or medicated by specific mechanisms. Information on the pathoantigenic epitopes is limited. T-cell epitopes have long been recognized, albeit ill-defined, as important in eliciting CD4+ cell development along either the Th1 or Th2 pathway. Their operational mechanisms in suppressing or exacerbating cutaneous disease are still under intensive investigation. However, immune response to B-cell epitopes of such 'pathoantigens' is clearly futile and counterproductive. Their intracellular location within the parasites renders them inaccessible to the specific antibodies generated. One example is the Leishmania K39 epitope, against which antibodies are produced in exceedingly high titers, especially in Indian kala-azar. Here, we consider the hypothetical emergence of this pathoantigenicity and its potential contributions to the virulent phenotype in the form of immunopathology. Microbial virulence may be similarly explained in other emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases. Attenuation of microbial virulence may be achieved by genetic elimination of pathoantigenicity, thereby providing mutants potentially useful as avirulent live vaccines for immunoprophylasis of infectious diseases."}
{"id": "12643842", "title": "Asymptomatic visceral leishmaniasis, northern Israel.", "content": "Asymptomatic visceral leishmaniasis, northern Israel. Asymptomatic human visceral leishmaniasis was identified in Israel by using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Positive serum samples were more prevalent in visceral leishmaniasis-endemic (2.97%) compared to nonendemic (1.01%) regions (p=0.021). Parasite exposure was higher than expected, despite the small number of clinical cases, suggesting factors other than infection per se influence clinical outcome."}
{"id": "12631320", "title": "Prospective evaluation and comparison of the direct agglutination test and an rK39-antigen-based dipstick test for the diagnosis of suspected kala-azar in Nepal.", "content": "Prospective evaluation and comparison of the direct agglutination test and an rK39-antigen-based dipstick test for the diagnosis of suspected kala-azar in Nepal. The diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar) remains difficult in rural endemic areas and practical and reliable tests are badly needed. Two serological tests, the Direct Agglutination Test (DAT) and an rK39-antigen-based dipstick test, were compared to parasitological diagnosis in a group of 184 patients presenting at a tertiary care centre in south-eastern Nepal with a history of fever > or = 14 days and splenomegaly; 139 patients had a parasitologically proven kala-azar and 45 patients had a negative parasitological work-up. The rK39 dipstick showed a sensitivity of 97% and a specificity of 71%. The DAT was up to 99% sensitive with a low cut-off titre (1:400) but its specificity did not exceed 82% even with a high cut-off titre (1:51 200). Both tests could be used for screening suspect patients in endemic areas. However, their use as confirmatory tests should be restricted to situations where the proportion of kala-azar among clinical suspect patients is high. The rK39 dipstick is cheaper and easier to use than the DAT and could be used widely provided that both its performance and production remain stable."}
{"id": "12581443", "title": "Comparison of an rK39 dipstick rapid test with direct agglutination test and splenic aspiration for the diagnosis of kala-azar in Sudan.", "content": "Comparison of an rK39 dipstick rapid test with direct agglutination test and splenic aspiration for the diagnosis of kala-azar in Sudan. We compared an rK39 dipstick rapid test (Amrad ICT, Australia) with a direct agglutination test (DAT) and splenic aspirate for the diagnosis of kala-azar in 77 patients. The study was carried out under field conditions in an endemic area of north-east Sudan. The sensitivity of the rK39 test compared with splenic aspiration was 92% (46/50), the specificity 59% (16/27), and the positive predictive value 81% (46/57). Compared with the diagnostic protocol used by M\u00e9decins sans Fronti\u00e8res, the sensitivity of the rK39 test was 93% (50/54), the specificity 70% (16/23), and the positive predictive value 88% (50/57). Compared with splenic aspirates, the sensitivity of a DAT with a titre > or =1:400 was 100% (50/50), but its specificity only 55% (15/27) and the positive predictive value was 80% (50/62). Using a DAT titre > or =1:6400, the sensitivity was 84% (42/50), the specificity 85% (23/27) and the positive predictive value 91% (42/46). All four patients with DAT titre > or =1:6400 but negative splenic aspirate were also rK39 positive; we consider these are probably 'true' cases of kala-azar, i.e. false negative aspirates, rather than false DAT and rK39 seropositives. There were no false negative DATs (DAT titre < or =1:400 and aspirate positive), but there were four false negative rK39 tests (rK39 negative and aspirate positive). The rK39 dipstick is a good screening test for kala-azar; but further development is required before it can replace the DAT as a diagnostic test in endemic areas of the Sudan."}
{"id": "12573549", "title": "Detection and characterization of leishmania antigens from an American cutaneous leishmaniasis vaccine for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Detection and characterization of leishmania antigens from an American cutaneous leishmaniasis vaccine for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Antigens were isolated from vaccines against American Cutaneous Leishmaniasis (ACL) and their reactivity tested against nine different groups of human sera and two groups of dog sera. These antigens react specifically with human and dog visceral leishmaniasis sera when compared to sera from non-infected individuals. Sera from humans from endemic areas of ACL before, or one year after, vaccination, and ACL patients treated and cured by immunotherapy with polyvalent vaccine, did not display significant differences of reactivity to these antigens. In contrast, they displayed a significantly higher reactivity to the antigens when compared to sera from healthy humans from non-endemic areas. No sera reactivity was observed with patients carrying Chagas' disease or tuberculosis. These antigens are polysaccharides aggregates and present molecular masses ranging from 90 to over 200 KDa. These data suggest the use of these antigens for sero-diagnosis of human and canine visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "12427741", "title": "An atypical protein disulfide isomerase from the protozoan parasite Leishmania containing a single thioredoxin-like domain.", "content": "An atypical protein disulfide isomerase from the protozoan parasite Leishmania containing a single thioredoxin-like domain. In higher eukaryotes, secretory proteins are under the quality control of the endoplasmic reticulum for their proper folding and release into the secretory pathway. One of the proteins involved in the quality control is protein disulfide isomerase, which catalyzes the formation of protein disulfide bonds. As a first step toward understanding the endoplasmic reticulum quality control of secretory proteins in lower eukaryotes, we have isolated a protein disulfide isomerase gene from the protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani. The parasite enzyme shows high sequence homology with homologs from other organisms. However, unlike the four thioredoxin-like domains found in most protein disulfide isomerases, of which two contain an active site, the leishmanial enzyme possesses only one active site present in a single thioredoxin-like domain. When expressed in Escherichia coli, the recombinant parasite enzyme shows both oxidase and isomerase activities. Replacement of the two cysteins with alanines in its active site results in loss of both enzymatic activities. Further, overexpression of the mutated/inactive form of the parasite enzyme in L. donovani significantly reduced their release of secretory acid phosphatases, suggesting that this single thioredoxin-like domain protein disulfide isomerase could play a critical role in the Leishmania secretory pathway."}
{"id": "14710861", "title": "Human brucellosis: review of an under-diagnosed animal transmitted disease.", "content": "Human brucellosis: review of an under-diagnosed animal transmitted disease. Human brucellosis is an important animal transmitted disease of man. Although, the cases have been recorded all over the world, the prevalence is higher in developing countries. Lack of sufficient knowledge about the disease among the physicians, its under-diagnosis or misdiagnosis and absence of effective prevention and management strategies are attributed to the widespread of the disease. Increase in the occurrence of animal brucellosis has also resulted indirectly in an increase in the prevalence of human infection. Absence of characteristic clinical symptoms, chronic nature of the infection and difficulty in isolation of the causal agent from the patients make the diagnosis of the disease more difficult. The serological tests employed for diagnosing human brucellosis vary in terms of their sensitivity and specificity. Therefore, a combination of serological tests is desirable. Currently no vaccine is available against human brucellosis, which could check the spread of the disease effectively. It is suggested that clinicians investigate the cases of pyrexia of unknown origin (PUO) for brucellosis. It is desirable that specimens from cases of tuberculosis, typhoid, rheumatoid arthritis, urogenital infections, kala-azar, cirrhosis, bacterial endocarditis, leukemia and filariasis should also be screened for brucellosis in man. The cases of meningitis of unestablished etiology as the cases of human brucellosis are often misdiagnosed as cases of typhoid or tuberculosis."}
{"id": "12625930", "title": "The natural history of Sudanese post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis: clinical, immunological and prognostic features.", "content": "The natural history of Sudanese post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis: clinical, immunological and prognostic features. In an exploration of the natural history of post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL), 134 residents of Sudan who had recently been diagnosed as cases of the disease were investigated. In each case, diagnosis had been based on clinical criteria, the temporal relationship between the rash and the treatment of visceral leishmaniasis (VL), positive results in direct agglutination tests (DAT) and/or leishmanin skin tests (LST), and the exclusion of other skin conditions. The mean (S.D.) age of the subjects was 6.4 (3.0) years. Although PKDL appeared commonest among those aged 4-8 years (P < 0.05), it was most severe in children aged <or= 3 years. Males and females were equally affected. The rash developed 0.5-13 months following the apparently successful treatment of VL, a relatively rapid onset being associated with severe disease (P = 0.01). The distribution of the rash on the body often reflected the clothing habits of the case, being most frequent on skin that was regularly exposed to the sun. Spontaneous healing of the lesions occurred within 12 months in the majority of cases, the PKDL lasting for a mean (S.D.) of 9.7 (4.7) months. Persistence of lesions beyond 1 year was significantly associated with the combination of a high titre in the DAT and a negative result in the LST (P < 0.05). In conclusion, spontaneous healing is commonly seen in Sudanese patients with PKDL. Persistence of the lesions is frequently associated with non-reactivity in the LST and high levels of anti-leishmanial antibodies."}
{"id": "12572956", "title": "Diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis: comparative potential of amastigote antigen, recombinant antigen and PCR.", "content": "Diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis: comparative potential of amastigote antigen, recombinant antigen and PCR. Development of simple, economical and non-invasive tests for the early diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) or kala-azar (KA) remains a challenge, and serological studies based on antigen prepared from the amastigote stage of Leishmania donovani, the stage that causes infection, are lacking. In the present study, circulating antibodies to total antigen isolated from the promastigote and amastigote stages of the parasite, as well as to recombinant K39 (rK39) antigen, are measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and the results compared with a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test for KA diagnosis. In 116 samples of KA examined, the amastigote antigen gave significantly higher mean absorbance values in ELISA than did the promastigote antigen. The sensitivity for KA detection was significantly higher using the amastigote antigen (94%) than the promastigote antigen (90.5%). Analysis in 91 controls showed that specificity was higher with amastigote antigen (92.3%) than with promastigote antigen (86.8-89.0%). Reliability of ELISA diagnosis with amastigote antigen was only marginally lower than that with rK39 ELISA or with the PCR test. Easy availability and low cost of indigenous amastigote antigen, together with the simplicity of ELISA compared with PCR, make ELISA based on amastigote antigen a promising choice for the diagnosis of KA."}
{"id": "12571371", "title": "Monoclonal antibody affinity purification of a 78 kDa membrane protein of Leishmania donovani of Indian origin and its role in host-parasite interaction.", "content": "Monoclonal antibody affinity purification of a 78 kDa membrane protein of Leishmania donovani of Indian origin and its role in host-parasite interaction. Monoclonal antibodies were raised against pathogenic promastigotes of Leishmania donovani of Indian origin. Among these, one was used for immuno-affinity purification of a 78 kDa membrane protein present in both the amastigote and promastigote forms of the parasite. Results of immunoblot experiments with the anti-78 kDa antibody revealed that the protein was present only in parasites belonging to the L. donovani complex. The expression of the protein was observed to be the same during different phases of growth of the promastigotes. Therefore, the 78 kDa protein is neither stage-specific nor differentially regulated. Surface iodination and subcellular fractionation of the promastigotes indicated that the protein was localized on the cell surface. The 78 kDa protein was found to inhibit the binding of promastigotes to macrophages significantly, suggesting that it may play a role in the process of infection. Thus, here we report the purification of a surface protein of L. donovani of Indian origin, which may play an important role in the process of infection."}
{"id": "12563469", "title": "Epidemiological and immunological aspects of human visceral leishmaniasis on Margarita Island, Venezuela.", "content": "Epidemiological and immunological aspects of human visceral leishmaniasis on Margarita Island, Venezuela. Sixty-five patients were diagnosed with visceral leishmaniasis (VL) on Margarita Island in the decade from 1990 to1999; 86.2% were <= 3 years old. All were leishmanin-negative at diagnosis. Evaluation of 23 cured patients in 1999 revealed that 22/23 had converted to leishmanin-positive; five had persisting antibodies to rK39 antigen, with no clinical evidence of disease. Leishmanin tests were positive in 20.2% of 1,643 healthy individuals from 417 households in endemic areas. Of the positive reactors, 39.8% were identified in 35 (8.4%) of the households, 15 of which had an antecedent case of VL, a serologically positive dog or both. Weak serological activity to rK39 antigen was detected in 3 of 488 human sera from the endemic areas. The presence of micro-foci of intense peri-urban transmission and the apparent absence of other Trypanosomatidae causing human disease offer a unique opportunity for the study of reservoirs, alternative vectors and evaluation of control measures on the Island."}
{"id": "12537628", "title": "The high sensitivity of a PCR-ELISA in the diagnosis of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania infantum.", "content": "The high sensitivity of a PCR-ELISA in the diagnosis of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania infantum. In general, the conventional techniques available for the diagnosis of leishmaniasis have relatively low sensitivity. This means that parasite-rich samples (which can usually only be collected by very invasive methods, such as bone-marrow aspiration) must be employed. This problem has not yet been solved even by use of the PCR-based techniques currently available. However, a new PCR-ELISA has been developed for the diagnosis of cutaneous (CL) and visceral leishmaniasis (VL) caused by Leishmania infantum. This assay appears to have sufficient sensitivity to be effective in the diagnosis of VL not only when bone-marrow aspirates are investigated but also when the samples are of peripheral blood. Overall, the ability of the PCR-ELISA to detect Leishmania, in 76 samples (22 of peripheral blood, 36 bone-marrow aspirates and 18 skin samples) from 72 patients living in a endemic region, was better than that of culture or the examination of Giemsa-stained smears. For example, L. infantum kDNA was detected by PCR-ELISA in 15 (83%) of the 18 skin samples from suspected cases of CL, whereas the combined use of several classical techniques only confirmed the presence of amastigotes in five (28%) of these samples. Similarly, only 21 individuals were diagnosed as having VL by conventional techniques whereas 30 were found Leishmania-positive in the PCR-ELISA. The new PCR-ELISA also appears to be a suitable technique for detecting leishmanial kDNA in samples of peripheral blood from cases of L. infantum-HIV co-infection. The assay is more sensitive than the combined use of several conventional techniques in the diagnosis of subclinical VL, probably because those with subclinical infection have relatively low parasitic loads that are generally undetectable using the other techniques."}
{"id": "12479553", "title": "Domestic dog ownership in Iran is a risk factor for human infection with Leishmania infantum.", "content": "Domestic dog ownership in Iran is a risk factor for human infection with Leishmania infantum. One explanation proposed for the widespread failure to control zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis by culling infected domestic dogs is that wild canids or humans play significant roles in transmission. The aim of this study was to determine the importance of domestic dogs as the reservoir hosts of visceral leishmaniasis in northwest Iran. A random sample of 3,872 children and 199 dogs in 38 villages was surveyed by the direct agglutination test. Dog ownership details among these households were collected by questionnaire. Parasites isolated from 16 patients and 12 dogs were characterized as Leishmania infantum MON-1. Average seroprevalence in dogs (21.6%) was much higher than in children (7%). Child seropositivity increased significantly with village dog density in absolute terms (P < 0.001) and in relation to dog/human ratios (P = 0.028). Dog ownership within villages also was a significant risk factor for child seropositivity (P = 0.003)."}
{"id": "12475634", "title": "Epidemiology of visceral leishmaniasis in Atbara River area, eastern Sudan: the outbreak of Barbar El Fugara village (1996-1997).", "content": "Epidemiology of visceral leishmaniasis in Atbara River area, eastern Sudan: the outbreak of Barbar El Fugara village (1996-1997). An outbreak of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) started in 1995 in the Atbara River area in eastern Sudan. This article reports on this outbreak and on the clinical and immunological studies that were carried out in a village, with the highest incidence of VL cases, from 1996 to 1997. A significant increase in VL incidence was recorded in a dozen villages in this area; one village, Barbar El Fugara accounted for half of the total number of cases recorded at the regional hospital. A total of 152 VL and 61 post kala-azar dermal lesion (PKDL) cases were diagnosed and treated in Barbar. Household (n = 671) and school (n = 276) surveys were performed using the leishmanin skin test (LST) and the direct agglutination test (DAT). LST positivity was 23.1 and 15.7%, whereas DAT positivity was 8.9 and 26.4% in both surveys, respectively. No gender differences were observed in either test. Unlike DAT, LST positivity was predominant in the higher age groups that also exhibited lower prevalence of VL. Few individuals were positive by both tests (1.3%, 5.2%) while the majority (68.8%, 64.8%) had no evidence of acquired immune response, suggesting either a role of innate immunity in preventing parasite establishment or, unexpectedly, lack of exposure to Leishmania. Subclinical parasitism was also demonstrated, as evidence of both acquired humoral and cellular immune responses was observed in individuals with no past history of the disease. The wide spectrum of L. donovani/human interactions may be explained by differential exposure to environmental risk factors, parasite strain polymorphisms or host genetic makeup."}
{"id": "12471430", "title": "Evaluation of the direct agglutination test and the rK39 dipstick test for the sero-diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Evaluation of the direct agglutination test and the rK39 dipstick test for the sero-diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. The direct agglutination test (DAT) based on a freeze-dried antigen and the rK39 dipstick test were evaluated for the sero-diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). The sensitivity and specificity of both tests were determined using sera from confirmed VL patients (n = 21), healthy controls (n = 19) and from patients with other confirmed infectious diseases (n = 42). The DAT had a sensitivity and a specificity of 100%. The rK39 had a sensitivity of 85.7% and a specificity of 82%. Both tests were also used to screen blood samples of confirmed VL patients (n = 15) and serum samples of VL suspects (n = 61). The DAT found all blood samples of confirmed VL patients positive and tested 98.4% of the serum samples of the VL suspects positive. In contrast, rK39 detected in 9/15 blood samples (60%) antibodies against Leishmania chagasi and found 85.3% of the serum samples of the suspected patients positive. Although the rK39 dipstick is more rapid and user friendlier than the DAT, the latter has a superior sensitivity and specificity. Furthermore, the reagents used for DAT do not require cold storage, whereas the buffer of the rK39 must be stored at 4oC. Therefore, the DAT is the most suitable test for the sero-diagnosis of VL under field conditions."}
{"id": "12446084", "title": "Canine infection and the possible role of dogs in the transmission of American tegumentary leishmaniosis in Salta, Argentina.", "content": "Canine infection and the possible role of dogs in the transmission of American tegumentary leishmaniosis in Salta, Argentina. Some Leishmania species affect humans in two principal forms: visceral and cutaneous leishmaniosis (CL). Several studies have identified dogs as the main reservoirs of the visceral leishmaniosis (VL) caused by Leishmania infantum. The purpose of this work was to carry out a survey of the canine population associated with human cases of American tegumentary leishmaniosis (ATL), in order to establish the clinical, parasitological, serological and immunological characteristics of the canine disease, in an endemic region for both ATL and Chagas' disease in the province of Salta, in northwestern Argentina. Two hundred and eight dogs from the endemic area were examined and 41 (19.7%) of them presented lesions compatible with leishmaniosis. In order to investigate the presence of antibodies against Leishmania spp. and Trypanosoma cruzi, sera were screened by ELISA using two complex antigens from these parasites and, because of cross-reactions between them, a specific antigen for diagnosis of T. cruzi infection. Sixty-two (29.8%) of 208 dogs were positive for the complex antigen F45 from Leishmania and 50 (24%) were positive for the complex antigen F105 from T. cruzi. Nine dogs (4.3%) were positive for the specific Ag163B6-cruzipain suggesting that these dogs were truly infected with T. cruzi. Furthermore, three of these nine dogs presented Leishmania sp. in their skin lesions and therefore were considered as infected by both, T. cruzi and Leishmania parasites. The prevalence of Leishmania infection detected by lesions and/or positive serology was 27.4% (57/208). On the basis of previous observations regarding the clustered appearance of human ATL, the dog population was divided into two groups: zone A, dogs living within a 100 m radius from houses with human cases, and zone B, dogs living beyond this limit. The prevalence of ATL in dogs was significantly higher in zone A (34.6%) than in zone B (7.3%), suggesting a strong correlation between canine and human cases. The average time required for a parasitological diagnosis by microscopy was six times longer for dog samples than human ones, and the average number of parasites per 100 microscopic fields was 14-fold lower in canine samples. The high prevalence of Leishmania infection and the close association with human cases, demonstrated that dogs are a very susceptible host for Leishmania infection, but the scarcity of parasites in their lesions suggests that they may not be the main reservoir of the parasite in this endemic area."}
{"id": "12414775", "title": "Leishmania major-like antigen for specific and sensitive serodiagnosis of human and canine visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Leishmania major-like antigen for specific and sensitive serodiagnosis of human and canine visceral leishmaniasis. An antigen (LMS) prepared from Leishmania major-like promastigotes was used in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the diagnosis of human and dog visceral leishmaniasis. The results were compared with those from the indirect immunofluorescent antibody test (IFAT). A total of 1822 canine sera were tested, including sera from dogs with visceral leishmaniasis, transmissible venereal tumors, ehrlichiosis, rickettsiosis, or Chagas' disease and sera from healthy dogs. The antigen was also tested with 227 samples of human sera, including sera from patients with visceral, cutaneous, or diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis and from noninfected individuals, as well as sera from patients with Chagas' disease, toxoplasmosis, rickettsiosis, hepatitis B, schistosomiasis, ascaridiasis, malaria, rheumatoid factor, leprosy and rheumatoid factor, tuberculosis, or leprosy. All dogs and all human patients had a clinical and/or serological and/or parasitological diagnosis. For detecting antibodies in sera from dogs with leishmaniasis, the antigen showed a sensitivity of 98%, specificity of 95%, and concordance of 93% and when used for detecting antibodies in human sera presented a sensitivity of 92%, specificity of 100%, and concordance of 92%. Comparison between ELISA and IFAT demonstrated that ELISA using the LMS antigen yielded more reliable results than IFAT. The LMS antigen displayed no cross-reactivity with sera from patients or dogs that had any of the other diseases tested."}
{"id": "12373503", "title": "Unusual presentation of leishmaniasis as an adrenal cystic mass.", "content": "Unusual presentation of leishmaniasis as an adrenal cystic mass. An unusual presentation of leishmaniasis that occurred in an Italian immunocompetent woman is described. The patient had a long history of coagulopathy due to factor VIII deficiency and pain in the right lumbar region. Computed axial tomography demonstrated a cystic mass in the right adrenal gland. Histological examination of the surgically removed cyst showed the presence of histiocytes containing Leishmania amastigotes. Serodiagnosis for leishmaniasis performed through immunofluorescent antibody testing and the rK39 enzyme immunoassay was positive, whereas a bone marrow aspirate did not reveal any parasite. The patient was not treated for leishmaniasis and recovered well after surgery. Serological testing was still positive 2 years after surgery, but clinical follow-up did not reveal the signs typical of visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "12204969", "title": "Immunoblot analysis of the humoral immune response to Leishmania donovani polypeptides in cases of human visceral leishmaniasis: its usefulness in prognosis.", "content": "Immunoblot analysis of the humoral immune response to Leishmania donovani polypeptides in cases of human visceral leishmaniasis: its usefulness in prognosis. Sera from Indian patients with parasitologically confirmed visceral leishmaniasis were studied by immunoblot analysis in order to identify a specific pattern for Leishmania infection. A soluble extract of Leishmania donovani was used as antigen. At diagnosis the sera from patients with visceral leishmaniasis specifically recognized fractions represented by bands of 201 kDa (50% of serum samples), 193 kDa (60%), 147 kDa (50%), 120 kDa (60%), 100 kDa (50%), 80 kDa (80%), 70 kDa (70%), 65 kDa (100%), 50 kDa (50%), 36 kDa (50%), 20 kDa (70%), and 18 kDa (50%). The 65-kDa band, common to all patients infected with Leishmania parasites, was found at the time of diagnosis. However, the immunoblot pattern changed after patients were treated and cured with sodium antimony gluconate (SAG; n =10) or miltefosine (n =10), as was evident from blots of sera obtained pretreatment and at 1, 3, and 6 months posttreatment. At 6 months posttreatment, immunoblots of sera from patients on the SAG regimen showed the disappearance of all bands except the 70-kDa band. Similarly, sera from those on the miltefosine regimen showed the disappearance of all bands except the 65- and 70-kDa bands. This study shows that Western blot analysis is a sensitive test for detection of anti-Leishmania antibodies. Moreover, the persistence of reactivity with the 65- and 70-kDa bands in the sera of all groups shows its promise as a diagnostic and prognostic tool."}
{"id": "12188216", "title": "Infectivity and virulence of Leishmania donovani promastigotes: a role for media, source, and strain of parasite.", "content": "Infectivity and virulence of Leishmania donovani promastigotes: a role for media, source, and strain of parasite. Transformation of promastigotes of Leishmania donovani strain AG83 from amastigotes derived from an infected animal was studied in three media, Schneider's Drosophila medium (SDM), Medium 199 (M199), and biphasic M199 (B-M199) with 10% fetal bovine serum. The media, SDM and B-M199, both supported a more efficient transformation of promastigotes in comparison with M199. Infectivity studies in hamsters and BALB/c mice showed that promastigotes isolated in B-M199 were several folds more infective than those obtained from M199. Comparison of the infectivity and virulence of promastigotes of AG83, with a recent isolate of kala-azar, SL94, harvested under similar conditions, revealed greater infectivity of SL94 for both macrophages and animal models. The present study demonstrates that the medium used for the conversion of amastigotes to promastigotes plays a major role in determining the infectivity of the freshly transformed L. donovani promastigotes in hamsters and BALB/c mice. The source and the strain of the parasite also influence the outcome of L. donovani infection."}
{"id": "12173133", "title": "Noninvasive management of Indian visceral leishmaniasis: clinical application of diagnosis by K39 antigen strip testing at a kala-azar referral unit.", "content": "Noninvasive management of Indian visceral leishmaniasis: clinical application of diagnosis by K39 antigen strip testing at a kala-azar referral unit. Firm diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar) requires organ aspiration and microscopic examination of tissue specimens. To determine the usefulness of noninvasive diagnosis by strip test detection of anti-K39 immunoglobulin (Ig) G antibody in blood specimens obtained by fingerstick, 143 Indian patients with suspected kala-azar (fever, splenomegaly, anemia) were studied. Of 120 strip test-positive subjects (subjects with presumed kala-azar [group A]), amphotericin B treatment induced clinical cure in 119. Of 23 strip test-negative subjects (subjects presumed to have other diseases [group B]), 16 had other disorders diagnosed at entry, 4 responded to empiric antimalarial therapy, 2 were proven to have kala-azar, and 1 died elsewhere after undergoing splenic aspiration. Six months after treatment ended, all 120 patients in group A and the 18 assessable patients in group B were healthy. In a region in India where visceral infection is prevalent, strip test detection of anti-K39 IgG is a clinically promising diagnostic guide in persons with suspected kala-azar."}
{"id": "12151189", "title": "Diagnosis of American visceral leishmaniasis in humans and dogs using the recombinant Leishmania donovani A2 antigen.", "content": "Diagnosis of American visceral leishmaniasis in humans and dogs using the recombinant Leishmania donovani A2 antigen. A2 proteins are expressed in the amastigote stage of Leishmania donovani and are composed predominantely by a conserved repetitive element. Here, we have investigated the presence of anti-A2 antibodies in a panel of American Visceral Leishmaniasis (VL) sera. Anti-A2 antibodies were detected by ELISA, using a recombinant A2 protein containing a tag of six histidine residues (A2-HIS), in 77% of patients sera with symptomatic VL and in 87% of sera from dogs that tested positive in Leishmania immunofluorescent-antibody test (IFAT) or in the parasitological evaluation. Anti-A2 antibodies were also detected in 14 out of 15 symptomatic and in 10 out of 13 asymptomatic dogs. In addition, among the asymptomatic/anti-A2 positive animals, 9 were also positive for the presence of parasites. No significant cross reactivity was observed with sera of animals with other common canine diseases. Our findings suggest that A2 protein is a potential tool for the diagnosis of VL in the New World, and will be particularly useful for diagnosis of dogs."}
{"id": "12149396", "title": "Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays for diagnosis of leishmaniasis in patients coinfected with human immunodeficiency virus.", "content": "Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays for diagnosis of leishmaniasis in patients coinfected with human immunodeficiency virus."}
{"id": "12111603", "title": "Evaluation of a rapid immunochromatographic test for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Evaluation of a rapid immunochromatographic test for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. The purpose of this study was to compare the performance of a rapid immunochromatographic dipstick test for the qualitative detection of circulating antibodies to the leishmanial recombinant antigen K39 with that of a classical immunofluorescent antibody test for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Sera from 143 Italian subjects, including 69 patients with clinically suspected visceral leishmaniasis, 23 patients with hypergammaglobulinemia and 51 healthy controls, were tested. The immunochromatographic test was performed according to the manufacturer's instructions, using antigen-impregnated nitrocellulose paper strips. The immunofluorescent antibody test was performed according to an established method, using promastigotes of Leishmania infantum zymodeme Montpellier 1 as antigen. In 11 patients, diagnosis of active Leishmania infection was established by microscopic examination of biopsy samples and/or clinical response to meglumine antimoniate. Results of the two tests correlated for all but two sera examined. In two patients, one with proven infectious mononucleosis and one with bacterial pneumonia, the immunofluorescent antibody test was positive and the dipstick test was negative. In the restricted sample of patients in whom a definitive diagnosis was established, the immunochromatographic test was positive in 11 of 11 patients with confirmed Leishmania infection and negative in 103 of 103 subjects who either had other documented diseases or were healthy controls, showing 100% sensitivity and 100% specificity."}
{"id": "12093674", "title": "Diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using urine samples.", "content": "Diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using urine samples. A diagnostic method has been developed to detect anti-Leishmania donovani immunoglobulin G (IgG) in urine by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). In measuring anti-L. donovani IgG, IgA, and IgM in urine, the method performed best in the detection of IgG. The sensitivity and specificity of the assay were determined with panels of urine samples from 62 visceral leishmaniasis (VL) patients, 59 healthy controls from areas of endemicity, 53 healthy controls from areas of nonendemicity, 59 malaria patients, 13 tuberculosis patients, 23 cutaneous leishmaniasis patients, and 7 patients with other diseases. Using L. donovani promastigote crude antigen, the test had 93.5% sensitivity (58 positives of 62 VL patient samples) and 89.3% specificity (191 negatives of 214 non-VL patient samples). The ELISA with acetone-treated L. donovani promastigote antigen raised the sensitivity and specificity to 95.0 and 95.3%, respectively. Western blot analysis revealed that most of the samples that cross-reacted with crude antigen in ELISA did not recognize any antigenic component of L. donovani crude antigen. We also checked 40 serum samples from the same group of VL patients for anti-L. donovani IgG and got 90.0% sensitivity with both crude and acetone-treated antigens. As collection of urine is much easier than collection of serum, the detection of anti-L. donovani IgG in urine with acetone-treated antigen will be useful in epidemiological studies. It could be an adjunct of laboratory diagnosis."}
{"id": "12088850", "title": "Sero-epidemiological assessment and diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in an endemic locality using Fast Agglutination Screening Test (FAST).", "content": "Sero-epidemiological assessment and diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in an endemic locality using Fast Agglutination Screening Test (FAST). The Fast Agglutination Screening Test (FAST) was employed on sera obtained from an endemic area of visceral leishmaniasis in southwestern Ethiopia, in February 2000. The study involved (i) active case detection among 1575 residents of two villages; and (ii) passive case detection in an outpatient clinic. Sera of 1587 individuals, including 143 sera of previously treated VL patients, were tested. Based on the size of agglutination mat, the FAST results were read qualitatively as non-reactive (-), weakly reactive (1+), moderately reactive (2+) and highly reactive (3+). All FAST reactive sera were re-tested with the Direct Agglutination Test (DAT). After clinical screening of 1625 individuals, 61 individuals with signs and symptoms of early or late VL were found; 26 sera were FAST positive. Twenty-two of these suspected VL cases were subjected to parasitological examination using lymph node aspirates. Eighteen (81.8%) were confirmed either by demonstration of amastigotes in smears or promastigotes in NNN cultures. FAST reactive anti-leishmanial antibodies were detected in 4.5% of untreated and 70.6% of previously treated patients. Forty-five sera of 1390 previously untreated asymptomatic individuals (3.2%) were found to be FAST positive. This report demonstrates that FAST is a rapid and cost-effective screening test for the diagnosis and sero-epidemiological surveillance of visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "12044305", "title": "Pediatric visceral leishmaniasis in Albania.", "content": "Pediatric visceral leishmaniasis in Albania. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in children is endemic in southern Europe but has not been previously reported from Albania. This prospective study reports the clinical and laboratory findings in 50 children with visceral leishmaniasis, the value of a direct agglutination test (DAT), and the result of treatment with meglumine antimonate. Sera obtained from 50 children with VL confirmed by bone marrow examination, 40 household contacts, and 30 hospitalized children with other infections were examined using DAT. Clinical features included fever (100%), hepatosplenomegaly (100%), pallor (100%), weight loss (98%), vomiting (68%), diarrhea (32%), and bleeding disorders (8%). Laboratory findings were anemia (94%), neutropenia (85%), hypergammaglobulinemia (70%), and thrombocytopenia (22%). Thirty children who developed secondary bacterial infections had significantly lower hemoglobin and neutrophil counts (P<0.0001). Direct agglutination test had a sensitivity of 98%, a specificity of 100%, and a positive predictive value of 100%. One child with severe generalized bleeding died within 48 hours of admission before receiving treatment. The direct agglutination test was highly valuable in diagnosis of VL in this series. Meglumine antimonate was an effective therapeutic agent. Post-treatment bone marrow examination confirmed recovery in all patients. There were no relapses of VL during one-year follow up."}
{"id": "12039673", "title": "Antigenuria in visceral leishmaniasis: detection and partial characterisation of a carbohydrate antigen.", "content": "Antigenuria in visceral leishmaniasis: detection and partial characterisation of a carbohydrate antigen. The detection of antigen in the urine is increasingly being used for diagnosis of parasitic infections. A urinary antigen has recently been demonstrated in visceral leishmaniasis (VL), using a latex agglutination test. The results of our study show that the detected antigen is: heat-stable, precipitates with acetone and ethanol but not TCA, is sensitive to periodate and acid hydrolysis but not to pronase E, lipase, or neuraminidase. The antigen is a low molecular weight glycoconjugate that can be extracted by phenol-water, partitions into the aqueous phase when extracted with Triton X-114 or chloroform/methanol, and can be labelled by biotin hydrazide. Since this urinary antigen cannot be characterised by conventional SDS-PAGE and Western blotting, we used an affinity transfer blotting system in which antigens were captured onto nitro-cellulose paper previously coated with a specific antibody. Using this system a low molecular weight antigen (LMWA) spanning an area of the nitro-cellulose membrane corresponding to molecular weight of 5-20 kDa was detected in the urine of VL patients (from Nepal, Sudan, Brazil, Yemen and Spain) and of experimentally infected animals. No LMWA was detected in the urine of patients with malaria, schistosomiasis, or other nonparasitic diseases including typhoid and brucellosis. Immunoprecipitation, using antibody-coated latex, followed by immunoblotting showed that the LMWA is the target antigen in the previously described latex agglutination test ('KATEX'). The antigen is detectable in both the promastigote and amastigote stages of the parasite. Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against Leishmania glycoconjugates strongly react with this molecule. These results suggest that the detected antigen is highly specific and diagnostic for VL."}
{"id": "12007442", "title": "The use of direct agglutination test (DAT) in serological diagnosis of Ethiopian cutaneous leishmaniasis.", "content": "The use of direct agglutination test (DAT) in serological diagnosis of Ethiopian cutaneous leishmaniasis. Leishmania aethiopica (L.a.) is the main species of Leishmania that causes Ethiopian cutaneous leishmaniasis (ECL). The routine diagnosis of ECL depends on parasitological examination of smear, culture or biopsy. In this study, DAT was set-up and evaluated for its diagnostic performance using defined sera of 45 ECL patients, 18 visceral leishmaniasis (VL) patients, 12 patients with other diseases, and 37 normal controls. The test was also evaluated in 64 patients clinically diagnosed as ECL, leprosy, or other skin diseases. Using L.a. derived antigen, the sensitivity and specificity of the test was determined to be 90.5% and 91.8% respectively. However, using antigen derived from a non-homologous strain, only 4 sera of 21 active ECL patients were positive. Eighteen sera of VL patients were positive irrespective of the different antigen sources. The data show that DAT can be a useful addition to the diagnosis of ECL."}
{"id": "12000658", "title": "Humoral and cellular immune responses to glucose regulated protein 78 -- a novel Leishmania donovani antigen.", "content": "Humoral and cellular immune responses to glucose regulated protein 78 -- a novel Leishmania donovani antigen. The recently cloned glucose regulated protein 78 (GRP78) of Leishmania donovani has been suggested as a new and promising Leishmania vaccine candidate. We assessed antibody and T-cell reactivity to GRP78 in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and in lymphoproliferative assays. Serological evaluation of plasma samples obtained in Sudan revealed that 89% of patients with visceral leishmaniasis (VL), 78% with post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL), and 85% with cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) had antibody reactivity to this Leishmania antigen. Plasma from healthy Sudanese individuals living in an area endemic for malaria but free of leishmaniasis and plasma from healthy Danes was negative in the assay. GRP78 antibody was detected in 10% and 5% of plasma samples from Sudanese and Ghanaian malaria patients, respectively, whereas 35% of plasma samples from otherwise healthy Sudanese individuals with a positive leishmanin skin test showed antibody reactivity to recombinant GRP78 (rGRP78). In lymphoproliferative assays, 9 of 13 isolates of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from individuals previously infected with L. donovani and one of three individuals previously infected with L. major showed a response to rGRP78, whereas PBMC isolates from Danish control individuals did not respond. These findings, in addition to our previous observations in experimental CL (Jensen et al. 2001), confirm GRP78 as a possible vaccine antigen."}
{"id": "11992157", "title": "IgG anti-IgE autoantibodies in visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "IgG anti-IgE autoantibodies in visceral leishmaniasis. Procedures for IgG depletion in visceral leishmaniasis (VL) and schistosomiasis sera using Sepharose-protein G beads also deplete IgE. In this study, the presence of IgG anti-IgE autoantibodies in sera from patients with VL (n = 10), and hepatic-intestinal schistosomiasis (n = 10) and from healthy individuals (n = 10) was investigated. A sandwich ELISA using goat IgG anti-human IgE to capture serum IgE and goat anti-human IgG peroxidase conjugate to demonstrate the binding of IgG to the IgE captured was performed. VL sera had higher titers (p < 0.05) of IgG anti-IgE autoantibodies (OD = 2.01 +/- 0.43) than sera from healthy individuals (OD = 1.35 +/- 0.16) or persons infected with Schistosoma mansoni (OD = 1.34 +/- 0.18). The immunoblotting carried out with eluates from Sepharose-protein G beads used to deplete IgG from these sera and goat anti-human IgE peroxidase conjugate, showed a similar pattern of bands, predominating the 75 kDa epsilon-heavy chain and also polypeptides resulting from physiological enzymatic digestion of IgE. A frequent additional band immediately above 75 kDa was observed only in VL sera."}
{"id": "11989529", "title": "Immunochromatographic strip-test detection of anti-K39 antibody in Indian visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Immunochromatographic strip-test detection of anti-K39 antibody in Indian visceral leishmaniasis. Stored sera from 429 Indian subjects were assayed to extend the analysis of the accuracy of immunochromatographic strip-test detection of anti-K39 antibody in the non-invasive diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). All 225 samples from patients with proven Leishmania infection tested positive [estimated sensitivity = 100%; 95% confidence interval (CI)=98%-100%]. Sera from 99 of the 100 symptomatic patients with other diseases were non-reactive (estimated specificity = 99%; CI = 94%-100%). However, samples from 13 of the 104 apparently healthy controls showed positive strip-test results (estimated specificity = 88%; CI = 79%-93%), yielding an overall specificity of 93% (190/204; CI = 88%-96%). If applied in a practical clinical setting (on symptomatic patients in whom active VL is suspected and other common infections have been excluded), strip testing of serum for anti-K39 antibody should be both sensitive and specific for diagnosing VL in India."}
{"id": "11989530", "title": "The performance of direct agglutination tests (DAT) in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis among Ethiopian patients with HIV co-infection.", "content": "The performance of direct agglutination tests (DAT) in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis among Ethiopian patients with HIV co-infection. The incidence of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in Ethiopia has dramatically increased over the last 10 years, coinciding with the advent of the HIV epidemic. HIV co-infection in VL patients results in atypical, clinical and serological presentations, and may hamper serological diagnosis of VL. The performance of direct agglutination tests (DAT) in the diagnosis of VL in 103 Ethiopian patients with or without HIV infection was therefore investigated. The DAT results indicated that 96 of the patients had leishmanial infections, although amastigotes were only detected in samples from 91. Data on HIV status showed that 50.7% of all patients but 56.0% of the parasitologically confirmed cases of VL patients were HIV-positive. Based on the 95 patients who were each examined both by DAT and parasitological methods, the overall sensitivity of the DAT was 97.7%. Among the parasitologically confirmed cases of VL, a false-negative DAT result was obtained for two (3.9%) of the 51 cases who had HIV co-infection and for none of the 40 HIV-negative cases. In contrast to the observations made in Europe, DAT in Ethiopia therefore remain reasonably sensitive in the diagnosis of VL during HIV co-infection. The results are discussed in view of the possibility of distinctive antibody responses induced by Leishmania donovani donovani and L. d. infantum in HIV-infected patients."}
{"id": "11986261", "title": "Predicting kala-azar disease manifestations in asymptomatic patients with latent Leishmania donovani infection by detection of antibody against recombinant K39 antigen.", "content": "Predicting kala-azar disease manifestations in asymptomatic patients with latent Leishmania donovani infection by detection of antibody against recombinant K39 antigen. Clinically visceral leishmaniasis is suspected in only a fraction of infected persons, as the majority of these may not have clinical manifestations and remain asymptomatic. There is scanty information on diagnosing latent infections and predicting disease in asymptomatic persons. We therefore carried out a study on asymptomatic contacts of patients with visceral leishmaniasis and post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis by using methods for detection of antibody to recombinant K39 (rK39) antigen. A total of 240 patients with leishmaniasis and 150 asymptomatic contacts were tested for anti-rK39 immunoglobulin G (IgG) and IgA antibodies. Fifty-five asymptomatic persons were found to be seropositive. These individuals were monitored every 3 months for 1 year. On follow-up, 43.9% of the asymptomatic seropositive contacts developed kala-azar within the first 3 months, and a cumulative total of 69% developed kala-azar within 1 year. The rest remained asymptomatic and self-healed the infection. The sensitivity and specificity of rK39 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and dipstick tests were 100%, while an in-house-developed latex agglutination test had 80% sensitivity. The antibody profile showed that the IgG anti-rK39 antibodies reached a titer of up to 10(-6) within 6 months of infection, started declining thereafter, and completely disappeared in 2 to 3 years in successfully treated cases. Significant titers of IgA antibodies were detectable a little earlier than those of IgG antibodies and were undetectable after 6 months. The study showed that mass screening of family members and contacts by using anti-rK39 ELISA could be a highly reliable tool for early diagnosis and to plan prophylactic treatment of latently infected asymptomatic carriers to eradicate kala-azar."}
{"id": "11951057", "title": "Serodiagnostic and immunoprophylactic potential of a 78kDa protein of Leishmania donovani of Indian origin.", "content": "Serodiagnostic and immunoprophylactic potential of a 78kDa protein of Leishmania donovani of Indian origin. The serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis due to Leishmania donovani using crude parasite antigen is complicated in many endemic areas by cross-reactions with serum from humans infected with other protozoan diseases. The search for pure antigens avoiding such cross-reactions is in progress. Developing a vaccine against cutaneous leishmaniasis has been much more successful than against visceral leishmaniasis. Immunoprophylactic studies using various combinations of antigens and adjuvants are also in progress, and several strategies are in use, with varying degrees of success. Promastigotes of Leishmania donovani were used. The 78kDa protein was purified by a monoclonal antibody tagged CNBr sepharose CL-4B column. The presence of the protein in both stages of the parasite and in kala-azar patient serum was analyzed by western blotting. ELISA was used for serodiagnosis and isotype analysis of antibodies produced in immunized mice. Immunoprophylactic studies were carried out based on in vitro transformation of amastigotes to promastigotes. The 78 kDa membrane protein, present in both amastigote and promastigote forms of the parasite, was purified to homogeneity. The protein was found to have serodiagnostic potential to detect kala-azar. BALB/c mice immunized with 78kDa protein revealed reduction in spleen parasitemia. Isotype profiles of antibodies produced by immunized mice showed increased production of IgG2a and decreased IgG1 levels. Our results demonstrated, for the first time, the serodiagnostic and immunoprophylactic use of a pure membrane protein isolated from Leishmania donovani of Indian origin."}
{"id": "11925984", "title": "Risk factors associated with asymptomatic infection by Leishmania chagasi in north-east Brazil.", "content": "Risk factors associated with asymptomatic infection by Leishmania chagasi in north-east Brazil. Various factors have been associated with a predisposition to the development of clinical American visceral leishmaniasis (AVL). However, little information is available about the factors that predispose to asymptomatic infection. To identify the risk factors associated with asymptomatic infection, a study was carried out between July 1997 and June 1998 on children aged 0-5 years in the districts of Vila Nova and Bom Viver in the municipality of Raposa in the island of S\u00e3o Lu\u00eds, State of Maranh\u00e3o, Brazil. A questionnaire containing socioeconomic, demographic and epidemiological data was used. The delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) test was carried out on 639 children in the first phase, and on 572 in the second, 7 months after the first survey, using Leishmania amazonensis antigen. Infection was determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in 638 children during the first phase, and in 572 during the second. Six outcome measures were used: initial prevalence, final prevalence and incidence, each determined by DTH and ELISA. The incidence of infection was 10.8% when determined by DTH and 28.5% when determined by ELISA. After adjustment for confounding variables using Cox regression, infection by L. chagasi was associated with child's age (> or = 2 years), location of the dwellings (Vila Nova) and reporting of relatives with AVL. Bathing outside the house and playing outdoors between 18:00 and 20:00 were identified as risk factors in some analyses but not in others. Presence of intra- and peridomestic Lutzomyia sandflies and animals such as dogs or chickens in the house or in the neighbourhood appeared as risk factors in some analyses but in others they unexpectedly seemed to protect from infection. Malnutrition was not found to be associated with infection."}
{"id": "11880434", "title": "Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay based on soluble promastigote antigen detects immunoglobulin M (IgM) and IgG antibodies in sera from cases of visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis.", "content": "Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay based on soluble promastigote antigen detects immunoglobulin M (IgM) and IgG antibodies in sera from cases of visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis. Leishmaniasis causes significant morbidity and mortality in areas where it is endemic. In areas where it is nonendemic, global travel and increased incidence of the disease in human immunodeficiency virus and intravenous-drug user populations are also causes for concern. The unavailability of rapid and reliable tests for diagnosis of the various leishmaniases makes patient management difficult. We have developed an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) that can detect immunoglobulin M (IgM) and IgG antibodies in patients with visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis. These practical assays are based on soluble antigens from promastigotes cultivated in a protein-free medium. In preliminary studies, 129 visceral (Brazil, Italy, North Africa, and Nepal) and 143 cutaneous (Brazil) leishmaniasis patients with controls were tested. Overall, the tests showed a sensitivity of 95.1%. In addition, the ELISA correctly identified 42 sera from Brazilian dogs with canine leishmaniasis and 10 healthy controls. Serological tests for the various clinical manifestations of leishmaniasis could be useful epidemiological and patient management tools in populations of areas of endemicity and nonendemicity."}
{"id": "11874880", "title": "Evaluation of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for diagnosis of post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis with crude or recombinant k39 antigen.", "content": "Evaluation of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for diagnosis of post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis with crude or recombinant k39 antigen. The diagnosis of post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL), a dermatosis that provides the only known reservoir for the parasite Leishmania donovani in India, remains a problem. Timely recognition and treatment of PKDL would contribute significantly to the control of kala-azar. We evaluated here the potential of the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) as a diagnostic tool for PKDL. Antigen prepared from promastigotes and axenic amastigotes with parasite isolates that were derived from skin lesions of a PKDL patient gave sensitivities of 86.36 and 92%, respectively, in the 88 PKDL cases examined. The specificity of the ELISA test was examined by testing groups of patients with other skin disorders (leprosy and vitiligo) or coendemic infections (malaria and tuberculosis), as well as healthy controls from areas where this disease is endemic or is not endemic. A false-positive reaction was obtained in 14 of 144 (9.8%) of the controls with the promastigote antigen and in 14 of 145 (9.7%) of the controls with the amastigote antigen. Evaluation of the serodiagnostic potential of recombinant k39 by ELISA revealed a higher sensitivity (94.5%) and specificity (93.7%) compared to the other two antigens used. The data demonstrate that ELISA with crude or recombinant antigen k39 provides a relatively simple and less-invasive test for the reliable diagnosis of PKDL."}
{"id": "11825959", "title": "Imported visceral leishmaniasis: diagnostic dilemmas and comparative analysis of three assays.", "content": "Imported visceral leishmaniasis: diagnostic dilemmas and comparative analysis of three assays. The present study evaluates the performances of three noninvasive serological assays for the detection of immunoglobulin G antibodies to leishmania antigen for the diagnosis of imported cases of kala azar (visceral leishmaniasis [VL]) in a country, Kuwait, where the disease is not endemic. A total of 323 individuals including 21 patients with documented cases of VL, 72 individuals with suspected cases of VL, 155 patients with other parasitic infections, and 75 healthy control individuals were tested by indirect hemagglutination assay (IHA; Behring Diagnostics GmbH, Marburg, Germany), indirect fluorescent-antibody assay (IFA; bioMerieux sa, Marcy l'Etoile, France), and a qualitative membrane-based immunoassay with recombinant leishmania antigen K39 (strip-test; Intersep Ltd, Berkshire, United Kingdom). Our data show that IHA is the most sensitive test (100%), followed by IFA (86.6%) and the strip-test (80.0%). The strip-test was the most specific (100%) of the three assays, followed by IFA (93.0%) and IHA (86.0%). However, the strip-test failed to detect at least three confirmed cases of VL. We conclude that IHA is preferred over IFA and the strip-test for the screening of individuals with suspected cases of VL, especially in a country where VL is not endemic and where the number of cases is regular but limited. The details about some of the patients with VL are presented to highlight the diversity of clinical presentations and problems encountered in the diagnosis of VL in a country where VL is not endemic."}
{"id": "15332732", "title": "Seroepidemiological study of visceral leishmaniasis among humans and animal reservoirs in Bushehr province, Islamic Republic of Iran.", "content": "Seroepidemiological study of visceral leishmaniasis among humans and animal reservoirs in Bushehr province, Islamic Republic of Iran. Using direct agglutination tests, a survey of visceral leishmaniasis was carried out among children and adults from 13 villages and from nomadic tribes in Bushehr province during 1998-99. Of the 1496 plasma samples, the overall seropositive rate (titres > or = 1:3200) was 3.4%. Almost all cases (94.1%) were in children under 10 years old. Eighteen patients were diagnosed with kala azar; fever and splenomegaly were the predominant signs and symptoms. Parasitology and serology examinations of local animals identified dogs and jackals infected with Leishmania infantum. Suggestions for control of visceral leishmaniasis in this area are to eliminate stray dogs, identify cases among humans and suspected leashed dogs, and treat infected individuals."}
{"id": "12798050", "title": "Genomic polymorphism of Leishmania infantum: a relationship with clinical pleomorphism?", "content": "Genomic polymorphism of Leishmania infantum: a relationship with clinical pleomorphism? Leishmania infantum is the etiological agent of visceral (VL) and a cutaneous form (CL) of leishmaniasis around the Mediterranean Basin. In order to document the parasite genetic background corresponding to this clinical diversity, chromosome size polymorphism was analysed in 32 French isolates (18 CL and 14 VL) originating from the C\u00e9vennes and the Pyr\u00e9n\u00e9es Orientales (PO), and corresponding to zymodemes MON-1 and MON-29. Five chromosomes bearing tandemly repeated genes encoding for important antigens (gp63, PSA-2 and K39) or key metabolic functions (mini-exon and rDNA) were studied. Significant size variation (100-270 kbp) was observed for chromosomes bearing mini-exon, PSA-2 and rDNA genes, which involved variation in copy number of corresponding genes. The two other chromosomes showed smaller size-variation and did not involve dosage of gp63 and K39 genes. Chromosomal size showed correlation with geography and clinical origin: (i) chromosome 2 (mini-exon) was found to be significantly smaller in the PO; (ii) chromosomes 12 (PSA-2) and 27 (rDNA) were significantly smaller in the strictly cutaneous MON-29 isolates. Gene rearrangements and their synergistic effects on the phenotypic expression of the parasite are discussed."}
{"id": "12041549", "title": "Lymphatic leishmaniasis--first case report from Nepal.", "content": "Lymphatic leishmaniasis--first case report from Nepal. We report a case of exclusive involvement of lymph node in leishmaniasis presenting as generalized lymphadenopathy. The diagnosis of lymphatic leishmaniasis was confirmed by the presence of Leishmania donovani body in fine needle aspiration cytology, positive direct agglutination test and anti-rK39 antibodies. The bone marrow aspiration was negative for Leishmania donovani body. This is the first case of lymphatic leishmaniasis reported from Nepal."}
{"id": "11980401", "title": "[Katex for the diagnosis of human visceral leishmaniasis].", "content": "[Katex for the diagnosis of human visceral leishmaniasis]. Katex is a latex agglutination test allowing highly specific detection Leishmania antigen in urine of patients with visceral leishmaniasis. A multicentric study of this new diagnostic tool which is also effective in patients co-infected by leishmaniasis and HIV is currently in progress in Sudan, India, Nepal, Brazil and Spain. The authors describe the utility of this technique in comparison with other routine diagnostic procedures such as microscopic examination and serological tests. Preliminary results suggest that it could be used to confirm infection in the field and to monitor treatment efficacy."}
{"id": "11898459", "title": "Detection of antibodies to Taenia solium in sera of patient with epilepsy using ELISA.", "content": "Detection of antibodies to Taenia solium in sera of patient with epilepsy using ELISA. Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used for detection of antibodies to cysticerci of Taenia solium in patients suffering from suspected neurocysticercosis. Serum antibodies to cysticercosis were detected in 10.4% of the patients. Antibodies were absent in healthy controls. No cross-reactivity was observed in sera from patients with other parasitic diseases viz. toxoplasmosis, filariasis and kala-azar. However sera from patients with hydatid disease showed cross reactions in 20%. Age group distribution showed gradual non-significant increase in seropositivity rates with advancing age. No significant gender difference, was observed. Analysis of dietary habits of patients showed statistically significant difference in seropositivity rates in non-vegetarians (15.4%) as compared to vegetarians (6.9%) (P value < .001)."}
{"id": "11802273", "title": "Value of a dipstick based on recombinant RK39 antigen for differential diagnosis of American visceral leishmaniasis from other sympatric endemic diseases in Venezuela.", "content": "Value of a dipstick based on recombinant RK39 antigen for differential diagnosis of American visceral leishmaniasis from other sympatric endemic diseases in Venezuela. A laboratory trial using recombinant rK39 dipsticks for differential diagnosis of American visceral leishmaniasis (AVL) from other sympatric endemic diseases which share similar clinic features (Chagas disease, malaria, schistosomiasis and toxoplasmosis) was conducted in Venezuela. The 100% specificity of the test previously obtained in other countries was confirmed. The use of this test at the primary health care level in Venezuela for a rapid diagnosis of active AVL cases, which may avoid deaths, is recommended."}
{"id": "11770114", "title": "Development and application of 'simple' diagnostic tools for visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Development and application of 'simple' diagnostic tools for visceral leishmaniasis. The diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis is difficult. Due to the limitations of direct methods to detect parasites, indirect immunological methods are widely employed. The simple affordable and sensitive/specific direct agglutination test (DAT) is perhaps the most important diagnostic tool under field conditions. A significant improvement of this test is the use of a freeze-dried antigen, which is heat-stable and has a long shelf-live even under harsh conditions. The performance of this antigen in DAT has been evaluated using samples collected in East Africa. The results of these studies are presented. The detection of Leishmania infection in HIV-co-infected patients is difficult. The combination of DAT-PCR may be useful for the detection of parasite infection in these patients. Finally, we present data to show that the DAT based on the freeze-dried antigen can also be used for the detection of anti-Leishmania antibodies in dogs."}
{"id": "11724850", "title": "Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for serological diagnosis of Chagas' disease employing a Trypanosoma cruzi recombinant antigen that consists of four different peptides.", "content": "Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for serological diagnosis of Chagas' disease employing a Trypanosoma cruzi recombinant antigen that consists of four different peptides. Serological tests to detect Trypanosoma cruzi antibodies have been used for screening blood donors, for epidemic studies, and for diagnosis of probably infected persons. Among different tests, the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) with total, semipurified, or synthetic antigens has been widely used, mainly due to its easy automation. Aiming to improve serological studies concerning Chagas' disease, we have developed and evaluated a new test, the TcF-ELISA, using an artificially engineered recombinant antigen, which contains tandem sequences of different T. cruzi-specific peptides. The sensibility of the TcF-ELISA was determined with 101 serum samples from chagasic patients well-defined by clinical and epidemiological criteria. The specificity was determined with 39 serum samples from leishmaniasis or kala-azar patients and 150 serum samples from nonchagasic blood donors from Sao Paulo, Brazil. The TcF-ELISA showed 100% sensitivity and 98.94% of specificity. Compared with conventional ELISA (with semipurified T. cruzi epimastigote antigens), the TcF-ELISA showed advantages; for example, it distinguishes better between reagent and nonreagent serum and provides better precision and a lower occurrence of leishmaniasis cross-reactions. Our studies demonstrate high reproducibility between two different lots of the TcF ELISA and its applicability for the serological diagnosis of Chagas' disease."}
{"id": "11716090", "title": "Field performance of the direct agglutination test and the K39 dipstick test to diagnose visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Field performance of the direct agglutination test and the K39 dipstick test to diagnose visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "11703291", "title": "A simple and sensitive test for field diagnosis of post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis.", "content": "A simple and sensitive test for field diagnosis of post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis. Current methods for diagnosis of post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) do not offer adequate sensitivity and specificity. To develop a simple and sensitive test for field diagnosis of PKDL. Immunochromatographic nitrocellulose strips precoated with recombinant k39 antigen were evaluated for the detection of circulating antibodies to leishmanial k39 in PKDL sera. A drop of serum applied to the strip followed by buffer led to the development of two visible bands indicating the presence of anti-k39 IgG. The strip test was able to detect cases of PKDL with 91% sensitivity. The specificity of the test was evaluated using controls with other skin diseases, other common infections and healthy persons from endemic and non-endemic regions. Of 125 controls examined, all were negative on the strip test, indicating 100% specificity of the test. The immunochromatographic nitrocellulose strips provide a non-invasive, rapid and accurate method for diagnosing PKDL."}
{"id": "11687466", "title": "Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for recombinant K39 antigen in diagnosis and prognosis of Indian visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for recombinant K39 antigen in diagnosis and prognosis of Indian visceral leishmaniasis. The recombinant product (rK39) of the 39-amino-acid repeats encoded by a kinesin-like protein-encoding gene of Leishmania chagasi was evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for diagnostic potential and the ability to predict the response to therapy in Indian kala-azar or visceral leishmaniasis (VL); we also compared its performance with that of crude soluble antigen (CSA). At the diagnosis of VL, the anti-rK39 antibody titer was 59-fold higher than the anti-CSA antibody titer. With successful therapy, antibody titers declined steeply at the end of treatment and during follow-up. In contrast, patients who relapsed showed increased titers of antibodies to rK39. The extremely high levels of anti-rK39 antibodies in VL cases suggest the application of rK39 for sensitive and specific serodiagnosis, and rK39 ELISA is also valuable in monitoring drug therapy and detecting relapse of the disease."}
{"id": "11685252", "title": "Isolation of Leishmania infantum, zymodeme MON-1 from canine and human visceral leishmaniasis on Margarita Island, Venezuela.", "content": "Isolation of Leishmania infantum, zymodeme MON-1 from canine and human visceral leishmaniasis on Margarita Island, Venezuela. An increase in the incidence of human visceral leishmaniasis (HVL) has been detected in recent years on Margarita Island, located off the NE coast of Venezuela. Recent studies have revealed reactivity to rK39 antigen (Leishmania chagasi) in 20% of 541 sera from domestic dogs in endemic communities; PCR reactions were positive using primers for the L. donovani complex. Here we report that isolates from human and canine infection, identified by isoenzyme analysis, correspond to L. infantum, zymodeme MON-1. This appears to be the first isolation and identification of an isolate from HVL on Margarita Island and demonstrates the presence of this zymodeme in the canine population."}
{"id": "11600910", "title": "[Leishmania (Leishmania) chagasi infection in children from an endemic area of visceral leishmaniasis in the S\u00e3o Lu\u00eds Island-MA, Brazil].", "content": "[Leishmania (Leishmania) chagasi infection in children from an endemic area of visceral leishmaniasis in the S\u00e3o Lu\u00eds Island-MA, Brazil]. A prospective study was undertaken in 648 children with less than 6 years of age in the municipality of Raposa, Maranh\u00e3o, Brazil, from June 1997 to June 1998, to evaluate the characteristics of the infection by L.(L.)chagasi and verify if there is an association between malnutrition and asymptomatic infection. A standardized questionnaire was used containing socioeconomic, environmental and behavioral data. Montenegro skin reaction (IDRM) with L. amazonensis and Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) test to detect infection, and anthropometric examination were performed. Initial and final prevalence and incidence of infection were 18.6%, 20.6% and 10.8% as measured by IDRM and 13.5%, 34.4% and 28% according to ELISA. The prevalence of chronic malnutrition was 26%. No association was detected between malnutrition and asymptomatic infection by L. (L.) chagasi. More effective control measures are needed in these areas since asymptomatic infection seems to be on the increase."}
{"id": "11506779", "title": "Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, pulmonary tuberculosis and visceral leishmaniasis in an adult HIV negative patient.", "content": "Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, pulmonary tuberculosis and visceral leishmaniasis in an adult HIV negative patient. This is a case report of a 29 year old male with pneumocystis pneumonia and tuberculosis, and who was initially suspected of having HIV infection, based on risk factor analyses, but was subsequently shown to be HIV negative. The patient arrived at the hospital with fever, cough, weight loss, loss of appetite, pallor, and arthralgia. In addition, he was jaundiced and had cervical lymphadenopathy and mild heptosplenomegaly. He had interstitial infiltrates of the lung, sputum smears positive for Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Pneumocystis carinii, and stool tests were positive for Strongyloides stercoralis and Schistosoma mansoni. He was diagnosed as having AIDS, and was treated for tuberculosis, pneumocystosis, and strongyloidiasis with a good response. The patient did not receive anti-retroviral therapy, pending outcome of the HIV tests. A month later, he was re-examined and found to have worsening hepatosplenomegaly, pancytopenia, fever, and continued weight loss. At this time, it was determined that his HIV ELISA antibody tests were negative. A bone marrow aspirate was done and revealed amastigotes of leishmania, and a bone marrow culture was positive for Leishmania species. He was treated with pentavalent antimony, 20 mg daily for 20 days, with complete remission of symptoms and weight gain. This case demonstrates that immunosuppression from leishmaniasis and tuberculosis may lead to pneumocystosis, and be misdiagnosed as HIV infection. The occurrence of opportunistic infections in severely ill patients without HIV must always be considered and alternate causes of immunosuppression sought."}
{"id": "11490994", "title": "The life-cycle of Leishmania infantum MON-77 in the Priorat (Catalonia, Spain) involves humans, dogs and sandflies; also literature review of distribution and hosts of L. infantum zymodemes in the Old World.", "content": "The life-cycle of Leishmania infantum MON-77 in the Priorat (Catalonia, Spain) involves humans, dogs and sandflies; also literature review of distribution and hosts of L. infantum zymodemes in the Old World."}
{"id": "11478434", "title": "Clinical features, tissue smear and competitive enzyme linked immunosorbent assay as dignostic and prognostic procedures for visceral leishmaniasis in Yemen.", "content": "Clinical features, tissue smear and competitive enzyme linked immunosorbent assay as dignostic and prognostic procedures for visceral leishmaniasis in Yemen. Twenty six Yemeni patients with clinically visceral leishmaniasis (VL) and laboratory abnormalities were subjected to L. donovani species-specific monoclonal antibody (D2) and a competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (C-ELISA). The results were compared with those obtained by microscopy Giemsa stained tissue smears of bone marrow or splenic aspiration. Of the patients, 51 (82.3%) were positive and 3 (4.8%) were negative by both microscopy and C-ELISA. An additional 8 (12.9%) who were negative by microscopy were positive by C-ELISA. 59 patients were treated with sodium antimony gluconate, 45 (76.3%) were drug responsive and 14 (23.7%) were drug resistant. The C-ELISA of 17 patients before and after chemotherapy showed a significant decrease in percent inhibition of monoclonal antibodies D2 in drug responsive patients. In drug-unresponsive patients the percent inhibition of D2 was unchanged or slightly increased. The results indicate that C- ELISA is more sensitive and specific than microscopy, especially for early diagnosis of VL and to evaluate the success of drug treatment."}
{"id": "11444613", "title": "Diagnosis of infections with Leishmania infantum using PCR-ELISA.", "content": "Diagnosis of infections with Leishmania infantum using PCR-ELISA. On the basis of partial amplification of a cloned fragment of kDNA of Leishmania infantum which is specific for this species, we developed a PCR-ELISA technique which avoids the problems associated with classical diagnostic techniques. This technique was tested on 33 L. infantum strains from 19 different zymodemes, which were recognized equally. It was also used on human and canine clinical samples. PCR-ELISA has a higher sensitivity than the other techniques used (IFAT, parasite cultures, optical microscopy of stained samples) and permits detection of a minimum of 0.1 promastigotes or 1 fg of genomic DNA. PCR-ELISA can be used to diagnose human cutaneous leishmaniasis using material obtained by scraping the lesion margin, and human visceral leishmaniasis in HIV(+) individuals and canine leishmaniasis with peripheral blood samples. The presence of L. infantum in dogs with low antibody titres with IFAT technique (20 and 40) was demonstrated indicating that seroprevalence data from epidemiological studies underestimate the true rates of infection."}
{"id": "11440389", "title": "Clinical expression of 'silent' hepatitis B virus infection in a patient with visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Clinical expression of 'silent' hepatitis B virus infection in a patient with visceral leishmaniasis. A 69-year-old male was hospitalized in January 1999 because of visceral leishmaniasis. He had also suffered from anti-hepatitis C virus (HCV)-positive chronic hepatitis for years. All serum hepatitis B virus (HBV) antigens and antibodies were negative except for anti-HBc. The patient was treated with amphotericin B cholesteryl sulfate (2 mg/kg twice a day for 7 days, iv). Fever disappeared on the 3rd day of treatment, the clinical condition improved rapidly and the patient recovered. In May 1999 the patient developed icteric HBsAg-negative acute hepatitis (aspartate aminotransferase 722 U/l; alanine aminotransferase 988 U/l). Anti-HBc IgM was positive and HBV-DNA was detected in serum by PCR. Anti-HAV IgM was negative. A serum sample obtained on presentation and stored at -80 degrees C was retrospectively tested and found positive for HBV-DNA. In July 1999, complete remission of acute hepatitis and seroconversion to anti-HBs was observed. We suppose that a moderate depression of the immune system, probably associated with leishmaniasis, may have enhanced HBV replication in the patient who had an HBsAg-negative 'silent' HBV infection. Restoration of the immune system after successful antiprotozoan therapy might have induced cell-mediated necrosis of the HBV-infected hepatocytes and seroconversion to anti-HBs."}
{"id": "11398119", "title": "Distinct immunity in patients with visceral leishmaniasis from that in subclinically infected and drug-cured people: implications for the mechanism underlying drug cure.", "content": "Distinct immunity in patients with visceral leishmaniasis from that in subclinically infected and drug-cured people: implications for the mechanism underlying drug cure. Significant levels of IgG3 and IgG4 and high levels of IgG1 leishmania-specific antibody differentiated the immune states in 10 patients with visceral leishmaniasis from those of virtually all 20 drug-cured and 18 subclinically infected subjects, whereas the level of IgG2 antibody was nondiscriminating. The most extreme \"subclinically infected\" outlier subsequently developed disease. Overall, the immune states in subclinically infected and drug-cured persons were mutually indistinguishable but were readily distinguished from those of patients. These findings may have implications for the immunologic mechanism underlying drug cure in visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "11391421", "title": "Serodiagnosis of chronic Chagas infection by using EIE-Recombinant-Chagas-Biomanguinhos kit.", "content": "Serodiagnosis of chronic Chagas infection by using EIE-Recombinant-Chagas-Biomanguinhos kit. A kit based on an enzyme immunoassay, EIE-Recombinant-Chagas-Biomanguinhos, developed by the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation, was evaluated for the serodiagnosis of chronic Chagas disease. Evaluation was performed with 368 serum samples collected from individuals living in an endemic area for Chagas disease: 131 patients in the chronic phase with confirmed clinical, epidemiological, and serological diagnosis (indirect immunofluorescence, indirect hemagglutination or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) and 237 nonchagasic seronegative individuals were considered negative control. The EIE-Recombinant-Chagas-Biomanguinhos kit showed high sensitivity, 100% (CI 95%: 96.4-100%) and high specificity, 100% (CI 95%: 98-100%). The data obtained were in full agreement with clinical and conventional serology data. In addition, no cross-reaction was observed with sera from patients with cutaneous (n=14) and visceral (n=3) leishmaniasis. However, when these sera were tested by conventional serological assays for Chagas disease, cross-reactions were detected in 14.3% and 33.3% of the patients with cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis, respectively. No cross-reactions were observed when sera from nonchagasic seronegative patients bearing other infectious disease (syphilis, n=8; HTLV, n=8; HCV, n=7 and HBV, n=12) were tested. In addition, sera of patients with inconclusive results for Chagas disease by conventional serology showed results in agreement with clinical evaluation, when tested by the kit. These results are relevant and indicate that the referred kit provides a safe immunodiagnosis of Chagas disease and could be used in blood bank screening."}
{"id": "11370250", "title": "Leishmaniasis in Sudan. Visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Leishmaniasis in Sudan. Visceral leishmaniasis. From the early 1900s, visceral leishmaniasis (VL; kala-azar) has been among the most important health problems in Sudan, particularly in the main endemic area in the eastern and central regions. Several major epidemics have occurred, the most recent--in Western Upper Nile province in southern Sudan, detected in 1988--claiming over 100,000 lives. The disease spread to other areas that were previously not known to be endemic for VL. A major upsurge in the number of cases was noted in the endemic area. These events triggered renewed interest in the disease. Epidemiological and entomological studies confirmed Phlebotomus orientalis as the vector in several parts of the country, typically associated with Acacia seyal and Balanites aegyptiaca vegetation. Infection rates with Leishmania were high, but subject to seasonal variation, as were the numbers of sand flies. Parasites isolated from humans and sand flies belonged to three zymodemes (MON-18, MON-30 and MON-82), which all belong to the L. donovani sensu lato cluster. Transmission dynamics have not been elucidated fully; heavy transmission in relatively scarcely populated areas such as Dinder national park suggested zoonotic transmission whereas the large numbers of patients with post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) in heavily affected villages may indicate a human reservoir and anthroponotic transmission. Clinical presentation in adults and in children did not differ significantly, except that children were more anaemic. Fever, weight loss, hepato-splenomegaly and lymphadenopathy were the most common findings. PKDL was much more common than expected (56% of patients with VL developed PKDL), but other post-VL manifestations were also found affecting the eyes (uveitis, conjunctivitis, blepharitis), nasal and/or oral mucosa. Evaluation of diagnostic methods showed that parasitological diagnosis should still be the mainstay in diagnosis, with sensitivities for lymph node, bone marrow and spleen aspirates of 58%, 70% and 96%, respectively. Simple, cheap serological tests are needed. The direct agglutination test (DAT) had a sensitivity of 72%, specificity of 94%, positive predictive value of 78% and negative predictive value of 92%. As with other serological tests, the DAT cannot distinguish between active disease, subclinical infection or past infection. The introduction of freeze-dried antigen and control sera greatly improved the practicality and accuracy of the DAT in the field. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using recombinant K39 antigen had higher sensitivity than DAT (93%). The polymerase chain reaction using peripheral blood gave a sensitivity of 70-93% and was more sensitive than microscopy of lymph node or bone marrow aspirates in patients with suspected VL. The leishmanin skin test (LST) was typically negative during active VL and converted to positive in c. 80% of patients 6 months after treatment. Immunological studies showed that both Th1 and Th2 cell responses could be demonstrated in lymph nodes from VL patients as evidenced by the presence of messenger ribonucleic acid for interleukin (IL)-10, interferon gamma and IL-2. Treatment of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from VL patients with IL-12 was found to drive the immune response toward a Th1 type response with the production of interferon gamma, indicating a potential therapeutic role for IL-12. VL responded well to treatment with sodium stibogluconate, which is still the first line drug at a dose of 20 mg/kg intravenously or intramuscularly per day for 15-30 d. Side effects and resistance were rare. Liposomal amphotericin B was effective, with few side effects. Control measures have not been implemented. Based on observations that VL does not occur in individuals who have a positive LST, probably because of previous cutaneous leishmaniasis, a vaccine containing heat-killed L. major promastigotes is currently undergoing a phase III trial."}
{"id": "11370249", "title": "Leishmaniasis in Sudan. Mucosal leishmaniasis.", "content": "Leishmaniasis in Sudan. Mucosal leishmaniasis. Sudanese mucosal leishmaniasis is a chronic infection of the upper respiratory tract and/or oral mucosa caused mainly by Leishmania donovani. The disease occurs in areas of the country endemic for visceral leishmaniasis, particularly among Masalit and other closely related tribes in western Sudan. The condition may develop during or after an attack of visceral leishmaniasis, but in most cases it is a primary mucosal disease. Unlike South American mucocutaneous leishmaniasis, mucosal leishmaniasis in Sudan is not preceded or accompanied by a cutaneous lesion. Pathologically, the lesions show a mixture of macrophages, plasma cells and lymphocytes. An epithelioid granuloma may also be found. Parasites are scanty. Diagnosis is established by demonstration of parasites in smears or biopsies, by culture or animal inoculation, or with the aid of the polymerase chain reaction. Most patients give positive results in the direct agglutination test and leishmanin skin test. Patients respond well to treatment with pentavalent antimony compounds."}
{"id": "11355552", "title": "False-positive results of leishmanin skin test due to phenol-containing diluent.", "content": "False-positive results of leishmanin skin test due to phenol-containing diluent."}
{"id": "11334970", "title": "Optimisation of an ELISA for the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis using in vitro derived promastigote antigens.", "content": "Optimisation of an ELISA for the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis using in vitro derived promastigote antigens. An antibody detection ELISA was developed for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Antigens released by Leishmania donovani promastigotes into a protein-free medium were used. SDS-PAGE analysis has indicated that Ld-ESM contain several protein antigens. Titration and chequer-board analyses were performed to optimise the assay protocol. Optimal results were obtained when antigen (50 microg/ml) was coated with PBS-methyl glyoxal buffer, and wells blocked with 0.5% casein. A serum dilution of 1:500 in antigen-coated wells, blocked with 0.5% casein, generated lowest absorbance with Ref-ve sera and higher absorbance with Ref+ve sera. All steps of the ELISA were performed at room temperature. The S/N ratio, the differential absorbance between the negative sample vs. the test or Ref+ve sample, was used to quantify the specific antigen and antibody reactions. An anti-human monoclonal antibody conjugated with HRP (MAb-conjugate) outperformed a commercially available anti-human polyclonal antibody conjugate (PAb-conjugate). The MAb-conjugate gave minimal background reactions with endemic sera. Optimised final assay steps mentioned below were used to evaluate sera samples from field trials. ELISA wells were coated with 50 microg/ml Ld-ESM mixed in PBS-methyl glyoxal overnight, and after removing the antigen, blocked with 0.5% casein for 1 h at RT. Patient sera along with control sera, diluted to 1:500 in PBS/T, were reacted for 1 h at RT. After washing the plate with PBS/T, wells were reacted with MAb-conjugate for 40 min at RT, and after washing, binding of antibodies was visualized by using TMB as a chromogen substrate. The relative specific binding was quantified by the S/N ratio. A batch of n=22 endemic sera from North Africa were evaluated and resulted with 100% specificity and sensitivity, 99.99% PPV and 95.45% NPV. The specificity and sensitivity of this assay will be further evaluated in planned retrospective and prospective multi-site trials."}
{"id": "11280075", "title": "Interleukin-13 in Iranian patients with visceral leishmaniasis: relationship to other Th2 and Th1 cytokines.", "content": "Interleukin-13 in Iranian patients with visceral leishmaniasis: relationship to other Th2 and Th1 cytokines. The role of interleukin (IL)-13, a Th2 cytokine sharing many of the features of IL-4, has not previously been examined in patients with visceral leishmaniasis (VL). We examined sera from Iranian patients with VL caused by Leishmania infantum. Serum IL-13 was detected in 50% (22/44) of patients with active primary disease. In comparison, IL-10 was detected in 79.5% (35/44), interferon gamma (IFN gamma) in 38.5% (17/44), and IL-4 in only 5% (2/44) of these patients. With few exceptions all 3 cytokines were undetectable after clinical recovery following antimony therapy. Five of 7 patients (71%) who failed antimony therapy and had relapsing disease had similar levels of IL-10 to patients with active primary disease. However, with only 1 exception, IL-13, IFN gamma and IL-4 were not detected in such patients. These data suggest that relapsing disease may result from defective cellular immunity, unrelated to immunosuppression mediated by IL-10."}
{"id": "11278494", "title": "Lack of abundance of cytoplasmic cyclosporin A-binding protein renders free-living Leishmania donovani resistant to cyclosporin A.", "content": "Lack of abundance of cytoplasmic cyclosporin A-binding protein renders free-living Leishmania donovani resistant to cyclosporin A. The majority of the effects of cyclosporin A (CsA) on cells is caused by the inhibition of phosphatase activity of calcineurin (CN) by the cyclophilin A (CyPA)-CsA complex formed in the cytoplasm. Although CsA inhibits the proliferation of a large number of parasites, not all are susceptible. The presence of structurally altered CyPA with lower affinity for CsA had been suggested to be the cause of resistance. We report here the identification and cloning of a high affinity CsA-binding protein (LdCyP) from Leishmania donovani, a trypanosomatid parasite that is naturally resistant to CsA. The translated LdCyP consists of 187 amino acids with a cleavable 21-amino acid hydrophobic NH(2)-terminal extension. Modeling studies confirmed that all the residues of human CyPs responsible for interaction with CsA are sequentially and conformationally conserved in LdCyP. The purified recombinant protein displayed biochemical parameters comparable to human CyPs. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis confirmed that LdCyP was abundantly expressed. Immunoblot experiments and direct CsA binding studies revealed that LdCyP located in the subcellular organelles constituted the bulk of the CsA binding activity present in L. donovani, whereas the level of binding activity in the cytosol was conspicuously low. CsA selectively facilitated the secretion of LdCyP in the culture medium. Based on these results, it is concluded that the insensitivity of L. donovani to CsA is probably due to the paucity of CsA binding activity in the cytoplasm of the parasite. We suggest that LdCyP, located in the secretory pathway, may function as a chaperone by binding to membrane proteins rather than as the mediator of CN inhibition."}
{"id": "11251906", "title": "Diagnosing visceral leishmaniasis with the recombinant K39 strip test: experience from the Sudan.", "content": "Diagnosing visceral leishmaniasis with the recombinant K39 strip test: experience from the Sudan. We compared a strip test employing recombinant K39 (rK39) antigen and protein A/colloidal gold as read-out agents with the rK39 ELISA for IgM and IgG antibodies and the direct agglutination test (DAT) using 55 sera from patients with parasitologically confirmed visceral leishmaniasis (VL). The rK39 strip test was positive in 37/55 (67%), the DAT in 50/55 (91%) at > or = 1 : 1600 cut-off value and in 47/55 (85%) at > or = 1 : 6400 cut-off value. The rK39-ELISA gave positive IgG results for all sera; those who had a positive strip test had significantly higher IgG levels than those with a negative strip test (31.1 (SD=3.6) and 17.7 U/ml (SD=9.8), respectively, P < 0.0001). A total of 31/55 (56%) sera showed a positive IgM result; of these 27 (49%) had a positive strip test. We tested 115 apparently cured VL patients with the strip test during follow-up; 68 were also tested with DAT. In the strip test, 25-43% of patients had a positive result at time points 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after treatment; for DAT (cut-off > or = 1 : 1600) these results were 67-83%. In neither test did a significant decrease in positivity rates occur over time (P=0.37 for the strip test, P=0.17 for the DAT). No correlation (P=0.33) was found between a positive strip test and a positive DAT result (cut-off > or = 1: 1600), indicating that the strip test and DAT are complementary rather than interchangeable. Of 61 endemic controls two (3%) had a positive strip test result; both had a positive leishmanin skin test. The rK39 strip test has the ideal format for use in the field, but its sensitivity is limited; like DAT, but to a lesser extent, it remains positive after treatment."}
{"id": "11226477", "title": "An improved anti-C3/IgG ELISA for quantification of soluble immune complexes.", "content": "An improved anti-C3/IgG ELISA for quantification of soluble immune complexes. A semi-quantitative ELISA for complement-fixing, IgG-containing immune complexes (IC) is described. The assay is based on the insolubilization of IC by polyethyleneglycol, their capture by solid-phase anti-C3 antibodies, reaction with peroxidase-labeled anti-IgG antibodies and incubation with a chromogenic peroxidase substrate. It was markedly improved by the use of a single-step procedure which simultaneously washed and precipitated the insolubilized immune complexes. Intra-assay and inter-assay coefficients of variation were lower than 8.6 and 14.7%, respectively. As expected, higher levels of circulating immune complexes, in relation to healthy individuals, were found in patients with American visceral leishmaniasis (AVL), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA), with prevalences comparable to those described in the literature. The ELISA can be quickly assembled from reagents and plasticware widely available commercially, detects immune complexes fulfilling three different criteria and is more sensitive than a previously published method based on the same principles (detection limit for complement-sensitized aggregated IgG of 2 microg ml(-1) as compared with a detection limit above 16 microg ml(-1))."}
{"id": "11166894", "title": "Immunisation with DNA encoding Leishmania infantum protein papLe22 decreases the frequency of parasitemic episodes in infected hamsters.", "content": "Immunisation with DNA encoding Leishmania infantum protein papLe22 decreases the frequency of parasitemic episodes in infected hamsters. We tested in outbred golden hamsters the protective potential of highly immunogenic Leishmania infantum protein papLe22 which we recently identified. Immunisation was performed using papLe22 cDNA, administered as a single intramuscular injection. The level of antibodies directed against total leishmanial antigens was significantly decreased in the vaccinated hamsters as compared with the controls, indicating that the administration of papLe22 cDNA downregulated the Th2 type response and suggesting that the immune response was reoriented toward the cell-mediated type. The presence of the parasite kDNA in the peripheral blood was systematically detected as early as 3 weeks post infection in all mock-vaccinated hamsters. By contrast, in the vaccinated animals the occurrence of the episodes of Leishmania circulation was reduced by 50%. The immunisation presenting efficacy in this highly susceptible species which develop VL similar in gravity to human and canine disease should prove also efficient in naturally infected hosts. The marked decrease of the frequency of parasite circulation induced by papLe22 cDNA immunisation appears therefore important and potentially able to reduce transmission and thus to control the spread of the disease."}
{"id": "11164745", "title": "Latex agglutination test for the detection of urinary antigens in visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Latex agglutination test for the detection of urinary antigens in visceral leishmaniasis. This paper describes a new latex agglutination test ('KATEX') for the detection of leishmanial antigen in the urine of patients with visceral leishmaniasis. In preliminary laboratory trials, using urine collected from well-defined cases and controls from Brazil, Yemen and Nepal, the test had 100% specificity and a sensitivity between 68 and 100%. When used in a time-course experiment in cotton rats infected with Leishmania donovani, the test became positive 1 week after inoculation and antigen levels in urine declined rapidly after chemotherapy (the test was negative before the end of the course of treatment). Finally, in an integrated study performed in Sudan, KATEX was compared to microscopy and four different serological tests in a group of 73 patients having presented with clinical manifestations suggestive of visceral leishmaniasis. Compared to microscopy, KATEX performed better than any single serological test in predicting positivity and a particularly good result was obtained by combining KATEX and the direct agglutination test (DAT)."}
{"id": "14658226", "title": "Leishmania infantum species-specific kDNA probes: isolation and evaluation.", "content": "Leishmania infantum species-specific kDNA probes: isolation and evaluation. The study refers to the isolation of specific DNA probes to the parasite species Leishmania (L) infantum according to different strategies using recombinant minicircles isolated from L. infantum kinetoplast DNAs. A first probe was identified following a classical procedure. One mini-circle selected for strong reactivity to L. infantum total DNA was used to identify specific subfragments to this species among which the 95bp fragment, 3B8HaeIII-2 was selected. For the obtention of the second probe, a strategy based on sequential screenings for specificity and sensitivity was applied. This allowed identification of a set of minicircles showing an increased specificity to L. infantum as compared to other species, and an increased sensitivity of reaction as compared to the other minicircles. Subclonings and screenings allowed a final selection of a 137bp-minicircle fragment: 3E9HaeIII-12. Reactivities of the 2 probes were assessed on a panel of total DNAs and promastigotes from 74 isolates pertaining to 9 species encountered in the Old World. Parasites isolated in Tunisia from different foci, different hosts after different transmission seasons were included. Hybridizations have shown the exquisite specificity of these probes to L. infantum in this country. Probe 3E9HaeIII-12 was found to be the more sensitive where down to 10 ng of total DNA and 10(3) promastigotes could be detected. From this study and as compared to data provided in the literature, the second procedure allowed at least 10-fold increase in sensitivity."}
{"id": "12862135", "title": "Safety and immunogenicity of an autoclaved Leishmania major vaccine.", "content": "Safety and immunogenicity of an autoclaved Leishmania major vaccine. To test the safety and immunogenicity of two doses of autoclaved L. major (ALM) vaccine mixed with BCG. Kala-azar endemic area of eastern Sudan. This was a randomised, double blind and BCG controlled phase I/II study. Eighty healthy volunteers (forty children and forty adults) with no past history of kala-azar, no reactivity to leishmanin antigen and with a reciprocal direct agglutination test (DAT) titre of <200 were recruited. Informed consents were obtained from volunteers or their guardians in case of children. Conversion in the leishmanin skin and the DAT tests. Two intra-dermal injections of either ALM+BCG or BCG alone. The injections were three weeks apart. Side effects were minimal and confined to the injection site, with no significant difference between the ALM+BCG and the BCG alone groups. The leishmanin skin conversion was significantly higher in the ALM+BCG group compared to the BCG alone group (p<0.0005). Furthermore, the Leishmanin skin test conversion was significantly higher in children than adults (p<0.0005). One adult volunteer in the ALM+BCG group converted in both the Leishmanin skin and the DAT tests. We conclude that two doses of ALM+BCG are safe and immunogenic, especially in children."}
{"id": "12567693", "title": "Rapid screening with a recombinant antigen (rK39) for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis using dipstick.", "content": "Rapid screening with a recombinant antigen (rK39) for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis using dipstick. To evaluate the diagnostic value of the recombinant antigen of 39 amino acid repeats encoded by a kinesin-like gene of Leishmania changasi (rK39) in serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). In Kashi, Xinjiang, 13 VL patients with splenomegaly and bone marrow aspirate culture positive were subjected to dipstick assay. A drop of whole blood or serum from patient was placed at the absorbing pad at the bottom of the dipstick. Flooding of the bottom protein with buffer allows serum proteins to migrate upwards, producing the positive band and Western blot analysis of rK39 subsequently performed with the sera collected. The end-point titers of anti-rK39 antibodies of these sera were determined by ELISA and found to fall within the range of 10(-2) to 10(-4), which were consistent with the intensity of their reaction with rK39 in dipstick assay. The positive sera could also recognize the specific rK39 band as analyzed by Western blot analysis. The rK39 dipstick assay is more rapid, specific, sensitive and less invasive than the conventional methods of diagnosis for VL in the areas of low endemicity."}
{"id": "12567678", "title": "[Diagnosis of kala-azar by rK39 dipstick assay].", "content": "[Diagnosis of kala-azar by rK39 dipstick assay]."}
{"id": "11388508", "title": "Use of the recombinant K39 dipstick test and the direct agglutination test in a setting endemic for visceral leishmaniasis in Nepal.", "content": "Use of the recombinant K39 dipstick test and the direct agglutination test in a setting endemic for visceral leishmaniasis in Nepal. We evaluated the field use of two serologic tests for visceral leishmaniasis (VL), the direct agglutination test (DAT) and rK39 dipstick test, in the context of a case-control study. Most VL cases in Nepal are currently diagnosed on clinical grounds and with relatively non-specific tests such as the formol-gel test. Among 14 newly diagnosed VL patients with bone-marrow slides confirmed positive in two independent laboratories, the sensitivity of both tests was 100%. Among 113 controls with no personal or household history of VL, the specificity of the rK39 was 100% while that of the DAT was 93%. The rK39 was less expensive than DAT, and has the advantages of ease of use and obtaining results within minutes. The wider use of the rK39 dipstick test could improve the specificity of VL diagnosis in Nepal."}
{"id": "11304066", "title": "Human immune response to sand fly salivary gland antigens: a useful epidemiological marker?", "content": "Human immune response to sand fly salivary gland antigens: a useful epidemiological marker? Antibody (IgG) responses to salivary gland homogenate and to a recombinant salivary protein from the sand fly Lutzomyia longipalpis were investigated using sera from children living in an endemic area of visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil. We classified children into four groups according to their responses to Leishmania antigen: (Group I) positive serology and positive delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH), (Group II) positive serology and negative DTH, (Group III) negative serology and positive DTH, and (Group IV) negative serology and negative DTH. A highly significant correlation was found between anti-salivary gland IgG levels and DTH responses. An L. longipalpis salivary recombinant protein used as an antigen in an enzyme-linked immuno sorbent assay (ELISA) gave a significant but different result. A positive correlation was found between anti-Leishmania IgG and anti-recombinant protein IgG titers. The results indicate that sand fly salivary proteins may be of relevance to the study the epidemiology of leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "11209254", "title": "[Detection of antibodies against Trypanosoma cruzi in Somoto, Nicaragua, using indirect ELISA and IFI on blood samples on filter paper].", "content": "[Detection of antibodies against Trypanosoma cruzi in Somoto, Nicaragua, using indirect ELISA and IFI on blood samples on filter paper]. We standardized a solid-phase enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in order to study the presence of Trypanosoma cruzi antibodies in asymptomatic persons who live in an area of Nicaragua endemic for Chagas' disease. The test was standardized to analyze filter-paper blood samples, which are easy to transport. In the first phase of our investigation, ELISA was used to study 18 samples of total serum and 18 eluates of blood from patients with chronic Chagas' disease; 30 samples of serum and 30 eluates of blood from healthy people, used as negative controls; and 14 samples of serum and 14 eluates of blood from patients with cutaneous or visceral leishmaniasis, which were used to study cross-reactions. Both with the total-serum and the blood-eluate samples, the ELISA test provided 100% sensitivity and 90% specificity. Cross-reactions in the patient samples were observed only with visceral leishmaniasis. The second phase of our investigation was a population study that included eight rural communities in the area of Somoto, Nicaragua. Through random sampling, filter-paper blood samples were collected from 2,434 people (1,335 men and 1,099 women) from the communities of Aguas Calientes, El Brocal, La Manzana, Las Playas, Los Canales, Santa Isabel, Santa Rosa, and Santa Teresa. Studied by ELISA and by indirect immunofluorescence (IIF), the samples included 260 found seropositive by ELISA (10.7%), of which 207 were positive according to IIF (8.5%). With both techniques, the majority of seropositives were among women, but the difference between men and women was not statistically significant. There was a high level of agreement between the results obtained with the two techniques. There was an upward trend with age, with 5.4% of those found seropositive by ELISA being persons 10 years of age or younger and 42.7% of those found seropositive being older than 50. The vast majority of the individuals analyzed were asymptomatic."}
{"id": "11198396", "title": "Relevance of direct agglutination test in seroepidemiological survey of Kala-azar in epidemic foci of Bihar.", "content": "Relevance of direct agglutination test in seroepidemiological survey of Kala-azar in epidemic foci of Bihar. The performance of direct agglutination test (DAT) was evaluated under field conditions in three endemic districts of Bihar. In three villages of these districts, 197 households were surveyed with a population of 1167 individuals. Out of 1167 individuals, 603 were clinically examined for VL and blood samples of each examined individual were collected for DAT. The proportion of DAT positivity in both males (32.33%) and females (32.94%) was statistically not significant (p > 0.05). The proportion of DAT positivity in all age groups was observed to be similar (p > 0.05). The GMRT was observed highest in active VL cases. Out of 20 DAT positive individuals having fever, 5 were examined parasitologically (bone marrow aspiration) and in three cases positivity was observed. This showed the relevance of DAT in early diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis and usefulness of DAT in field conditions."}
{"id": "11168034", "title": "Circulating levels of sTNFR and discrepancy between cytotoxicity and immunoreactivity of TNF-alpha in patients with visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Circulating levels of sTNFR and discrepancy between cytotoxicity and immunoreactivity of TNF-alpha in patients with visceral leishmaniasis. To study the influence of soluble tumour necrosis factor (TNF) receptors (sTNFR) on bioactivity and immunoreactivity of TNF-alpha in patients with visceral leishmaniasis (Kala-azar) and to examine the association between circulating levels of sTNFR type I and type II with clinical manifestations of the disease. Ten patients with Kala-azar were enrolled. Plasma samples for TNF-alpha and sTNFR were obtained on days 0, 7 and 21-28 of antimonial therapy. Bioactivity of TNF-alpha was measured by cytotoxicity to L-929 cells and immunoreactivity by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). sTNFR-I and sTNFR-II were measured by ELISA. Measured by ELISA, TNF-alpha was detected at baseline in all patients (range from 22.3 to 163 pg/mL) and showed a linear decline over time on therapy (r = -0.49, P = 0.007). In contrast, when measured by cytotoxicity assay, TNF-alpha was detected in only one patient at baseline (193 pg/mL) and in four patients at the end of therapy (38.7, 95, 133 and 232 pg/mL) and there was no linear association between TNF-alpha and duration of therapy (r = -0.18, P = 0.45). sTNFR-I and sTNFR-II were detected in all patients before therapy. There was a strong positive correlation between plasma concentrations of sTNFR-I and sTNFR-II (r = 0.8, P = 0.006). Levels of sTNFR-I and sTNFR-II declined exponentially with time on therapy. We concluded that sTNFR-I and sTNFR-II are related to disease activity in patients with Kala-azar and that these circulating receptors may interfere with the biological activity of TNF-alpha in patients with Kala-azar."}
{"id": "11155376", "title": "[Role of direct agglutination test (DAT) in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Tunisia].", "content": "[Role of direct agglutination test (DAT) in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Tunisia]. Direct agglutination test (DAT) is a simple ans economical technique for visceral leishmaniasis diagnosis. An evaluation, held in Tunisia with 41 confirmed visceral leishmaniasis cases and 58 negative controls, showed a sensitivity of 95.1% and a specificity of 96.5%. These results were highly correlated with those of ELISA and fluorescent antibody test. The use of DAT in our country will be very relevant, mainly in district hospitals, where others classical tests are not available. It will also be useful during sero-epidemiological studies on both human and canine visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "11132368", "title": "Visceral leishmaniasis control: a public health perspective.", "content": "Visceral leishmaniasis control: a public health perspective. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), also known as kala-azar, is a vector-borne disease caused by a protozoan of the Leishmania donovani complex. A phlebotomine sandfly transmits the parasite from person to person or via an animal reservoir. VL is a severe, debilitating disease, characterized by prolonged fever, splenomegaly, hypergammaglobulinaemia and pancytopenia. Patients become gradually ill over a period of a few months, and nearly always die if untreated. Case-fatality ratios are high even in treated patients. Worldwide an estimated 500,000 VL cases occur each year. This study reviews clinical, epidemiological and public health aspects of the disease and shows how critical adequate case detection is for the success of VL control. Examination of the issue of VL diagnosis with respect to the global challenges in VL control leads to the observation that a sound diagnostic-therapeutic algorithm for the health services in endemic areas is badly needed. Serological tests could be an alternative to parasitological diagnosis and the direct agglutination test (DAT) was found to fulfil many criteria for a 'field test', including cost effectiveness. Although research needs on vaccine and better drugs continue to be high on the agenda, a VL test-treatment strategy based on currently available highly sensitive serological tests, such as the DAT, should be introduced in the health services in endemic areas."}
{"id": "11075771", "title": "Autoclaved Leishmania major vaccine for prevention of visceral leishmaniasis: a randomised, double-blind, BCG-controlled trial in Sudan.", "content": "Autoclaved Leishmania major vaccine for prevention of visceral leishmaniasis: a randomised, double-blind, BCG-controlled trial in Sudan. Visceral leishmaniasis is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the Sudan. Drug treatment is expensive, and drug resistance is becoming increasingly common. Safe, effective, and cheap vaccines are needed. We report the results of a vaccine trial against human visceral leishmaniasis. We undertook a double-blind randomised trial to test the safety and efficacy of an autoclaved Leishmania major (ALM) promastigote vaccine (1 mg per dose). Of 5093 volunteers screened, 2306 had negative leishmanin skin tests and reciprocal titres of less than 6400 in the direct agglutination test. They were randomly assigned two doses of ALM mixed with BCG or BCG alone. Volunteers were followed up for 2 years. The primary endpoint was clinical visceral leishmaniasis or post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis. Analyses were by intention to treat. Side-effects were confined to the injection site. The cumulative frequency of visceral leishmaniasis at 2 years did not differ significantly between the group assigned ALM plus BCG and that assigned BCG alone (133/1155 [11.5%] vs 141/1151 [12.3%], p=0.6). The vaccine efficacy was 6% (95% CI -18 to 25). The proportion of individuals showing leishmanin skin conversion was significantly higher in the ALM plus BCG group than in the BCG alone group throughout follow-up (303 [30%] vs 72 [7%] at 42 days). Individuals whose leishmanin test converted after vaccination (induration > or =5 mm) had a significantly lower frequency of visceral leishmaniasis than non-responders (27/375 [7.2%] vs 210/1660 [12.7%], p=0.003). We found no evidence that two doses of ALM plus BCG offered significant protective immunity against visceral leishmaniasis compared with BCG alone. Leishmanin skin conversion with an induration of 5 mm or more in either group was associated with protection from the disease."}
{"id": "10998226", "title": "Visceral leishmaniosis caused by Leishmania (L.) mexicana in a Mexican patient with human immunodeficiency virus infection.", "content": "Visceral leishmaniosis caused by Leishmania (L.) mexicana in a Mexican patient with human immunodeficiency virus infection. A 36 year old male was admitted in December 1997 to hospital with afternoon fever, malaise and hepatosplenomegaly. He also had a dry cough, dyspnoea and anaemia. Pneumonia caused by Pneumocystis carinii and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection were documented. The HIV infection was confirmed in 1997 with 290,000 virus copies. The patient had been in the Mexican State of Chiapas which is known to be endemic for visceral leishmaniosis (VL) and localized cutaneous leishmaniosis (LCL). The visceral symptoms were diagnosed as VL and the causal agent was identified as Leishmania (L. ) mexicana. Identification of Leishmania was carried out by the analysis of amplified DNA with specific primers belonging to the Leishmania subgenus and by dot blot positive hybridisation of these polymerase chain reaction derived products with kDNA from the L. (L. ) mexicana MC strain used as probe. This is the first case in Mexico of VL caused by a species of Leishmania that typically produces a cutaneous disease form."}
{"id": "10995097", "title": "Leishmaniasis in the Sudan: a literature review with emphasis on clinical aspects.", "content": "Leishmaniasis in the Sudan: a literature review with emphasis on clinical aspects. The literature on the leishmaniases in the Sudan is reviewed with an emphasis on clinical aspects and on literature related to the recent outbreaks in the south and east of the country. The numbers of cases of subclinical infection and post-kala azar dermal leishmaniasis in the recent outbreaks are remarkable. New diagnostic techniques have been introduced and evaluated, notably the direct agglutination test and polymerase chain reaction technology. The latter gives very promising results and further research into application of the technique is warranted. Treatment with pentavalent antimony is still satisfactory. The reservoir host has not been identified definitely."}
{"id": "10958448", "title": "Induction of partial protection against Leishmania donovani by promastigote antigens in negatively charged liposomes.", "content": "Induction of partial protection against Leishmania donovani by promastigote antigens in negatively charged liposomes. Negatively charged liposomes, proposed as potential vaccine adjuvants, have been extensively studied in association with various antigens. In the present study, we investigated the adjuvanicity of negatively charged liposomes to enhance the protective immunity of membrane antigens of Leishmania donovani promastigotes (LAg). In comparison to the control mice immunized with phosphate-buffered saline and empty liposomes, immunization with free LAg led to significant levels of protection against infection with virulent promastigotes. Encapsulation of LAg in liposomes also induced effective protection. However, the level of protection by LAg-liposome was not significantly different from that induced by free LAg. Investigation of the immune responses showed, in contrast to free LAg, that immunization with LAg-liposome elicited strong antibody responses. IgG isotype analysis revealed the presence of all 4 isotypes. However, the titer of IgG1 was significantly higher than IgG2a, IgG2b, and IgG3. Following infection, stimulation of IgG and IgG isotypes did not differ in the different immunization groups. Delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) analysis after immunization showed significant induction by LAg and LAg-liposomes, in comparison to controls. With infection, again, the level of DTH in all the groups became almost comparable. Stimulation of insufficient cellular response, as reflected by DTH and potentiation of IgG1 over IgG2a, IgG2b, and IgG3 suggest a dominance of Th2 response with this liposome-antigen formulation, resulting in weak protection against visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "10950806", "title": "Competence of the human host as a reservoir for Leishmania chagasi.", "content": "Competence of the human host as a reservoir for Leishmania chagasi. The failure of control programs for visceral leishmaniasis (VL) that depend on elimination of infected dogs suggests that other reservoir hosts may participate in the transmission cycle. To determine whether persons infected with Leishmania chagasi can infect the vector sand fly, laboratory-reared Lutzomyia longipalpis were allowed to feed on Brazilian subjects with active, cured, and asymptomatic VL and on asymptomatic residents of houses of persons with active VL. Of 3747 insects that had fed, 26 acquired infection from 11 of the 44 persons with active VL, but none acquired infection from the 137 asymptomatic persons. Among persons <4 years old with active VL, a history of diarrhea and higher peripheral blood neutrophil counts were independent predictors of infectivity. Further experiments using larger numbers of insects are necessary to evaluate the reservoir competence of persons with asymptomatic infections, who represent a large segment of the population of several Brazilian cities."}
{"id": "10897360", "title": "Evaluation of a 200-kDa amastigote-specific antigen of L. donovani by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Evaluation of a 200-kDa amastigote-specific antigen of L. donovani by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. A purified 200-kDa antigenic fraction from Leishmania donovani axenic amastigotes was evaluated by ELISA for the detection of antibody response in visceral leishmaniasis (VL) patients, post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) patients and controls, for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. A positive antibody response to the 200-kDa amastigote fraction and to Leishmania amastigote soluble antigen (LASA) was found in 29 (96.6%) and 30 ((100%) confirmed VL patients, respectively, by the use of ELISA. However, only 1 (10%) out of 10 PKDL patients had detectable antibody response to 200-kDa fraction while all the 10 (100%) PKDL patients exhibited an immune response to LASA. Therefore, use of the 200-kDa antigenic fraction for the detection of antibody response in an ELISA follow-up (post treatment) of VL patients may have prognostic significance, and it may also be useful for differentiating active VL and PKDL."}
{"id": "10761737", "title": "Short report: occurrence of Leishmania donovani DNA in donated blood from seroreactive Brazilian blood donors.", "content": "Short report: occurrence of Leishmania donovani DNA in donated blood from seroreactive Brazilian blood donors. Human visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar) transmitted by blood transfusion has been described in previous reports. Seroprevalence of antibodies to Leishmania donovani was shown to be related to prior blood transfusions in multiply transfused hemodialysis patients in Natal, Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil. In this study, a possible correlation between seroreactivity and the presence of L. donovani DNA was investigated in asymptomatic healthy blood donors. Sera were tested using the fucose mannose ligand (FML) ELISA, which was shown to have a sensitivity of 100%, a specificity of 96-100%, reliability, and diagnostic and prognostic potential for the detection of human and canine kala-azar, respectively. Leishmanial DNA was assessed by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and dot-blot hybridization techniques in blood and bone marrow samples. Among 21 FML-seroreactive asymptomatic blood donors, 5 (24%) were positive by the PCR and 9 (43%) were positive in a dot-blot assay of blood samples, showing a significant correlation (chi2 = 14.24, P < 0.01). No Leishmania DNA was detected in 20 FML non-reactive blood donors. Our results point to the need for control of transmission of kala-azar by blood transfusion in areas endemic for this disease."}
{"id": "10748894", "title": "Detection of antibodies to Leishmania donovani in animals in a kala-azar endemic region in eastern Sudan: a preliminary report.", "content": "Detection of antibodies to Leishmania donovani in animals in a kala-azar endemic region in eastern Sudan: a preliminary report. The prevalence of antibodies against Leishmania donovani in selected domestic and wild animal species in 2 villages in Sudan with active L. donovani transmission in humans was investigated. Screening of domestic animals (donkeys, cows, sheep, goats, camels and dogs) with the direct agglutination test (DAT) detected reaction rates above the cut-off titres in donkeys (68.7%), cows (21.4%) and goats (8.5%), and which were also found in wild rats (5.5%). Sera of sheep, camels and dogs had a weak agglutination reaction below the cut-off titre. Testing of the same sera by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), against a lysate of L. donovani promastigotes, showed reaction rates above the cut-off optical density in cows (47.6%), goats (13.6%), and in rats (4.1%). No Leishmania parasite was isolated from spleen, liver, bone-marrow or spleen of Nile rats."}
{"id": "10716069", "title": "Hepatitis B, C and human immunodeficiency virus infections in multiply-injected kala-azar patients in Delhi.", "content": "Hepatitis B, C and human immunodeficiency virus infections in multiply-injected kala-azar patients in Delhi. Sera from 164 patients with parasitologically confirmed kala-azar and 100 patients with non-kala-azar Delhite in 2 Delhi hospitals were tested for anti-human immunodeficiency (anti-HIV) and anti-hepatitis C virus (anti-HCV) antibodies and hepatitis B surface antigens to determine which group is more likely to contract these infections. The mean age of the patients was 32.5 y (+/-6.5 y), (120 M, 44 F). Two patients were from Nepal and the others from the kala-azar endemic state of Bihar, India. As geographical controls, 50 serum samples from sex- and age-matched healthy Bihar residents were also tested for the blood-borne viral infections. All patients had been treated with injectable medicines by 1 or more local physicians before they were referred to the Delhi hospitals. The prevalence of hepatitis B virus (HBV) and HCV infection was significantly different between the 2 patient groups. While 2 kala-azar patients (1.21%) were found to be HIV-1 positive, 54 (32.9%) patients had anti-HCV antibodies detected by ELISA and 51 (31.1%) by RIBA test. The seroprevalence of HCV was only 2% in hospitalized non-kala-azar cases and 4% in the geographical controls (p < 0.001). The seroprevalence of HBV was 13.2% in hospitalized kala-azar cases, but only 1.75% in disease control cases and 1.6% in geographical control cases. The difference in infection rates between cases and controls was significant (p < 0.001). The results indicate that kala-azar patients treated locally in Bihar have a greater chance of contracting blood-borne infections. Interestingly, we found that HCV was more prevalent than HBV. These infections were most likely acquired through the re-use of needles by local medical and paramedical practitioners for administering anti-leishmanial drugs. This trend, if not checked immediately, may have drastic consequences in the horizontal transmission of HIV in Bihar."}
{"id": "10708005", "title": "High levels of C-reactive protein in the peripheral blood during visceral leishmaniasis predict subsequent development of post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis.", "content": "High levels of C-reactive protein in the peripheral blood during visceral leishmaniasis predict subsequent development of post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis. Post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) is a known sequel to visceral leishmaniasis in India and East Africa, and in Sudan about 50% of the kala-azar patients develop PKDL. In this study we followed kala-azar patients from diagnosis and up to 2 years after initiation of treatment. During the first 6 months some developed PKDL (group 1), while some did not develop PKDL (group 2). We measured the plasma levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) at diagnosis of kala-azar (day 0), during treatment (day 15), after treatment (day 30) and later during the follow up period. At day 0, plasma CRP levels were higher in patients who later developed PKDL (group 1) than in patients who did not develop PKDL subsequently (group 2) (P = 0.008). At days 15 and 30, the CRP levels were comparable in the two groups, and lower than at day 0. We have previously shown that high plasma levels of IL 10 and in keratinocytes during visceral leishmaniasis predict subsequent development of PKDL. The method however requires expensive equipment and reagents. The results of the present study indicate that kala-azar patients, who have a high risk of developing PKDL after treatment can be identified by measuring plasma CRP."}
{"id": "10658425", "title": "Canine visceral leishmaniasis in Sicily.", "content": "Canine visceral leishmaniasis in Sicily. The Sicilian province of Catania is an active foci for human visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in the Mediterranean area. Approximately 10 to 15 cases of VL are diagnosed via hospital admissions each year in this community. Recently, an increase in VL case reporting by Sicilian physicians was noted, with 38 and 37 VL cases in 1996 and 1997, respectively. Before 1995, there were no reported VL cases among U.S. military personnel or their family members living in Sicily. However, since 1996, there have been four cases referred to Walter Reed Army Medical Center for diagnosis and treatment, all involving the children of personnel assigned to Naval Air Station Sigonella. Exposure histories for all infected individuals excluded exposure to Leishmania parasites outside of Sicily. All patients lived in areas where vectoring sandflies are present. All had dogs as family pets. To evaluate the level of infection among dogs owned by Navy personnel and their families, U.S. Navy Environmental and Preventive Medicine Unit 7, in a collaborative study with the U.S. Army Veterinary Clinic, Naval Air Station Sigonella, and the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, performed clinical evaluation and serological testing of 50 dogs residing with U.S. personnel assigned to Naval Air Station Sigonella. The data indicate a high exposure rate to Leishmania (60% of the animals tested had elevated immunoglobulin M antibody levels) in the study population, suggesting that they were infected with Leishmania infantum. Distribution of seropositive dogs by sex was equal. Most of the dogs studied appeared to be in good health. However, inapparent infection of dogs, seen by Italian veterinarians, has been observed throughout all areas of Catania. Sandflies responsible for vectoring L. infantum were trapped in the same locations as the dogs sampled in this study. The level of subclinical infection was 75% among seropositive dogs. The overall level of canine infection observed was higher than expected. This study demonstrates an increased risk to military working dogs and companion dogs of U.S. personnel for infection with L. infantum during a 2- to 3-year tour in Sicily."}
{"id": "10652117", "title": "Leucine rich repeats are the main epitopes in Leishmania infantum PSA during canine and human visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Leucine rich repeats are the main epitopes in Leishmania infantum PSA during canine and human visceral leishmaniasis. The PSA protein is one of the major antigens of the surface of the Leishmania infantum parasite membrane. We describe the immune humoral response against the PSA in dogs and human patients with visceral leishmaniasis caused by L. infantum. The immunodominant region of the PSA was determined by subcloning, expression and purification of three fragments covering the complete protein. The analysis revealed that the antibodies are mostly directed against the central region, which is formed exclusively by leucine rich repeats. This region is recognized by 100% of the sera from the infected dogs and 40% of the human sera. These percentages are significantly higher than those observed when the complete protein was used as antigen. The analysis of the isotype of the G immunoglobulins raised against the immunodominant determinants of the PSA indicates that both IgG1 and IgG2 classes are produced during natural infections but that the IgG2 predominates over that of the IgG1."}
{"id": "10645978", "title": "Detection of specific antibody isotypes and subtypes before and after treatment of American visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Detection of specific antibody isotypes and subtypes before and after treatment of American visceral leishmaniasis. Sera from patients with American visceral leishmaniasis (AVL) were studied before and after treatment based on their antibody isotypes and subtypes. The study was comprised of 33 Brazilian patients with well-defined diagnosis of AVL and 39 clinically healthy individuals. Antileishmanial antibody isotypes and subtypes were observed in almost all patients, except IgA that was detected in about 63% of them. The sensitivity and specificity of the immunofluorescence assay in the detection of antibody isotypes (IgG and IgM) and subtypes (IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, and IgG4) were high with no statistical difference, ranging from 0.937 to 1.000 and from 0.954 to 1.000, respectively. All IgG antibodies and its subtypes had their levels reduced after treatment. However, the IgG4 had an early decay and its conversion to negative was significantly high in children. Moreover, the profile of IgG4 before treatment corresponded to a unimodal curve that shifted to a patent bimodal curve after treatment, indicative of therapeutic success. Thus, the IgG4 shows to be a suitable immunological marker for the assessment of chemotherapy in AVL patients or communities. Our findings suggest that IgG4 correlates with IL-4 that also decreases after therapy."}
{"id": "10643901", "title": "A survey on canine leishmaniasis in western Turkey by parasite, DNA and antibody detection assays.", "content": "A survey on canine leishmaniasis in western Turkey by parasite, DNA and antibody detection assays. Human visceral leishmaniasis (VL) caused by Leishmania infantum is found throughout the Mediterranean Region, including Turkey, where dogs are considered to be the main reservoir host for this parasite. In the district of Manisa, western Turkey, 37 human VL cases were reported from June 1993-August 1997. Twenty-four villages in this district were chosen for a survey of disease prevalence in dogs. The dogs, 490 in total, were examined using either the indirect immunofluoresence assay (IFAT) or direct agglutination test (DAT). Anti-Leishmania antibodies were found by at least one test in 5.3% (26/490) of the dogs. Infections were confirmed by parasitological examination of or polymerase chain reaction (PCR) on lymph node aspirates in 65% (13/20) and 76.4% (13/17) of the seropositive dogs tested, respectively. The confirmation rate was 85% by combining the results of PCR and microscopy. Our results demonstrate that canine VL is wide spread in western Turkey where human VL is endemic, and that serodiagnosis is a valuable tool for monitoring the infection."}
{"id": "10618083", "title": "Performance of immunoblotting in diagnosis of visceral Leishmaniasis in human immunodeficiency virus-Leishmania sp.-coinfected patients.", "content": "Performance of immunoblotting in diagnosis of visceral Leishmaniasis in human immunodeficiency virus-Leishmania sp.-coinfected patients. This study evaluated the performance of immunoblotting with Leishmania infantum soluble antigens for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected and immunocompetent patients and assessed the humoral responses of patients coinfected with HIV and Leishmania. In this work, the results of the immunoblot analysis were compared to those of parasitological examination (Giemsa-stained smears and/or parasite isolation in Novy, Nicolle, and MacNeal medium from bone marrow) and indirect immunofluorescence and counterimmunoelectrophoresis techniques. Patients were considered to be infected if one or more of the comparison techniques gave a positive result. Immunoblotting was considered to be positive if at least one band was present. For 198 HIV-positive patients with a clinical suspicion of visceral leishmaniasis, immunoblot analysis had a sensitivity of 70.6%, a specificity of 73.2%, and an accuracy of 72.7%. For a separate group of 40 immunocompetent patients not infected with Leishmania, the immunoblot analysis was negative for all patients (100% specificity), and for a third group of 32 immunocompetent patients with confirmed visceral leishmaniasis, the immunoblot analysis was positive for all patients (100% sensitivity). Sera of coinfected patients recognized few bands and recognized bands at lower intensities compared with sera from immunocompetent patients. The most frequently detected band was 63 to 66 kDa (55.9%), with the difference being statistically significant compared to frequency of detection of the other bands. This study confirms that the humoral response in patients coinfected with HIV and Leishmania is much lower than that in immunocompetent patients and that the immunoblot method is a sensitive, noninvasive, and specific serological technique for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in immunocompromised patients."}
{"id": "10564720", "title": "Molecular characterization of a Leishmania donovanii cDNA clone with similarity to human 20S proteasome a-type subunit.", "content": "Molecular characterization of a Leishmania donovanii cDNA clone with similarity to human 20S proteasome a-type subunit. Using plasma from patients infected or previously infected with Leishmania donovanii, we isolated a L. donovanii cDNA clone with similarity to the proteasome a-type subunit from humans and other eukaryotes. The cDNA clone, designated LePa, was DNA sequenced and Northern blot analysis of L. donovanii poly(A(+))mRNA indicated the isolation of a full length cDNA clone with a transcript size of 1.9 kb. The expressed recombinant LePa fusion protein induced proliferation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells in one out of seven patients who had suffered from visceral leishmaniasis. Plasma from 16 out of 25 patients with visceral leishmaniasis and four out of 18 patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis contained IgG antibodies which reacted with the purified LePa fusion protein as evaluated in an ELISA. The LePa DNA sequence was inserted into an eukaryotic expression vector and Balb/c mice were vaccinated. DNA vaccination of Balb/c mice with LePa generated an initial significant reduction in lesion size after challenge."}
{"id": "10798038", "title": "Kala-azar--new developments in diagnosis and treatment.", "content": "Kala-azar--new developments in diagnosis and treatment. Kala-azar is an endemic disease in many parts of India. Traditionally, diagnosis of this disease was based on demonstrating the parasites in various tissues like bone marrow or splenic aspirates. However, lack of high sensitivity of these methods led to the use of various immunodiagnostic methods in the diagnosis of kala-azar. Antigen detection and polymerase chain reaction to detect parasitic DNA have been found to be useful in patients with an underlying immunosuppressive disease like AIDS. For treating kala-azar, pentavalent antimonial compounds are still the first-line agents. However, due to increasing resistance to this agent, many patients at present require other drugs including amphotericin B and pentamidine. Toxic effects of these second-line agents have led to development of drug delivery systems like liposomal amphotericin B, which has shown uniform efficacy in clinical trials. Combining stibogluconate with either paromomycin or interferon-gamma has also been shown to be useful in many patients with drug-resistant kala-azar."}
{"id": "10774675", "title": "Evaluation of direct agglutination test (DAT) as an immunodiagnostic tool for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Nepal.", "content": "Evaluation of direct agglutination test (DAT) as an immunodiagnostic tool for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Nepal. Before field application of the direct agglutination test (DAT) for leishmaniasis, it was assessed as a diagnostic tool. Fifteen confirmed visceral leishmaniasis cases (bone marrow aspiration positive), 120 tuberculosis, 58 leprosy, 15 malaria, 26 intestinal parasitic infection cases, 24 endemic healthy controls from adjacent to the study area, and 18 controls from Kathmandu (who had never visited the VL endemic areas) were tested for anti-leishmanial antibody agglutination titers. Two of the tuberculosis cases were positive for anti-leishmanial agglutinating antibodies at 1:800. All the visceral leishmaniasis confirmed cases were reactive to anti-leishmanial antibody at > or = 1:3,200. Other specimens were negative for serology. The sensitivity of the direct agglutination test was 100% and the specificity was 99.2%. The direct agglutination test had positive and negative predictive values of 100% and 99.2% respectively. The direct agglutination test has been found to be simple, rapid, reliable, economic, safe and adaptable to micro-techniques using microtiter plates. It is specific and sensitive. The direct agglutination test is simple enough for it to be performed in a field laboratory."}
{"id": "10715698", "title": "Evaluation of a standardized direct agglutination test (DAT) for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Kenya.", "content": "Evaluation of a standardized direct agglutination test (DAT) for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Kenya. A prototype test kit being developed, by the World Health Organization (WHO), for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) was evaluated in the Baringo district of Rift Valley province in Kenya. The screening of approximately 10,000 individuals for the signs of VL produced 305 suspected cases. These cases and 304 controls matched for sex and age (+/- 2 years) were then tested with the kit, which is based on a direct agglutination test (DAT). The evaluation was a three-stage process. The first stage, the field screening, involved screening filter-paper samples of dried blood from the suspects and controls at a DAT titre of 1:500. The second stage, the laboratory titration, involved screening of the same individuals by testing freshly eluted filter-paper samples at 1:500 to 1:2000 dilution. In the third stage, the full-scale titration, all samples that had been positive at 1:2000 were titrated at 1:500-1:512,000. All the suspects giving DAT titres of 1:2000 or higher were considered positive for VL. This diagnosis was checked, whenever possible, by the examination of smears and/or cultures of splenic aspirates for leishmanial parasites. Those found to be parasitologically positive were put on a standard treatment regime of 20 mg sodium stibogluconate (Pentostam)/kg.day. Although 42 (13.8%) of the 305 clinical suspects investigated were DAT-positive (at 1:2000), it was only possible to take splenic aspirates from 32. Four (12.5%) of these 32 were apparently false-positives by DAT, as no parasites could be detected in their splenic aspirates. The others provided positive smears and cultures (27 cases) or a negative smear but a positive culture (one case). It was possible to re-examine two of the four serologically positive but parasitologically negative VL suspects at a 3-month follow-up: neither had a palpable spleen, one had seroconverted and the other had much lower DAT titre (1:32,000) than when investigated previously (1:128,000). All the parasitologically confirmed cases remained DAT-positive (1:2000) at this follow-up. The low cut-off titre (1:2000) and the simple procedure should make the kit suitable for use by health workers at all levels of primary-health care, including those with limited training and skills, for screening rural communities at risk of VL."}
{"id": "10713835", "title": "Diagnosis and management of Kala azar.", "content": "Diagnosis and management of Kala azar."}
{"id": "10674675", "title": "Epidemiologic aspects of American visceral leishmaniasis in an endemic focus in Eastern Venezuela.", "content": "Epidemiologic aspects of American visceral leishmaniasis in an endemic focus in Eastern Venezuela. An endemic focus of American visceral leishmaniasis (AVL) in eastern Venezuela has been evaluated in terms of patients (n = 48), immunologic reactivity to Leishmania in household contacts (n = 187) and neighborhood controls (n = 170), detection of Leishmania (L. donovani complex) in dogs and wild animals by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and characteristics of the sandfly population. The male:female ratio of patients was 1.18:1; 89.6% were < or =12 years old. Serologic reactivity was significantly higher in household contacts than in controls (P = 0.0008), as was the size of leishmanin reactions in contacts < or =10 years of age (P = 0.0141). Leishmania donovani complex-specific PCRs were positive in dogs, an opossum (Didelphis marsupialis), and a black rat (Rattus rattus). Lutzomyia longipalpis and Lu. evansi, both implicated in the transmission of AVL, were identified among the 386 sand flies examined. These observations provide the bases for an active control program as well as further studies of reservoirs and vector-host relationships in this area."}
{"id": "10674674", "title": "Kala-azar in a high transmission focus: an ethnic and geographic dimension.", "content": "Kala-azar in a high transmission focus: an ethnic and geographic dimension. In 1994-1996, we studied a group of 58 game wardens stationed in an area known to be highly endemic for visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar) for evidence of infection with Leishmania donovani. Leishmania DNA was detected by the polymerase chain reaction in the peripheral blood of cases of active kala-azar, former patients with visceral leishmaniasis, patients, and asymptomatic subjects. Using the cloned antigen rk39, antibodies were detected in 44.2% of the game wardens while leishmanin skin test result was positive in 77% of our sample. It was shown that certain tribes from northern Sudan were more likely to develop subclinical infections, while those of the Baria tribe from southern Sudan and those of the Nuba tribe from western Sudan were more likely to develop visceral leishmaniasis. Whether this is due to genetic factors or previous exposure to Leishmania parasites remains to be elucidated."}
{"id": "10569788", "title": "Differential decline in Leishmania membrane antigen-specific immunoglobulin G (IgG), IgM, IgE, and IgG subclass antibodies in Indian kala-azar patients after chemotherapy.", "content": "Differential decline in Leishmania membrane antigen-specific immunoglobulin G (IgG), IgM, IgE, and IgG subclass antibodies in Indian kala-azar patients after chemotherapy. Pathogenesis in kala-azar is associated with depressed cellular immunity and significant elevation of antileishmanial antibodies. Since these antibodies are present even after cure, analysis of the parasite-specific isotypes and immunoglobulin G (IgG) subclasses in kala-azar patients may shed new light on the immune responses during progression and resolution of infection. Using leishmanial membrane antigenic extracts, we investigated the relative levels of specific IgG, IgM, IgA, IgE, and IgG subclasses in Indian kala-azar patient sera during disease, drug resistance, and cure. Acute-phase sera showed strong stimulation of IgG, followed by IgE and IgM and lastly by IgA antibodies. IgG subclass analysis revealed expression of all of the subclasses, with a predominance of IgG1 during disease. Following sodium stibogluconate (SAG) resistance, the levels of IgG, IgM, IgE, and IgG4 remained constant, while there was a decrease in the titers of IgG2 and IgG3. In contrast, a significant (2.2-fold) increase in IgG1 was observed in these individuals. Cure, in both SAG-responsive and unresponsive patients, correlated with a decline in the levels of IgG, IgM, IgE, and all of the IgG subclasses. The stimulation of IgG1 and the persistence, most importantly, of IgE and IgG4 following drug resistance, along with a decline in IgE, IgG4, and IgG1 with cure, demonstrate the potential of these isotypes as possible markers for monitoring effective treatment in kala-azar."}
{"id": "10564916", "title": "Prevalence of Trypanosoma cruzi and Leishmania chagasi infection and risk factors in a Colombian indigenous population.", "content": "Prevalence of Trypanosoma cruzi and Leishmania chagasi infection and risk factors in a Colombian indigenous population. This study was carried out in order to obtain base-line data concerning the epidemiology of American Visceral Leishmaniasis and Chagas' Disease in an indigenous population with whom the government is starting a dwelling improvement programme. Information was collected from 242 dwellings (1,440 people), by means of house to house interviews about socio-economic and environmental factors associated with Leishmania chagasi and Trypanosoma cruzi transmission risk. A leishmanin skin test was applied to 385 people and 454 blood samples were collected on filter paper in order to detect L. chagasi antibodies by ELISA and IFAT and T. cruzi antibodies by ELISA. T. cruzi seroprevalence was 8.7% by ELISA, L. chagasi was 4.6% and 5.1% by IFAT and ELISA, respectively. ELISA sensitivity and specificity for L. chagasi antibodies were 57% and 97.5% respectively, as compared to the IFAT. Leishmanin skin test positivity was 19%. L. chagasi infection prevalence, being defined as a positive result in the three-immunodiagnostic tests, was 17.1%. Additionally, 2.7% of the population studied was positive to both L. chagasi and T. cruzi, showing a possible cross-reaction. L. chagasi and T. cruzi seropositivity increased with age, while no association with gender was observed. Age (p<0.007), number of inhabitants (p<0. 05), floor material (p<0.03) and recognition of vector (p<0.01) were associated with T. cruzi infection, whilst age ( p<0.007) and dwelling improvement (p<0.02) were associated with L. chagasi infection. It is necessary to evaluate the long-term impact of the dwelling improvement programme on these parasitic infections in this community."}
{"id": "10534192", "title": "Sensitivity and specificity of a rapid immunochromatographic test for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Sensitivity and specificity of a rapid immunochromatographic test for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. A rapid immunochromatographic dipstick test has become available for the qualitative detection of total anti-Leishmania immunoglobulins using the recombinant K39 antigen. To evaluate the test, 96 serum specimens from patients with a variety of tropical infections were tested. Fourteen of the specimens derived from patients with parasitologically confirmed kala-azar, and all were strongly positive for antibodies to Leishmania donovani complex using the immunofluorescence test. Although all 82 samples negative by the immunofluorescence test were confirmed as negative by the dipstick assay, only 10 (71.4%) of the 14 positive samples were reactive. These results indicate that the test in its current form lacks sufficient sensitivity to be recommended as a screening tool, but it might be useful for indicating further diagnostic procedures in a clinical setting."}
{"id": "10516788", "title": "Cost-effectiveness of competing diagnostic-therapeutic strategies for visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Cost-effectiveness of competing diagnostic-therapeutic strategies for visceral leishmaniasis. Reported are the results of a formal decision analysis which facilitated the choice of the most appropriate test-treatment strategy for visceral leishmaniasis in areas where the disease is endemic. The following strategies were compared: treatment of all suspects (strategy A); testing by means of parasitological investigation followed by treatment of positives (strategy B); two-step testing by means of the direct agglutination test (DAT) followed by treatment of patients with high titres as well as those with parasitologically confirmed borderline titres (strategy C); and DAT followed by treatment of positives (strategy D). The results for each strategy were expressed as costs in US$ per death averted. The effectiveness of strategies C and D was close to that of strategy A and far better than that of strategy B. The cost-effectiveness ratio for strategies C and D (US$ 465 per death averted) was not substantially higher than that of testing by means of parasitological investigation followed by treatment of positives (strategy B), which was the most cost-effective strategy at US$448 per death averted. At current prices of antimonial drugs, the cost of test-treatment strategies depends more on the cost of treatment than on that of testing. The use of a sensitive serological test such as the DAT is recommended as the basis of test-treatment strategies for visceral leishmaniasis in areas where the disease is endemic. This paper reports the results of a formal decision analysis. This facilitates in choosing the most appropriate test-treatment strategy for visceral leishmaniasis in endemic areas. Four strategies were compared based on their cost-effectiveness expressed in US dollars per death averted. These strategies include: (A) testing by means of parasitological investigation followed by treatment of positives; (B) two-step testing by means of the direct agglutination test (DAT); (C) treatment of patients with high titers as well as those with parasitologically confirmed borderline titers; and (D) DAT followed by treatment of positives. The results showed that the effectiveness of strategies C and D was close to that of strategy A and far better than that of strategy B. The cost-effectiveness ratio for strategies C and D was US$465 per death averted, which is not substantially higher than that of strategy B, while strategy B is the most cost-effective at US$448 per death averted."}
{"id": "10498181", "title": "Cloning, characterization and serological evaluation of K9 and K26: two related hydrophilic antigens of Leishmania chagasi.", "content": "Cloning, characterization and serological evaluation of K9 and K26: two related hydrophilic antigens of Leishmania chagasi. We report here the molecular cloning and characterization of two related hydrophilic antigens of Leishmania chagasi. These two antigens have predicted molecular weights of approximately 9 and 26 kDa and detect antibodies in sera of patients with kala-azar (k). Thus, to maintain consistency with nomenclature of the previously described 39 kDa diagnostic antigen of L. chagasi (k39 [1]), these antigens are being referred to as k9 and k26. A significant difference between k9 and k26 is the presence of 11 copies of a 14 amino acid repeat in the open reading frame of k26. The region flanking the repeats of k26 shares a 69% identity with the open reading frame of k9. The recombinant proteins encoded by both antigens are very hydrophilic and show aberrant migration on SDS PAGE. Results of Southern blot analysis reveal that k9 and k26 are conserved to varying degrees among various Leishmania species. Interestingly, the repeat region of k26 is specific to L. chagasi and L. donovani while the flanking region is conserved among several other species. Transcript levels of k26 are significantly upregulated in the amastigote stage of the parasite. Our results show that recombinant K26 is specific in detecting antibodies in infection sera from visceral leishmaniasis (VL) patients. Thus rK26 may complement rK39 in a more accurate diagnosis of VL in the old and the new world."}
{"id": "10497995", "title": "Serodiagnosis of leishmaniasis with recombinant ORFF antigen.", "content": "Serodiagnosis of leishmaniasis with recombinant ORFF antigen. The serodiagnostic potential of recombinant ORFF protein (rORFF) from Leishmania infantum was assessed by ELISA. Of 49 sera from confirmed cases of visceral leishmaniasis (VL), all were seropositive using 5 ng of rORFF and serum diluted 1:20, while only 38 were positive with 500 ng of soluble antigen (SA) and 44 were positive by a direct agglutination test. There was also a positive correlation between spleen size and level of seropositivity with rORFF or SA. The reciprocal endpoint titer with rORFF was 1,280 for sera from VL patients, but < 20 with sera from malaria, filariasis, and tuberculosis patients, as well as with sera from healthy individuals from endemic and non-endemic areas. Sera from 10 confirmed cutaneous leishmaniasis cases from Turkey were negative or only weakly positive with rORFF although 9 were positive with SA. Thus, rORFF protein appears useful as a sensitive reagent for the differential diagnosis of VL caused by the Leishmania donovani complex."}
{"id": "10492802", "title": "Western blot analysis of humoral immune response to Leishmania donovani antigens in patients with post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis.", "content": "Western blot analysis of humoral immune response to Leishmania donovani antigens in patients with post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis. Sera from 32 Indian patients with post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) were examined for antibodies by immunoblot analysis using an antigen extract of Leishmania donovani. The study revealed that the humoral immune response in PKDL patients was quite distinct compared to that in kala-azar patients. Antibodies to 3 antigens of L. donovani (molecular sizes 110, 65 and 38-42 kDa) were predominant in a majority (78%) of PKDL patients. The most important finding was the consistent recognition of 2 parasite antigens (of 110 and 65 kDa) by PKDL sera; antibodies to the 110-kDa antigen were detectable in 97% of cases, while antibodies to the 65-kDa antigen were detectable in 100% of cases that were examined. None of the 18 cases of leprosy, 10 of vitiligo, or the 30 healthy persons included in the study showed antibodies to these 2 antigens. Thus Western blot analysis provided a highly sensitive test for PKDL patients. Further, it led to the identification of 2 parasite antigens (110 and 65 kDa) that elicit an antibody response in 97-100% of PKDL patients. Purified or recombinant versions of these proteins deserve consideration as potential target antigens in development of simpler, highly specific and sensitive serodiagnostic tests for PKDL."}
{"id": "10492758", "title": "Evaluation of the direct agglutination test (DAT) using freeze-dried antigen for the detection of anti-Leishmania antibodies in stored sera from various patient groups in Ethiopia.", "content": "Evaluation of the direct agglutination test (DAT) using freeze-dried antigen for the detection of anti-Leishmania antibodies in stored sera from various patient groups in Ethiopia. Tests on a panel of 421 serum samples from Ethiopia and 11 from Europe with the direct agglutination test (DAT) and freeze-dried antigen (Leishmania donovani 1S) showed that a cut-off titre of 1:200 or 1:400 could be employed. Using a cut-off titre of 1:400, 181 (88.3%) of 205 serum samples from visceral leishmaniasis (VL) patients tested positive, as did 5 (13.9%) of 36 sera from patients with localized cutaneous leishmaniasis, 5 (71.4%) sera from 7 patients with diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis and 8 (89.9%) sera from 9 HIV-positive VL patients. We also found that 19 (57.6%) sera from 33 treated VL patients were still positive in the DAT at 1.5 to 5 years after treatment."}
{"id": "10464386", "title": "Detection of specific IgE antibodies in parasite diseases.", "content": "Detection of specific IgE antibodies in parasite diseases. Activation of Th1 or Th2 cells is associated with production of specific immunoglobulin isotypes, offering the opportunity to use antibody measurement for evaluation of T cell function. Schistosomiasis and visceral leishmaniasis are diseases associated with Th2 activation. However, an IgE response is not always detected in these patients. In the present study we evaluated specific IgE antibodies to S. mansoni and L. chagasi antigens by ELISA after depletion of serum IgG with protein G immobilized on Sepharose beads or RF-absorbent (purified sheep IgG antibodies anti-human IgG). In schistosomiasis patients, specific IgE to SWAP antigen was demonstrable in only 10 of 21 patients (48%) (mean absorbance +/- SD = 0.102 +/- 0.195) when unabsorbed serum was used. Depletion of IgG with protein G increased the number of specific IgE-positive tests to 13 (62%) and the use of RF-absorbent increased the number of positive results to 20 (95%) (mean absorbances +/- SD = 0.303 +/- 0. 455 and 0.374 +/- 0.477, respectively). Specific IgE anti-L. chagasi antibodies were not detected in unabsorbed serum from visceral leishmaniasis patients. When IgG was depleted with protein G, IgE antibodies were detected in only 3 (11%) of 27 patients, and the use of RF-absorbent permitted the detection of this isotype in all 27 visceral leishmaniasis sera tested (mean absorbance +/- SD = 0.104 +/- 0.03). These data show that the presence of IgG antibodies may prevent the detection of a specific IgE response in these parasite diseases. RF-absorbent, a reagent that blocks IgG-binding sites and also removes rheumatoid factor, was more efficient than protein G for the demonstration of specific IgE antibodies."}
{"id": "10450438", "title": "Serodiagnosis of Leishmania donovani infections: assessment of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays using recombinant L. donovani gene B protein (GBP) and a peptide sequence of L. donovani GBP.", "content": "Serodiagnosis of Leishmania donovani infections: assessment of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays using recombinant L. donovani gene B protein (GBP) and a peptide sequence of L. donovani GBP. The repetitive sequence of Leishmania major gene B protein (GBP) has previously been shown to be a useful tool in the diagnosis of cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL). Here, we have assessed enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) using recombinant L. donovani GBP (rGBP) and a peptide sequence of L. donovani GBP (GBPP) in the diagnosis of L. donovani infections in Sudan. The sensitivity of the rGBP ELISA in diagnosing visceral leishmaniasis (VL) and post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) was 92% and 93%, respectively. In contrast, the sensitivity of the GBPP ELISA was 55% for VL and 63% for PKDL. Plasma antibody reactivity of donors with VL and PKDL remained high for an extended period after the end of treatment. Antibody-reactivity to rGBP and GBPP was detected in 71% and 14% of plasma samples from CL patients, respectively. Plasma from healthy Sudanese donors living in an area endemic for malaria but free of leishmaniasis was negative in both assays."}
{"id": "10402977", "title": "Latent class analysis permits unbiased estimates of the validity of DAT for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Latent class analysis permits unbiased estimates of the validity of DAT for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Substantial uncertainty surrounds the specificity of the Direct Agglutination Test (DAT) for visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in clinical suspects, since no good gold standard exists for unequivocally identifying diseased subjects. We explored the Latent Class Analysis (LCA) modelling technique to circumvent this problem. Data on 149 clinical suspects recruited in 1993-96 during a multicentre study in Sudan were re-examined. Clinical data, lymph node and bone marrow aspirate and DAT results were available. IFAT was performed in 1997 on stored filter paper blood of 80 individuals. Classical Validity Analysis (CVA) in a 2 x 2 contingency table with parasitology as a gold standard was compared with the parameter estimates produced by the best fitting LCA model. The sensitivity estimates of DAT produced by CVA (98% (89%-100%)) were almost exactly reproduced by LCA. The specificity estimates by LCA were substantially higher than those obtained in CVA. Specificity of DAT depended, however, on whether the subject was treated for VL before. In subjects without prior treatment, CVA estimated DAT specificity at 68% (56%-79%), whereas LCA estimated it at 85% (63%-100%). LCA modelling proved a useful tool, as it gave consistent estimates of test characteristics and allowed for control of confounding factors and interaction effects. Since VL is a life-threatening disease for which expensive but effective and safe treatment exists, a clinical suspect in an endemic area should be treated on the basis of a positive DAT result."}
{"id": "10391861", "title": "Diagnostic and prognostic potential of a competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for leishmaniasis in India.", "content": "Diagnostic and prognostic potential of a competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for leishmaniasis in India. A Leishmania donovani species-specific monoclonal antibody (monoclonal antibody D2) was evaluated for its diagnostic and prognostic potential by a competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (C-ELISA) in sera from Indian patients with visceral leishmaniasis (VL) and seven patients with post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL). These results were compared with those obtained by microscopy with Giemsa-stained tissue smears and a direct enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (direct ELISA) with crude parasite antigen. Of 121 patients with clinically diagnosed VL examined, 103 (85.1%) were positive and 11 (9.1%) were negative by all three methods. An additional 7 (5.8%) who were negative by microscopy were positive by both C-ELISA and direct ELISA. Seven PKDL patients were also examined and were found to be positive by all three methods. Analysis of the chemotherapeutic response to sodium antimony gluconate of these 110 serologically positive VL patients showed that 57 (51.8%) were drug responsive and 53 (48.2%) were drug resistant. The C-ELISA with sera from 20 longitudinally monitored VL patients before and after chemotherapy showed a significant decrease in percent inhibition of monoclonal antibody D2 in drug-responsive patients. However, in drug-unresponsive patients, the percent inhibition of D2 was unchanged or was slightly increased. Our results therefore indicate (i) the applicability of L. donovani species-specific monoclonal antibody D2 for sensitive and specific serodiagnosis by C-ELISA, (ii) that the C-ELISA is more sensitive than microscopy, especially for early diagnosis, (iii) that L. donovani is still the main causative agent of VL, irrespective of the chemotherapeutic response, and (iv) that the C-ELISA can be used to evaluate the success of drug treatment."}
{"id": "10203171", "title": "Multi-centre evaluation of repeatability and reproducibility of the direct agglutination test for visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Multi-centre evaluation of repeatability and reproducibility of the direct agglutination test for visceral leishmaniasis. To evaluate the repeatability and reproducibility of the serological direct agglutination test (DAT) for visceral leishmaniasis (VL) with aqueous antigen in a multi-centre study in VL-endemic areas in Sudan, Kenya and Nepal. Repeatability within each centre and reproducibility between the centres' results and an external reference laboratory (Belgium) was assessed on 1596 triplicate plain blood samples collected on filter paper. High kappa values (range 0.86-0.97) indicated excellent DAT repeatability within the centres. The means of the titre differences between the reference laboratory and the centres in Sudan, Kenya and Nepal (2.3, 2.4 and 1.1, respectively, all significantly different from 0) showed weak reproducibility across centres. 95% of the titre differences between the reference laboratory and the respective centres were accounted for by large intervals: 0.6-9 fold titre variation for Sudan, 0.7-8 fold for Kenya and 0.26-4 fold for Nepal. High repeatability of DAT confirms its potential, but reproducibility problems remain an obstacle to its routine use in the field. Reproducibility was hindered by alteration of the antigen through temperature and shaking, especially in Kenya and Sudan, and by nonstandardization of the test reading. DAT handling procedures and antigen quality must be carefully standardized and monitored when introducing this test into routine practice."}
{"id": "10066659", "title": "Immunoglobulin subclass distribution and diagnostic value of Leishmania donovani antigen-specific immunoglobulin G3 in Indian kala-azar patients.", "content": "Immunoglobulin subclass distribution and diagnostic value of Leishmania donovani antigen-specific immunoglobulin G3 in Indian kala-azar patients. Visceral leishmaniasis, or kala-azar, a fatal tropical disease, remains problematic, as early diagnosis is difficult and treatment often results in drug resistance and relapse. We have developed a sensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), using leishmanial membrane antigenic extracts (LAg) to detect specific antibody responses in 25 untreated Indian visceral leishmaniasis patients. To investigate the pathogenetic significance of isotype markers in kala-azar, relative levels of specific immunoglobulin G (IgG), IgM, IgA, IgE, and IgG subclasses were analyzed under clinically established diseased conditions. Since LAg showed higher sensitivity for specific IgG than lysate, the immunoglobulin isotype responses were evaluated, with LAg as antigen. Compared to 60 controls, which included patients with malaria, tuberculosis, leprosy, and typhoid and healthy subjects, visceral leishmaniasis patients showed significantly higher IgG (100% sensitivity, 85% specificity), IgM (48% sensitivity, 100% specificity), and IgE (44% sensitivity, 98.3% specificity) responses. Low levels of IgA in visceral leishmaniasis patients contrasted with a 13-fold-higher reactivity in sera from patients with leprosy. Among IgG subclasses, IgG1, -3, and -4 responses were significantly higher in visceral leishmaniasis patients than in the controls. IgG2 response, however, was significantly higher (twofold) in leprosy than even visceral leishmaniasis patients. The rank orders for sensitivity (IgG = IgG1 = IgG3 = IgG4 > IgG2 > IgM > IgE > IgA) and specificity (IgM = IgG3 > IgE > IgG4 > IgG2 > IgG > IgG1 > IgA) for LAg-specific antibody responses suggest the potentiality of IgG3 as a diagnostic marker for visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "9988336", "title": "Operational validation of the direct agglutination test for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Operational validation of the direct agglutination test for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. The validity of the direct agglutination test (DAT) for visceral leishmaniasis (VL) was studied with a standardized field kit on 148 clinically suspected persons and 176 healthy controls recruited between 1993 and 1994 from an endemic area in Gedaref State, Sudan. A sensitivity of 95.9% and a specificity of 99.4% were found at a 1: 8,000 cut-off titer when parasitologically confirmed cases were compared with healthy controls. While corroborating previously reported sensitivity and specificity estimates of this serodiagnostic test, this study examined the bias generated by commonly used test validation procedures. The fundamental methodologic problem in VL test validation is the absence of a reliable gold standard. Moreover, any operational guideline on DAT use has to consider the critical dependency of the predictive values of the test on VL prevalence rates. The DAT diagnostic cut-off titer depends upon many external factors, among which the prevalence of disease in the area and the case mix seem the most important."}
{"id": "10372969", "title": "Identification of antibodies directed against O-acetylated sialic acids in visceral leishmaniasis: its diagnostic and prognostic role.", "content": "Identification of antibodies directed against O-acetylated sialic acids in visceral leishmaniasis: its diagnostic and prognostic role. A significantly increased O-acetylated sialic acid (O-AcSA) binding fraction was purified from serum of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) patients by affinity chromatography on immobilized bovine submaxillary mucin (BSM) and found to be immunoglobulin in origin. The serodiagnostic and prognostic potential of BSM as a capture antigen was established by ELISA with no cross reactivity with coendemic diseases like malaria, tuberculosis, leprosy, chagas disease and cutaneous leishmaniasis; however, a strong cross reactivity was present with trypanosomiasis patients. In 56 clinically diagnosed VL patients, the BSM-ELISA was compared with diagnosis by microscopy using Giemsa stained tissue smears and direct ELISA using crude parasite antigen (parasite-ELISA); 49/56(87.5%) and 5/56(9.0%) were positive and negative respectively by all 3 methods. The BSM-ELISA failed to diagnose 2/56(3.5%) patients which were biopsy and parasite-ELISA positive. The prognostic potential of the BSM-ELISA in 18 longitudinally monitored VL patients before and after conventional antimonial treatment showed a significant decrease in anti O-AcSA titres in drug responsive patients whereas anti O-AcSA levels persisted in drug unresponsive patients. The IgG subclass distribution of antibodies directed against O-AcSA showed increased IgG2 levels in VL patients as compared to healthy controls. The BSM-based ELISA holds great promise as a serodiagnostic and prognostic assay for VL."}
{"id": "9949454", "title": "[First case in Russia of coinfection of visceral leishmaniasis and HIV-infection].", "content": "[First case in Russia of coinfection of visceral leishmaniasis and HIV-infection]."}
{"id": "9846221", "title": "[Canine leishmaniasis from Leishmania infantum: value and production of the latex test. Ecoepidemiologic applications].", "content": "[Canine leishmaniasis from Leishmania infantum: value and production of the latex test. Ecoepidemiologic applications]. The authors relate the realization, evaluation and eco-epidemiological applications of a \"field-test\": the agglutination of latex particles coated with a soluble antigen of Leishmania infantum in the presence of homologous antibodies. Evaluated on 1,035 canine sera, the sensitivity of the latex agglutination test (LAT) was 93.4% compared to the indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFAT). 90 node cultures were carried out on dogs with positive or negative LAT and/or positive or negative IFAT. The frequency of positive node cultures (70%) as versus positive LAT came between the results obtained for an IFAT > 1/40 (64%) and IFAT > 1/80 (73%). 32/33 (97%) dogs had positive node culture, LAT and IFIAT(> 1/80). 6 dogs had negative LAT but positive node culture: 5 of these had also an IFAT < 1/160. This test was used in the field on several eco-epidemiological surveys in leishmanian enzootic areas. Node cultures were made on the dogs with positive TL. 39 strains were isolated: 18 in Algeria, 15 in Morocco, 2 in Syria and 4 in Yemen. 13/39 strains were obtained from dogs with IFI < 1/160: 2 at 1/20, 8 at 1/40 and 3 at 1/80. In Algeria this test was also used for the diagnosis of human visceral leishmaniasis in a child. This quick, simple, sensitive and specific test could be usefully carried out on \"field\" surveys for the diagnosis of visceral-leishmaniasis in animals and human beings."}
{"id": "9840686", "title": "Analysis of the antigenic properties of the L. infantum Hsp70: design of synthetic peptides for specific serodiagnosis of human leishmaniasis.", "content": "Analysis of the antigenic properties of the L. infantum Hsp70: design of synthetic peptides for specific serodiagnosis of human leishmaniasis. The 70-kDa heat shock protein (Hsp70) is a major target of the humoral immune response during Leishmania infections. In the present paper, it is shown that 84.6% of sera from mucocutaneous leishmaniasis (MCL) patients and 78.9% of sera from visceral leishmaniasis (VL) patients reacted with the L. infantum Hsp70. The mapping of the antigenic determinants indicated that this protein is highly rich in linear B-epitopes. As the complete protein cannot be used for specific serodiagnosis of VL because it is also recognized by the sera from Chagas' disease patients, a search for specific epitopes recognized by leishmaniasis patients was undertaken. A 50-mer synthetic peptide, located in the most divergent region of the protein, was found to be recognized by a high percentage of leishmaniasis sera and not recognized by chagasic sera. Such a tool would be particularly useful for serodiagnosis of leishmaniasis in geographical areas where mixed infections with Trypanosoma cruzi and Leishmania occurs."}
{"id": "9797830", "title": "A diagnostic ELISA for visceral leishmaniasis, based on antigen from media conditioned by Leishmania donovani promastigotes.", "content": "A diagnostic ELISA for visceral leishmaniasis, based on antigen from media conditioned by Leishmania donovani promastigotes. Leishmania donovani promastigotes were cultured in a protein-free medium for 3-5 days and the spent medium used to prepare antibody-detection ELISA plates. When the plates were used to test 29 Kenyan and 16 Nepalese patients with visceral leishmaniasis (VL; kala-azar), all the sera collected at diagnosis were found to have high levels of parasite-specific IgG. The levels of these antibodies dropped 6-12 months post-initiation of antileishmanial therapy in all but one of the patients. Although the levels in sera from 59% of the treated patients fell to those measured in sera from healthy controls, those in sera from 17% of the patients did not drop below those seen at diagnosis. The antigen used did not cross-react with sera from patients with parasitological diagnosis of malaria, filariasis, African trypanosomiasis or echinococcosis. Antibodies to antigens in the spent medium were detected, by western blot, in all the sera from Nepalese patients with VL. Promastigote-conditioned media could be the source of cheap antigen for the immunodiagnosis of leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "9789439", "title": "[Control of canine visceral leishmaniasis: comparison of results from a rapid elimination program of serum-reactive dogs using an immunoenzyme assay and slower elimination of serum-reactive dogs using filter paper elution indirect immunofluorescence].", "content": "[Control of canine visceral leishmaniasis: comparison of results from a rapid elimination program of serum-reactive dogs using an immunoenzyme assay and slower elimination of serum-reactive dogs using filter paper elution indirect immunofluorescence]. The kala-azar control program, adopted by the Funda\u00e7\u00e3o Nacional de Sa\u00fade-FNS (National Health Foundation) has not been able to reduce to an acceptable level the incidence of human cases. The diagnostic method utilized is a blood eluate immunofluorescence. A dogs diagnosed as infected is eliminated a mean of eighty days after the blood collection. The low sensitivity of the test used and the continuing residence of the infected dog in the region due to the elimination delay may be critical in the lack of success of this program. In this study, the FNS standard canine control method is compared to a strategy based on ELISA identification of infected dog and elimination within 7 days. In both study areas the canine seroprevalence was noted ten months before and ten months after the intervention. In the routine FNS area a 9% decrease in seroprevalence was noted, compared to statistically significant greater 27%, reduction (p = 0.0015) in the ELISA intervention area."}
{"id": "9749638", "title": "Anti-leishmanial IgE antibodies: a marker of active disease in visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Anti-leishmanial IgE antibodies: a marker of active disease in visceral leishmaniasis. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is characterized by a depression of the T helper cell type 1 immune response. Although mRNA expression for interleukin-4 (IL-4) is observed, evidence of the role of this cytokine in the pathogenesis of VL has been lacking. Since IL-4 is involved in IgE synthesis, we measured the total IgE and Leishmania antigen-specific IgE antibody levels in sera from patients with VL. Specific IgE antibodies detected by an ELISA technique after absorbing the sera with purified sheep IgG anti-human IgG were found in all 23 patients with VL and were not detected in subjects with subclinical Leishmania chagasi infection (n = 10), Chagas' disease (n = 10), atopic patients (n = 10), and healthy controls (n = 10). Levels of Leishmania-specific IgE (optical density values) before and after treatment were 0.100 +/- 0.03 (mean +/- SD) and 0.028 +/- 0.002, respectively (P < 0.05). These results indicate that a specific IgE response is useful in the diagnosis of active disease and to evaluate response to treatment."}
{"id": "9749626", "title": "Serodiagnosis and epidemiology of visceral leishmaniasis in Turkey.", "content": "Serodiagnosis and epidemiology of visceral leishmaniasis in Turkey. Infantile Mediterranean visceral leishmaniasis (IVL) and anthroponotic cutaneous leishmaniasis (ACL) have long been known to exist in the western and southeastern Turkey, respectively. To further study these and other related diseases, a recombinant antigen (rK39) specific to VL was used in an ELISA for serodiagnosis of selected patients and for screening dog reservoir populations in several endemic sites. Among 24 confirmed VL cases from western Turkey, the rK39 ELISA proved to be more sensitive than a combination of cultivation and microscopy of bone marrow aspirates. The specificity of rK39 for leishmaniasis was demonstrated by its lack of cross-reactivity with sera from other human diseases in the same sites. Interestingly, six of the 83 parasitologically proven ACL cases from southeast Turkey were also rK39 positive. The end point titers of the positive VL and CL cases vary from 10(-2) to 10(-5) and from 10(-2) to 10(-3), respectively. The rK39 ELISA was also used to screen 494 apparently healthy dogs from Urfa in southeast Turkey, Manisa/Alasehir near the Aegean Sea, and Karabuk near the Black Sea. Eighteen rK39-positive cases (3.6%), all from the latter two areas, were found to have varying endpoint titers (10(-2)-10(-4)). The high titers predicted increased severity and frequency of the clinical symptoms (i.e., lymphadenopathy, depilation, skin lesion, weight loss and/or death), which were manifested subsequently in 16 of these 18 cases. In addition, more positive canine cases were diagnosed by the rK39 ELISA preclinically than the procedures to detect parasites postsymptomatically in the lymph node aspirates. The use of the rK39 ELISA as a sensitive tool makes it possible to demonstrate coendemicity of canine and human VL, as expected in the case of IVL. The results also point to the possible presence of additional VL types in western Turkey and cutanovisceral type in the southeast part of this country."}
{"id": "9729541", "title": "rK39 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for diagnosis of Leishmania donovani infection.", "content": "rK39 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for diagnosis of Leishmania donovani infection. The rK39 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was compared with the direct agglutination test (DAT) for Leishmania donovani infection in the Sudan. rK39 ELISA proved more sensitive than DAT in diagnosis of kala-azar (93 and 80%, respectively); both tests may remain positive up to 24 months after treatment. For patients with post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis and individuals with subclinical infection, rK39 ELISA performed as well as DAT but could detect infection 6 months earlier in approximately 40% of patients. Conversion in DAT and rK39 ELISA also occurred in leishmanin skin test (LST)-positive individuals, suggesting active parasite replication (rK39 is an amastigote antigen) in these presumably immune individuals. In contrast to DAT, rK39 ELISA also detected infection in randomly selected LST-positive individuals (in four of six) and endemicity (LST-negative) controls (in one of five). rK39 ELISA appears more sensitive than DAT and may prove an important tool in epidemiological studies."}
{"id": "9714418", "title": "Humoral and cellular immune responses to synthetic peptides of the Leishmania donovani kinetoplastid membrane protein-11.", "content": "Humoral and cellular immune responses to synthetic peptides of the Leishmania donovani kinetoplastid membrane protein-11. Native kinetoplastid membrane protein-11 (KMP-11), purified from crude extracts of Leishmania donovani parasites, activates T cells from individuals who have recovered from visceral leishmaniasis. In this work we used three 38-mer peptides spanning the amino acid sequence of the L. donovani KMP-11 as solid-phase ligands in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) and as stimulating antigens in lymphoproliferative assays in order to evaluate humoral and cellular immune responses to well-defined sequences of the protein. Antibody reactivity against the three peptides was measured in plasma from 63 Sudanese visceral leishmaniasis patients (VL) and the percentage of patients with anti-KMP-11 antibodies in ELISA were 37% (KMP-11-1), 30% (KMP-11-2) and 58% (KMP-11-3). The fraction of VL patients with measurable antibody reactivity in one or more of the three ELISAs was 79%. Cross-reactivity to the KMP-11 peptides was detected in plasma from Sudanese patients suffering from Leishmania major infections and in plasma from Sudanese and Danish patients infected with Plasmodium falciparum. In lymphoproliferative assays, 10 of 17 PBMC isolates from donors previously infected with L. donovani showed a response to one or more of the three KMP-11 peptides."}
{"id": "9713135", "title": "Presence of circulating levels of interferon-gamma, interleukin-10 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha in patients with visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Presence of circulating levels of interferon-gamma, interleukin-10 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha in patients with visceral leishmaniasis. Experimental murine L. major infection is characterized by the expansion of distinct CD4+ T cell subsets. The Th1 response is related to production of IFN-gamma and resolution of infection, whereas Th-2 response with production of IL-4 and IL-10 and dissemination of infection. The objective of this study was to measure the circulating levels of IFN-gamma, IL-10 and TNF-alpha in patients with visceral leishmaniasis (VL) before, during and at the end of therapy and to examine the association between cytokine levels and activity of VL. Fifteen patients with VL were evaluated. The cytokine determinations were done by using the enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA) before, during and at the end of therapy. At baseline, we detected circulating levels of IFN-gamma in 13 of 15 patients (median = 60 pg/ml); IL-10 in 14 of 15 patients (median = 141.4 pg/ml); and TNF-alpha in 13 of 14 patients (median = 38.9 pg/ml). As patients improved, following antimonial therapy, circulating levels of IL-10 showed an exponential decay (y = 82.34 e-0, 10367x, r = -0.659; p < 0.001). IFN-gamma was no longer detected after 7/14 days of therapy. On the other hand, circulating levels of TNF-alpha had a less pronounced decay with time on therapy, remaining detectable in most patients during the first seven days of therapy (y = 36.99-0.933x, r = -0.31; p = 0.05). Part of the expression of a successful response to therapy may, therefore, include reduction in secretion of inflammatory as well as suppressive cytokines. Since IL-10 and IFN-gamma are both detected prior to therapy, the recognized cellular immune depression seen in these patients may be due to biological predominance of IL-10 (type 2 cytokine), rather than lack of IFN-gamma (type 1 cytokine) production."}
{"id": "9707668", "title": "A sero-epidemiological study of visceral leishmaniosis in Izmir District, Turkey.", "content": "A sero-epidemiological study of visceral leishmaniosis in Izmir District, Turkey. Visceral leishmaniosis caused by Leishmania infantum have been reported in Turkey. A total of 2055 blood samples collected in Izmir and six surrounding villages were tested for anti-Leishmania antibodies. Three established immunodiagnostic techniques, indirect fluorescence antibody (IFA), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and direct agglutination test (DAT), were employed using promastigotes and rK39 as antigens for the detection of anti-Leishmania antibodies. Five sero-positive cases (0.24%) were detected by the three tests used."}
{"id": "9698836", "title": "Urban visceral leishmaniasis in Venezuela.", "content": "Urban visceral leishmaniasis in Venezuela."}
{"id": "9684645", "title": "The role of serology in the diagnosis and prognosis of visceral leishmaniasis in patients coinfected with human immunodeficiency virus type-1.", "content": "The role of serology in the diagnosis and prognosis of visceral leishmaniasis in patients coinfected with human immunodeficiency virus type-1. To define the possible role of serology in the diagnosis and prognosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in patients with human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1) infection, the dynamics of humoral immune responses was investigated in 20 coinfected patients. Sequential sera obtained before, during, and after VL diagnosis were analyzed by an indirect immunofluorescent antibody test (IFAT), a recombinant ELISA (using the rK39 protein), and immunoblotting. During the active course of the disease, positive results were found by IFAT or ELISA in 22% of the cases and by immunoblotting in 78% of the cases. A great variability in the response was observed during the follow-up with a trend to more positive results near the time of VL diagnosis. Forty-six percent of the patients were positive by IFAT or ELISA on at least one time point before VL and 37.5% were positive during the period following treatment. These results confirm the limited usefulness of the IFAT and ELISA in the diagnosis of VL in coinfected patients and demonstrate their low ability to predict the development or the outcome of disease. In these patients, immunoblotting could be a useful tool for studying the natural course of leishmaniasis, although it has limited value for diagnosis or treatment control."}
{"id": "9648362", "title": "Haemoculture as a tool for diagnosing visceral leishmaniasis in HIV-negative and HIV-positive patients: interest for parasite identification.", "content": "Haemoculture as a tool for diagnosing visceral leishmaniasis in HIV-negative and HIV-positive patients: interest for parasite identification. Between May 1993 and June 1996, 65 adults infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and 30 HIV-negative patients (8 children and 22 adults) from the Mediterranean region with symptoms that included at least fever were examined for Leishmania. A total of 128 bone marrow and 128 peripheral venous blood samples were taken and cultured on NNN medium. At the initial diagnosis, 14 (6 HIV-positive and 8 HIV-negative) of 15 patients with a positive blood culture also had a positive bone marrow culture. Two patients (1 HIV-positive and the other HIV-negative) had a positive bone marrow culture but a negative blood culture. During post-therapeutic check-ups, 7 out of 8 patients with a positive blood culture (6 HIV-positive and 1 HIV-negative) also had a positive bone marrow culture. On the other hand, three patients (2 HIV-positive and 1 HIV-negative) had a positive bone marrow but a negative blood culture. Relapses were more frequent (9/65 vs. 3/30) and the demonstration of Leishmania in the blood was commoner (6/65 vs. 2/30) in the HIV-positive than the HIV-negative patients. Stocks were identified by their isoenzymes: MON-1 from four HIV-positive and eight HIV-negative patients, MON-28 from one HIV-positive patient and MON-29 from another. For each patient, the same zymodeme was found in bone marrow and blood cultures, both at initial diagnosis and at follow-up. The prevalence of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) has been steadily increasing throughout the Mediterranean region. In HIV-infected patients, severe disruption of the immune system renders the standard technique of antibody detection unreliable and diagnosis must be based on the detection of parasites in bone marrow smears or cultures. This study evaluated the relative efficiency of detecting Leishmania by culturing peripheral blood and bone marrow on NNN medium in 65 HIV-positive and 30 HIV-negative patients with suspected VL. 128 bone marrow and 128 peripheral venous blood samples were cultured. At the initial diagnosis, 14 (6 HIV-positive and 8 HIV-negative) of 15 patients with a positive blood culture also had a positive bone marrow culture. 2 patients (1 HIV-positive and 1 HIV-negative) had a positive bone marrow culture but a negative blood culture. At post-therapeutic examination, 7 out of 8 patients with a positive blood culture (6 HIV-positive and 1 HIV-negative) also had a positive bone marrow culture, while 3 patients (2 HIV-positive and 1 HIV-negative) had a positive bone marrow but a negative blood culture. Relapses were more frequent among HIV-positive than HIV-negative patients (9/65 vs. 3/30) and the demonstration of Leishmania in the blood was more common (6/65 vs. 2/30). MON-1 was identified from 4 HIV-positive and 8 HIV-negative patients, MON-28 from 1 HIV-positive patient, and MON-29 from another HIV-infected patient. In each case, the same zymodeme was found in bone marrow and blood culture, both at initial diagnosis and at follow-up. These findings indicate that the minimally invasive hemoculture technique is an effective means of VL diagnosis in both HIV-infected and HIV-negative patients."}
{"id": "9632596", "title": "Human and murine immune responses to a novel Leishmania major recombinant protein encoded by members of a multicopy gene family.", "content": "Human and murine immune responses to a novel Leishmania major recombinant protein encoded by members of a multicopy gene family. Vaccination of BALB/c mice with Leishmania major promastigote culture filtrate proteins plus Corynebacterium parvum confers resistance to infection with L. major. To define immunogenic components of this protein mixture, we used sera from vaccinated mice to screen an L. major amastigote cDNA expression library. One of the immunoreactive clones thus obtained encoded a novel protein of L. major with a molecular mass of 22.1 kDa. The predicted amino acid sequence of this clone exhibited significant homology to eukaryotic thiol-specific-antioxidant (TSA) proteins. Therefore, we have designated this protein L. major TSA protein. Southern blot hybridization analyses indicate that there are multiple copies of the TSA gene in all species of Leishmania analyzed. Northern blot analyses demonstrated that the TSA gene is constitutively expressed in L. major promastigotes and amastigotes. Recombinant TSA protein containing an amino-terminal six-histidine tag was expressed in Escherichia coli with the pET17b system and was purified to homogeneity by affinity chromatography. Immunization of BALB/c mice with recombinant TSA protein resulted in the development of strong cellular immune responses and conferred protective immune responses against infection with L. major when the protein was combined with interleukin 12. In addition, recombinant TSA protein elicited in vitro proliferative responses from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of human leishmaniasis patients and significant TSA protein-specific antibody titers were detected in sera of both cutaneous-leishmaniasis and visceral-leishmaniasis patients. Together, these data suggest that the TSA protein may be useful as a component of a subunit vaccine against leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "9625911", "title": "The latex agglutination test: standardization and comparison with direct agglutination and dot-ELISA in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in India.", "content": "The latex agglutination test: standardization and comparison with direct agglutination and dot-ELISA in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in India. Laboratory diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is usually based on the detection of Leishmania amastigotes in samples of bone marrow or splenic aspirate obtained by invasive procedures. Serological tests serve as a useful adjunct and are especially valuable in early or highly immune cases where amastigotes may be too scanty to be seen easily. The direct agglutination test (DAT) is generally considered the most suitable of the four types of tests currently employed (IFAT, counter immuno-electrophoresis, ELISA and DAT). However, the latex agglutination test (LAT) was recently reported to be a rapid and sensitive screening tool for VL and one which could be carried out at the patient's bedside. Further standardization and evaluation of LAT has now revealed that although it is comparable with DAT and dot-ELISA in terms of sensitivity it is far inferior because of cross-reactivity with other infections. This lack of specificity makes LAT unsuitable for routine diagnosis of VL even though it is rapid and sensitive. DAT still appears to be the best choice as a diagnostic tool, as it is very specific and does not require expensive equipment or reagents or much technical competence and the result can be visually interpreted. These merits make DAT very suitable for the diagnosis of VL in endemic areas of India."}
{"id": "9625028", "title": "Visceral leishmaniasis (Kala-Azar) in transplant recipients: case report and review.", "content": "Visceral leishmaniasis (Kala-Azar) in transplant recipients: case report and review. In endemic areas, visceral leishmaniasis has been identified as an opportunistic infection in patients with derangements in their cellular immune system. We report a renal transplant patient with visceral leishmaniasis. We also reviewed the previously published cases of 17 organ transplant recipients with this parasitic disease. Visceral leishmaniasis occurred a median time of 8 months after transplantation, and the clinical picture was characterized by fever, splenomegaly, and blood cytopenias. Leishmaniae were detected in bone marrow in 16 of 18 patients and diagnostic serology results were found in 8 of 10 tested patients. Pentavalent antimonials were used to treat 16 patients, five of which developed pancreatitis. Five of 18 patients died, including two untreated patients. Relapses of visceral leishmaniasis occurred in 4 of 13 survivors. In endemic areas, visceral leishmaniasis may complicate the clinical course of organ transplantation and can have fatal consequences, particularly when untreated."}
{"id": "9611875", "title": "[Serologic cross-reactions to Leishmania infantum using indirect immunofluorescence in HIV+ and HIV- patients with active tuberculosis].", "content": "[Serologic cross-reactions to Leishmania infantum using indirect immunofluorescence in HIV+ and HIV- patients with active tuberculosis]. Clinical presentation of disseminated tuberculosis and visceral leishmaniosis can be very similar, mainly in those infected with HIV, being serology a useful tool in making a differential diagnosis. Cross-reactions of IFAT serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniosis with other diseases are well known, but few data is available with tuberculosis. Detection of serum antibodies against Leishmania, using a commercial IFAT kit, was attempted in sera of 51 patients with active pulmonar and/or extrapulmonar tuberculosis (25 HIV+ and 26 HIV-). Overall cross-reactions was found in 19.6% patients without significative differences in between 2 groups, but differences in positive serum titres was observed: one at 1/256, three at 1/160, and one at 1/80 dilution, in the HIV+ group, whereas all 5 patients in HIV- group cross-reacted at 1/80 dilution. Recognition of specific leishmanial antigenic bands by serum antibodies of patients with tuberculosis were not clearly defined by Western-blot. IFAT technique for leishmaniosis cross-react in 20% of patients with tuberculosis."}
{"id": "9598439", "title": "Rapid diagnosis of Indian visceral leishmaniasis using achatininH, a 9-O-acetylated sialic acid binding lectin.", "content": "Rapid diagnosis of Indian visceral leishmaniasis using achatininH, a 9-O-acetylated sialic acid binding lectin. We have developed a rapid, accurate, and inexpensive hemagglutination assay (HA) for diagnosis of Indian visceral leishmaniasis (VL) using achatininH, a 9-O-acetylated sialic acid binding lectin. The assay is based on the selective binding of achatininH to 9-O-acetylated derivatives of sialic acid (9-O-AcSA), which appears exclusively on the erythrocytes of patients with VL. Blood samples from 35 patients with demonstrable splenic or bone marrow amastigotes were assayed by HA and compared with an ELISA. All cases were correctly diagnosed by HA, and were in concordance with the ELISA. The increase in 9-O-AcSA was corroborated by direct fluorimetric estimation of sialic acid and its 9-O-acetylated derivative. Therefore, 9-O-acetylated derivatives of sialic acid, absent in normal erythrocytes, serve as an important biomarker, and indirectly reflect the presence of the parasite. Accordingly, this assay can be used for detection of active kala-azar cases and merits clinical consideration."}
{"id": "9593022", "title": "A cloned antigen (recombinant K39) of Leishmania chagasi diagnostic for visceral leishmaniasis in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 patients and a prognostic indicator for monitoring patients undergoing drug therapy.", "content": "A cloned antigen (recombinant K39) of Leishmania chagasi diagnostic for visceral leishmaniasis in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 patients and a prognostic indicator for monitoring patients undergoing drug therapy. Serologic assays using crude antigens for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV)-seropositive patients have been shown to lack sensitivity and specificity, particularly in AIDS patients. Antibodies to a cloned antigen, recombinant (r) K39, of Leishmania chagasi are specific for members of the Leishmania donovani complex and have been shown to indicate active disease in immunocompetent persons. This study demonstrated that antibodies to rK39 were also detectable in HIV-seropositive patients coinfected with Leishmania infantum. Furthermore, the rK39 ELISA was more sensitive than an IFA for detecting L. infantum infections in patients with AIDS. In addition, antibody titers to rK39 in HIV-negative patients infected with L. infantum or L. chagasi declined during treatment with meglumine antimoniate or liposomal amphotericin B. In contrast, most patients who clinically relapsed showed increased antibody titers to rK39. These data demonstrate the diagnostic and prognostic utility of rK39 in detecting active visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "9492776", "title": "Rapid accurate field diagnosis of Indian visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Rapid accurate field diagnosis of Indian visceral leishmaniasis. A firm diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar) requires demonstration of the parasite in organ aspirates or tissue biopsy samples. The aim of this prospective study was to assess the diagnostic usefulness of non-invasive testing for antibody to the leishmanial antigen K39 by means of antigen-impregnated nitrocellulose paper strips adapted for use under field conditions. One drop of peripheral blood is applied to the hitrocellulose strip. Three drops of test buffer (phosphate-buffered saline plus bovine serum albumin) are added to the dried blood. The development of two visible bands indicates presence of IgG anti-K39. 323 consecutive patients with suspected kala-azar referred to two specialist units in India, and 25 healthy controls, provided fingerstick blood samples for the test. Spleen aspirates were taken from 250 patients. Kala-azar was confirmed by microscopy of spleen-aspirate smears in 127 patients. The K39 strip test was positive in all 127; the estimated sensitivity was therefore 100% (95% CI 98-100). Four patients had positive strip tests but negative aspirate smears; all four responded to treatment for leishmaniasis. 217 individuals, including the 25 healthy controls, 73 patients with malaria or tuberculosis, and 119 spleen-aspirate-negative patients who had presumed malaria or cirrhosis (79) or no final diagnosis (40), had negative strip-test results. None of the 119 aspirate-negative patients developed evidence of kala-azar during 3-6 months of follow-up. The estimated specificity of the strip test was 98% (95-100; 217/221). Detection of anti-K39 by immunochromatographic strip testing is a rapid and non-invasive method of diagnosing kala-azar, which has good sensitivity and specificity and is well suited for use in field conditions."}
{"id": "17265631", "title": "A comparison of promastigote and amastigote antigens of Leishmania infantum in the diagnosis of visceral Leishmaniosis by ELISA and IFA tests in Turkey.", "content": "A comparison of promastigote and amastigote antigens of Leishmania infantum in the diagnosis of visceral Leishmaniosis by ELISA and IFA tests in Turkey. This study was designed to evaluate the ELISA and IFA tests for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniosis (VL) using soluble and crude antigens from promastigote and amastigote forms of Leishmania infantum. A total of 70 sera were tested, including 30 patients who were suspected for Leishmaniosis (10 healthy persons, 10 patients with Toxoplasmosis, 10 patients with Giardiosis). In the 30 patients suspected to have Leishmaniosis, smears were prepared from bone marrow aspirates and all material aspirated was cultured in NNN medium. The results were compared with those of parasitological and serological tests. While 2 patients were serologically positive and parasitologically negative from the 30 patients, 8 patients were serologically and parasitologically positive. The amastigote and promastigote antigens were 100% specific. Using these antigens with ELISA and IFA tests did not result and diagnosis different than VL."}
{"id": "9625936", "title": "The direct agglutination test: a non-specific test specific for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis?", "content": "The direct agglutination test: a non-specific test specific for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis? Serology has an important role to play in the diagnosis of the severe clinical syndrome of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). The direct agglutination test (DAT), a simple agglutination test which requires no laboratory facilities, has become the preferred test, particularly for field studies. The nature of the antigens responsible for the agglutination of leishmanial promastigotes by the serum of VL patients is not known. A series of experiments which provide some clues to the molecular basis for the test and which indicate that there might be more in DAT than meets the eye is reported."}
{"id": "9580107", "title": "[International Workshop on Molecular Epidemiology. Proposals of the Interdisciplinary Group on American Trypanosomiasis and Leishmaniasis].", "content": "[International Workshop on Molecular Epidemiology. Proposals of the Interdisciplinary Group on American Trypanosomiasis and Leishmaniasis]. Parasite diseases such as Leishmaniases and American Trypanosomiases have been increasingly important in Mexico and other countries of the American Region. In known areas, these diseases are highly endemic, and in recently opened developing areas became a new threat to public health. Some social groups working in natural resources exploitation, agriculture, animal stock and public labor are particularly affected. The molecular epidemiology approach to these diseases is linking valuable capabilities and resources within the academic and operational institutions actual working in genetic polymorphism, strain characterization and PRC identification of Trypanosoma and Leishmania parasites. Clinical and epidemiological aspects of American trypanosomiasis infections and Chagas's disease and of cutaneous, mucocutaneous, disseminated and visceral leishmaniases, as well as genetic susceptibility studies have been initiated by Mexican scientists. In order to organize and coordinate the molecular epidemiology activities and support effective prevention and control programs against these diseases, political decision from the health, and academic authorities is urgently needed to adopt and support the research strategy for typing Trypanosoma and Leishmania species through exposition and biological markers (analysis of chromosomal DNA, ribosomal genes restriction patterns, DNA sequence, and DNA plasmids); the study of the membrane proteins and isoenzymes and monoclonal antibodies; detecting antigens and nucleic acids; defining susceptibility to infection with genetic markers, and searching for species, variants and mutant strains responsible for high virulence. The support for the establishment of a Reference Center for identification, cryopreservation and registration of parasites, vectors and reservoires is of paramount importance."}
{"id": "9509187", "title": "Detection of anti-Leishmania antibodies in blood collected on filter paper by the direct agglutination test.", "content": "Detection of anti-Leishmania antibodies in blood collected on filter paper by the direct agglutination test. Human capillary blood drawn by finger pricking was absorbed on Whatman no. 4 filter paper and tested for anti-Leishmania antibodies using the direct agglutination test (DAT). Over 1400 filter paper samples were collected from L. infantum endemic areas in northern Pakistan and compared with 569 serum samples obtained from the same area. Eleven filter paper samples (0.8%) gave positive results (antibody titre > or = 1:3200), compared with 8 serum samples (1.4%); the difference was not statistically significant (P = 0.35). The filter paper eluates compared well with their homologous sera, and were strongly correlated with respect to antibody titre (r = 0.7, P < 0.0001)."}
{"id": "9509176", "title": "The direct agglutination test for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis under field conditions in Sudan: comparison of aqueous and freeze-dried antigens.", "content": "The direct agglutination test for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis under field conditions in Sudan: comparison of aqueous and freeze-dried antigens. The performance of the direct agglutination test (DAT) was evaluated under field conditions in an endemic area of visceral leishmaniasis in eastern Sudan, using aqueous (Aq) antigen which has to be kept refrigerated and a newly developed freeze-dried (FD) antigen which is stable at ambient temperature. Both antigens compared well, with 92-98% of readings being identical or only with one dilution difference in titre. FD antigen gave titres that were identical with Aq antigen in 73% of samples, higher in 19%, and lower in 8%. Owing to high ambient temperatures and low humidity, microtitre plate wells dried out during the standard procedures for elution and incubation. However, shortening the elution time from 12 to 4 h proved possible for both antigens; incubation could be reduced from 24 to 10 h for Aq antigen, after which the plates could still be read. Incubation with FD antigen required 18 h and the plates needed to be kept cool because of evaporation. Despite the longer procedure with the FD antigen, the DAT can be completed in 24 h and the use of this stable antigen, that does not require refrigeration, is a major improvement in performing the DAT under unfavourable field conditions."}
{"id": "9488872", "title": "Molecular characterization of antigen 24, a specific immunodominant antigen family from Leishmania infantum.", "content": "Molecular characterization of antigen 24, a specific immunodominant antigen family from Leishmania infantum. Leishmania infantum immunoelectrophoretic antigen 24 (AG 24), a visceral leishmaniasis associated immunodominant antigen, has been characterized with a monospecific antiserum by combining SDS-PAGE, immunoblotting, metabolic labelling, radio-immunoprecipitation and in vitro poly A+ mRNA translation. AG 24 appeared to correspond to a multi-antigen family of 6-9 members ranging from 20 to 31 kDa and proteinic by nature with no post-translational modifications. A similar banding pattern was recognized by infection sera. AG 24 was not found exposed on the cell surface."}
{"id": "9463665", "title": "TrypTect CIATT--a card indirect agglutination trypanosomiasis test for diagnosis of Trypanosoma brucei gambiense and T. b. rhodesiense infections.", "content": "TrypTect CIATT--a card indirect agglutination trypanosomiasis test for diagnosis of Trypanosoma brucei gambiense and T. b. rhodesiense infections. A simple and rapid test, the card indirect agglutination trypanosomiasis test (TrypTect CIATT) is described, for detecting circulating antigens in persons suffering from Trypanosoma brucei gambiense and T. b. rhodesiense infection by latex agglutination. The sensitivity of the test (95.8% for T. b. gambiense and 97.7% for T. b. rhodesiense) was significantly higher than that of lymph node puncture, microhaematocrit centrifugation and cerebrospinal fluid examination after single and double centrifugation. The specificity of the test was also high: 106 blood donor sera as well as sera from 37 patients with malaria, 25 with visceral leishmaniasis, 10 with schistosomiasis, 5 with filariasis and 10 with hydatid disease, from trypanosomiasis-free areas, gave negative results. Eighteen clinical suspects from active disease transmission foci, without microscopically detectable parasitaemia but with a positive test result, were further examined by lumbar puncture and inoculation of blood into mice; 11 (61%) were found to be infected, suggesting that the test had a high positive predictive value. This study showed that TrypTect CIATT is a useful test for rapid diagnosis of both patent and non-patent T. b. gambiense and T. b. rhodesiense infections."}
{"id": "9459400", "title": "Cutaneous lesions in patients with visceral leishmaniasis and HIV infection.", "content": "Cutaneous lesions in patients with visceral leishmaniasis and HIV infection. Cutaneous lesions attributed to Leishmania are very seldom observed in classic Kala-Azar, but recently some reports have mentioned them in patients with HIV infection. We found cutaneous lesions whose biopsy disclosed the presence of Leishmania organisms in six patients of a group of 32 HIV patients with visceral Leishmaniasis. These lesions did not present a uniform or specific appearance, even though they tended to localize symmetrically on acral zones. They consisted of erythematous papules and hypopigmented macules on the dorsa of the hands, feet, and elbows; small subcutaneous nodules on the thighs; and erythematoviolaceous, scaly plaques on the face. These lesions accompanied in every case the other symptoms and/or signs of visceral leishmaniasis, responded to anti-leishmanial treatment, and were sometimes the first indicator of recurrence. The histopathological study was non-specific, but showed in every case the presence of abundant amastigotes within the dermal histiocytes and free in the dermis or subcutaneous tissue. Data from literature review are similar to ours."}
{"id": "9302407", "title": "Asymptomatic Leishmania chagasi infection in relatives and neighbors of patients with visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Asymptomatic Leishmania chagasi infection in relatives and neighbors of patients with visceral leishmaniasis. The frequency of asymptomatic infection among relatives and neighbors of cases of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) was compared and characterization of the immunological response in these subjects was performed. Cases were from a new endemic area close to the beach and near Salvador capital of the State of Bahia, Brazil. The characterization of asymptomatic infection was made using a skin reaction test and detection of antibody to Leishmania chagasi by the ELISA test. To characterize the immunological response of these subjects with asymptomatic L. chagasi infection the cytokines profile and the lymphoproliferative response were determined after stimulation of lymphocytes by L. chagasi antigen. There was no difference in the frequency of L. chagasi infection in relatives (45%) and in neighbors (27%) of cases of VL (P > 0.05). The immunological response from these subjects was characterized by high production of IFN-gamma and a low production of IL-10 and a good lymphoproliferative response to L. chagasi antigen."}
{"id": "9302200", "title": "Antibody response against a Leishmania donovani amastigote-stage-specific protein in patients with visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Antibody response against a Leishmania donovani amastigote-stage-specific protein in patients with visceral leishmaniasis. The antibody response against an amastigote-specific protein (A2) from Leishmania donovani was investigated. Sera from patients with trypanosomiasis and various forms of leishmaniasis were screened for anti-A2 antibodies. Sera from patients infected only with L. donovani or Leishmania mexicana specifically recognized the A2 recombinant protein. These results were consistent with karyotype analyses which revealed that the A2 gene is conserved in L. donovani and L. mexicana strains. The potential of this antigen in diagnosis was further explored by screening a series of sera obtained from patients in regions of the Sudan and India where L. donovani is endemic. The prevalence of anti-A2 antibodies was determined by Western blotting for all samples. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and an immunoprecipitation assay were also performed on some of the samples. Anti-A2 antibodies were detected by ELISA in 82 and 60% of the samples from individuals with active visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar) from the Sudan and India, respectively, while the immunoprecipitation assay detected the antibodies in 92% of the samples from India. These data suggest that the A2 protein may be a useful diagnostic antigen for visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "9288810", "title": "Prevalence of anti-Leishmania donovani antibody among Brazilian blood donors and multiply transfused hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Prevalence of anti-Leishmania donovani antibody among Brazilian blood donors and multiply transfused hemodialysis patients. The prevalence of anti-Leishmania donovani antibodies was investigated in 1,500 Brazilian blood donors and multiply transfused hemodialysis patients. Sera were tested using the fucose-mannose ligand (FML) ELISA, which was shown to have 100% sensitivity and 96% specificity for kala-azar. Among 1,194 volunteer blood donors, seroreactivity was 9%, increasing to 25% in a periurban kala-azar focus. However, higher positivity (37%) was found in multiply transfused hemodialysis patients from Natal, where kala-azar is constantly present in low numbers (endemic), with sporadic outbreaks in localized regions (endemic and epidemic). Risk factors included blood transfusion, which was significantly associated with the presence of anti-Leishmania antibodies (chi2 = 8.567, P < 0.005), but did not include potential exposure to sandfly bites (chi2 = 0.033, P > 0.1). The prevalence significantly decreased to 7% in hemodialysis patients from Rio de Janeiro, where kala-azar is only occasionally seen, and was 0% in patients undergoing continuous ambulatorial peritoneal dialysis. The prospective analysis of 27 FML-seroreactive donors from Natal revealed amastigotes of Leishmania in the bone marrow of one subject while four had clinical complaints, including splenomegaly and hepatosplenomegaly. Our results point to the need for control of blood transfusion as a possible route for transmission of kala-azar in endemic areas."}
{"id": "9254461", "title": "Latex agglutination test for visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Latex agglutination test for visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "9215584", "title": "A simple Trypanosoma cruzi enzyme-linked immunoassay for control of human infection in nonendemic areas.", "content": "A simple Trypanosoma cruzi enzyme-linked immunoassay for control of human infection in nonendemic areas. An enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was developed for detecting IgM and IgG antibodies against Trypanosoma cruzi in blood bank donors from endemic or nonendemic areas. A crude extract of trypomastigotes from cultures was used as antigen. A total of 494 serum samples from patients with acute, congenital, or chronic form of Chagas' disease, and from healthy French individuals were studied. The sensitivity of the ELISA was determined with 89 serum samples from chagasic patients and was evaluated to 98.8%. The specificity was determined with 405 serum samples from French blood transfusion centers donors and evaluated to 98.3%. Two hundred and eighty-five serum samples from blood donors from Argentina and Brazil were also tested. Furthermore, in order to assess the absence of cross-reactivity with other protozoan infections, we studied 86 serum samples including (i) 32 individuals with cutaneous leishmaniasis living in a T. cruzi endemic region of Bolivia, and (ii) 54 patients from nonendemic area for Chagas' disease, 19 of them with kala-azar and 35 others with malaria."}
{"id": "9105756", "title": "Leishmania and human immunodeficiency virus coinfection: the first 10 years.", "content": "Leishmania and human immunodeficiency virus coinfection: the first 10 years. Over 850 Leishmania-human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) coinfection cases have been recorded, the majority in Europe, where 7 to 17% of HIV-positive individuals with fever have amastigotes, suggesting that Leishmania-infected individuals without symptoms will express symptoms of leishmaniasis if they become immunosuppressed. However, there are indirect reasons and statistical data demonstrating that intravenous drug addiction plays a specific role in Leishmania infantum transmission: an anthroponotic cycle complementary to the zoonotic one has been suggested. Due to anergy in patients with coinfection, L. infantum dermotropic zymodemes are isolated from patient viscera and a higher L. infantum phenotypic variability is seen. Moreover, insect trypanosomatids that are currently considered nonpathogenic have been isolated from coinfected patients. HIV infection and Leishmania infection each induce important analogous immunological changes whose effects are multiplied if they occur concomitantly, such as a Th1-to-Th2 response switch; however, the consequences of the viral infection predominate. In fact, a large proportion of coinfected patients have no detectable anti-Leishmania antibodies. The microorganisms share target cells, and it has been demonstrated in vitro how L. infantum induces the expression of latent HIV-1. Bone marrow culture is the most useful diagnostic technique, but it is invasive. Blood smears and culture are good alternatives. PCR, xenodiagnosis, and circulating-antigen detection are available only in specialized laboratories. The relationship with low levels of CD4+ cells conditions the clinical presentation and evolution of disease. Most patients have visceral leishmaniasis, but asymptomatic, cutaneous, mucocutaneous, diffuse cutaneous, and post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis can be produced by L. infantum. The digestive and respiratory tracts are frequently parasitized. The course of coinfection is marked by a high relapse rate. There is a lack of randomized prospective treatment trials; therefore, coinfected patients are treated by conventional regimens. Prophylactic therapy is suggested to be helpful in preventing relapses."}
{"id": "9097526", "title": "Epidemiological, clinical and laboratory studies on parasitic infections as a cause of fever of undetermined origin in Dakahlia Governorate, Egypt.", "content": "Epidemiological, clinical and laboratory studies on parasitic infections as a cause of fever of undetermined origin in Dakahlia Governorate, Egypt. Forty-three patients who fulfilled the international criteria for prolonged fever were exposed to thorough history taking, clinical and laboratory investigations. The latter included urine and stool examination, urine and blood culture, haemogram, liver and renal function tests, chest X-ray, tuberculin test, bone marrow, liver biopsy, blood films, serological tests including ELISA, IHA and IFA for detection of schistosomiasis, toxoplasmosis and malaria. Parasitic infections were detected in 30/43 (69.7%), 55.8% of whom had pure parasitic infection and 14% had in addition other causes. The majority of cases with positive etiology were coming from rural areas. The pattern of fever was predominantly intermittent especially with malaria and schistosomal cases. Fever of 21-41 days duration was noted in 70% of patients and 23.3% lasted up to more than 56 days. Visceromegaly (hepatomegaly and/or splenomegaly) was observed in all patients except one case. Lymphadenopathy was detected in ten cases, six of whom were visceral leishmaniasis. The IHA test for leishmaniasis detected ten cases at titres of 256, 512 and 1024 reciprocally. The dot-ELISA gave seropositivity in only 8/10 cases diagnosed by IHA test. So eight cases of VL were diagnosed by two serological tests at high titres. The detection of seropositive cases of visceral leishmaniasis in the studied area, suggests a focus or foci and warrants epidemiological study to establish the actual situation. Generally speaking, parasitic aetiology should be in mind in any case of FUO in Dakahlia. Serological tests are valuable, simple and safe tools for conforming the diagnosis of schistosomiasis, leishmaniasis, toxoplasmosis and malaria."}
{"id": "9251370", "title": "Direct agglutination test for early diagnosis of Indian visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Direct agglutination test for early diagnosis of Indian visceral leishmaniasis. In a prospective study, 80 cases of fever with hepatosplenomegaly, anemia and leucopaenia coming from the hyperendemic zones for visceral leishmaniasis of North-Bihar, India were screened and subjected to bone marrow or splenic puncture for demonstration of Leishman-donovan bodies (LDB) and DIRECT AGGLUTINATION TEST (DAT) with antigen prepared by Harith et al. 59 cases were confirmed for Visceral Leishmaniasis (VL) by demonstration of LDB in which DAT was also positive in different titres ranging from 1:1600 onwards. Out of 21 cases in which the bone marrow was negative for parasite, DAT was positive in 10 cases. 8 Out of 10 cases responded to WHO regimen of treatment with sodium stibogluconate (SSG). Remaining two cases who did not respond to this therapy became positive for parasites on subsequent splenic aspirate. They were treated with pentamidine isethionate and were cured. 11 out of 80 cases showing a titre of 1:400 or lower in DAT, 6 proved to be cases of enteric fever and 5 of malaria. Thus DAT using Harith's antigen was found to be 100% sensitive and specific in detection of early cases of Indian VL."}
{"id": "9163981", "title": "Cross-reactivity of antibodies in human infections by the kinetoplastid protozoa Trypanosoma cruzi, Leishmania chagasi and Leishmania (viannia) braziliensis.", "content": "Cross-reactivity of antibodies in human infections by the kinetoplastid protozoa Trypanosoma cruzi, Leishmania chagasi and Leishmania (viannia) braziliensis. We have detected antibodies, in the sera of Chagas disease, Kala-azar and Mucocutaneous leishmaniasis patients, that bind multiple antigens shared between the three causative agents. The Chagas disease sera showed 98 to 100% positive results by ELISA when the Leishmania braziliensis and Leishmania chagasi antigens were used, respectively. The Kala-azar sera showed 100% positive results with Trypanosoma cruzi or L. braziliensis antigens by immunofluorescence assays. The antibodies in the sera of Mucocutaneous leishmaniasis patients showed 100% positive results by ELISA assays with T. cruzi or L. chagasi antigens. Furthermore, the direct agglutination of L. chagasi promastigotes showed that 95% of Kala-azar and 35% of Mucocutaneous leishmaniasis sera agglutinated the parasite in dilutions above 1:512. In contrast, 15% of Chagas sera agglutinated the parasite in dilutions 1:16 and below. Western blot analysis showed that the Chagas sera that formed at least 24 bands with the T. cruzi also formed 13 bands with the L. chagasi and 17 bands with the L. braziliensis. The Kala-azar sera that recognized at least 29 bands with the homologous antigen also formed 14 bands with the T. cruzi and 10 bands with the L. braziliensis antigens. Finally, the Mucocutaneous leishmaniasis sera that formed at least 17 bands with the homologous antigen also formed 10 bands with the T. cruzi and four bands with the L. chagasi antigens. These results indicate the presence of common antigenic determinants in several protozoal proteins and, therefore, explain the serologic cross-reactions reported here."}
{"id": "9071030", "title": "Plasma levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha in patients with visceral leishmaniasis (Kala-azar). Association with activity of the disease and clinical remission following antimonial therapy.", "content": "Plasma levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha in patients with visceral leishmaniasis (Kala-azar). Association with activity of the disease and clinical remission following antimonial therapy. Evaluation of TNF-alpha in patients with Kala-azar has drawn increasing interest due to its regulatory role on the immune system, in addition to its cachetizing activity. The objective of this study was to examine the association between plasma levels of TNF-alpha, measured by immunoreactivity (ELISA) and bioactivity (cytotoxicity assay with L-929 cells), and clinical manifestations of visceral leishmaniasis. Plasma samples from 19 patients with Kala-azar were obtained before, during and at the end of antimonial therapy. TNF-alpha determinations was done by using the cytotoxicity assay (all patients) and the enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA-14 patients). A discrepancy between results obtained by ELISA and cytotoxicity assay was observed. Levels of circulating TNF-alpha, assessed by ELISA, were higher in patients than in healthy controls, and declined significantly with improvement in clinical and laboratory parameters. Plasma levels before treatment were 124.7 +/- 93.3 pg/ml (mean +/- SD) and were higher than at the end of therapy 13.9 +/- 25.1 pg/ml (mean +/- SD) (p = 0.001). In contrast, plasma levels of TNF-alpha evaluated by cytotoxicity assay did not follow a predicted course during follow-up. Lysis, in this case, might be not totally attributed to TNF-alpha. The discrepancy might be attributed to the presence of factor(s) known to influence the release and activity of TNF-alpha."}
{"id": "9053013", "title": "[Usefulness of immunoblot in the serologic diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in patients with the human immunodeficiency virus].", "content": "[Usefulness of immunoblot in the serologic diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in patients with the human immunodeficiency virus]."}
{"id": "9037842", "title": "Comparative studies on IFAT, ELISA & DAT for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Bangladesh.", "content": "Comparative studies on IFAT, ELISA & DAT for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Bangladesh. The purpose of the study was to estimate the specificity and sensitivity of different serological methods for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Bangladesh. Blood samples from 155 suspected kala-azar patients together with 80 sick subjects and 50 healthy subjects from the endemic areas were collected. Out of the 155 suspected kala-azar patients, bone marrow were collected from 126 patients. All bone marrow samples were examined by direct microscopy. 92 bone marrow samples were also examined by culture method. Blood samples were examined by various serological tests. Out of 126 marrow samples, LD bodies were present by microscopy in 77 (61.1%) cases and out of 92 marrow samples, cultures for LD bodies were positive in 33 (35.9%) cases. All the three serological tests (IFAT, ELISA & DAT) were positive in all parasitologically positive kala-azar patients. They were also positive in seven (15.5%) out of 45 parasitologically negative cases and 10 (34.4%) out of remaining 29 cases in whom bone marrow samples were not available. Thus the serological tests proved to be simple, non-invasive, highly sensitive and specific methods for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. DAT is the simplest of these serological tests, although these tests did not differ in sensitivity and specificity."}
{"id": "9031887", "title": "Diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in HIV-infected patients.", "content": "Diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in HIV-infected patients."}
{"id": "8979477", "title": "Comparative evaluation of serological tests for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Comparative evaluation of serological tests for diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Sensitivity and specificity of the direct agglutination (DAT) and indirect immunofluorescent test (IFT) have been compared with indirect immunoperoxidase assay (IPA) for the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. IPA and DAT were found to be more sensitive and specific than IFT. Indirect immunoperoxidase test was found to be better than DAT as preparation of antigen is easy. Less amount of antigen is required, storage of antigen in slide form is more convenient and shelf life is longer. It is easier to read and interpret immunoperoxidase with the help of ordinary light microscope and chances of false positive and false negatives are negligible."}
{"id": "8974003", "title": "Delivery of human interferon-gamma via gene transfer in vitro: prolonged expression and induction of macrophage antimicrobial activity.", "content": "Delivery of human interferon-gamma via gene transfer in vitro: prolonged expression and induction of macrophage antimicrobial activity. Daily parenteral administration of exogenous interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) induces or accelerates recovery in experimental and human infections. To develop an alternative delivery system, a replication-defective recombinant adenovirus expressing human IFN-gamma was constructed. The complete coding region of IFN-gamma was amplified by RT-PCR and inserted into an adenovirus cloning vector under the control of a human cytomegalovirus promoter. Recombinant adenovirus containing the IFN-gamma minigene (dAv-IFN-gamma) was isolated from 293 cells co-transfected with the linearized plasmid and an E1 region-deleted fragment of adenovirus genome. Following in vitro infection with dAv-IFN-gamma, dose-dependent and time-dependent expression of IFN-gamma, mRNA and production of soluble protein were demonstrated in human diploid fibroblat and HeLa cell cultures by Northern blot and ELISA, respectively. Extracellular protein secretion persisted for > = 4 weeks following initial transfection, and secreted IFN-gamma induced both antiviral activity (8000-25,000 U/ml) and macrophage activation with killing of intracellular Toxoplasma gondii and leishmania donovani. These results establish that dAv-IFN-gamma generates long-term secretion of biologically active IFN-gamma in vitro and suggest that this vector may be a useful delivery system for cytokine therapy."}
{"id": "8950566", "title": "Comparison of the indirect immunofluorescent antibody test and the direct agglutination test for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in HIV-infected subjects.", "content": "Comparison of the indirect immunofluorescent antibody test and the direct agglutination test for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in HIV-infected subjects. One hundred subjects positive for anti-human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) antibodies were tested for anti-Leishmania antibodies by the indirect immunofluorescent antibody test (IFAT) and the direct agglutination test (DAT). Subjects were subsequently followed for two years to monitor the onset of visceral leishmaniasis. Fifteen subjects were positive for anti-Leishmania antibodies in either one or both tests. Eleven were positive only by IFAT, one only by DAT, and three by both tests. During the two-year follow-up period, nine subjects developed visceral leishmaniasis; of these, six were serologically positive, four by IFAT alone and two by both tests. The results indicate that IFAT and DAT have a similar specificity but that IFAT has a higher sensitivity and a greater diagnostic significance."}
{"id": "8950522", "title": "Evaluation of the immune response in visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Evaluation of the immune response in visceral leishmaniasis. Detection of parasites in culture or by microscopy is still necessary to make diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Serological methods still need assessment, as they are quick but not very sensitive, especially in immunosuppressed subjects. This paper compares the results obtained with three serological methods (indirect immunofluorescence test (IFAT), direct agglutination test (DAT), and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and the specific cell-mediated immune response, evaluated as proliferation and IFN-gamma production by peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) following stimulation with heat-killed L. infantum promastigotes. PBL and sera were obtained from 10 healthy donors, 3 VL patients in acute phase, and 3 patients recovering after two glucantim treatment courses. No false positive results were observed with the serological methods. IFAT can be considered the most sensitive and best suited for follow-up, as it allowed a good discrimination between the acute and remission phase. DAT did not discriminate between healthy donors and remission-phase patients, whereas ELISA is unsuited for follow-up, as it did not show any significant difference between remission- and acute-phase patients. Assessment of the cellular response is not recommended for making a diagnosis, because false positive results are frequent. However, a strong cellular response in a patient stands for a successful treatment. IFN-gamma titration is preferable to the proliferation test, because it gives earlier results and does not require the use of radioactive isotopes."}
{"id": "8944261", "title": "A latex agglutination test for the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Sudan.", "content": "A latex agglutination test for the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Sudan."}
{"id": "8940979", "title": "Serodiagnosis of cutaneous leishmaniasis: assessment of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using a peptide sequence from gene B protein.", "content": "Serodiagnosis of cutaneous leishmaniasis: assessment of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using a peptide sequence from gene B protein. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using a 28 amino acid sequence of the repetitive element of gene B protein (GBP) from Leishmania major was developed for serodiagnosis of cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL). The assay was compared to ELISAs using crude amastigote and promastigote antigens from L. donovani and the major surface glycoprotein (Gp63) from either L. donovani or L. major as a solid-phase ligand. The sensitivity of the assays was tested in 33 patients suffering from CL caused by L. major. The sensitivity of the GBP peptide (GBPP) ELISA was 82%. This was higher than in the assays using crude amastigote (67%) or promastigote (67%) antigens, but the difference was not statistically significant. The sensitivity in the assays using Gp63 from L. donovani (52%) or L. major (39%) was significantly lower than in the assay using GBPP (P = 0.019 and P < 0.001, respectively). Plasma samples from healthy Sudanese individuals living in an area endemic for malaria but free of leish-maniasis were negative in all the assays. Significantly higher levels of antibodies were found in the patients who had suffered from the disease for more than eight weeks than in patients with a shorter clinical history (GBPP ELISA; P = 0.038; amastigote ELISA; P = 0.004; and promastigote ELISA; P = 0.017). In the former group, the sensitivities of the five ELISAs were 100% (GBPP), 87% (amastigote), 93% (promastigote), 67% (L. donovani), and 53% (L. major), respectively."}
{"id": "8882199", "title": "Prolonged Th2 cell activation and increased viral replication in HIV-Leishmania co-infected patients despite treatment.", "content": "Prolonged Th2 cell activation and increased viral replication in HIV-Leishmania co-infected patients despite treatment."}
{"id": "8788994", "title": "Synthetic peptide-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Synthetic peptide-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Synthetic peptides, derived from the amino acid sequence of a Leishmania donovani clone, were used to develop an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for detecting antibodies against L. donovani. For this purpose, five peptides were conjugated to a protein carrier, human serum albumin (HSA), by using a heterobifunctional reagent, epsilon-maleimidocaproic acid N-hydroxysuccinimide ester, to obtain a well-defined product. The sensitivity and the specificity of the peptide-specific ELISA were determined with a panel of 106 serum samples from individuals living in areas where visceral leishmaniasis is endemic; sera from post-kala azar dermal leishmaniasis-infected patients and from individuals suffering from other infectious diseases were also included. ELISAs were performed with either a single peptide-HSA conjugate or a mixture of two peptide-HSA conjugates. Ninety-seven percent of the serum samples from patients with visceral leishmaniasis had detectable antibodies to one or more of the single synthetic peptides. ELISA with a single peptide-HSA conjugate proved to be less sensitive (less than 71%) but more specific (up to 93%) than ELISA with crude promastigote antigens (80% sensitivity and 79% specificity); when a combination of two different peptide-HSA conjugates was used, the test increased both in sensitivity and in specificity. Chemically defined peptide-protein conjugates improve the reproducibility and reliability of ELISA for the serodiagnosis of L. donovani infection."}
{"id": "8784604", "title": "PCR enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for diagnosis of leishmaniasis in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients.", "content": "PCR enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for diagnosis of leishmaniasis in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients. A PCR enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) involving the use of bone marrow aspirates (BMA) and blood samples (BS) for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients was developed with primers selected from the sequence of the small-subunit rRNA gene and compared with direct examination and in vitro cultivation. The PCR was optimized for routine diagnosis: processing of samples with lysis of erythrocytes without isolation of leukocytes, enzymatic prevention of contamination, internal control of the reaction, and ELISA testing in a microtitration plate hybridization. Of 79 samples (33 BMA and 46 BS) from 77 patients without VL, all the results were negative. Fifty-three samples (9 BMA and 44 BS) were obtained from 13 patients with VL: 6 samples drawn during anti-Leishmania treatment were negative whatever the technique used, and 47 samples (9 BMA and 38 BS) were positive with at least one technique. The sensitivities were 51% (24 of 47), 81% (38 of 47), and 98% (46 of 47) for direct examination, culture, and PCR, respectively. Thus, PCR ELISA is reliable for diagnosing VL in human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients, and blood sampling should be sufficient for the follow-up."}
{"id": "8768590", "title": "[The true significance of serological exams in the diagnosis of endemic diseases].", "content": "[The true significance of serological exams in the diagnosis of endemic diseases]."}
{"id": "8758549", "title": "Canine visceral leishmaniasis in the great Athens area, Greece.", "content": "Canine visceral leishmaniasis in the great Athens area, Greece. A survey of 1,175 dogs with suspected visceral leishmaniasis (VL), was carried out to investigate canine leishmaniasis in the Athens basin, the largest metropolitan area of Greece. The dogs examined were not a random sample since animals were selected on the basis of symptoms indicating the disease. Dog sera were tested using the indirect fluorescent antibody technique (IFAT), with titres greater than or equal to 1/200 considered positive for VL. On this basis 569 dogs (48.4%) were found positive for VL and 69 (5.9%) borderline (with titres of 1/100). Additionally, 218 of these sera were also tested by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Of this sample, 120 were negative and 88 were positive with both IFAT and ELISA (according to the stated criteria), and thus the concordance of the two methods was 98.6%. Dogs positive for VL were classified according to age, sex, breed, and area of residence. Dogs from outlying areas of the Athens basin had higher infection rates than dogs from the city. The most affected breed was the Doberman, and the least affected was the Collie."}
{"id": "8713608", "title": "[Direct agglutination tests in the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in the state of Par\u00e1].", "content": "[Direct agglutination tests in the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in the state of Par\u00e1]. The direct agglutination test (DAT) was evaluated for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in human and canids (dogs and foxes Cerdocyon thous). The results were compared with those of the immunofluorescent antibody assay (IFAT) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The sera used were from: humans (303): confirmed VL (16), suspected VL (65), other conditions (102), negative controls (15) and individuals from an endemic area (105); dogs (82): from an endemic area (68), Salvaterra/Maraj\u00f3/Par\u00e1 (21 of which were parasitologically positive), and negative controls (14), from Bel\u00e9m; foxes (9): caught on Maraj\u00f3 Island. Antigens for DAT were prepared from promastigots of L. (L.) donovani, L. (L.) chagasi. Antigens used in ELISA and IFAT were prepared from promastigotes (soluble antigen) and amastigotes respectively of L. (L.) chagasi. In humans, the specificity and sensitivity of DAT using L. (L.) donovani were high (98.4% and 100% respectively) and comparable to that of IFAT (97.5% and 100%). ELISA was less specific (84.8%) although similarly sensitive (100%). In dogs, DAT was more specific using L. (L.) donovani as antigen than using L. (L.) chagasi. However, both DAT and ELISA were less sensitive (both 71.4%) than IFAT (100%). This difference was reflected in the results from endemic dogs, 87% of which were positive by IFAT but only 54% by ELISA and 49% by DAT. Similarly, all 9 fox sera were positive by IFAT, 7 of 9 (78%) by ELISA but none by DAT. In conclusion, DAT using L. (L.) donovani antigen can provide a useful test for human VL; utilization on a large scale would be possible with a suitable reference laboratory to monitor antigen quality. However, DAT appears less useful for canine studies, as it was less sensitive than ELISA and especially IFAT in detecting canine infection."}
{"id": "8713607", "title": "The FML (Fucose Mannose Ligand) of Leishmania donovani. a new tool in diagnosis, prognosis, transfusional control and vaccination against human kala-azar.", "content": "The FML (Fucose Mannose Ligand) of Leishmania donovani. a new tool in diagnosis, prognosis, transfusional control and vaccination against human kala-azar. The Fucose-Mannose Ligand (FML) of Leishmania donovani is a complex glycoproteic fraction. Its potential use as a tool for diagnosis of human visceral leishmaniasis was tested with human sera from Natal, Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil. The FML-ELISA test, showed 100% sensitivity and 96% specificity, identifying patients with overt kala-azar (p < 0.001, when compared to normal sera), and subjects with subclinical infection. More than 20% apparently healthy subjects with positive reaction to FML developed overt kala-azar during the following 10 months. In the screening of human blood donnors, a prevalence of 5% of sororeactive subjects was detected, attaining 17% in a single day. The GP36 glycoprotein of FHL is specifically reconized by human kala-azar sera. The immunoprotective effect of FML on experimental L. donovani infection was tested in swiss albino mice. The protection scheemes included three weekly doses of FML, supplemented or not with saponin by the subcutaneous or intraperitoneal routes and challenge with 2 x 10(7) amastigotes of Leishmania donovani. An enhancement of 80.0% in antibody response (p < 0.001) and reduction of 85.5% parasite liver burden (p < 0.001) was detected in animals immunized with FML saponin, unrespectively of the immunization route."}
{"id": "8642576", "title": "Reactivity of various leishmanial antigens in a direct agglutination test and their value in differentiating post-kala azar dermal leishmaniasis from leprosy and other skin conditions.", "content": "Reactivity of various leishmanial antigens in a direct agglutination test and their value in differentiating post-kala azar dermal leishmaniasis from leprosy and other skin conditions. A direct agglutination test (DAT) for the detection of post-kala azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) was evaluated in conditions that simulate the disease clinically or immunologically. A reference strain of Leishmania donovani (LEM 1399), and antigen preparations from Leishmania isolates from Bangladeshi patients with post-kala azar dermal leishmaniasis or visceral leishmaniasis were used. A titre of at least 51,200 was obtained in tests of patients with PKDL with all three antigens, whereas a maximum titre of 1600 was recorded in patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis, mucocutaneous leishmaniasis or leprosy. Antigens from dermal isolates of L. tropica (LV 140) and L. braziliensis (LV 65) yielded titres of 1600-6400 in patients with PKDL. The lowest titre recorded in 70 patients tested with the homologous PKDL antigen was 409,600. In patients with leprosy, cutaneous leishmaniasis, syphilis, onchocerciasis, tuberculosis, blastomycosis or vitiligo, titres ranged from 100 to 1600. Tha DAT is better than current parasitological and histopathological methods for the diagnosis of PKDL in areas in which leprosy is co-endemic."}
{"id": "8627048", "title": "rK39: a cloned antigen of Leishmania chagasi that predicts active visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "rK39: a cloned antigen of Leishmania chagasi that predicts active visceral leishmaniasis. The diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL), a serious and often fatal parasitic disease caused by members of the Leishmania donovani complex, remains problematic. Current methods rely on clinical criteria, parasite identification in aspirate material, and serology. The latter methods use crude antigen preparations lacking in specificity. A previously described cloned antigen, rK39, of Leishmania specific for all members of the L. donovani complex (L. chagasi, L. donovani, L. infantum) was very useful in the serodiagnosis by ELISA of both human and canine VL. The present study demonstrated that rK39 seroreactivity correlated with active disease. The sera from early or self-healing infected subjects reacted with leishmanial lysate and were generally nonreactive with rK39. These data demonstrate the utility of rK39 in the serodiagnosis of VL and as an indicator of active disease."}
{"id": "8830229", "title": "[Visceral Leishmaniasis and human immunodeficiency virus: role of serology. A case report].", "content": "[Visceral Leishmaniasis and human immunodeficiency virus: role of serology. A case report]."}
{"id": "8713505", "title": "[Quality control of the micro-ELISA technic applied to the diagnosis of human and canine visceral leishmaniasis].", "content": "[Quality control of the micro-ELISA technic applied to the diagnosis of human and canine visceral leishmaniasis]. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) or kala-azar is, in Portugal, a zoonosis with the dog as reservoir. A quality control of the technique of micro-ELISA was carried out, using as reference the technique of IFI, the most commonly used for the diagnosis of this protozoosis, both for human and canine sera. Three different methods were used to estimate the cut-off point: X + 2sd (average for negative sera plus two standard deviation), P/N and J index. As quality parameteres were used sensitivity, specificity, efficacy and positive predictive value. The cut-off point for human sera was established at 0.100 A, with 100% sensitivity, 90.5% specificity, 95.3% efficacy and 91.4% positive predictive value, and for canine sera in 0.200 A, with 80.0% sensitivity, 94.3% specificity, 87.7% efficacy and 96.6% positive predictive value. Reproducibility was not fully satisfactory and two different ways of improving it are proposed: P/N and a correction factor. A statistically significant correlation was observed between micro-ELISA's absorbances and IFI titres regarding human sera, though it was not possible to do the same for dog sera."}
{"id": "8624503", "title": "Evaluation of antibody responses in Indian kala-azar by immunoblot.", "content": "Evaluation of antibody responses in Indian kala-azar by immunoblot. When infected with Leishmania species, patients develop specific antibodies that constitute the basis of serodiagnosis. using Western blot analysis we studied the specificity of anti-leishmania donovani antibodies in patients with visceral leishmaniasis, healthy subjects living in an endemic and non-endemic areas, and patients of other infectious diseases like malaria, leprosy, tuberculosis and tropical splenomegaly. Sera from patients with kala-azar recognised numerous antigens that had a molecular weight of 150 KD, 145 KD, 120 KD, 92 KD, 87 KD, 72 KD, 65 KD, 56 KD, 50 KD, 40 KD, 26 KD, 21 KD, 14 KD, AND 12 KD. The 150, 145, 120, 92, 87, 81, 65, 25, 21, 14, and 12 KD antigens had the greatest specificity for kala-azar sera while the bands of molecular weights 72, 56, 50, and 40 KD were found to be cross reactive with sera of patients of other diseases."}
{"id": "8613339", "title": "Widal reaction in Kala-azar.", "content": "Widal reaction in Kala-azar."}
{"id": "8594675", "title": "Detection of Leishmania in the blood of early kala-azar patients with the aid of the polymerase chain reaction.", "content": "Detection of Leishmania in the blood of early kala-azar patients with the aid of the polymerase chain reaction. Samples from 39 patients with symptoms suggestive of early visceral leishmaniasis were independently assayed by microscopy of tissue smears, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of blood deoxyribonucleic acid. Of these patients, 19 were confirmed as positive or negative by all 3 tests; 11 patients (28%) negative by smear were positive by ELISA and PCR; and 7 (18%) were positive by PCR alone. These results demonstrate the high sensitivity of the non-invasive PCR and, to a smaller extent, ELISA, in the early diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "8594670", "title": "The role of dogs in the epidemiology of human visceral leishmaniasis in northern Pakistan.", "content": "The role of dogs in the epidemiology of human visceral leishmaniasis in northern Pakistan. Infantile visceral leishmaniasis (VL) was first reported from north Pakistan over 3 decades age in the remote valleys of the western Himalayas. These foci were reported as being completely devoid of domestic dogs. The later emergence of sporadic cases of infantile VL in the sub-Himalayan region of the country, where dogs are abundant, enabled us to investigate the prevalence of canine disease and study its relation with disease in humans. A serological survey in dogs by direct agglutination test (DAT) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) indicated that 18% (DAT) and 26.6% (ELISA) harboured anti-Leishmania antibodies, with older dogs showing higher prevalence; 10% of the infected dogs had no clinical signs of leishmaniasis. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) probing by 32P-labelled Lmet 2 cDNA probe showed high sensitivity with aspirates obtained from the popliteal lymph nodes of dogs but not with skin snips. Parasites isolated from dogs in these foci were identified as L. infantum by isoenzyme characterization."}
{"id": "8592766", "title": "Visceral leishmaniasis in Somalia. Circulating antibodies as measured by DAT, immunofluorescence and ELISA.", "content": "Visceral leishmaniasis in Somalia. Circulating antibodies as measured by DAT, immunofluorescence and ELISA. Sera from patients with visceral leishmaniasis (VL) (n = 26), healthy residents of Mogadishu (n = 157), inhabitants of a village in an endemic area (n = 276) and healthy Swedes (n = 60) were examined using the direct agglutination test (DAT), immunofluorescence (IF) and ELISA for antibodies against Leishmania donovani. The study was carried out in order to provide baseline data for antibody responses in visceral leishmaniasis as existing in Somalia and to explore which one of these methods would be most suitable for diagnosis of clinical cases as well as for epidemiological population studies in Somalia. All patients had high levels of circulating antibodies, however, lower values were recorded in the early stages of the disease. High reactivity in ELISA was seen first after one year. All three tests distinguished well between sera from VL patients and healthy controls. Approximately 10% of the sera from villagers were reactive above the cut-off levels in the three tests. DAT is the simplest to perform and does not require much equipment. ELISA can be made simple and economic if performed in one serum dilution and read visually. IF requires more expensive and specialized equipment and is not suitable for large scale examination of sera. A complete evaluation of the three tests should also include the analysis of sera from various stages and manifestations of the disease."}
{"id": "8587788", "title": "Detection and characterization by immunoblot analysis of potentially diagnostic Leishmania infantum polypeptides in human visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Detection and characterization by immunoblot analysis of potentially diagnostic Leishmania infantum polypeptides in human visceral leishmaniasis. Humoral immune responses were studied in 53 sera from 18 patients with visceral leishmaniasis by immunoblot analysis. Sera from visceral leishmaniasis patients recognized antigens with molecular weights ranging from < 14 kDa to more than 100 kDa. Bands ranging between 49 and < 14 kDa were the most specific. The 40, 33 and 17 kDa antigens were recognized by 90%, 79% and 79% of the patients sera, respectively. Sera from one patient with Chagas' disease identified 8 of 11 antigens of the specific region. Treatment with periodate eliminated the cross-reaction in three of these antigens (40, 29, 26 kDa). The study of serial sera collected from the different patients showed a decrease in intensity or dissappearance in some of the diagnostic bands, particularly the 17 kDa band. The band of 17 kDa seems to be useful to study the clinical evolution, for post-treatment control and also for epidemiologic purposes. (It has been identified in 7% of control sera from endemic areas.) Immunoblot could be a valuable tool in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis, being more sensitive and specific than other serologic tests."}
{"id": "8560511", "title": "A prospective sero-epidemiological study of visceral leishmaniasis in Baringo District, Rift Valley Province, Kenya.", "content": "A prospective sero-epidemiological study of visceral leishmaniasis in Baringo District, Rift Valley Province, Kenya. The incidence of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) was studied in 30 clusters with an average of 98 individuals in each cluster in a defined, endemic rural area of Baringo District, Kenya. The clusters were centred around recent cases of VL. Anti-leishmanial antibodies were measured by the direct agglutination test (DAT) and a clinical examination was performed on 2 occasions between April 1991 and May 1993. Of 2934 individuals tested by the DAT during the first visit, 78 (2.7%) were seropositive, 54 with and 24 without a history of VL. The seroconversion rate was 9/1000 person-years of observation (95% confidence interval 5.1-12.92) among 2332 seronegative individuals retested the following year. During the entire study period, VL was diagnosed in 10 patients, with an incidence rate of 2.2/1000 person-years of observation (95% confidence interval 0.8-3.6). Household contacts of individuals with previously confirmed VL had a higher frequency of DAT positivity than the rest of the population. This difference was significant for both sexes. These results suggest transmission in and around houses."}
{"id": "8544037", "title": "Diagnostic and prognostic value of K39 recombinant antigen in Indian leishmaniasis.", "content": "Diagnostic and prognostic value of K39 recombinant antigen in Indian leishmaniasis. The recombinant product (rK39) of the 39 amino acid repeats encoded by a kinesin-like gene of visceral Leishmania spp. was further evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for its diagnostic potential in Indian kala-azar (VL) and post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL). Anti-rK39 antibodies were highly positive in 20 symptomatic cases, including 6 resistant to single or double chemotherapy, but became negligible or absent in 9 recently cured patients. Endpoint titration of samples from the 20 active cases showed that the anti-rK39 IgG titers fell within a wide range of 10(-2) to > 10(-6), and that their mean was > 1 order of magnitude higher than in VL reported previously. The anti-rK39 IgG titers were correlated with parasite burden found in the patients and remained undiminished in those refractory to chemotherapy. These results indicate that: (1) the K39 epitope is conserved in Indian strains of Leishmania donovani, (2) the extremely high levels of K39 antibodies in both VL and PKDL suggest the application of rK39 for sensitive and specific serodiagnosis, and (3) rK39 ELISA is also valuable for prognostic evaluation of both diseases."}
{"id": "7778144", "title": "Visceral leishmaniasis in Bangladesh: the value of DAT as a diagnostic tool.", "content": "Visceral leishmaniasis in Bangladesh: the value of DAT as a diagnostic tool. The direct agglutination test (DAT) was performed on 480 serum samples from suspected cases of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in different parts of Bangladesh. Significant titres (> or = 1:3200) were found in 257 sera (53.5%). All patients with positive bone-marrow aspirates also had significant DAT titres. The male:female seroprevalence ratio was 2:1 and the age-group 0-20 years was the most affected. The DAT proved a simple, economical and reliable diagnostic test for VL."}
{"id": "7770430", "title": "Evora district as a new focus for canine leishmaniasis in Portugal.", "content": "Evora district as a new focus for canine leishmaniasis in Portugal. On the basis of information acquired from local health authorities in Evora district of Portugal on cases of visceral leishmaniasis (VL), an epidemiology survey study was conducted. To determine the prevalence of anti-Leishmania antibodies in the local human and canine populations residing in Evora town and 14 adjacent villages, blood samples collected from 885 children and 3,614 dogs were tested in a direct agglutination test (DAT). Seropositivity for Leishmania parasite obtained by DAT in both endemic populations was further confirmed by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and immunofluorescence test (IFAT). For identification of the responsible sandfly vector, 79 biotopes within the study areas were surveyed. In the infantile population assessed, none of the children screened showed an antibody level indicative (titer, > = 1:3200) of visceral leishmaniasis in the DAT. However, agglutinating antibody rates ranging from 0.7% to 6.9% were obtained in dogs residing in Evora and 11 adjacent villages. Concordant seropositivity of 94.04% was obtained by ELISA and IFAT in the same canine population (141) identified by DAT. Of the 159 sandflies captured, 67 were identified as Phlebotomus sergenti; 15, as P. ariasi; 58, as P. perniciosus; and 19, as Sergentomyia minuta. Unlike the results previously reported in Alto-Douro and Algarve districts of Portugal, as compared with the other three species, P. sergenti appears to be more abundant in Evora district.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7747300", "title": "Leishmania infantum in the Himalayas.", "content": "Leishmania infantum in the Himalayas. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) was first reported in Pakistan over 30 years ago from the remote north-eastern Himalayan region. Sporadic cases are now widely reported from the Northern Areas, part of North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) and Punjab Province, together with Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK). Two hundred and thirty-nine cases, mostly young children, have been reported in the last decade; 52% were under 2 years old, and 86% were aged less than 5 years; the male:female ratio was 3:1. In a cross sectional study of the population in 14 endemic villages, 1938 individuals of all ages were randomly skin-tested with leishmanin and 27.4% gave a positive result. The leishmanin response rate increased with age. In some areas, almost 70% of the adults over 40 years old were positive. Leishmanin positivity appeared to cluster among households (P = 0.0003), but clinical cases among households did not (P = 0.472). The leishmanin response pattern in the foci of Chilas and AJK reflected an endemic pattern of disease, whereas that seen in the Baltistan foci suggested interrupted transmission. Human sera collected in endemic villages were tested for anti-Leishmania antibodies, 580 by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and direct agglutination test (DAT), and another 1403, as blood samples on filter paper, were tested by DAT alone. Isolations of Leishmania were made from 15 patients, 11 from bone marrow, 3 from normal skin and one from spleen. The parasites were typed as Leishmania infantum zymodeme LON-49 (= MON-1)."}
{"id": "7741179", "title": "Familial aggregation of Leishmania chagasi infection in northeastern Brazil.", "content": "Familial aggregation of Leishmania chagasi infection in northeastern Brazil. A sample of 1,604 individuals belonging to 243 nuclear families from an endemic area of visceral leishmaniasis (Jacobina, Bahia State, Brazil) was studied to disclose the intrafamilial pattern of infection. Significant father to offspring, mother to offspring, and sibling to sibling associations, in contrast a with nonsignificant father to mother association, clearly indicate a familial aggregation of the infection, with a strong suggestion of at least partial genetic involvement."}
{"id": "7722314", "title": "IL-12 enhances Th1-type responses in human Leishmania donovani infections.", "content": "IL-12 enhances Th1-type responses in human Leishmania donovani infections. IL-12 is a pluripotent cytokine that interacts with NK and T cells to play a central role in the initiation and maintenance of Th1 responses and IFN-gamma production. Because of the interactive relationship between IL-12 and IFN-gamma response to infectious organisms, a study was undertaken to examine the role of IL-12 in the immune regulation of human visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Human (Hu) VL is associated with immune dysfunction and the appearance of IL-10 mRNA, not present in healed individuals. We found that PBMC from treated VL patients produced both IL-12 p40 and IFN-gamma in response to in vitro stimulation with Leishmania donovani. The production of both IL-12 p40 and IFN-gamma were interdependent and were abrogated by the addition of exogenous Hu rIL-10. In contrast, PBMC from active VL patients did not produce IL-12 p40 or IFN-gamma in response to L. donovani lysate. Neutralizing anti-IL-10 mAb led to the enhancement of IFN-gamma production by active VL PBMC cultured with L. donovani lysate, and this enhanced IFN-gamma production was blocked by anti-IL-12 mAb. The addition of exogenous Hu rIL-12 to PBMC from active VL patients resulted in the augmentation of IFN-gamma in response to L. donovani lysate. Therefore, treatment of active VL patient PBMC with anti-IL-10 or IL-12 shifted the response toward a Th1-type response with the production of IFN-gamma. These results indicate that IL-12 may play an important role in the regulation of the cellular immune responses in Hu VL."}
{"id": "7665640", "title": "Leish-KIT, a stable direct agglutination test based on freeze-dried antigen for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Leish-KIT, a stable direct agglutination test based on freeze-dried antigen for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. In order to increase the application potential of the direct agglutination test (DAT) for the detection of anti-Leishmania antibodies in human serum samples, we developed an antigen based on stained and freeze-dried Leishmania donovani promastigotes. We describe here the evaluation of the performance of the DAT based on this freeze-dried antigen. It was shown that the freeze-dried antigen remains fully active, even after storage at 56 degrees C for 18 months. With a cutoff value of 1:1,600, the sensitivity of the DAT was shown to be 92% and the specificity of the test was 99.7%, which were comparable with the results found for the DAT based on liquid antigen. The major advantages of the freeze-dried antigen are that the production of a large batch of this antigen allows reproducible results in the DAT over a long period of time and that the freeze-dried antigen can be stored at ambient temperature, which, as was shown, makes the test a valuable diagnostic tool for use in the field."}
{"id": "7664174", "title": "Immunoglobulin G subclass-specific antileishmanial antibody responses in Indian kala-azar and post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis.", "content": "Immunoglobulin G subclass-specific antileishmanial antibody responses in Indian kala-azar and post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis. Antileishmanial antibody responses in the sera of Indian kala-azar (KA) and post-KA dermal leishmaniasis (PKADL) patients were analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and immunoblot experiments using immunoglobulin G (IgG) class- and subclass-specific reagents. All sera showed antileishmanial reactivities in IgG ELISA which followed the order IgG1 > IgG2 > IgG3, with very little IgG4. Immunoblot analysis with IgG class-specific reagents revealed variable patterns of reactivity by KA and PKADL sera, although certain common bands around the 60- to 63-kDa regions were discernible. Sera from antimony-unresponsive KA cases, on the other hand, strongly recognized two bands at around 20 to 22 kDa, in addition to other bands in the high-molecular-mass region. Further analysis showed that the 28-kDa band was preferentially recognized by the IgG2 isotype, while 20- to 22-kDa and 60- to 63-kDa bands were recognized by the IgG1 isotype. Antibodies belonging to the IgG3 isotype reacted to antigens primarily in the region of 14 to 34 kDa and persisted in patients even several months after cure. Immunoblot studies also revealed the presence of a nonspecific band which arose as a result of binding between a 66-kDa leishmanial antigen and streptavidin. Finally, the results presented in this study suggest that certain leishmanial antigens preferentially stimulate the synthesis of a particular IgG subclass(es), depending on the nature of such antigens or their epitopes."}
{"id": "7650167", "title": "High specificity of Trypanosoma cruzi epimastigote ribonucleoprotein as antigen in serodiagnosis of Chagas' disease.", "content": "High specificity of Trypanosoma cruzi epimastigote ribonucleoprotein as antigen in serodiagnosis of Chagas' disease. We assessed the performance of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) with the Trypanosoma cruzi epimastigote ribosomal fraction (Tulahuen and Y strains) in order to improve the diagnostic specificity of the test. A total of 100 serum samples from patients with chronic Chagas' disease from Brazil and Argentina were studied. Sera from 116 patients, without Chagas' disease, including 10 with active mucocutaneous leishmaniasis and 20 with visceral leishmaniasis, were used as controls. Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies against the ribosomal fraction (ribonucleoproteins [RNPs]) in the ELISA were found in 97% of samples from patients with Chagas' disease. A total of 99% of the sera from patients without the disease were negative, including sera from patients with mucocutaneous and visceral leishmaniases. The distribution of IgG isotypes in randomly chosen serum samples was determined by ELISA; IgG1 and IgG3 were predominant (100% exhibited IgG1 and 85% exhibited IgG3, and 50% also presented the IgG2 isotype. The distribution of the IgG subclasses was confirmed by the Western blot (immunoblot) technique. When total IgG was assayed by Western blot assay, no correlation was found between the pattern of serum reactivity and the clinical features of the patients with Chagas' disease. Therefore, no typical profile of polypeptide recognition could be associated with any clinical form of Chagas' disease (cardiomyopathy or megaviscera). Our results showed that sera from patients with Chagas' disease react with ribosomal antigens and display a typical profile of IgG isotypes (IgG1 plus IgG3). The RNP ELISA seems to have improved specificity compared with those of routine techniques such as the indirect immunofluorescence assay and hemagglutination because it better discriminates between patients with Chagas' disease and patients without the disease. Since sera from patients with leishmaniasis failed to show cross-reactivity with this antigen, the ELISA seems useful for detecting Chagas' disease as well as confirming the nature of sera, when it is doubtful whether the patients has Chagas' disease, by the isotype distribution of IgG."}
{"id": "7644524", "title": "Characterization of a Leishmania tropica antigen that detects immune responses in Desert Storm viscerotropic leishmaniasis patients.", "content": "Characterization of a Leishmania tropica antigen that detects immune responses in Desert Storm viscerotropic leishmaniasis patients. A chronic debilitating parasitic infection, viscerotropic leishmaniasis (VTL), has been described in Operation Desert Storm veterans. Diagnosis of this disease, caused by Leishmania tropica, has been difficult due to low or absent specific immune responses in traditional assays. We report the cloning and characterization of two genomic fragments encoding portions of a single 210-kDa L. tropica protein useful for the diagnosis of VTL in U.S. military personnel. The recombinant proteins encoded by these fragments, recombinant (r) Lt-1 and rLt-2, contain a 33-amino acid repeat that reacts with sera from Desert Storm VTL patients and with sera from L. tropica-infected patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis. Antibody reactivities to rLt-1 indicated a bias toward IgG2 in VTL patient sera. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from VTL patients produced interferon gamma, but not interleukin 4 or 10, in response to rLt-1. No cytokine production was observed in response to parasite lysate. The results indicate that specific leishmanial antigens may be used to detect immune responses in VTL patients with chronic infections."}
{"id": "7639932", "title": "Serodiagnosis of leishmaniasis.", "content": "Serodiagnosis of leishmaniasis. Leishmaniasis is a spectrum of diseases ranging in severity from cutaneous (CL), post-kala-azar dermal (PKDL), and diffuse cutaneous (DCL) to mucocutaneous (MCL) and visceral (VL) infections that are endemic in 86 tropical and subtropical countries around the world, accounting for 75,000 deaths per year. Different forms of leishmaniases are generally caused by different distinct species of Leishmania having a digenetic life cycle alternating between an aflagellated amastigote form replicative within the macrophages of the host and a flagellated promastigote form that multiplies within the gut of the sandfly. VL, MCL, PKDL, DCL, and CL forms of the disease can be arranged on a priority basis in accordance with the humoral immune responses of host. Generally, the cell-mediated immunity, particularly the delayed-type hypersensitivity to leishmanial antigens, is associated with CL, MCL, PKDL, and cured VL cases. The serodiagnosis of leishmaniasis appears to be an alternative to parasite detection in biopsy samples either by the staining of amastigotes or by culturing the amastigotes, which transform to a promastigote form and replicate. A battery of immunological procedures have been developed or adapted to demonstrate either humoral or cell-mediated immune responses against Leishmania for diagnosis and epidemiological survey. The sensitivity and specificity of such diagnostic methods depend on the type, source, and purity of antigen employed, as some of the leishmanial antigens have common cross-reactive epitopes shared with other microorganisms, particularly Trypanosoma, Mycobacteria, Plasmodia, and Schistosoma. Serodiagnostic techniques for the detection of antileishmanial antibodies have been employed with about 72 to 100, 23 to 90, 83, and 33 to 100% success in VL, CL, MCL, and PKDL patients, respectively. The Leishmanin skin test (LST) is useful to detect MCL and CL, with about 100 and 84% success, respectively. In PKDL, the gradual fall of antileishmanial antibody titer to some extent and the rise of delayed hypersensitivity to the parasite antigen are the characteristic features associated with the chronicity of the disease. The use of whole promastigote as the source of antigens in the direct agglutination test (DAT) and immunofluorescent test (IFAT) gave cross-reactions with the sera of leprosy, tuberculosis, and African trypanosomiasis patients. Again, the use of cell-free extracts of promastigotes generally gave false positive results with the sera of normal human and Chagas' disease, leprosy, tuberculosis, and malaria patients in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), dot ELISA, immunodiffusion, immunoelectrophoresis, and counter-current immunoelectrophoresis tests.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7602171", "title": "Tumour necrosis factor-alpha (cachectin) in human visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Tumour necrosis factor-alpha (cachectin) in human visceral leishmaniasis. Generally speaking, the cell mediated immunity plays a pivotal role in the host resistance against the protozoal parasite of the genus Leishmania. The polypeptide hormone cachectin (Tumour Necrosis Factor-alpha) which is produced mainly by macrophages, is a primary mediator in the pathogenesis of infection, injury and inflammation. Depending on its concentration, duration of cell exposure and presence of other mediators in the cellular environment, the net biological effect of this peptide regulatory factor may ultimately be benefit or injury to the host. This work aimed to study the tumour necrosis factor-alpha as measured by Quantikine human immunoassay Kits using ELISA technique in Egyptian visceral leishmaniasis patients (VL). The severity of VL. was measured by IHAT Cellognost Kits. The results showed a certain type of correlation between elevated serum TNF-alpha and human visceral leishmaniasis. It was concluded that TNF-a is an important factor in the pathogenesis of visceral leishmaniasis and may be a marker or an indicator of the VL. activity."}
{"id": "7570874", "title": "Leishmania donovani: titration of antibodies to the fucose-mannose ligand as an aid in diagnosis and prognosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Leishmania donovani: titration of antibodies to the fucose-mannose ligand as an aid in diagnosis and prognosis of visceral leishmaniasis. The fucose-mannose ligand (FML) is a complex glycoprotein fraction present on promastigotes and amastigotes of Leishmania donovani. It participates in parasite interaction with host macrophages in a species-specific pattern. We have tested its use in immunodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in a recent outbreak in Rio Grande do Norte, north-east Brazil. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) of low concentrations of FML in 462 sera showed 100% sensitivity and 96% specificity. The FML-ELISA identified patients with overt VL (P < 0.001, compared to normal sera). It could also identify inhabitants of the endemic area who had incipient or subclinical infection with potentially severe clinical disease: more than 20% of apparently healthy subjects with a positive ELISA for FML developed overt VL during the following 10 months. FML-ELISA reactivity decreased in all patients during treatment, and became negative after parasitological cure. No cross-reaction was observed in patients infected with other Leishmania species, nor in those with Chagas disease. Determination of antibody response to FML may be useful in diagnosis of VL and in identifying patients without overt disease but with a high risk of developing severe VL."}
{"id": "7570862", "title": "Visceral leishmaniasis in Somalia: prevalence of markers of infection and disease manifestations in a village in an endemic area.", "content": "Visceral leishmaniasis in Somalia: prevalence of markers of infection and disease manifestations in a village in an endemic area. Prevalence and disease manifestations of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) were studied in a Somali village in an area which has long been known to be endemic for VL. Demographic data were collected from 102 households, comprising 438 inhabitants. Clinical examination was performed of 306 individuals, 72% of the 426 eligible persons. Of these, 276 (90%) agreed to give blood and 246 (80%) to be skin tested with leishmanin. Leishmanin reactions were positive; in 26% anti-Leishmania antibodies were detected in 11%, and splenomegaly was recorded in 14% (23% of those who were seropositive). Malaria was hypoendemic and therefore unlikely to be responsible for more than 10% of the cases with splenomegaly. Three of the seropositive villagers with splenomegaly complained of feeling ill. The remaining 91 sero- and/or leishmanin-positive individuals had no complaint regarding their health and had not experienced any long period of illness. There was a slight over-representation of males in the group of sero- and/or leishmanin-positive villagers, possibly due to a gender-associated difference in exposure to the parasite. Among the patients with clinical VL treated at Mogadishu hospitals during 1989 and 1990, the male/female ratio was 3.3:1, which may indicate a selection of male patients for hospital care. Most patients were < or = 15 years old, suggesting that the highest risk of becoming clinically ill was among children."}
{"id": "7559934", "title": "Evaluation of cleaving agents other than trypsin in direct agglutination test for further improving diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Evaluation of cleaving agents other than trypsin in direct agglutination test for further improving diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Trypsin treatment of Leishmania promastigote antigen has proved to be indispensible in the direct agglutination test (DAT) for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) and canine visceral leishmaniasis (CVL). In the present study four antigen batches were prepared with pronase (400 micrograms/ml), lipase (0.45% [wt/vol]), pancreatin (0.3% [wt/vol]), or 2-mercaptoethanol (2-ME) (1.2% [vol/vol]) at a ratio of 20:1 versus promastigote packed cell volume or a density of 10(8)/ml. Batches prepared in this way performed satisfactorily when compared with the performance of the initial trypsinated antigen. Even higher was the sensitivity and specificity of the 2-ME-processed antigen, scoring a minimum DAT titer of 1:102,400 in the VL and CVL group and a maximum of 1:400 in the negative control group. Corresponding titers ranging from 1:6,400 to 1:12,800 and 1:800 to 1:1,600 were obtained with the antigen variants processed with pronase, lipase, pancreatin, or trypsin. By combining the use of indigenous Leishmania donovani subspecies from Sudan, Bangladesh, or Morocco and incorporating 2-ME instead of trypsin in the antigen processing step, a threefold increase in titer was attained in sera from the respective areas where VL is endemic. 2-ME-processed antigen suspensions maintained stability at 4 degrees C for up to 9 months, as evidenced by the absence of autoagglutination and the reproducibility of DAT readings with standard sera. The specificity of DAT was further improved by supplementation of the sample diluent with 0.03 M urea and incubation of the test plates at 37 degrees C for 1 h. Titers ranging from 1:200 to 1:12,800 in the sera of patients and laboratory animals infected with various trypanosoma species were significantly reduce (</=1:200) or were rendered negative dilution of 1:25. Regardless of the infections caused by trypanosoma species, the sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value of a positive or negative test in DAT were 100%. Sera from patients who formerly had VL and who had been treated 6 to 36 months earlier remained reactive (>/=1:51,200) against 2-ME-processed antigen, despite the incorporation of urea into the DAT."}
{"id": "7539596", "title": "Short report: detection of 72-75-kD and 123-kD fractions of Leishmania antigen in urine of patients with visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Short report: detection of 72-75-kD and 123-kD fractions of Leishmania antigen in urine of patients with visceral leishmaniasis. Two polypeptide fractions of 72-75 kD were detected in the urine of 14 of 15 patients with visceral leishmaniasis (VL) and another fraction of 123 kD was found in 10 of the 15 patients by using a Western blot technique. None of these fractions was detected in the urine of 20 controls. These results suggest that antigen detection in urine could be a powerful, noninvasive method for VL diagnosis."}
{"id": "8306504", "title": "The significance of blood levels of IgM, IgA, IgG and IgG subclasses in Sudanese visceral leishmaniasis patients.", "content": "The significance of blood levels of IgM, IgA, IgG and IgG subclasses in Sudanese visceral leishmaniasis patients. We developed an ELISA test using leishmania antigenic extracts to detect antigen-specific antibody responses, including subclass and isotype analysis, in visceral leishmaniasis (VL) patients from the Sudan. A total of 92 parasitologically proven patients were compared with cutaneous leishmaniasis, schistosomiasis, malaria, onchocerciasis and tuberculosis patients, as well as with healthy endemic and non-endemic controls. Some VL patients were examined before and after chemotherapy. VL patients showed significantly higher IgG responses compared with all other groups (93.4% sensitivity, 93.7% specificity), and higher (but not significantly) IgM responses. All groups showed low IgA levels. All IgG subclasses, IgG1, 2, 3, and 4, showed higher levels in patients than all other groups, with IgG1 and IgG3 levels being significantly reduced following treatment. The rank order for specificity and sensitivity for IgG subclasses was IgG3 > IgG1 > IgG2 > IgG4."}
{"id": "8195388", "title": "Comparison of PCR with direct examination of bone marrow aspiration, myeloculture, and serology for diagnosis of visceral Leishmaniasis in immunocompromised patients.", "content": "Comparison of PCR with direct examination of bone marrow aspiration, myeloculture, and serology for diagnosis of visceral Leishmaniasis in immunocompromised patients. A PCR assay amplifying a repeated sequence from the Leishmania infantum genome was compared with direct examination of bone marrow aspirate, myeloculture, and serology for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in immunocompromised patients. Of 73 patients living in an area endemic for leishmaniasis and where visceral leishmaniasis was suspected by physicians, only 10 had an indisputable diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. None of the diagnostic tests performed in the study achieved 100% sensitivity for diagnosing visceral leishmaniasis. PCR exhibited superior sensitivity (82%) in comparison with bone marrow aspirate examination (55%) and myeloculture (55%). Our PCR assay also showed good specificity (97%), negative predictive value (97%), and positive predictive value (82%) even when all unconfirmed PCR results were scored as false positives. Serology exhibited good sensitivity (80%) and excellent specificity (100%), negative predictive value (98%), and positive predictive value (100%) in diagnosing new cases of visceral leishmaniasis but failed to diagnose relapses. We also observed consistent negative serological results using several different immunological detection methods for 2 of the 10 patients with confirmed cases of visceral leishmaniasis. This lack of serological reactivity persisted throughout the course of their infections. These results demonstrate the importance of using PCR as an aid in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in immunocompromised patients."}
{"id": "8192514", "title": "Visceral leishmaniasis in Ethiopia. III. The magnitude and annual incidence of infection, as measured by serology in an endemic area.", "content": "Visceral leishmaniasis in Ethiopia. III. The magnitude and annual incidence of infection, as measured by serology in an endemic area. A serological study of visceral leishmaniasis was carried out in a cohort of people in an endemic area of Ethiopia. The people were tested three times, at 6-monthly intervals. Seroprevalence at the start was 112 per 1000, and the annual rate of conversion from negative to positive was estimated as 106 per 1000. Both seroprevalence and incidence of seroconversion increased with age, and males showed higher rates than females, with a male:female ratio of seroconversion of 2:1. Accumulation of 6-monthly seroconversion rates was considered to give a better estimate of the annual rate itself, as the half-life of positive serology was only around 3 months."}
{"id": "8169424", "title": "Antibodies to Leishmania donovani infantum heat-shock protein 70 in human visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Antibodies to Leishmania donovani infantum heat-shock protein 70 in human visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "8063345", "title": "Anti-66 kDa antileishmanial antibodies as specific immunodiagnostic probe for visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Anti-66 kDa antileishmanial antibodies as specific immunodiagnostic probe for visceral leishmaniasis. A 66 kDa plasma membrane associated molecule of promastigotes of Leishmania donovani (MHOM/IN/1978/UR6) was affinity purified under acidic conditions. Employing purified 66 kDa antigen in micro ELISA, 36 (97.3%) of the 37 patients of visceral leishmaniasis (bone marrow aspirates positive for Leishman Donovan bodies) had detectable levels of anti 66 kDa anti leishmanial antibodies. The sera of the patients confirmed to have visceral leishmaniasis had significantly (P < 0.001) higher optical density values (0.636 +/- 0.230) as compared to sera (OD 0.185 +/- 0.131) from patients clinically suspected to have visceral leishmaniasis (bone marrow aspirates negative for Leishman Donovan bodies). None of the 35 sera from apparently healthy subjects from non endemic area had anti 66 kDa antibodies. However, sera from one (8.3%) of the 12 healthy subjects, who was a first degree relative of a patient of visceral leishmaniasis and residing in an area endemic for visceral leishmaniasis, had anti 66 kDa antibodies. It is felt that detection of anti 66 kDa antibodies in a micro ELISA assay provides a highly sensitive and specific tool for confirming ongoing visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "7992333", "title": "Serodiagnosis of Asian leishmaniasis with a recombinant antigen from the repetitive domain of a Leishmania kinesin.", "content": "Serodiagnosis of Asian leishmaniasis with a recombinant antigen from the repetitive domain of a Leishmania kinesin. rK39 is a recombinant product of the 39 amino acid repeats found in a kinesin-like gene of visceral Leishmania spp. This and other antigens were compared for immunodiagnostic potential by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with sera from confirmed cases of Asian cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis. In preliminary trials, rK39 proved superior to 2 purified Leishmania antigens, a cytosolic protein (p36) and a membrane protein (gp63), for immunodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Of the 53 visceral cases from China and Pakistan assayed, 52 were seropositive (98%) at a 10(-1) dilution with 36 ng of rK39. End point titrations of 27 highly positive samples yielded anti-rK39 antibody titres ranging from c. 10(-3) to beyond 10(-4). Antigen titrations with one positive serum further revealed that rK39 was 25-fold more sensitive than Leishmania whole cell soluble lysates. 31 cutaneous leishmaniasis cases from Turkey assayed for anti-rK39 antibody gave reactions ranging from negative or marginally positive to positive. In Brazil, all cutaneous and mucocutaneous leishmaniasis cases gave negative results in this assay."}
{"id": "7974667", "title": "Development of a rapid latex agglutination test for the detection of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Development of a rapid latex agglutination test for the detection of visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "7966534", "title": "Comparative evaluation of serological tests in Indian kala-azar.", "content": "Comparative evaluation of serological tests in Indian kala-azar. Data on 41 kala-azar patients were collected and the series of serological tests employed to diagnose the disease were compared depending upon their sensitivity and specificity indices. The indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFAT) was found to be 100% sensitive and specific. The direct agglutination test (DAT) involving detection of agglutinating antibodies against Leishmania donovani was 97.2% efficient. The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) had a specificity of 75% while other tests such as counter-immunoelectrophoresis (CIEP), aldehyde and the Sia water test ranged from 84.3 to 97.2% in efficiency. On the basis of the costs and ease of the tests, the use of DAT along with CIEP is highly recommended for early detection of kala-azar."}
{"id": "7896312", "title": "An indirect immunoperoxidase assay for rapid serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "An indirect immunoperoxidase assay for rapid serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. An easy, inexpensive and rapid indirect immunoperoxidase assay for serodiagnosis of Kala-azar (VL) has been tried using whole promastigotes of L. donovani in dried smear form as antigen. A total of 138 sera were tested including sera from parasite positive cases of VL (32), normal controls from endemic (20) and non-endemic (20) areas, cases of tuberculosis (10), leprosy (10), amoebic hepatitis (10), malaria (10) and tropical splenomegaly (26). All the positive control sera were positive in very high dilutions of serum ranging from 1/500 to 1/64,000. None of the sera with other diseases were positive by this method except 3 cases with tropical splenomegaly were positive in low titres. No other cause could be established in these cases for splenomegaly. Sensitivity and specificity of the test were found to be 100 and 95.3% respectively. Predictive values of the negative and positive tests were 100 and 86.5% respectively."}
{"id": "7886758", "title": "Asymptomatic visceral leishmaniasis in Israel.", "content": "Asymptomatic visceral leishmaniasis in Israel."}
{"id": "7875095", "title": "Relationship between direct agglutination test and splenic aspirate smear parasite load in visceral leishmaniasis at Baringo District, Kenya.", "content": "Relationship between direct agglutination test and splenic aspirate smear parasite load in visceral leishmaniasis at Baringo District, Kenya. Direct agglutination test was carried out in Baringo District on 100 persons presenting with signs and symptoms suggestive of visceral leishmaniasis. Splenic aspirate smears and cultures were done on these 100 persons in order to parasitologically confirm the findings of the direct agglutination test. It was found that the direct agglutination test positively detected all 79 (79%) patients parasitologically confirmed to have visceral leishmaniasis. Irrespective of the splenic aspirate smear parasite rate, whether 1+ or 6+ on a logarithmic scale, direct agglutination test was positive. There were 21% false positives, two of whom had Schistosoma mansoni in their stools. It was not immediately known about the cause of the other false positives. It was concluded that the direct agglutination test is a good provisional serodiagnostic test for visceral leishmaniasis and should be considered for wider field application."}
{"id": "7862466", "title": "Identification of a 94-kilodalton antigen on Leishmania promastigote forms and its specific recognition in human and canine visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Identification of a 94-kilodalton antigen on Leishmania promastigote forms and its specific recognition in human and canine visceral leishmaniasis. We have analysed by immunoblotting sera from humans and dogs with visceral leishmaniasis, from the Old World as well as the New. When lysates of promastigotes are used as antigens, antibodies against a 94 kDa Leishmania component are detected, regardless of the age and geographical origin of the patient, the serum antibody titre as measured by indirect immunofluorescence, and the number of arcs in counterimmunoelectrophoresis. Low dilutions of sera from patients with Old and New World cutaneous leishmaniasis did not react with the 94-kDa antigen, whatever the species of Leishmania used as antigens. Sera from patients with other infections than leishmaniases, or without infection, are negative, even at low dilution. Anti-94 kDa antibodies were detected in the sera of Leishmania-infected dogs from both the Old and the New World. When lysates of Leishmania mexicana axenic amastigotes are used as antigens, the 94-kDa antigen was little or none identified by sera from humans and dogs with visceral leishmaniasis, and never recognized by control sera. Thus, the specific recognition of the 94-kDa promastigote antigen in human and canine visceral leishmaniasis suggests that this antigen could be a potential candidate in the differential immunodiagnosis of the disease."}
{"id": "7855563", "title": "Mediterranean visceral leishmaniasis in pregnancy.", "content": "Mediterranean visceral leishmaniasis in pregnancy. Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in pregnancy is rare in Mediterranean countries. We report here 2 cases of VL in pregnant women who acquired the infection in Italy. In the first case, the disease was diagnosed and treated with liposomal amphotericin B during the pregnancy. In the second case, diagnosis was established and treatment with meglumine antimoniate both undertaken shortly after delivery. The 2 infants were followed clinically and serologically for 8-9 months after birth, but no evidence of congenital VL was observed."}
{"id": "7814485", "title": "Identification of an immunodominant 32-kilodalton membrane protein of Leishmania donovani infantum promastigotes suitable for specific diagnosis of Mediterranean visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Identification of an immunodominant 32-kilodalton membrane protein of Leishmania donovani infantum promastigotes suitable for specific diagnosis of Mediterranean visceral leishmaniasis. Sera from 35 patients suffering from Mediterranean visceral leishmaniasis (caused by Leishmania donovani infantum) and 59 patients with various forms of cutaneous leishmaniasis prevalent in the sub-Mediterranean countries (caused by Leishmania major, L. donovani infantum, or Leishmania tropica) were tested by immunoblotting and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) with both membrane and soluble antigens prepared from L. donovani infantum parasites. Control sera were from healthy children (n = 41), adults with nonleishmanial diseases (n = 40), and patients with Chagas' disease (n = 12). A P32 antigen present in the membrane preparation from L. donovani infantum parasites was recognized by 95% of serum specimens from patients with Mediterranean visceral leishmaniasis but not by serum specimens from patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis or sera from control individuals. An ELISA with electroeluted P32 antigen was found to have a specificity and sensitivity of 94% in the serodiagnosis of Mediterranean visceral leishmaniasis. Healthy children with asymptomatic Leishmania infection were seronegative for the P32 antigen by ELISA. These results suggest that antibodies to P32 antigen develop only in patients with visceral leishmaniasis and that the P32 ELISA may be useful in areas where the disease is endemic for discriminating between patients with this disease and those with other clinical conditions."}
{"id": "7709873", "title": "Evaluation of recombinant gp63, the major Leishmania surface glycoprotein, as a diagnostic molecule for leishmaniasis in vervet monkeys.", "content": "Evaluation of recombinant gp63, the major Leishmania surface glycoprotein, as a diagnostic molecule for leishmaniasis in vervet monkeys."}
{"id": "7528916", "title": "Distribution of lipophosphoglycan-associated epitopes in different Leishmania species and in African trypanosomes.", "content": "Distribution of lipophosphoglycan-associated epitopes in different Leishmania species and in African trypanosomes. Monoclonal antibody (mAb) CA7AE binds specifically to the phosphorylated Gal-beta 1,4-Man disaccharide repeat epitope of Leishmania donovani lipophosphoglycan (LPG). This mAb detected the repeat epitope in most but not all of a wide variety of Leishmania species and strains examined. MAb CA7AE also bound to both glycoprotein and carbohydrate antigens in medium from L. donovani promastigote cultures. Specifically, mAb CA7AE bound the delipidated form of LPG, the phosphoglycan, and a glycoprotein both of which are released into the medium by the parasite indicating that both share a specific phosphorylated carbohydrate epitope. The epitope was detected in sera from L. donovani-infected (kala-azar positive) patients when mAb CA7AE was used in an antigen-capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). MAb L157 is specific for a protein that is found associated with L. donovani LPG, the lipophosphoglycan-associated protein (LPGAP). This mAb bound to molecules in all 19 strains (representing 9 species) of Leishmania promastigotes and to molecules in 2 species of Trypanosoma procyclic culture forms. This wide distribution of the LPGAP epitope implies that it may have a conserved function, for example, in the biochemistry or arrangement of parasite surface molecules. In addition, since the LPGAP is involved in the stimulation of T lymphocyte proliferation, its wide distribution amongst different Leishmania species suggests that it may be an ideal molecule for testing as a vaccine for leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "7516230", "title": "Leishmania donovani flagellum-specific epitopes mediating host-parasite interactions.", "content": "Leishmania donovani flagellum-specific epitopes mediating host-parasite interactions. Monoclonal antibodies were developed against flagellar components of promastigotes of Leishmania donovani. The monoclonal antibody produced by clone A11 (mAb A11) recognised epitopes in the polypeptides with molecular weights of 86, 66 and weakly 53 kDa. These epitopes were found to be distributed along the flagellum and at the anterior end of promastigotes. The mAb A11 of IgG1 isotype strongly agglutinated the promastigotes of L. donovani. The prior treatment of promastigotes of L. donovani with mAb A11 resulted in a significant (P < 0.001) reduction in the attachment of promastigotes to cultured mouse peritoneal macrophages of line J774G8. The affinity-purified epitopes identified by mAb A11 were recognised by human sera of cases of visceral leishmaniasis. The present study suggest that flagellar-specific epitopes mediate host-parasite interactions and, therefore, the role of these epitopes in the disease process is speculated."}
{"id": "7512290", "title": "A PEG-ELISA for the detection of Leishmania donovani antigen in circulating immune complexes.", "content": "A PEG-ELISA for the detection of Leishmania donovani antigen in circulating immune complexes. Leishmanial antigen in circulating immune complexes (CIC) from sera of cotton-rats experimentally infected with Leishmania donovani and visceral leishmaniasis patients (VLP) was detected using a polyethylene glycol (PEG) enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (PEG-ELISA). The immune complexes were precipitated in the cold with 12% PEG (average M(r) 6000) and then dissociated with glycine-HCl buffer. The dissociated antigen bound to the plate was then detected by peroxidase-labelled rabbit antibody raised to either amastigotes or to CIC. Serum samples from either controls or patients infected with heterologous organisms were used to define the sensitivity and specificity of the test. Leishmanial antigen was detected in the CIC from all experimentally infected animals (100% sensitivity) and in 22 of 25 of the CIC from VLP (88% sensitivity), using either conjugate. Immunoblotting of PEG-precipitated CIC from infected animals with both rabbit antisera revealed multiple antigen components. Antigens of 40, 42 and 45 kDa appeared to be specifically recognized by both antibodies; the components of 40 and 42 kDa were common to amastigote extracts and CIC from infected animals."}
{"id": "8513577", "title": "Elevated levels of antibodies against sulphatide are present in all chronic chagasic and dilated cardiomyopathy sera.", "content": "Elevated levels of antibodies against sulphatide are present in all chronic chagasic and dilated cardiomyopathy sera. A natural anti-sulphatide antibody was found to be present in the serum of every normal individual studied. The reactivity of the antibody was assessed by its interaction with galactosylceramide-I3-sulphate. Antigen-antibody binding was strongly blocked by 1 mM heparin, dextran sulphate and chondroitin sulphate A, and by 5 mM chondroitin sulphate B. Antibodies avidly absorb to rabbit erythrocytes, but discretely to rat erythrocytes, suggesting that they are different from galactocerebroside antibodies. Elevated levels of sulphatide antibodies were present in all of 102 chronic Trypanosoma cruzi-infected patients studied, but not in other patients having cutaneous or visceral leishmaniasis, T. rangeli infection or several other protozoal, helminthic or mycotic infections. Interestingly, 100% of 40 dilated cardiomyopathy patients also have elevated levels of sulphatide antibodies. As T. cruzi is rich in galactocerebroside sulphate, it is proposed that in chagasic patients this glycolipid could act as an immunogen, inducing elevated titres of sulphatide antibodies, which could be important in the pathogenesis of cardiac or peripheral nerve symptoms."}
{"id": "8450694", "title": "[Prevalence of anti-Leishmania antibodies in parenteral drug addicts. Yield value of 2 study techniques].", "content": "[Prevalence of anti-Leishmania antibodies in parenteral drug addicts. Yield value of 2 study techniques]. The prevalence of antibodies anti-Leishmania in intravenous drug addict (IVDA) patients suspect of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) and the diagnostic profitability of two tests for detecting anti-Leishmania antibodies were studied. Serum samples corresponding to 91 healthy non IVDA individuals (group 1), 143 IVDA individuals attended in consultation for febrile illness and lymph node enlargement (group 2) with only one serum determination, and 42 IVDA individuals in whom sequential serologic study (group 3) was performed were analyzed. IgG and IgM antibodies were studied by indirect immunofluorescence (IIF). The individuals of group 1 and 90 of those of group 2 (45 with anti-Leishmania IgG antibodies and 45 without by IIF) were simultaneously studied by ELISA to analyze IgG antibodies. No antibodies were detected in subjects from group 1 with the two techniques used. In group 2 IgG were detected in 43.3% of the patients (titer distribution: 46.8% at 1/32, 32.3% at 1/64 and > 1/64 in 21%). In group 3 seroconversion of IgG was found in 18 cases. In 6 patients IgM was observed: 3 from group 2 (with low titers of IgG) and the remaining pertained to group 3 being accompanied by seroconversion of specific IgG. In the remaining 15 patients of group 3 seroconversion of IgG did not accompany positive IgM. No association was found in the results obtained by IIF and ELISA (p = 0.3; chi 2). It was found that indirect immunofluorescence and ELISA techniques are complementary methods in the indirect diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis overall in the population of intravenous drug addicts. In this population acute disease may be manifested by IgG seroconversion with or without positive IgM although IgG seroconversion seems to be a more useful criteria given the greater number of patients in whom it is presented in this form. The high frequency of antileishmania antibodies in intravenous drug addict patients in Spain is of note."}
{"id": "8450408", "title": "Serologic validation of HIV infection in a tropical area.", "content": "Serologic validation of HIV infection in a tropical area. We have defined human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) serologic reactivity in Brazilians living in an area endemic for tropical diseases. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and Western blot (WB) analyses were performed on 342 patients with diseases including Chagas' disease, schistosomiasis, typhoid fever, helminthiasis, and cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis. Nine percent of the visceral leishmaniasis patients' sera reacted in the HIV-1 ELISA but all were WB negative. All other sera from these patients were HIV negative. A total of 224 HIV-1 ELISA repeatedly positive sera also were HIV-1 WB tested. They were drawn from a total population of 19,230 individuals, including AIDS patients, blood donors, homosexual men, intravenous drug users, pregnant women, individuals with hemophiliac, and tuberculosis and sexually transmitted disease patients. The WB results were analyzed using five different interpretive criteria for WB positivity. The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and the World Health Organization (WHO) criteria were the most sensitive and specific for identifying HIV-1-infected individuals. The WB pattern was similar to that seen in the United States. Envelope (ENV) protein antibodies were highly predictive of HIV-1 infection; none of the AIDS patients lacked ENV protein reactivity. We conclude that among the tropical diseases studied, only visceral leishmaniasis is associated with false-positive HIV-1 ELISA tests. Current CDC and WHO criteria for interpretation of HIV-1 WB tests are appropriate for Brazil."}
{"id": "8421715", "title": "Molecular characterization of a kinesin-related antigen of Leishmania chagasi that detects specific antibody in African and American visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Molecular characterization of a kinesin-related antigen of Leishmania chagasi that detects specific antibody in African and American visceral leishmaniasis. We report the cloning of a Leishmania chagasi antigen gene and an evaluation of leishmaniasis patient antibody responses to the recombinant protein, rK39. rK39 contains a 39-amino acid repeat that is part of a 230-kDa protein predominant in L. chagasi tissue amastigotes. Sequence analyses showed this protein, LcKin, to be related to the kinesin superfamily of motor proteins. Southern blot analyses demonstrated LcKin-related sequences in seven species of Leishmania, with conservation of the repeat between L. chagasi and Leishmania donovani. Serological evaluation revealed that 98% (56 of 57) of Brazilian and 100% (52 of 52) of Sudanese visceral leishmaniasis patients have high antibody levels to the rK39 repeat. Detectable anti-K39 antibody was virtually absent in cutaneous and mucosal leishmaniasis patients and in individuals infected with Trypanosoma cruzi. The data show that rK39 may replace crude parasite antigens as a basis for serological diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "8415555", "title": "Prevalence of agglutinating anti-Leishmania antibodies in two multi-thousand Bengoli communities.", "content": "Prevalence of agglutinating anti-Leishmania antibodies in two multi-thousand Bengoli communities. Control of endemic visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in large communities requires a feasible epidemiological indicator capable of monitoring on-going transmission rather than mere exposure to the parasite. Following confirmation of the desired level of reliability for laboratory diagnosis of VL, the direct agglutination test (DAT) was employed to estimate VL sero-prevalence in the endemic upazilas (subdistricts) of Trishal and Shahjadpur within Mymensingh and Sirajganj districts of Bangladesh. DAT antigen production was duly increased to allow coverage of a study population of 17826 inhabitants, 9619 of whom resided in Trishal, 7328 in Shahjadpur and 879 in Teknaf (Cox's Bazar), a known Leishmania-free district in Bangladesh. Despite large-scale production in batches of 1120-4000 ml (each sufficient for 1176-6400 screening doses), all DAT antigen batches performed as required in quality control tests for sensitivity, specificity and stability. It was convenient for both collection and testing to take the required samples of whole blood by finger prick. A cross-sectional survey revealed VL point prevalences of 4.40% in Trishal and 6.75% in Shahjadpur, compared with an extremely low rate of 0.34% in non-endemic Teknaf. In both endemic upazilas (Trishal and Shahjadpur) VL was more prevalent (2.56-4.5%) in persons up to 20 years of age than in those 21 years of age and older (1.84-2.25%). Of 918 subjects recorded as seropositives, 539 were VL-asymptomatic and 379 were VL-symptomatic with various degrees of suspicion. Diagnosis of VL was established in 125 symptomatic seropositives subjects, either by demonstrating the presence of Leishmania amastigotes (29), or by positive DAT results combined with presentation of typical VL signs (96).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8394861", "title": "Epidemic visceral leishmaniasis in Sudan: a randomized trial of aminosidine plus sodium stibogluconate versus sodium stibogluconate alone.", "content": "Epidemic visceral leishmaniasis in Sudan: a randomized trial of aminosidine plus sodium stibogluconate versus sodium stibogluconate alone. In a comparative trial of treatment in southern Sudan, visceral leishmaniasis was diagnosed by the following symptoms: fever for > 1 month, splenomegaly, and antileishmanial direct agglutination test (DAT) titer of > or = 1:25,600. Patients (200) were randomized to receive sodium stibogluconate (Sbv) at 20 mg/kg/day for 30 days (groups S, n = 99) or Sbv at 20 mg/kg/day plus aminosidine at 15 mg/kg/day for 17 days (group AS, n = 101). Of 192 patients who had spleens or lymph nodes aspirated at entry, 134 (70%) were positive for parasites. During treatment, 7% in group S and 4% in group AS died. All 184 patients who completed treatment were clinically cured. At days 15-17, microscopy of aspirates showed that 57 (95%) of 60 in group AS were negative for parasites compared with 47 (81%) of 58 in group S (P = .018). At day 30, 57 (93.4%) of 61 group S aspirates were negative."}
{"id": "8376875", "title": "Visceral leishmaniasis among hypersplenic patients in Dakahlia Governorate, Egypt.", "content": "Visceral leishmaniasis among hypersplenic patients in Dakahlia Governorate, Egypt. Generally speaking, with rapid international travel, it is very common to diagnose infectious diseases in areas where they were not known before. Nowadays, visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is documented in Egypt mainly in Al Agamy, Alexandria. Another case of infantile visceral leishmaniasis was identified in an adult farmer (unusual host) in Banha. Other studies all over Egypt (based on clinical and or serological diagnosis rather than demonstration of the parasites) raised the possibility of adult affection with visceral leishmaniasis. The point is that visceral leishmaniasis, shares many clinical manifestations with other diseases known in Egypt as schistosomiasis mansoni, hepatic amoebiasis, toxoplasmosis, and malaria. In the present study, out of 22 human cases with hypersplenism and suggesting manifestations, four gave seropositivity for VL, by the indirect haemagglutination tests (128 & more). Two of these four patients gave seropositivity by dot-ELISA (1:8000). Amastigotes of Leishmania parasite were demonstrated in the splenic smears obtained during splenectomy. One culture obtained from these two cases grew promastigotes. Typing is ongoing. It was concluded that visceral leishmaniasis should be in mind and considered in the differential diagnosis of patients with hepatosplenomegaly or hypersplenism in Egypt."}
{"id": "8336651", "title": "[The current aspects of seroepidemiological research in combined foci of leishmaniasis].", "content": "[The current aspects of seroepidemiological research in combined foci of leishmaniasis]. The authors analyze the results of C-ELISA, used in screening of the population in combined foci of zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis and visceral leishmaniasis in two types of landscapes in Turkmenistan. In the deltas, on the plains [correction of planes] and oases, where the incidence of zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis is very high, 1.6% of the examinees were found to have antibody to L. major. The antibodies in this condition are detectable only during the acute stage of the disease and persist for just a few months after convalescence. The share of the positive sera with antibody to L. donovani sensu lato was the minimal (0.48%) in the population of the alluvial plain [correction of plane] at the Kopet-Dag hills, the highest share (4%) of the population with such antibodies lived in the sandy deserts in the interfluvial areas of southern-eastern Turkmenistan. The authors have validated the criteria for the assessment of the endemicity level of leishmaniasis foci with due consideration for various incidence rates of visceral and zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniases and the specific features of the immune response in these nosologic forms. They suggest that a positive serologic response be considered as the basic criterion of a visceral leishmaniasis focus, and the disease incidence and the number of subjects who had had this disease in the focus--the basic criterion for the assessment of a zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis focus endemicity."}
{"id": "8314991", "title": "High resolution of Trypanosoma cruzi amastigote antigen in serodiagnosis of different clinical forms of Chagas' disease.", "content": "High resolution of Trypanosoma cruzi amastigote antigen in serodiagnosis of different clinical forms of Chagas' disease. The serodiagnosis of Chagas' disease, a highly prevalent disorder in South American countries, is usually made by the detection of antibodies to Trypanosoma cruzi epimastigote antigen. In this study, we assess the diagnostic performance of the immunofluorescence test with T. cruzi (Y strain) amastigote antigen from an LLC-MK2-infected cell supernatant in comparison with a test with the conventional epimastigote antigen. A total of 238 serum samples from patients in the acute and chronic phases of the disease, with the chronic indeterminate, cardiac, and digestive forms, and from nonchagasic individuals were tested for the presence of immunoglobulin G (IgG), IgM, and IgA antibodies. The reactivity of the amastigote antigen in terms of geometric mean titers was 2 to 4 times higher than that of the epimastigote antigen. Clear-cut results were obtained with the amastigote antigen, with no overlapping of true and false positives. IgG antibodies to amastigotes were found in all patients with Chagas' disease, whereas all sera from nonchagasic patients were negative, except for those from patients with visceral leishmaniasis, in which 63% cross-reactivity was observed. IgM antibodies to amastigotes were detected in 100% of sera from patients with acute Chagas' disease and in 7.5% of sera from patients with chronic Chagas' disease, whereas IgA antibodies were found in 60% of sera from patients in the acute phase and in 33% of sera from patients in the chronic phase. Despite the cross-reactivity observed with sera from visceral leishmaniasis patients, the IgG immunofluorescence test with the amastigote antigen had the highest sensitivity, specificity, and efficiency. No relationship was observed between the class-specific antibodies or their titers and the clinical forms of patients in the chronic phase. Amastigotes from the cell culture supernatant proved to be useful as an alternative antigen to epimastigotes because of their high resolution in the serodiagnosis of Chagas' disease."}
{"id": "8313493", "title": "Epidemiological aspects of kala-azar in Meshkin-Shahr, Iran: human infection.", "content": "Epidemiological aspects of kala-azar in Meshkin-Shahr, Iran: human infection. During the last decade, kala-azar, which used to be a sporadic disease, became endemic in parts of East-Azerbaijan province in north-west Iran. Many of the 1051 cases observed between 1985 and 1990 were in the district of Meshkin-Shahr (800 cases). The diagnosis was based on symptoms and signs of the disease plus a positive serological test (indirect immunofluorescence assay or direct agglutination test) and, in some cases, the finding of parasites in bone marrow smears. About 90% of the cases were children under 5 years of age. The disease incidence in 1990 was almost ten times that in 1985. New cases are diagnosed throughout the year, but mostly from January till April. Cases were treated with meglumine antimoniate with very satisfactory results; deaths were few among the treated children. Sporadic cases of kala-azar have appeared in East-Azerbaijan province, Iran, over the past fifty years. The number of cases began to increase, however, after the mid-1970s and large numbers have been reported from all parts of the country, but mainly in Meshkin-Shahr district. This paper describes the extent of human infection in the district over the period 1984-90, before the implementation of a control program in 1991. 1051 cases were observed in Meshkin-Shahr district hospital over the period 1985-90. 800 of the cases were from Meshkin-Shahr district, with more than 50% of cases being from the city and neighboring larger villages. 90% of cases were children under five years old. 35 cases were diagnosed in 1985 compared to 344 in 1990. New cases were diagnosed throughout the year, but mostly from January to April. Cases were treated with meglumine antimoniate with very satisfactory results; deaths were few among the treated children."}
{"id": "8249071", "title": "Field application of an ELISA using redefined Leishmania antigens for the detection of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Field application of an ELISA using redefined Leishmania antigens for the detection of visceral leishmaniasis. Two soluble antigens from Leishmania donovani of 116 kDa and 70 kDa molecular mass, and a soluble mixture of crude antigens, were used in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the detection of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in the field, and compared with the direct agglutination test (DAT). The tests were carried out on 8 VL patients, 34 normal individuals from an area endemic for the disease, and 68 former visceral leishmaniasis patients 1-5 years after treatment. The 70 kDa ELISA and the DAT had a sensitivity and specificity of 100% (95% confidence interval 63-100%), while the 116 kDa ELISA and the soluble crude antigen ELISA were 37.5% (9-76%) and 50% (16-84%) sensitive, respectively. When using ELISA (116 kDa or 70 kDa), 68-69% of sera tested 1-2 years, and 92-94% of sera tested 5 years, after treatment were negative. In contrast, when DAT or ELISA with crude antigen were used, the negativity rate was 31% 1-2 years, and 53% 5 years, after treatment. DAT was therefore not an accurate test for diagnosis in the field. The use of the 70 kDa antigen in ELISA was an accurate alternative to DAT in the detection of VL."}
{"id": "8236390", "title": "Evaluation of the direct agglutination test as an immunodiagnostic tool for kala-azar in India.", "content": "Evaluation of the direct agglutination test as an immunodiagnostic tool for kala-azar in India. The direct agglutination test (DAT) has been assessed as a diagnostic procedure for visceral leishmaniasis. Fifty-six of 58 sera (96.5%) from confirmed cases of visceral leishmaniasis, whose bone marrow aspirates contained Leishmania donovani amastigotes, had agglutinating antibodies above the cut-off titre of 1:800. None of the sera from healthy control subjects from non-endemic or endemic areas had anti-leishmanial antibodies. Similarly, none of the sera obtained from cases of malaria or tuberculosis had agglutinating antibodies above the cut-off titre. A significant decline in agglutinating antibody titre in 3 cases following antileishmanial chemotherapy appeared to correlate with regression of clinical symptoms and the absence of amastigotes from bone marrow aspirates. One of 3 cases developed post-kala-azar dermal lesions and sera from this subject had an elevated agglutinating antibody titre. It is concluded that the DAT is a sensitive and specific test to confirm visceral leishmaniasis. As the formalin-fixed promastigotes, stained with Coomassie blue, which are used as antigen could be stored at 4 degrees C for 6 months without any loss of ability to detect anti-leishmanial antibodies, the DAT is recommended for use under field conditions."}
{"id": "8214280", "title": "Characterization of a circulating antigen involved in immune complexes in visceral leishmaniasis patients.", "content": "Characterization of a circulating antigen involved in immune complexes in visceral leishmaniasis patients. Complications of visceral leishmaniasis are explained in part by immune complex pathology, particularly nephritis. Using the polyethylene glycol precipitation method, we identified among these complexes a Leishmania infantum circulating antigen by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting. Monoclonal antibodies were produced to specifically detect this antigen. This protein (molecular weight 51 kD) is a cytoplasmic antigen of L. infantum and its synthesis by promastigotes is related to stationary-phase culture. It was present in sera from dogs whose leishmaniasis was associated with nephritis, and it was found in the sera of 30% of human patients with visceral leishmaniasis. It was also detected in the sera of patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis, and it persists in the sera of clinically cured subjects."}
{"id": "8144206", "title": "Evaluation of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in the diagnosis of kala-azar in Malda district (West Bengal).", "content": "Evaluation of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in the diagnosis of kala-azar in Malda district (West Bengal). An immunological test based on indirect (plate) ELISA has been successfully standardized and modified using promastigote soluble antigen. The test carried out on 813 subjects from a kala-azar endemic area (including parasitologically confirmed patients, subjects presenting with clinical symptoms of visceral leishmaniasis and endemic controls) and a non-endemic area (with diseases other than kala-azar and apparently normal subjects) was found to detect, specifically, antileishmanial antibodies. The plate ELISA has been simplified to a more sensitive dot-ELISA where the results are read within 2-3 h. The antigen requirement is 250 ng per test. No cross-reactivity with sera from patients of malaria, tuberculosis, leprosy, amoebiasis and filariasis was observed. The follow up monitoring of antibodies in successfully treated kala-azar patients showed a decline of antibodies. A drop of blood taken on filter paper is sufficient to conduct the test. Dot ELISA therefore is a simple, inexpensive and stable test in serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "8105816", "title": "Measurement of serum antibodies against native Leishmania gp63 distinguishes between ongoing and previous L. donovani infection.", "content": "Measurement of serum antibodies against native Leishmania gp63 distinguishes between ongoing and previous L. donovani infection. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using native gp63 for detection of serum antibodies to Leishmania was evaluated. The test identified antibodies in sera from 16 of 16 visceral leishmaniasis (VL) patients and 9 of 12 sera from patients with Trypanosoma brucei infection. In comparison, sera from 80 Danish controls and 40 control donors from a malaria endemic area of Ghana without known exposure to Leishmania were negative, as were sera from 12 Kenyan malaria patients and 9 schistosomiasis patients. After cure of VL, sera rapidly became negative. Only 1 of 7, 1 of 21, and 1 of 27 sera from cured VL patients 6-12 months, 1-2 years and > 2 years after cure were positive. Thus, in contrast to other serological tests for VL, the gp63 ELISA seems to distinguish an ongoing from a past infection. This might prove useful both for diagnostic and epidemiological purposes."}
{"id": "7802504", "title": "A focus of visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis on the northern coast of Colombia.", "content": "A focus of visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis on the northern coast of Colombia."}
{"id": "7802488", "title": "Applicability of direct agglutination test (DAT) at a rural health setting in Bangladesh and feasibility of local antigen production.", "content": "Applicability of direct agglutination test (DAT) at a rural health setting in Bangladesh and feasibility of local antigen production. As part of a large-scale sero-epidemiological survey on visceral leishmaniasis (VL) carried out in Mymensingh district of Bangladesh, applicability of DAT was assessed at the level of a rural health setting in Trishal (upazila) subdistrict. Despite the relatively less optimal conditions encountered, 5854 inhabitants from 7 villages appendant to Trishal were assessed for VL. The demographic distribution for sero-positivity obtained at the rural setting was comparable to that found by DAT as executed at the central laboratory (IEDC&R, Dhaka) on 9619 inhabitants from the same upazila. The overall sero-prevalence rate was 4.4% compared to 3.7% obtained in the population assessed at the central laboratory. In either study, similar VL prevalence rates of 2.1% were obtained in the male populations. Irrespective of sex, younger population (< 20 years) in both studies appeared to have higher VL incidence rate (2.3% and 2.6%) than others of 21- > or = 90 years (1.4% and 1.8%). Local production of DAT antigen employing an authochtonus L. donovani isolate was attempted at the central laboratory (IEDC&R) in Dhaka. By comparison with the reference antigen, titres obtained in all 33 VL sera tested were equally higher (1:6400- > or =: 51200) than in 35 out of 38 negative controls (< or = 1:400-1:1600). A comparable level of reactivity was also obtained in 53 VL and 52 negative control sera using a well characterized L. donovani strain (MHOM/IN/80/D88) from India. However, unlike the reference strain, titres obtained in 7 endemic controls were significantly higher with the authochtonous and homologous antigen (1:3200 - 1:6400) than with the reference (1:100 - 1:1600). The results signify the advantage of employing indigenous L. donovani isolates to further improve DAT sensitivity for detection of early and sub-clinical VL."}
{"id": "7802487", "title": "Sensitivity and specificity of a recombinant Leishmania chagasi antigen in the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Sensitivity and specificity of a recombinant Leishmania chagasi antigen in the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "7678428", "title": "Antibody responses of visceral leishmaniasis patients to gp63, a major surface glycoprotein of Leishmania species.", "content": "Antibody responses of visceral leishmaniasis patients to gp63, a major surface glycoprotein of Leishmania species. A major surface glycoprotein of Leishmania parasites, gp63, is highly conserved among species and is expressed in both infective and intracellular stages. Although much is known about its role in entry and survival in host macrophages, patient antibody responses to this glycoprotein have not been well characterized. The prevalence of anti-gp63 antibody in sera of leishmaniasis patients was evaluated by ELISA. Sera from most acute visceral leishmaniasis patients (84%) from Brazil and Sudan had notably high levels of antibody to recombinant (r) gp63. Sera from other forms of leishmaniasis and from other diseases did not contain significantly elevated levels of anti-gp63 antibody. These results indicate that rgp63 might be a useful constituent of a defined serologic test for visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "1644148", "title": "Canine leishmaniasis in the Gargano promontory (Apulia, South Italy).", "content": "Canine leishmaniasis in the Gargano promontory (Apulia, South Italy). We examined 444 dogs by visiting farms and peripheral districts on the Gargano promontory (Province of Foggia, Apulia, South Italy). Clinical examination and immunofluorescence antibody test for leishmaniasis were performed. Bone marrow and lymph node samples obtained from 25 dogs with positive serological test were cultured on Tobie-Evans medium. The results obtained show both a higher seropositivity rate for canine leishmaniasis (14.4%) and a higher percentage of asymptomatic dogs with positive serological test (53.1%) compared to previous research in the same area. Seven strains isolated from infected dogs belonged to Leishmania infantum species zymodeme Montpellier 1. None of 82 sera of humans living in close contact with infected dogs were positive for leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "1644041", "title": "Use of beef extract as a diluent in direct agglutination test for visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Use of beef extract as a diluent in direct agglutination test for visceral leishmaniasis. Direct Agglutination Tests (DAT) have been developed for sero-diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). The objective of this study was to find a more suitable diluent for serum dilution in a Direct Agglutination Test. 1% of beef extract (BEX) was used as a diluent in the Direct Agglutination Test; 1% foetal bovine serum (FBS) and 0.2% gelatine (Gel) were included for comparison as alternative diluents. Serum from VL patients, individuals suffering from hydatidosis, syphilis and from healthy adult Kenyans was used as control. Beef extract was found to be easy to handle, less expensive and results comparable to those obtained from the other diluents."}
{"id": "1628545", "title": "Visceral leishmaniasis and malaria prevalence in West Pokot District, Kenya.", "content": "Visceral leishmaniasis and malaria prevalence in West Pokot District, Kenya. The prevalence of visceral leishmaniasis and malaria in the human population of West Pokot district of Kenya was studied in 1986. A total of 2139 people was proportionately screened for the two diseases according to four age categories (0-4, 5-14, 15-44 and greater than 45 years). Diagnostic methods included the enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and Leishmanin skin test for visceral leishmaniasis, and parasitological examination for malaria. The epidemiological value of the spleen rate was evaluated in relation to visceral leishmaniasis and malaria endemicity. A general decline of infection rates with altitude was observed for both diseases. Visceral leishmaniasis was less prevalent than malaria, with less than 2% active cases in any age group and had the same distribution in both sexes. Malaria infection rate was highest in the younger age groups, declining from 21.5% in the 0-4 year old age group to 5.5% in people more than 45 years old. Malaria affected significantly more males than females. The spleen rate was inappropriate for epidemiological survey of either malaria or visceral leishmaniasis due to an overlap in the distribution of the two diseases."}
{"id": "1581449", "title": "[Visceral leishmaniasis: a study of 15 cases].", "content": "[Visceral leishmaniasis: a study of 15 cases]. We report 15 cases of visceral leishmaniasis in adults, diagnosed by visualization of the parasite in 14 of them and in one case, based on clinic, serology and good response to treatment. Thirteen patients developed an acute clinical state and two patients, a subacute-chronic state. All of them had fever, half of them, a constitutional syndrome and 12, visceromegaly. Fifteen had anemia, 13, leukopenia and 10, thrombopenia. Serology was positive in 75% of cases. All patients were treated with meglumine antimoniate. No adverse effects were observed and in 14 patients, the treatment was successful. There were no recurrences. A patient died due to septic shock by Pneumococcus with DCI."}
{"id": "1575296", "title": "Cellular and humoral immune responses in a population from the Baringo District, Kenya to Leishmania promastigote lipophosphoglycan.", "content": "Cellular and humoral immune responses in a population from the Baringo District, Kenya to Leishmania promastigote lipophosphoglycan. In a cross-sectional house-to-house study in a leishmaniasis-endemic area in Kenya, the cellular and humoral immune response to Leishmania lipophosphoglycan (LPG) was determined. Clinical data, peripheral blood mononuclear cells, and plasma were obtained from 50 individuals over the age of eight years. Lymphoproliferation and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) production by these cells were examined. It was shown that cells from all six individuals in the population with a history of kala-azar responded to LPG in the lymphocyte proliferation assay, and four of these six responded in the IFN-gamma assay. In contrast, cells from 12 of 44 individuals from the study area with no history of kala-azar and none of the five Danish control samples responded to LPG. Antibodies against LPG were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in 45 of 50 plasma samples. Our findings clearly show that mononuclear cells from kala-azar patients cured of infection were able to respond to the LPG preparation. The finding of a specific cellular immune response to LPG in 12 of 44 individuals with no history of kala-azar is consistent with previous epidemiologic studies, in which it has been shown that a proportion of L. donovani infections run a subclinical course. The high frequency of individuals with antibodies against LPG might indicate that a majority of the population had been exposed to the parasite.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1539745", "title": "Leishmania chagasi antigens recognized in cured visceral leishmaniasis and asymptomatic infection.", "content": "Leishmania chagasi antigens recognized in cured visceral leishmaniasis and asymptomatic infection. Active visceral leishmaniasis is associated with antigen-specific immuno-suppression. However, cured patients develop a cellular immune response associated with resistance to reinfection. Recent studies have identified patients with asymptomatic or subclinical infections, which are also accompanied by an immune response. In order to identify subjects immune to Leishmania chagasi, we performed a skin-test survey in an endemic area in eastern Venezuela. The delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) response was assessed in patients cured of visceral leishmaniasis, as well as in their relatives and neighbors. Of the latter, 36 (34.2%) of 105 were positive and 26 (24.7%) of 105 gave intermediate responses. The DTH reaction correlated with age. The antigens recognized by a subgroup of cured patients, those with positive skin-test results, and controls (skin-test negative) were assessed by Western blotting with sera, and T cell immunoblotting with peripheral blood mononuclear cells. No consistent differences between the groups were noted in Western blots with L. chagasi antigens. T cell blots were performed on five patients from each group. For the cured patients and skin-test positive contacts, a significant proliferative response to fraction 12 (less than 20.5 kDa) was noted in four of five patients in each group. Cells from three of five cured patients and two of five skin-test-positive patients proliferated in response to fraction 4 (73-115 kDa). The response to other fractions was variable, with only a minority of patients responding to any one fraction. These data suggest that the antigens recognized by patients with evidence of immunity to L. chagasi are quite variable.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1518953", "title": "Immunoblotting as a valuable tool to differentiate human visceral leishmaniasis from lymphoproliferative disorders and other clinically similar diseases.", "content": "Immunoblotting as a valuable tool to differentiate human visceral leishmaniasis from lymphoproliferative disorders and other clinically similar diseases. Diseases presenting with splenomegaly, fever and pancytopenia require intensive differential diagnostic considerations. These diseases include lymphoproliferative and autoimmune diseases, but also chronic infections like mansonian schistosomiasis or visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar). Diagnosis for the latter is usually performed by testing for the presence of antileishmanial antibodies using the immunofluorescence test (IFT) or the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) technique. Here, we report on patients who displayed positive antileishmanial antibody titres in the IFT and/or ELISA, but did not develop kala-azar and were eventually diagnosed as having one of the non-kala-azar diseases listed above. These false-positive sera proved to be seronegative when tested on a Leishmania immunoblot. Our studies lead us to recommend the immunoblot technique as a confirmatory test in cases with doubtful IFT or ELISA antibody titres."}
{"id": "1512091", "title": "Post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis in the Sudan: peripheral neural involvement.", "content": "Post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis in the Sudan: peripheral neural involvement. Four patients developed post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis and neuritis (PKDL) 1 to 6 months following apparently successful treatment of kala-azar. The duration of the lesion varied between 1 month and nearly 5 years. The lesions were macules, papules, or nodules affecting the face, extremities, and trunk. The diagnosis was made by demonstration of the parasite in slit smear and biopsies and by a positive direct agglutination test (DAT). Histologically, the patients were found to have neuritis affecting the cutaneous nerves in the lesion only. The nerves showed a lymphohistiocytic infiltration and occasionally parasites. There was no impairment of sensation. Response to sodium stibogluconate was good. PKDL may simulate leprosy both clinically and pathologically."}
{"id": "1475815", "title": "Kala-azar: a comparative study of parasitological methods and the direct agglutination test in diagnosis.", "content": "Kala-azar: a comparative study of parasitological methods and the direct agglutination test in diagnosis. In a comparative study 88 patients were diagnosed as suffering from kala-azar (visceral leishmaniasis) using 3 parasitological methods simultaneously. Splenomegaly was absent in 4 cases. In 84 patients with splenomegaly, splenic aspiration appeared to be the most sensitive method (96.4%), followed by bone marrow aspiration (70.2%) and lymph node aspiration (58.3%). There was no relation between titres in the direct agglutination test and parasite load as determined by the number of parasitological methods which were positive or parasite density in splenic aspirates. Splenic aspiration and bone marrow aspiration were compared as an assessment of cure in kala-azar. In 6 (13%) of 46 patients tested, parasites were found, all by splenic aspiration. Bone marrow showed parasites in one of these. The literature with regard to parasitological investigations before and after treatment is reviewed."}
{"id": "1463906", "title": "Identification of phlebotomine sandfly bloodmeals from Baringo District, Kenya, by direct enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).", "content": "Identification of phlebotomine sandfly bloodmeals from Baringo District, Kenya, by direct enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Direct enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to identify the sources of bloodmeals in phlebotomine sandflies from Baringo District, Rift Valley Province, Kenya. Some bloodmeals had been stored for over 4 years before being analysed. Among 356 sandflies identified, 62.9% were Phlebotomus martini, 14.8% Sergentomyia antennatus, 10% S.schwetzi, 6% S.clydei, 1.9% S.adleri, 1.6% P.duboscqi, 1.4% S.africanus and 0.8% S.bedfordi. Out of 224 P.martini bloodmeals, host source was identified for 69. The order of host preference for P.martini was: goat 28.5%, rabbit 22.7%, human 8.9% and others 8.9%. Evidence of mixed feeding was shown by four species comprising sixteen specimens, twelve of which were P.martini. The most effective methods for trapping bloodfed P. martini were sticky paper traps in termite hills, followed by light-traps. Of the 224 P.martini trapped, 58.9% were collected with traps in termite hills, and 22.7% with light traps. Roles of the three most popular hosts for P.martini should be investigated to ascertain whether they act as reservoirs in the transmission of Leishmania donovani causing visceral leishmaniasis in Kenya."}
{"id": "1440774", "title": "Comparison of parasitological and immunological methods in the diagnosis of leishmaniasis in Ethiopia.", "content": "Comparison of parasitological and immunological methods in the diagnosis of leishmaniasis in Ethiopia. The sensitivity and specificity of parasite demonstration methods (smear, culture and histology) and serological assays (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay [ELISA], direct agglutination test and immunoblot) were compared in the diagnosis of leishmaniasis in Ethiopia. Culture was found to be the most sensitive diagnostic method, followed by ELISA, for the diagnosis of cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL). When the clinical type of CL was taken into consideration, serological and parasitological methods were equally good for the diagnosis of diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis. Overall, the serological assays were not sensitive enough to diagnose all the parasitologically confirmed cases of localized cutaneous leishmaniasis. Both groups of diagnostic methods performed equally well in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis patients. In cases of CL where clinical diagnosis was a problem and histology could not give a definitive diagnosis due to the absence of demonstrable parasites, one of the serological assays, preferably ELISA, was very useful in establishing the final diagnosis."}
{"id": "1435540", "title": "[The serological examination of the population for leishmaniasis and the detection of Leishmania in rodents in the Republic of Guinea].", "content": "[The serological examination of the population for leishmaniasis and the detection of Leishmania in rodents in the Republic of Guinea]. A serological study on leishmaniasis in human population of Guinea revealed the percentage of seropositive persons varying in different parts of the country from 0.84 to 4.76 (according to C-ELISA) and from 1.0 to 5.1 (according to IFAT). The majority of sera positively reacting in C-ELISA with the antigen of Leishmania major in dilutions of 1:800 and higher were received from Kundara District (northwestern part of the country), and with the antigen of L. donovani sensu lato from Sigiri and Kankan districts (northeastern part of the country). All the districts were situated in the savanna zone. The amastigotes of Leishmania were found in the liver and spleen of Tatera gambiana caught near Kindia. These data suggest the circulation of Leishmania over the territory of Guinea."}
{"id": "1406366", "title": "Detection of leishmania antigen in kala azar patients using monoclonal antibodies.", "content": "Detection of leishmania antigen in kala azar patients using monoclonal antibodies. Twenty-one monoclonal antibodies were produced against promastigote antigens of Leishmania donovani. Five monoclonal antibodies (Hyb.17, 6, 5, 4 and 2) identifying molecules associated with various L. donovani antigenic determinants ranging from 42-116 kDa were selected as 'capture antibodies' and compared with specific anti-leishmania antisera for detection of circulating leishmania antigens in kala azar patients' sera in a competitive-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay system (ELISA). The anti-leishmania antisera could detect circulating antigen in 30% of kala azar cases while out of the five monoclonals, Hyb.17 could effectively detect circulating leishmania antigen in 85.4%. The efficacy of Hyb.6 was however low (31.7%). The antigens recognized by these monoclonal antibodies in the western blot assay could possibly represent the ones circulating in sera of patients suffering from kala azar. A cocktail of these monoclonal antibodies may be more useful than the conventional polyclonal antisera in detection of circulating antigen for clinical diagnosis of kala azar."}
{"id": "1402024", "title": "Epidemiology of visceral leishmaniasis in northeast Brazil.", "content": "Epidemiology of visceral leishmaniasis in northeast Brazil. Epidemiologic aspects of the relationship between infection with Leishmania chagasi and development of clinical visceral leishmaniasis (VL) were studied in all children < 11 years old in a defined, endemic, rural area of the state of Cear\u00e1 in northeast Brazil. Antileishmanial antibodies were measured in the same subjects by ELISA on six occasions between May 1987 and August 1989. Seroconversion was documented during this period in 108 children, with a cumulative annual incidence of 4.6%. Twelve (11.1%) of these children developed VL. Age < 4 years, hematocrit < 33%, and living in the mountains predicted the development of clinically apparent VL after seroconversion. Despite a high percentage of dogs serologically positive in the region (38%), there was no increased risk of infection for children living in the same household with dogs. Since children in households with a prior case of VL had a threefold increased risk of infection, human-sandfly-human transmission might have been important."}
{"id": "1377180", "title": "Mapping of a visceral leishmaniasis-specific immunodominant B-cell epitope of Leishmania donovani Hsp70.", "content": "Mapping of a visceral leishmaniasis-specific immunodominant B-cell epitope of Leishmania donovani Hsp70. We have shown that a member of the 70-kDa heat shock protein (Hsp70) family is a major target of the humoral immune response during Leishmania donovani infection. A recombinant fusion protein was recognized by sera from 92% (35 of 38) of patients with visceral leishmaniasis, including representatives from each of the major regions where it is endemic. Serological analysis of recombinant Hsp70, expressed by a series of deletion constructs, identified the carboxy-terminal region as the immunodominant site. This region, which is the most evolutionarily divergent part of the molecule, was recognized by all sera from patients with visceral leishmaniasis which exhibited an anti-Hsp70 response. Purified recombinant L. donovani Hsp70 was not recognized by sera from patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis, Chagas' disease, leprosy, malaria, or schistosomiasis. To determine the regions involved in antibody recognition, a series of overlapping peptides were synthesized on polyethylene pins by the Pepscan method, and a hexamer, EADDRA, was identified by the visceral leishmaniasis serum samples as an immunodominant B-cell epitope."}
{"id": "1303085", "title": "Indirect fluorescent antibody test in the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Bangladesh.", "content": "Indirect fluorescent antibody test in the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Bangladesh. Indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFAT) was found to be 100% sensitive and 100% specific when tested with sera from 125 parasitologically proven kala-azar patients, 100 healthy controls and 50 sick control cases. Promastigotes of both L. enriettii and L. donovani as well as amastigotes of L. enriettii were found equally satisfactory as antigen for IFAT. From the results of the present study, it is concluded that IFAT is a highly sensitive as well as specific serological test for the diagnosis of kala-azar."}
{"id": "1288429", "title": "Visceral leishmaniasis in southern Sudan: status of healthy villagers in epidemic conditions.", "content": "Visceral leishmaniasis in southern Sudan: status of healthy villagers in epidemic conditions. A combination of interview, serology and skin testing was used to investigate the status of apparently healthy villagers during a visceral leishmaniasis epidemic in southern Sudan. The number of people who had died equalled the number who were alive at the time of the survey. The direct agglutination test (DAT) identified 10% of the people as being serologically positive. Most young children (36/39) and 34% (22/64) of adults had neither positive serology nor skin test. About 64% (42/66) of adults had positive skin tests. In two villages, 54% and 76% of those over four years of age showed evidence of having been infected. The mortality associated with infection was estimated as at least 69%; 25% of those infected appeared to have cured spontaneously. The outcome for the remaining 6% was still doubtful. Even in this devastating epidemic there is, therefore, evidence of a considerable amount of infection without severe disease. Serological tests, while useful clinically, are apparently not useful for detecting early cases. Combined skin testing and serology produces a comprehensive though partially hypothetical picture."}
{"id": "1281966", "title": "Western blot analysis of antibodies to Leishmania infantum antigens: potential of the 14-kD and 16-kD antigens for diagnosis and epidemiologic purposes.", "content": "Western blot analysis of antibodies to Leishmania infantum antigens: potential of the 14-kD and 16-kD antigens for diagnosis and epidemiologic purposes. When infected with Leishmania species, patients develop specific antibodies that constitute the basis of serodiagnosis. Using Western blot analysis, we studied the specificity of anti-L. infantum antibodies in patients with visceral leishmaniasis (including patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [AIDS]) and in healthy subjects living in an endemic area. Sera from patients with visceral leishmaniasis recognized numerous antigens that had a molecular mass range of 12-120 kD. The 14-, 16-, 28-30-, 46-, and 68-kD antigens were recognized by 92%, 95%, 63%, 80%, 69%, and 89% of the patients' sera, respectively. The 14-16-kD antigens had the greatest specificity for leishmaniasis. The same pattern was found with sera from AIDS patients with proven leishmaniasis, but the 14-kD band was not present in some cases; recognition of the 16-kD band was constant. In these patients, Western blotting characterized specific antibodies even when the results of classic serologic tests (indirect immunofluorescent antibody test and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) were negative. Western blotting was found to be more sensitive than the IFA and ELISA, and it was used to detect antibodies to the 14-, 16-, 22-, and 24-kD antigens in subjects living in an endemic area. The detection of antibodies for the 14-kD and 16-kD Leishmania antigens would be a valuable tool both in the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis and in epidemiologic studies."}
{"id": "1281399", "title": "Leishmania donovani: isolation of a concanavalin-A specific antigen and its evaluation for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Leishmania donovani: isolation of a concanavalin-A specific antigen and its evaluation for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. A glycoconjugate antigen of 27-39 kDa was isolated from a cell-free extract of Leishmania donovani by affinity chromatography using a Concanavalin-A sepharose-4B column and eluted with 0.5 M alpha-methylmannoside. The antigen was recognized specifically by sera from kala-azar (visceral leishmaniasis) patients and did not react with sera from tuberculosis, leprosy or malaria patients. The antigen may therefore be useful in developing a serodiagnostic assay for visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "2071901", "title": "Lipophosphoglycan masks recognition of the Leishmania donovani promastigote surface by human kala-azar serum.", "content": "Lipophosphoglycan masks recognition of the Leishmania donovani promastigote surface by human kala-azar serum. Markedly elevated titers of anti-leishmanial antibodies are a hallmark of kala-azar. We investigated the role played by the lipophosphoglycan (LPG) in determining the reactivity of kala-azar serum with the surface of Leishmania donovani promastigotes. In assays performed with liver parasites there was negligible agglutination or fluorescent staining of LPG-bearing promastigotes by kala-azar serum, but strong reactivity in both assays with the use of an L. donovani mutant strain (R2D2) that lacks surface expression of LPG. Immunoprecipitation of lysates of 125I surface-labeled promastigotes indicated that kala-azar serum has reactivity with several surface proteins common to both the wild-type and R2D2 strains, and no reactivity with surface proteins unique to R2D2. Although direct ELISA showed that kala-azar serum recognizes purified promastigote LPG, inhibition ELISA suggested that such recognition is based solely upon reactivity with the normally unexposed core-anchor region of the molecule. We conclude that the poor reactivity of kala-azar serum with the surface of L. donovani promastigotes is caused by its lack of recognition of the exposed phosphodisaccharide repeat units of LPG, which in turn effectively mask the surface molecules that are recognized by kala-azar serum antibodies."}
{"id": "2065447", "title": "[Application of monoclonal antibodies against Leishmania donovani, II. Detection of circulating antigen in sera of visceral leishmaniasis before and after treatment].", "content": "[Application of monoclonal antibodies against Leishmania donovani, II. Detection of circulating antigen in sera of visceral leishmaniasis before and after treatment]. Monoclonal antibodies L12F7 against the target antigen of L. donovani promastigotes were used for the detection of circulating antigen (CAg) from sera of visceral leishmaniasis patients. The results showed that of 118 serum samples from visceral leishmaniasis tested, 105 were positive (88.9%). 55 normal serum samples were negative. No cross reaction with sera from patients with vivax malaria, schistosomiasis, leprosy and brucellosis, was found. The authors suggested that this assay may be used as a sensitive and new serodiagnostic test for detecting existing infection of visceral leishmaniasis for epidemiological survey and for assessment of cure after effective treatment."}
{"id": "2035748", "title": "A rapid and simple diagnostic test for active visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "A rapid and simple diagnostic test for active visceral leishmaniasis. We have developed an immunodot assay for the serodiagnosis of active visceral leishmaniasis (AVL) which utilizes protein A colloidal gold as the visualizing agent. The test is simple, requires few reagents, and can be completed in two hours. It is sensitive and specific for active visceral leishmaniasis, and generally correlates with the ELISA. Either whole blood or sera in minute quantities may be used as test antibody. In addition, the use of the protein A gold immunodot is shown to detect anti-leishmania antibodies in infected dogs."}
{"id": "1941350", "title": "Evaluation of direct agglutination test (DAT) and ELISA for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in India.", "content": "Evaluation of direct agglutination test (DAT) and ELISA for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in India. The direct agglutination test (DAT) and the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) were used for serodiagnosis of parasitologically confirmed Indian visceral leishmaniasis (VL) cases. All the sera of VL cases were positive by both the methods. DAT titres of VL cases were greater than or equal to 1:3,200, and ELISA values were greater than or equal to 0.55 1:400 dilution. In the control group, sera of widely prevalent diseases of India, such as leprosy, tuberculosis, malaria, and liver cirrhosis, were included. Both tests could discriminate between VL and other patients of the control group. The sera of post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) patients gave OD values of greater than 0:55 and had DAT titres of 1:1,600. Both tests are sensitive and specific for the diagnosis of VL cases. DAT, being simpler and more economical, will be suitable for diagnosis and epidemiological studies for VL under rural conditions of India."}
{"id": "1940218", "title": "Serodiagnosis of Indian kala-azar: evaluation of IFA, ELISA and CIEP tests.", "content": "Serodiagnosis of Indian kala-azar: evaluation of IFA, ELISA and CIEP tests. The sensitivity and specificity of three serological tests viz. indirect immunofluorescent antibody test (IFAT), enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and counterimmunoelectrophoresis (CIEP) for the diagnosis of Indian kala-azar were evaluated. Of the 209 patients in whom Leishmania donovani parasite could be demonstrated in bone marrow, 207 (99.04 per cent) could be diagnosed with IFAT, 203 (96.6 per cent) with CIEP and 208 (99.5 per cent) with ELISA. None of these serological tests was positive in 40 healthy individuals and 10 patients each with tuberculosis, toxoplasmosis and malaria. In only one out of 10 patients with malaria ELISA alone gave false positive result. Of the 119 patients who had clinical features simulating kala-azar but were negative for Leishmania donovani in bone marrow and responded to treatment other than that for Indian Kala-azar, IFAT, CIEP and ELISA were false positive in three (2.5 per cent), nil and three (2.5 per cent) cases, respectively. The use of serodiagnostic tests like ELISA for mass screening and CIEP in less well equipped peripheral laboratories is suggested."}
{"id": "1890544", "title": "Direct enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay: a simple immunoassay using Leishmania donovani promastigote for diagnosis of kala-azar.", "content": "Direct enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay: a simple immunoassay using Leishmania donovani promastigote for diagnosis of kala-azar. For immunodiagnosis of kala-azar enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and immunofluorescence testing (IFAT) are commonly used. In IFAT, whole parasite antigen and in ELISA the soluble antigen have been used. Preparation of ELISA antigen has certain inherent difficulties. We have developed a simple, specific, and quantitative immunoassay, \"direct ELISA\" for diagnosis of kala-azar. Intact formalinized promastigote suspension has been used to combine with the antibodies of the patient sera. The colour developed in the supernatant by the enzyme conjugate combined on the parasite surface was measured with a spectrophotometer. The test was able to detect kala-azar-specific antibodies at very high serum dilution and could discriminate between kala-azar and the common diseases prevalent in Asia. The optical densities of the sera of different control groups were significantly low. The method has potential for use as a diagnostic tool in less well equipped laboratories."}
{"id": "1885738", "title": "Immunoblot analysis of the humoral immune response to Leishmania donovani infantum polypeptides in human visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Immunoblot analysis of the humoral immune response to Leishmania donovani infantum polypeptides in human visceral leishmaniasis. Using the immunoblot technique, we have compared the reactions of Leishmania donovani infantum polypeptides with the immunoglobulin G of human sera from patients with parasitologically proven L. d. infantum infection, with suspected visceral leishmaniasis, and with other leishmaniases, protozoiases, helminthiases, and fungal or bacterial diseases. A 94-kDa component reacted with all L. d. infantum-infected sera and with 75% of sera from patients with clinical and serological but no parasitological diagnoses. No reaction was observed with sera from patients in the other disease groups or with control sera. Studies of eight different isolates, subspecies, and species of the genus Leishmania demonstrated that the 94-kDa component was expressed in all strains examined."}
{"id": "1852133", "title": "A killing disease epidemic among displaced Sudanese population identified as visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "A killing disease epidemic among displaced Sudanese population identified as visceral leishmaniasis. A fatal disease epidemic affected the Bentiu area in southern Sudan and led to a mass migration of the Nuer tribe searching for treatment. The initially available information revealed a high mortality rate due to a possible occurrence of tuberculosis, malaria, enteric fever or visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Serological screening of 53 of the most severely affected patients in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) or an improved direct agglutination test (DAT) revealed positivity for VL. In 39 of those patients, diagnosis was confirmed by identification of Leishmania donovani amastigotes in lymph node or bone-marrow aspirates. In a total of 2714 patients observed, 1195 (44.0%) had clinical symptoms suggesting VL: DAT positive titers (1:3200-greater than or equal to 1:12800) were obtained in 654 (24.1%), of whom 325 were confirmed parasitologically. Forty-two VL cases died before or during treatment, giving a mortality rate of 6.4%. Among the intercurrent infections diagnosed in the VL population (654), respiratory involvements (31.7%) and malaria (10.7%) were most prevalent. With the exception of four (0.6%), all other VL patients (509) responded readily to sodium stibogluconate. The factors initiating the outbreak are discussed. Malnutrition and nomadic movements to potential VL endemic areas appeared to be the most important. HIV infection as a possible predisposition seemed remote considering the clinical and epidemiological similarity to VL occurring in East Africa, adequate humoral response in DAT, and immediate positive response to specific anti-Leishmania chemotherapy."}
{"id": "1844381", "title": "[Standardization of serological tests for Chagas disease: an immunoenzymatic test for blood donors triage].", "content": "[Standardization of serological tests for Chagas disease: an immunoenzymatic test for blood donors triage]. In the serological diagnosis of Chagas disease large divergences may be found even between laboratories with experience, as a consequence of different criteria for the standardization of the tests. To standardize a immunoenzymatic test developed primarily for screening blood donors, serum panels were carefully chosen so as to best represent chagasic and non-chagasic populations. Produced for the highest sensibility and stability, the new reagent (bioELISA cruzi, Biolab Diagn\u00f3stica S/A, Brasil), was tested in serum from 1648 patients 219 with Chagas disease and 104 with other diseases, plus a comparison with well standardized immunofluorescence and hemagglutination tests in 1325 sera. In the immunoenzymatic assays, the cut off was indicated by the absorbance value of a chagasic serum showing a minimal reactivity. ELISA sensibility was 0.9954 and specificity 0.9969, as co-negativity. False positive results were absent with sera from syphilis, toxoplasmosis, mononucleosis and high titered sera for antistreptolysin 0 antibodies. However they were seen in 5 to 15 cases of tegumentar leishmaniasis, 1 of 12 Kala-azar 1 of 15 rheumatoid arthritis and 1 of 12 systemic lupus erythematosus. The high sensibility in chagasics and high specificity in the general population indicate the confiability of the immunoenzymatic assay for screening blood donors and even to confirm a clinical diagnosis of Chagas' disease."}
{"id": "1802528", "title": "Laboratory diagnosis of Leishmania.", "content": "Laboratory diagnosis of Leishmania. Leishmaniasis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of individuals living in or with a history of having traveled to known endemic areas and who present with signs and symptoms of visceral infection or with cutaneous or mucosal lesions. Because leishmaniae are capable of producing a wide spectrum of disease in humans, the clinical manifestations overlap with many other diseases. Definitive diagnosis of Leishmania infection in the laboratory requires demonstration of the parasite in smears, in biopsies, or by isolation of the organism in culture media or in experimental animals. Many other methods for demonstration of parasites (histochemical and immunohistochemical) or for detecting the presence of antibodies against leishmaniae (serologic) have been described. Many advances have been made in these areas, but the methodology and the technology involved in immunohistochemistry and serology remain outside the reach of the standard clinical diagnostic laboratory, which both in developed and less developed countries still relies on demonstration of the parasites in smears stained with Giemsa stain and on biopsy specimens processed and stained with hematoxylin and eosin stain. The newer serologic techniques, such as ELISA with several variations, IFAT, and others, are largely research tools with the greatest use in seroepidemiologic surveys."}
{"id": "1770880", "title": "[The determination of the species specificity of Leishmania antibodies in different groups of human sera].", "content": "[The determination of the species specificity of Leishmania antibodies in different groups of human sera]. Species-specificity of two serological tests has been compared: Indirect immunofluorescence test and C-ELISA using antigens prepared of 7 Leishmania species of various groups of human sera, including sera from healthy donors; sera of patients with various tropical parasitoses; sera containing rheumatoid factor and antinuclear antibodies; sera of patients with visceral leishmaniasis (VL); sera of normal subjects arrived from regions endemic for VL; sera of students arrived in Czechoslovakia from various tropical countries endemic for leishmaniasis. It has been shown that C-ELISA (and EIA with corpuscular antigen), being highly sensitive techniques, are very promising for the identification of species-specific Leishmania antibodies. C-ELISA titres beginning from 1:800 and above may be considered as species-specific. With the titre 1:400, cross-reactions with antigens of various Leishmania species are observed."}
{"id": "1755052", "title": "Direct agglutination test for diagnosis and sero-epidemiological survey of kala-azar in the Sudan.", "content": "Direct agglutination test for diagnosis and sero-epidemiological survey of kala-azar in the Sudan. 132 patients with suspected kala-azar (visceral leishmaniasis) were included in a prospective study to compare the performance of the direct agglutination test (DAT) with smears of lymph node, bone marrow and splenic aspiration. A titre greater than 1:3200 was considered positive. 67 patients provided positive smears and 65 were smear-negative. Compared with the results obtained from smears, the sensitivity of the DAT was 94% and its specificity 72%. Of 18 patients who were negative by smears but positive by DAT, 3 were treated on strong clinical suspicion of kala-azar and responded well to therapy. One other patient had post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis. Of the remaining 14, 8 were tested with the leishmanin skin test; 6 gave a positive result, suggesting past or sub-clinical infection. In 4 smear-positive patients, the DAT was negative; in 2 of these, the test remained negative during 6 months' follow-up. In a sero-epidemiological survey in a camp for displaced people, 30 of 600 sampled individuals gave a positive DAT. Of these, 11 had been treated for kala-azar; 4 others were leishmanin positive. The DAT is a useful screening test (sensitivity 94%; predictive value of a negative test 92%), but it does not differentiate between past kala-azar, sub-clinical infection and active disease."}
{"id": "1755050", "title": "Studies on the leishmaniases in the Sudan. 3. Clinical and parasitological studies on visceral and mucosal leishmaniasis.", "content": "Studies on the leishmaniases in the Sudan. 3. Clinical and parasitological studies on visceral and mucosal leishmaniasis. The epidemiological, clinical and laboratory findings of 27 patients with visceral leishmaniasis (VL) and six with mucosal leishmaniasis (ML) in Sudan are described. The diagnosis was confirmed by the demonstration of amastigotes in bone-marrow in 20 cases with VL (80%) and impression smears in 2 cases with ML. The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and direct agglutination test were positive in all the sera tested. The leishmanin test was positive in all patients with ML, the diameter of the reaction ranging from 18 to 28 mm (mean 23 mm). Only one isolate (from a patient with VL) grew sufficiently well in culture to be typed and this was characterized by isoenzyme electrophoresis as Leishmania donovani zymodeme LON-46. The possibility that the ML isolate could have been L. major zymodeme LON-1 is discussed. The importance of further research to isolate and identify by biochemical procedures a more representative range of isolates of Leishmania from different clinical types in the Sudan, in order to elucidate questions such as the relationship between the vectors and possible animal reservoirs, is emphasized."}
{"id": "1645929", "title": "Positive response to sodium antimony gluconate administration in visceral leishmaniasis seropositive patients.", "content": "Positive response to sodium antimony gluconate administration in visceral leishmaniasis seropositive patients. In a prospective study conducted in Mymensingh district of Bangladesh, 1, 273 patients were assessed for the presence of visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Sodium antimony gluconate (SAG) was successfully administered to 715 patients with parasitologically confirmed infection. In the remaining 558, although there was clinical indication of VL, Leishmania donovani parasites could not be demonstrated. Administration of SAG in this group was on the grounds of the prevailing symptoms, exclusion of malaria and a positive direct agglutination test (DAT). Significant improvements in the clinical and hematological parameters were observed in 547 (98%) of the unconfirmed VL cases. On the basis of the parasitological findings or positive response to specific anti-Leishmania chemotherapy, the sensitivity and specificity of the DAT were 99.6% and 97.7% respectively. The results supported the reliability of DAT for diagnosis of VL at levels below that of parasitological detection."}
{"id": "2332662", "title": "Serological and parasitological examination of some patients with manifestations suggestive leishmaniasis.", "content": "Serological and parasitological examination of some patients with manifestations suggestive leishmaniasis. The present study was designed to search for visceral leishmaniasis (VL.) in adult population in the Nile Delta. For this purpose: Fifty patients with splenomegaly and/or hepatosplenomegaly were chosen upon clinical grounds with special consideration of clinical manifestations suggestive of the disease. Both indirect haemagglutination test (IHAT) and dot-Enzyme Linked Immuno Sorbent Assay (dot-ELISA), were positive for VL. antibodies in 3% of the patients. Bone marrow examination (smear and culture) revealed negative results in all patients who gave serological reactions. The results were discussed."}
{"id": "2278067", "title": "Pre- and post-treatment antibody levels in visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Pre- and post-treatment antibody levels in visceral leishmaniasis. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and the direct agglutination test (DAT) were employed to test sera obtained from a visceral leishmaniasis (VL) endemic area, the Aba-Roba focus in south-west Ethiopia. Thirty sera of untreated VL patients, 37 sera 6-90 months after treatment, 18 sera from endemic controls, 8 sera from non-endemic controls and 23 sera from patients with other diseases (schistosomiasis, tuberculosis, cutaneous leishmaniasis) were tested. Based on ELISA, the percentages negative were found to be 50% up to one year and 89% from 2 to 8 years after treatment. In contrast, these rates based on DAT were 0% in one year and 33% from 1-8 years after treatment. The relevance of persisting antibodies in the kinetics and profile of antibody production during treatment is discussed. The use of ELISA in the evaluation of clinical prognosis and patient follow-up is recommended. Serum from a diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis patient cross-reacted with the DAT and ELISA for VL."}
{"id": "2267968", "title": "An improved serodiagnostic procedure for visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "An improved serodiagnostic procedure for visceral leishmaniasis. The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) is a sensitive and specific serodiagnostic method for leishmaniasis. In this report, we describe how this versatile assay can be improved by the use of protein A or protein G conjugates for the specific detection of Leishmania antibody in the sera of patients with visceral leishmaniasis. In direct comparisons with anti-immunoglobulin conjugate, enzyme-linked protein A gave significantly higher absorbance values for positive sera without a corresponding increase in absorbance values for sera from normal individuals or from patients with other diseases known to cross-react with leishmaniasis. The effect was to increase the distance between positive and negative values, which aided in the interpretation of the results. This also permitted visual distinction between positive sera and negative or weakly reactive sera. The assay was effective using either blood or serum as the source of primary antibody. A further advantage of protein A over anti-Ig conjugate was its ability to detect specific antibody in dog as well as human sera. Finally, we demonstrated the usefulness of the protein A ELISA with a recombinant leishmania antigen, gp63."}
{"id": "2260170", "title": "Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in the diagnosis of kala-azar in Bhadohi (Varanasi), India.", "content": "Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in the diagnosis of kala-azar in Bhadohi (Varanasi), India. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) developed using Leishmania donovani promastigote soluble antigen gave positive responses in practically all the clinically and parasitologically diagnosed patients with kala-azar in a preliminary study. Healthy control subjects from non-endemic and endemic areas gave negative results. No cross-reaction was observed with patients having leprosy, filariasis, malaria, tuberculosis, or amoebiasis. Blood samples collected on filter paper were adequate for the test. The test appears promising in the diagnosis of kala-azar."}
{"id": "2208620", "title": "[Observation on the infectivity of Leishmania donovani from different areas to Phlebotomus alexandri from Xinjiang].", "content": "[Observation on the infectivity of Leishmania donovani from different areas to Phlebotomus alexandri from Xinjiang]. Hamsters or cotton rats were infected with 3 stocks of L. donovani, one of which had been isolated from an infected Ph. major wui in Xinjiang desert area and 2 from kala azar patients in a mountain area of Gansu and in a plain area of Henan respectively. The purpose of the study was to compare the infectivity of the parasites from different geographic areas through artificial infection of Ph. alexandri. Sandflies were dissected in 4, 6, 8 and 10 days after feeding on the infected animals to observe the growth and development of promastigotes of different isolates in their alimentary tracts. Evaluation was made on 3 aspects, i.e. infection rates, infectiosity and migration of promastigotes in sandflies. It was demonstrated that Xinjian isolate of L. donovani appeared to be particularly adapted to Ph. alexandri followed by Gansu isolate, the Henan isolate did not show good adaptation to this sandfly, because the number of promastigotes declined and the infection rate dropped after the digestion of the blood meal in the stomach of the sandflies. It seems that the phenomenon was related to the biological characteristics of L. donovani isolates. These results coincided with those of McAb dot ELISA (Qu,1987) and K-DNA dot hybridization (L\u00fc & Hu 1988) for identification of L. donovani from different areas in China, and were also in parallel to the diverse epidemiological characteristics of different kala azar endemic areas (Guan, 1976). It is reasonable to infer that there may exist different geographical strains of L. donovani in China."}
{"id": "2199962", "title": "Introduction of an improved direct agglutination test for the detection of Leishmania infantum infection in southern France.", "content": "Introduction of an improved direct agglutination test for the detection of Leishmania infantum infection in southern France. An improved direct agglutination test (DAT) is assessed for the detection of Leishmania infantum antibodies in man and in the canine reservoir in Southern France. The test performance in 32 human visceral leishmaniasis patients was in agreement with the parasitological diagnosis and the immunofluorescence (IFAT) results. In six patients diagnosed earlier as kala-azar cases, both DAT and IFAT revealed negative results. The specificity of the DAT was reproduced in this study by the absence of cross-reactions with sera from other patients. In the dog reservoir, the DAT results were compared with those obtained by IFAT, the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), cross-over electrophoresis and the latex agglutination test. All 34 dogs with parasitologically positive lymph node aspirates also had positive DAT titres (less than or equal to 1:640); the sensitivity in the other four tests was relatively low. Positive DAT and IFAT results were found in 16 unconfirmed cases of canine leishmaniasis, most probably due to prepatent L. infantum infections."}
{"id": "2179945", "title": "Identification of cytoplasmic soluble antigens related to the major surface antigens of Leishmania braziliensis braziliensis and L. donovani chagasi.", "content": "Identification of cytoplasmic soluble antigens related to the major surface antigens of Leishmania braziliensis braziliensis and L. donovani chagasi. This study describes the identification of aqueous-soluble antigens in Leishmania promastigotes immunologically and biochemically closely related to the major surface antigen. Proteins from surface-iodinated L. braziliensis braziliensis and L. donovani chagasi promastigotes, extracted and separated by partitioning in the detergent Triton X-114, were analyzed. Immunoblotting of the extracted proteins, using homologous antisera, showed recognition of a 72-kDa labeled, amphiphilic antigen of L. b. braziliensis and a 65-kDa surface antigen of L. d. chagasi. The respective homologous sera also recognized non-labeled hydrophilic antigens, similar in their apparent molecular weights to the major surface antigens. The amphiphilic and hydrophilic antigens of each species were found to share common antigenic determinants, inasmuch as monospecific antibodies that recognized the amphiphilic protein reacted with the hydrophilic antigen. Structural homology was also obtained in the peptide-digestion profiles of the amphiphilic and the respective hydrophilic major antigens. Zymogram assay showed that both amphibilic and hydrophilic fractions displayed proteolytic activity that could be directly attributed to the major L. b. braziliensis and L. d. chagasi antigens. The hydrophilic antigens found in this study are probably not hydrolytic products of the surface antigens and occur in large quantities in the promastigote cytosol."}
{"id": "2168824", "title": "Do infections induce monoclonal immunoglobulin components?", "content": "Do infections induce monoclonal immunoglobulin components? The incidental finding of monoclonal immunoglobulin components (MC) in some infections prompted us to study this phenomenon more systematically. Using isoelectric focusing with immunoblotting (detection limit for MC 0.1 mg/ml), the following infections were studied for the presence of MC: visceral leishmaniasis, cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection, echinococcosis and infectious mononucleosis. MC were found in 16 of 20 leishmania patients and in eight of 18 CMV patients, but in only one of 20 echinococcosis patients and in none of 30 infectious mononucleosis patients. The MC were mostly transient, where tested. A minority of the MC found in the leishmaniasis patients was shown to bind to leishmania antigens. The specificity of the majority of the MC remains unknown. Further study is required to explain the high incidence of MC in CMV infection and visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "2142993", "title": "[An outbreak of cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania infantum in Geokcha\u012d District, Azerbaijan SSR].", "content": "[An outbreak of cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania infantum in Geokcha\u012d District, Azerbaijan SSR]. A more than 60-case outbreak of cutaneous leishmaniasis was documented in the Geokcha\u012d District of Azerbaijan between 1987 and 1988. The disease was noted in the rural areas only. All age groups were involved. The clinical picture of the disease was significantly different from anthropogenic cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by L. tropica but similar to cutaneous patterns caused by L. infantum which was a prevalent pattern in the southern France. Isoenzyme assay of the strain isolated in the Geokcha\u012d causative agent defined it as Leishmania donovani sensu lato. Though an undoubted similarity of its enzymatic profile to L. infantum was observed it was distinguished as a singular zymodeme. A total of 9 Phlebotominae species were isolated in the Geokcha\u012d District. Among them 5 species (P. kandelakii, P. tobbi, P. transcaucasicus, P. brevis, P. alexandri) were reviewed in the literature with regard to L. infantum transmission. Thus cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by L. infantum species in the rural area of the USSR was identified for the first time."}
{"id": "2116736", "title": "Elevated cerebroside antibody levels in human visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis, Trypanosoma rangeli infection, and chronic Chagas' disease.", "content": "Elevated cerebroside antibody levels in human visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis, Trypanosoma rangeli infection, and chronic Chagas' disease. A natural cerebroside (antiC) IgM antibody was found at relatively high levels in the serum of every healthy individual studied. The reactivity of the antibody was assessed by using highly purified bovine brain galactocerebroside (galC) or human glucocerebroside (gluC) as antigen. The importance of fatty acid moiety of galC in antigen-antibody reaction was demonstrated by low immunoreactivity using 1-beta-D-galactosyl sphingosine (GS) as antigen and by the absence of absorption to GS-bearing liposomes. The presence of alpha-hydroxy and non-hydroxy fatty acids in galC did not modify its immunoreactivity. Cerebroside antibody binding activity was only partially blocked by 0.5 M galactose or alpha- and beta-methylgalactopyranoside, suggesting poor specificity of antiC for a specific glycosidic residue or linkage. In fact, liposome-bearing gluC absorbed galC. AntiC did not adsorb on rabbit, guinea pig, or human erythrocytes (RBC), but absorbed strongly on rat RBC. Elevated antibody levels were found in 57% of Kala azar patients, 56% of Trypanosoma rangeli-infected patients, 30% of chronic chagasic patients, and 20% of cutaneous leishmaniasis patients, but were not found in 16 other inflammatory or infectious diseases studied. This suggests an association between Kinetoplastida infection and elevated levels of antiC, with parasitic galC acting probably as a highly immunogenic antigen. A possible role of anti-galC in the neuropathological symptoms of Chagas' disease and in the control of parasitemia levels in T. rangeli-infected individuals is discussed."}
{"id": "1701934", "title": "The value of a direct agglutination test in the diagnosis of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis in Ethiopia.", "content": "The value of a direct agglutination test in the diagnosis of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis in Ethiopia. The usefulness and sensitivity of a direct agglutination test (DAT) in the diagnosis of cutaneous leishmaniasis due to Leishmania aethiopica infection has been investigated. Formalin-fixed, trypsin-treated and Coomassie blue-stained Leishmania promastigotes of various origins were used as antigens. L. major, L. donovani, L. aethiopica but not L. tropica antigen preparations were able to distinguish sera from individuals infected with Leishmania from sera of uninfected controls, although the titres of sera from patients with localized cutaneous leishmaniasis were low. Comparable results were obtained when the same sera were tested using freshly prepared antigen or antigen stored for 10 months at 4 degrees C. The assay was also used to monitor improvement of disease status following treatment of diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis patients, and it was found to correlate well with the changing clinical status of the patients."}
{"id": "1694627", "title": "Changes in the antigenic profile of Leishmania parasites following shifts in temperature.", "content": "Changes in the antigenic profile of Leishmania parasites following shifts in temperature. We have examined by immunoblotting the antigen profiles of Leishmania parasites which have undergone upward shifts in ambient temperature during culture. Parasites in the promastigote insect vector stage were grown to stationary growth phase at 25 degrees C, and then further cultured at the 37 degrees C temperature experienced in the mammalian host. Changes in the immunoblot profiles of the parasites occurred within one day of culture at mammalian ambient temperature. Serum antibodies from patients with active Leishmania infections showed reactivity with antigenic determinants of greater than Mr 38,000 that were expressed by parasites at 37 degrees C, and which were not comparably observed on immunoblots of 25 degrees C cultured organisms. The promastigotes of Leishmania species which cause either cutaneous or visceral leishmaniasis express differing forms of the 37 degrees C induced high molecular weight determinants, however, these molecules express cross-reactive epitopes. Previous studies have suggested that temperature may play a role in the differentiation process between the insect and host life cycle stages of Leishmania. Our results suggest that the antigenic profile of Leishmania parasites may also be affected by the expression of products from temperature sensitive biosynthetic pathways."}
{"id": "2788044", "title": "Autoantibody production by patients infected with Leishmania.", "content": "Autoantibody production by patients infected with Leishmania. Sera from 29 patients with visceral leishmaniasis and 14 patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis were tested against a panel of nine nuclear antigens employing an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Anti- Sm, RNP, SS-A and SS-B antibodies were present in high titres in 83, 86, 36 and 73 per cent of the patients with visceral leishmaniasis and in 7, 14, 25 and 25 per cent of the patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis. One serum from a patient with visceral leishmaniasis which reacted strongly with Sm, RNP, SS-A and SS-B was examined by immunoblotting on extractable nuclear antigen from Hela cells. This serum binds to nine different antigenic bands (16, 23, 29, 30, 40, 50, 58, 100 and 115 kD). These same antigens were recognized by serum from a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus. The binding of visceral leishmaniasis serum antibodies to ribonucleoproteins was inhibited by prior incubation of serum with either leishmanial membrane antigens, from four different species of Leishmania, or intact cells of Leishmania donovani, implying molecular resemblance between common leishmanial antigens and ribonuclear antigens. It seems that appearance of autoantibodies to ribonucleoproteins in sera of patients infected with Leishmania is not only due to simply polyclonal activation of lymphocytes, but is also the result of a molecular mimicry between leishmanial antigens and ribonucleoproteins."}
{"id": "2742248", "title": "Visceral leishmaniasis in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).", "content": "Visceral leishmaniasis in patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). In an 8-month period nine patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection were diagnosed as having visceral leishmaniasis; all diagnoses were based on cultures (eight from bone marrow and one from the skin). Visceral leishmaniasis developed before full-blown acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) in seven patients and at the same time as or after AIDS in the other two patients. Three patients had a history of leishmaniasis. Clinical manifestations and laboratory findings were atypical. Leishmania species were cultured from samples taken from all patients; however, six patients had an insignificant antileishmanial antibody titer and Leishmania amastigotes were not seen in their bone marrow smears. Four isolates were identified by isoenzyme analysis as Leishmania donovani infantum. Five patients died, including two patients who had completed at least one 3-week course of therapy with N-methylglucamine antimoniate. Screening should be done for visceral leishmaniasis in patients with HIV infection who live or travel in areas where the disease is endemic. The diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis may frequently be missed if cultures are not done."}
{"id": "2700844", "title": "Dot-immunobinding assay (DIBA) with integral Plasmodium falciparum as antigen in immuno-diagnosis of falciparum malaria.", "content": "Dot-immunobinding assay (DIBA) with integral Plasmodium falciparum as antigen in immuno-diagnosis of falciparum malaria. Among the available immuno-diagnostic methods of parasitoses, dot-immunobinding assay (DIBA) has been proved to be promising for its high sensitivity and specificity, easy performance, lack of need of special equipment, and consequently its practical usage in field work. In previously reported tests, soluble antigen was used, thus a sonicator and an ultracentrifuge were required to produce the antigen. This paper reports the application of integral P. falciparum as antigen in DIBA to detect antibodies in falciparum malaria cases. Of 52 sera from falciparum malaria patients tested, 49 (94.2%) showed positive reactions, which was similar to the result using soluble antigen in DIBA (96.2%) and was higher than that in IFA (86.5%) and ELISA (80.8%). No false positive was revealed in 48 control sera from healthy individuals and sera from visceral leishmaniasis, paragonimiasis, fasciolopsiasis and schistosomiasis patients."}
{"id": "2697793", "title": "[Immunoenzyme analysis with corpuscular antigen in the study of zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis].", "content": "[Immunoenzyme analysis with corpuscular antigen in the study of zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis]. Comparative study of sera from patients suffering from zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis by indirect immunofluorescence (IIF) and by enzyme immunoassay (ELISA) gave 72.4 and 89.6% positive results, correspondingly, with homologous antigen L. major. Good correlation of these methods was revealed--coincidence in 83% cases. Authors used ELISA with corpuscular Leishmania antigen. The test was superior to IIF in sensitivity and specificity. Creation of type-specific Leishmania test systems for ELISA opens new vistas in studies of the population immune structure in combined zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis and visceral leishmaniasis foci."}
{"id": "2680934", "title": "Comparative evaluation of serological tests in diagnosis of kala azar.", "content": "Comparative evaluation of serological tests in diagnosis of kala azar. Four serological tests, viz., counter immunoelectrophoresis (CIEP), indirect fluorescent antibody (IFA) test, enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and dot-enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (dot-ELISA) were compared for their sensitivity and specificity for diagnosis and epidemiological studies of kala azar. Sera from patients who were parasite positive (58), parasite negative (16), clinically diagnosed (53), treated (31) and from healthy controls (42) were tested for presence of antibodies by these techniques. Antibodies were detected in treated patients even after 18-24 months by ELISA (77.4%) and dot-ELISA (74.19%). In clinically diagnosed patients antibodies were present in 90.56 per cent by both the tests. The sensitivity and specificity of CIEP was 0.77 and 1.0, for IFA 0.87 and 0.95 respectively and for ELISA and dot-ELISA 0.92 and 0.9 respectively. Due to the requirement of small quantity of reagents and simplicity of the test, dot-ELISA is found to be more suitable for use in peripheral laboratories both for diagnosis and seroepidemiology."}
{"id": "2676469", "title": "Usefulness of indirect haemagglutination (IHA) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in the diagnosis of human hydatidosis.", "content": "Usefulness of indirect haemagglutination (IHA) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in the diagnosis of human hydatidosis. This communication reports on the usefulness of the IHA test and the ELISA in the diagnosis of human hydatid disease. The study was conducted on 40 surgically confirmed cases of hydatid disease, 40 normal individuals, and sera from individuals with various parasitic infections and other conditions namely: hook-worm-8, taeniasis-5, schistosomiasis-10, malaria-15, visceral leishmaniasis-12, multiple myeloma-3, syphilis-6, and gonorrhoea-10. The results show a sensitivity of 85% and specificity of 100%. The results indicate that it is no longer scientifically rational to hold the view that the Turkana do not mount adequate immune response against Echinococcus infections."}
{"id": "2635749", "title": "Evaluation of antibody responses in American visceral leishmaniasis by ELISA and immunoblot.", "content": "Evaluation of antibody responses in American visceral leishmaniasis by ELISA and immunoblot. American visceral leishmaniasis (AVL) is an important disease among children of northeast Brazil. In order to characterize antibody responses during AVL, sera of hospitalized patients were analyzed by ELISA and Western blot using a Leishmania chagasi antigen preparation. The ELISA was positive (absorbance greater than or equal to 0.196) at a serum dilution of 1:1024 in all patients at presentation, and fell to ward control levels over the following year. Only one of 72 control subjects tested positive, and that donor had a sibling with AVL. Immunoblots of the patients' sera recognized multiple bands, the most frequent of which were at approximately 116 kDa, 70 kDa, and 26 kDa. Less frequently observed were bands at approximately 93 kDa, 74 kDa, 62 kDa, 46 kDa and 32 kDa. The ELISA responses and patterns of banding were distinctive for AVL, and could be used to differentiate patients with AVL from those with Chagas' disease or cutaneous leishmaniasis. Sera from six AVL patients followed for up to six weeks after treatment identified no new bands. Sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) of surface iodinated parasite proteins showed one major band and four minor bands, whereas SDS-PAGE of biotinylated parasite proteins revealed a banding pattern similar to those of patient sera. AVL appears to produce characteristic immunoblot patterns which can be used along with a sensitive screening ELISA to diagnose AVL."}
{"id": "2626643", "title": "Analysis of the specificity of human antibodies to antigens of Leishmania braziliensis braziliensis.", "content": "Analysis of the specificity of human antibodies to antigens of Leishmania braziliensis braziliensis. The antigenicity of promastigotes of Leishmania braziliensis braziliensis (L. b. braziliensis) treated with 1% sodium desoxycholate in 10 mM Tris-Hcl pH 8.2 was analysed by immunoblot using as probes sera from American cutaneous leishmaniasis (ACL), American visceral leishmaniasis (AVL), schistosomiasis, malaria and Chagas' disease. The ACL sera reacted constantly with a 60 kD band. No reactivity to this protein was observed with sera from the other diseases above mentioned indicating that the 60 kD protein may be used in serodiagnosis for ACL."}
{"id": "2623431", "title": "Potential of a direct agglutination test (DAT) for detection of visceral leishmaniasis in a known endemic area in Sudan.", "content": "Potential of a direct agglutination test (DAT) for detection of visceral leishmaniasis in a known endemic area in Sudan. Hawata District (Kassala Province) is one of the known endemic areas for visceral leishmaniasis in Sudan. The co-endemicity with malaria, enteric fever, tuberculosis and brucellosis together with the limited medical laboratory facilities, rendered differential diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in this area, rather difficult. Two-hundred and three serum samples, including 49 collected from patients treated earlier as visceral leishmaniasis cases, were tested in a developed direct agglutination test (DAT). 100% concordance was found between the DAT results and the parasitological diagnosis in 40 confirmed cases. In nine unconfirmed, however highly suspected cases, the DAT results indicated visceral leishmaniasis. Significant improvements in the condition of those nine patients was observed during the therapeutic test and later on after a full course of treatment with sodium antimony gluconate (pentostam). DAT titres in the other serum samples (154), collected from patients with malaria, enteric fever, brucellosis and schistosomiasis and from endemic controls were below the cut-off titre (1:3200). Considering the low costs involved, easiness in performance and stability of the antigen, the DAT appears to possess high potential for routine application in Sudan."}
{"id": "2620171", "title": "Leishmania donovani donovani and Leishmania donovani chagasi as antigens in a direct agglutination assay for the diagnosis of kala-azar.", "content": "Leishmania donovani donovani and Leishmania donovani chagasi as antigens in a direct agglutination assay for the diagnosis of kala-azar. The need for a reliable method for the immunological diagnosis of kala-azar is imperative. Leishmania donovani donovani and L. donovani chagasi culture promastigotes were compared as antigens in a direct agglutination test (DAT) for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil. Both antigens were successfully employed for the DAT, showing 100% sensitivity and greater than 98% specificity when used to test sera from Brazilian and African kala-azar, Chagas' disease, malaria, filaria and syphilis patients, and on sera from Brazilian controls. Cross-reactions were sometimes observed when cutaneous and mucocutaneous leishmaniasis patient sera were tested. The cross-reactions were completely abolished by the addition of 0.78% 2-mercaptoethanol to the serum diluent. These data show that this improved DAT can be used for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil."}
{"id": "2617600", "title": "Leishmania infecting man and wild animals in Saudi Arabia. 5. Diversity of parasites causing visceral leishmaniasis in man and dogs in the south-west.", "content": "Leishmania infecting man and wild animals in Saudi Arabia. 5. Diversity of parasites causing visceral leishmaniasis in man and dogs in the south-west. Kala-azar (VL), mainly affecting infants and young children, is being increasingly reported in the south-west of Saudi Arabia, 305 cases being diagnosed in 1988. Most cases arise in scattered locations in the foothills west of the Asir mountains at altitudes between about 500 and 1000 m, although case clusters are apparent in some villages. Some cases also occur between the foothills and the Red Sea coast. The incidence in the south-west was calculated to be of the order of 6 to 8/10,000 population per year, but a random serological survey using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and direct agglutination techniques indicated a seropositivity rate of about 3.7% in 706 apparently healthy children. Most patients are Saudi or Yemeni and cases are being increasingly identified also in the Yemen Arab Republic. In the foothills of both countries the causative organism is Leishmania donovani s.l. zymodeme LON-42, which also occurs on the eastern littoral of Ethiopia. By isoenzyme electrophoresis, it is readily separated from L. infantum, which has been identified in feral dogs, the 2 organisms being sympatric. The infection was found in 6.7% of 89 dogs, but their seropositivity rate was 19.3%. Although L. infantum has not yet been recognized in man in Saudi Arabia, it has been identified in a child in the coastal plain of the Yemen Arab Republic. Further research needed to provide a rational basis for control is discussed."}
{"id": "2617579", "title": "A comparison of the direct agglutination test and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in the sero-diagnosis of leishmaniasis in the Sudan.", "content": "A comparison of the direct agglutination test and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in the sero-diagnosis of leishmaniasis in the Sudan. The sensitivity and specificity of the direct agglutination test (DAT) and the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) were compared for the sero-diagnosis of visceral (VL) and cutaneous (CL) leishmaniasis in Sudanese patients. All the sera from parasitologically confirmed cases of VL were positive in both ELISA and DAT. Some minor discrepancies were apparent between the two tests in patients with clinical signs of VL, but in whom VL was not confirmed parasitologically. In parasitologically confirmed CL both tests performed equally badly, with the DAT detecting 67% of cases and ELISA 60%. For the sero-diagnosis of VL, ELISA and DAT performed equally well, but on grounds of simplicity and low cost the DAT was preferred."}
{"id": "2532497", "title": "Study of circulating immune complexes during the evolution of visceral Mediterranean leishmaniasis.", "content": "Study of circulating immune complexes during the evolution of visceral Mediterranean leishmaniasis. In the present study, sera of 56 children suffering from visceral Mediterranean leishmaniasis were analysed. The incidence of circulating immune complexes (CIC) by ELISA technique using the conglutinin binding assay was 39% before treatment, 28% after the first treatment, and nil at the end of the second one. The C4 levels remain low even after treatment. The anti-leishmania antibodies (AAL) account for 95% of the cases before treatment and 84% after treatment. The rheumatoid factor (FR) also remains with more or less the same frequency (74%) before and after treatment. The search for a correlation between the presence of CIC and the other immunological factors show that the average titre of AAL is higher in the group of patients that have CIC than in the group that does not. The C4 levels are significantly reduced in the CIC positive group of patients, whereas the rate of IgG is significantly increased in the same group. The study of the evolution of CIC under treatment in nine patients shows that they disappear at the end of the treatment, and that the FR reduces but does not disappear."}
{"id": "2482707", "title": "Detection of antigen specific circulating immune complexes in Indian kala-azar.", "content": "Detection of antigen specific circulating immune complexes in Indian kala-azar. The sera of active and treated cases of kala-azar were tested for circulating immune complexes (CIC) by antigen-specific enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). All (100%) of proved cases had elevated CIC; 64.3% of clinically diagnosed cases and 58.8% of treated cases were also positive for CIC. A fall in the level of CIC was observed after treatment. Detection of antigen-specific CIC may be useful in monitoring the therapeutic effect and recovery."}
{"id": "2476395", "title": "Identification of antigens recognized by T cells in human leishmaniasis: analysis of T-cell clones by immunoblotting.", "content": "Identification of antigens recognized by T cells in human leishmaniasis: analysis of T-cell clones by immunoblotting. Immunity in human leishmaniasis is mediated by sensitized T lymphocytes; however, the antigens involved in eliciting this immunity have not been defined. We describe the generation of human T-lymphocyte clones derived from two patients with healed leishmaniasis. By use of one- and two-dimensional cellular immunoblotting techniques, we directly identified the parasite antigens recognized by these clones. To our knowledge, these are the first leishmanial antigens identified to which CD4+, gamma interferon-producing T cells from immune individuals have been shown to respond, the strategy may be of general use for the identification of antigens involved in immunity in this disease."}
{"id": "2470787", "title": "Profile of human T cell response to leishmanial antigens. Analysis by immunoblotting.", "content": "Profile of human T cell response to leishmanial antigens. Analysis by immunoblotting. Control and resolution of leishmanial infection depends primarily on T cell-mediated immune mechanisms. The nature of the leishmanial antigens involved in eliciting T cell immunity is unknown. We have examined the pattern of peripheral blood lymphocyte responses in patients with active, healed, or subclinical leishmanial infection to fractionated leishmanial antigens using a T cell immunoblotting method in which nitrocellulose-bound leishmanial antigen, resolved by one or two dimensional electrophoresis, are incorporated into lymphocyte cultures. The proliferative and IFN-gamma responses of cells from patients with healed mucosal or cutaneous leishmaniasis were remarkably heterogeneous and occurred to as many as 50-70 distinct antigens. In contrast, responses from subjects with active, nonhealing, diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis were either absent or present to only a small number of antigens. Control and resolution of leishmaniasis, and resistance to reinfection, is therefore associated with a T cell response to a large and diverse pool of parasite antigens. The method of T cell immunoblotting appears to offer a powerful, rapid, and relatively simple approach to the identification of antigens involved in eliciting a T cell response in human leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "3410946", "title": "Improvement of a direct agglutination test for field studies of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Improvement of a direct agglutination test for field studies of visceral leishmaniasis. To increase the potential for the wide-scale application of our direct agglutination test for visceral leishmaniasis, modifications in the components and procedures were introduced. Supplementation with 0.056 M citrate of the suspension medium stabilized the antigen for 9 weeks at 37 degrees C. To circumvent the need for cooling systems in the field, 0.2% (wt/vol) gelatin was added to the serum diluent instead of fetal bovine serum, with reliable results. Specificity and sensitivity were improved by the incorporation of 0.1 M 2-mercaptoethanol in samples with borderline titers. The test could be performed on samples of whole blood; thus the difficulties of preparation and storage of serum, plasma, or filter paper blood are avoided. For mass screening programs, a single serum dilution of 1:6,400 could be employed, contributing to a further reduction in test expenses. Sera from different geographical areas showed equal reactivities in this direct agglutination test despite the nonhomologous Leishmania donovani antigens used."}
{"id": "3373056", "title": "Investigation into the presence of Leishmania antibodies in patients with hepatosplenomegaly.", "content": "Investigation into the presence of Leishmania antibodies in patients with hepatosplenomegaly."}
{"id": "3373022", "title": "Use of purified parasite proteins from Leishmania donovani for the rapid serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Use of purified parasite proteins from Leishmania donovani for the rapid serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) due to Leishmania donovani by using crude parasite antigen is complicated in many endemic areas because of cross-reactions with sera from humans with Chagas' disease. We used affinity-purified parasite proteins to develop a direct dot-blot assay for VL. Double-blind tests were carried out on sera from 40 patients with well-documented VL, from controls in endemic areas, and from patients with other diseases. Using gp70-2, 36 (90.0%) of 40 sera from patients with kala azar were correctly diagnosed; 1 (1.2%) of 86 sera from patients without kala azar was misdiagnosed. With dp72, 21 (100%) of 21 sera from patients with VL were correctly identified; 5 (7.0%) of 71 negative sera were misdiagnosed. None of the 18 sera from patients with Chagas' disease reacted positively against gp70-2. Our assay is rapid, simple, and specific and represents a new method for reliably diagnosing and monitoring VL."}
{"id": "3343999", "title": "Purification of two Leishmania donovani membrane proteins recognized by sera from patients with visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Purification of two Leishmania donovani membrane proteins recognized by sera from patients with visceral leishmaniasis. Two Leishmania donovani membrane proteins recognized by sera from patients with visceral leishmaniasis were purified using species-specific monoclonal antibodies and characterized. The molecular weights of the proteins, as determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, were approximately 70,000 and approximately 72,000, respectively. The 70 kDa protein, which appears as a diffuse band on silver staining, was resolved into a doublet by Western blotting with monoclonal antibody. Though of similar molecular weight and amino acid composition, the two proteins were shown to be distinct by peptide mapping and Western blotting of the purified material. The two proteins are recognized specifically by human visceral leishmaniasis serum and not by serum from cutaneous leishmaniasis or Chagas' disease. These proteins will be useful in developing a direct serodiagnostic assay for visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "3268597", "title": "Immunodiagnosis of Kala-azar by ELISA using intact promastigote.", "content": "Immunodiagnosis of Kala-azar by ELISA using intact promastigote."}
{"id": "3260220", "title": "Novel 17-kilodalton Leishmania antigen revealed by immunochemical studies of a purified glycoprotein fraction recognized by murine T lymphocytes.", "content": "Novel 17-kilodalton Leishmania antigen revealed by immunochemical studies of a purified glycoprotein fraction recognized by murine T lymphocytes. Recently, a glycoprotein fraction, designated gp10/20, purified from Leishmania mexicana amazonensis was shown to induce a cellular immune response mediated by murine L3T4+ T lymphocytes. This fact led us to pursue further the characterization of this fraction. The present study demonstrated that gp10/20 is a degradation product of a 17-kilodalton antigen present in promastigotes and amastigotes of L. mexicana amazonensis. This antigen was easily detected in promastigotes of L. mexicana mexicana, L. donovani, L. chagasi, L. major, and L. tropica. However, culture forms of L. braziliensis complex expressed either low amounts of the 17-kilodalton antigen or an antigenically unrelated antigen. The recognition of gp10/20 by several serum samples of patients with kala-azar was also shown."}
{"id": "3252756", "title": "Diagnosis of Indian kala-azar by dot enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (dot-ELISA).", "content": "Diagnosis of Indian kala-azar by dot enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (dot-ELISA). Serodiagnosis of kala-azar was determined by dot-ELISA under variable conditions such as may be encountered in the field, for example, in the nature of the antigen, the preservation of antigen at different temperatures, variation in incubation temperature and so on. The test was found to be useful under field conditions, and the correlation between ELISA and dot-ELISA was significant. Dot-ELISA has definite advantages over the ELISA test, as it is easy to perform, is stable and does not require expensive equipment. The test can be used for large-scale screening of sera in sero-epidemiological studies."}
{"id": "3198171", "title": "A sensitive ELISA for detection of circulating antigens in kala azar patients.", "content": "A sensitive ELISA for detection of circulating antigens in kala azar patients."}
{"id": "3147797", "title": "Leishmania donovani donovani antigens recognized by kala-azar patient sera and identification of cross-reacting antigens to Chagas' disease.", "content": "Leishmania donovani donovani antigens recognized by kala-azar patient sera and identification of cross-reacting antigens to Chagas' disease. L. donovani antigens were analyzed by a direct agglutination test (DAT), by ELISA using intact promastigotes and by the SDS-PAGE immunoperoxidase technique (SGIP). Sera of Chagas' disease patients cross-reacted in the ELISA and SGIP but not in the DAT. Trypsin treatment of the parasites removed concanavalin A-binding sites but not epitopes for antibodies present in Chagas' disease and in leishmaniasis sera, as seen in the SGIP. Eight bands were revealed after incubation of the gel sections with kala-azar or Chagas' disease sera, three of which were common to both sera. The major antigenic component recognized by leishmaniasis sera was a glycoprotein of 57 kD, and the major cross-reacting protein recognized by Chagas' disease sera was a glycoprotein doublet of 71.5-68 kD."}
{"id": "3136958", "title": "Interleukin 2 receptor in patients with localized and systemic parasitic diseases.", "content": "Interleukin 2 receptor in patients with localized and systemic parasitic diseases. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to quantify soluble interleukin 2 receptor (IL-2R) in the serum of patients with helminthic and protozoal infections. The results demonstrated that levels of IL-2R were normal in patients with helminthic infections limited to the intestinal tract (ascariasis, trichuriasis), but significantly elevated in patients with systemic or long-lasting infections (strongyloidiasis, schistosomiasis, fascioliasis, opisthorchiasis). In patients infected with Schistosoma mansoni levels of IL-2R were higher in those with the hepatosplenic than in those with the intestinal form of the disease. Patients with malaria also showed increased serum levels of IL-2R, irrespective whether the infection was caused by Plasmodium falciparum or P. vivax. No difference was observed between patients with acute or history of malaria. The highest levels of IL-2R were observed in patients with visceral leishmaniasis. Interestingly, in these patients the concentration of IL-2R correlated to specific antibody titre. The results are discussed in the context of preferential activation of T lymphocytes, B lymphocytes and/or macrophages during the course of the different parasitic infections investigated."}
{"id": "3059666", "title": "Recent applications of the Dot-ELISA in immunoparasitology.", "content": "Recent applications of the Dot-ELISA in immunoparasitology. The dot enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Dot-ELISA) is a highly versatile solid-phase immunoassay for antibody or antigen detection. The assay uses minute amounts of reagent dotted onto solid surfaces such as nitrocellulose and other paper membranes which avidly bind proteins. After incubation with antigen-specific antibody and enzyme-conjugated anti-antibody, the addition of a precipitable, chromogenic substrate causes the formation of a colored dot on the solid phase which is visually read. The Dot-ELISA has been used extensively in the detection of human and veterinary protozoan and metazoan parasitic diseases, including amebiasis, babesiosis, fascioliasis, cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis, cysticercosis, echinococcosis, malaria, schistosomiasis, toxocariasis, toxoplasmosis, trichinosis, trypanosomiasis and even ixodid tick infestation. The technique is rapid, easy to perform and interpret, reagent conservative, cost effective and field portable. In addition, the Dot-ELISA may be configured to detect antibodies or parasite antigen in either microtiter plates for large-batch testing or with dipsticks for small numbers of determinations. A slight modification of the Dot-ELISA procedure allows the determination of infection rates of vectors such as ticks and sandflies with parasites."}
{"id": "2972929", "title": "Specific serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis using a Leishmania donovani antigen identified by expression cloning.", "content": "Specific serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis using a Leishmania donovani antigen identified by expression cloning. A lambda gt11 expression library was constructed using mRNA from the promastigote form of Leishmania donovani (African isolate MHOM/ET/67/HU3). The library was screened with serum obtained from a patient who contracted visceral leishmaniasis in the Sudan. Several cDNA clones which expressed beta-galactosidase/L. donovani antigen fusion proteins were isolated. One of these clones corresponded to a 60 kDa membrane-associated antigen. By a Western blot assay antibodies against the fusion protein were detected universally in the sera of visceral leishmaniasis patients. They were not detected in sera from patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis or other parasitic protozoan infections. The gene coding for this antigen was specific to the genus Leishmania as judged by DNA hybridisation, and its chromosomal location was conserved. A 20 kb mRNA was detected on Northern blots of promastigote RNA."}
{"id": "2855321", "title": "[Identification of Leishmania by dot blot hybridization with photobiotin labelled k-DNA].", "content": "[Identification of Leishmania by dot blot hybridization with photobiotin labelled k-DNA]."}
{"id": "2460498", "title": "Persistence of elevated levels of galactosyl-alpha(1-3)galactose antibodies in sera from patients cured of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Persistence of elevated levels of galactosyl-alpha(1-3)galactose antibodies in sera from patients cured of visceral leishmaniasis. Using rabbit erythrocyte-derived neutral glycosphingolipids enriched for a ceramide pentasaccharide as the antigen, we detected elevated anti-galactosyl-alpha(1-3)galactose (anti-G alpha G) antibody levels in 76% of children with active visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar [KA]) and in 42% of clinically cured patients with KA who had been treated about 5 years previously with meglumine antimonate (30 mg/kg in a series of 15 daily injections). The long-term persistence of elevated G alpha G antibodies was also found in 56% of children living in the same geographic zone who, at the time of the initial clinical examination, had fever and evident splenomegaly with hyperglobulinemia but a negative bone marrow aspirate for leishmanial bodies. Five years after antimonate treatment, these clinically cured children with presumptive KA were studied serologically. Their mean G alpha G antibody values were slightly lower than those in patients with active KA but were still abnormal. Using different biochemical and immunological approaches, we found that elevated G alpha G antibodies present in patients with KA bound specifically to glycoconjugates with an alpha(1-3)-terminal galactose residue. G alpha G antibodies were mainly distributed between immunoglobulin classes G and M in patients with active KA and in antimonate-treated patients with clinically cured KA. The possibility of the existence of remnant living parasites or the persistence of inserted G alpha G epitopes in parasitized macrophages was proposed as a mechanism to explain the long-term persistence of abnormal G alpha G antibodies in patients apparently cured of KA."}
{"id": "3689020", "title": "Lymphocyte transformation in cutaneous leishmaniasis patients.", "content": "Lymphocyte transformation in cutaneous leishmaniasis patients. Cellular responses to L. mexicana amazonensis, L. infantum and phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) were measured in twenty-three cutaneous leishmaniasis patients, using the lymphocyte blast transformation test (LTT). Positive responses to leishmanial antigen, although variable, were observed in all patients, compared with the normal controls. Patient responses to PHA, however, were lower than those observed in the control group. No significant differences were shown between responses of active and convalescent patients to leishmanial antigen. Since it is unclear whether or not the presence of anti-Leishmania antibody may inhibit cellular immunity, LTT responses from ELISA-positive and ELISA-negative patients were compared using either leishmanial antigens or PHA. No significant LTT differences between their responses was found for leishmanial antigens or PHA. When cells from each patient and each normal control individual were cultured in either 10% AB+ serum or 10% autologous serum, no significant differences in responses to leishmanial antigen was found. Responses to PHA were just significantly lower in AB+ serum than in autologous serum. Since this was an overall trend and not peculiar to any one group, the most likely explanation is that the autologous serum constituted a slightly superior tissue culture medium. Specific antibody and non-specific serum factors do not appear to influence cell mediated responses to leishmanial antigens or PHA."}
{"id": "3680989", "title": "Malnutrition as a risk factor for severe visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Malnutrition as a risk factor for severe visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "3611799", "title": "Routine dot-blot assay of multiple serum samples using a simple apparatus.", "content": "Routine dot-blot assay of multiple serum samples using a simple apparatus. This paper describes a simple method for carrying out dot-blot immunoassays simultaneously with a large number of different sera. No dot-blot manifold is necessary, only a modified 96-well flat-bottom microtiter plate. This apparatus is re-usable, inexpensive and especially suited for field testing of patient sera in serodiagnostic assays. One application of this technique, to the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis on a pure parasite protein, is demonstrated."}
{"id": "3445339", "title": "Serodiagnostic assay for visceral leishmaniasis employing monoclonal antibodies.", "content": "Serodiagnostic assay for visceral leishmaniasis employing monoclonal antibodies. A highly specific and sensitive competitive serodiagnostic assay for visceral leishmaniasis (VL) was developed using species specific Leishmania donovani monoclonal antibodies. This assay, either RIA or ELISA, is based on the specific inhibition of monoclonal antibody binding to a crude parasite homogenate by serum from patients with VL. 15 monoclonal antibodies were examined. The binding of 13 antibodies was significantly inhibited by VL serum and unaffected by normal serum. 3 species-specific monoclonal antibodies, D-2, D-13 and D-14, which recognize different parasite antigens, were chosen for use in the competitive serodiagnostic assay. In 90% of the positive cases, regardless of geographic origin, VL sera inhibited monoclonal antibody binding to the parasite antigen by more than 30%. No false positive was obtained with sera from Chagas disease, lepromatous leprosy, schistosomiasis, malaria, systemic lupus erythematosus, cutaneous or mucocutaneous leishmaniasis, even at serum dilutions (1:100) which cross-react strongly with Leishmania antigen in direct binding assays. Inhibition by negative control sera from areas endemic for VL and from non-endemic areas was negligible. The assay takes less than 24 h, requires minimum amounts of sera or antigen, and is easily standardized allowing interlaboratory comparison of test data. The competitive serodiagnostic assay will be especially useful in areas where Chagas disease is coendemic and the rapid diagnosis of VL by direct binding serodiagnostic assays presents a problem."}
{"id": "3328346", "title": "Evaluation of a newly developed direct agglutination test (DAT) for serodiagnosis and sero-epidemiological studies of visceral leishmaniasis: comparison with IFAT and ELISA.", "content": "Evaluation of a newly developed direct agglutination test (DAT) for serodiagnosis and sero-epidemiological studies of visceral leishmaniasis: comparison with IFAT and ELISA. A newly developed direct agglutination test (DAT) for visceral leishmaniasis, IFAT and ELISA were applied to sera of patients with visceral leishmaniasis, African and American trypanosomiasis, other parasitic infections and healthy controls. The sensitivities of the 3 tests were comparable (96.3% to 100%); excluding patients with African and American trypanosomiasis, the specificities of DAT and IFAT were 100% and ELISA 87.3%. When trypanosomiasis sera were included, the specificities were 72.6%, 94.3% and 79.4% in DAT, IFAT and ELISA respectively. In 273 sera from a leishmaniasis endemic area (Baringo District, Kenya), the sensitivity was 80% in DAT and IFAT and 60% in ELISA, specificities being 99.6% (DAT), 98.5% (IFAT) and 62.5% (ELISA). As the new DAT is economical and easy to perform, it is recommended for sero-epidemiological field work on visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "3301032", "title": "[Parasite burden and immune response in kala-azar].", "content": "[Parasite burden and immune response in kala-azar]. The parasite-burden, which is indicative of the macrophage activity, was determined before treatment in 84 kala azar cases (L. infantum) and compared to non specific immune response parameters (serum IgG, and IgM), to the specific antibody levels as detected by immunofluorescence and IgG and IgM-ELISA, as well as to rheumatoid factor titers. In 57 cases presenting with less than 3 months from the first appearance of symptoms and despite some individual variations, high parasite-burden levels were accompanied with high specific and non specific immune response parameters and inversely. The data suggest that, during kala azar, low and high immune responders could be distinguished in the humans in the way it was demonstrated by Biozzi in mice. Data collected from 27 cases with more than 3 months duration showed a poor correlation. However, at highest antibody levels, some decreasing in parasite-burden was noticed. The prognostic value of the parasite-burden determination is emphasized. Genetic studies of populations would improve control measures."}
{"id": "3299657", "title": "Monoclonal antibody identification of Leishmania tropica from Sudanese mucosal leishmaniasis.", "content": "Monoclonal antibody identification of Leishmania tropica from Sudanese mucosal leishmaniasis. Monoclonal antibodies have been raised against a stock of Leishmania parasites which were isolated from a patient with mucocutaneous leishmaniasis in the Sudan. This stock did not react with monoclonal antibodies to L. donovani, and monoclonal antibodies raised to this stock were not reactive with stocks of L. donovani. They did react with stocks of L. tropica. The antibodies recognized antigens of high and of low molecular weights which were detectable in immunofluorescence on cultured promastigotes and on amastigotes cultured in macrophages. The taxonomy of the species responsible for the different clinical manifestations of infection with Leishmania is not yet clear; there has been for example discussion as to whether the different forms of the disease in the Sudan are caused by one or more species of parasite. Studies with highly specific monoclonal antibodies can help to clarify this picture."}
{"id": "3127137", "title": "Dot-ELISA using monoclonal antibodies for identification of Leishmania donovani.", "content": "Dot-ELISA using monoclonal antibodies for identification of Leishmania donovani."}
{"id": "3115642", "title": "Antibodies to tubulin in patients with parasitic infections.", "content": "Antibodies to tubulin in patients with parasitic infections. Sera from a total of 268 patients with protozoan, helminth, bacterial (leprosy and tuberculosis) infections or appropriate controls, were assayed for anti-tubulin antibodies in an indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), using purified tubulin as antigen. Levels of serum anti-tubulin antibody were significantly elevated in 67% of patients with visceral leishmaniasis, in 60% of patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis, in 89% of patients with onchocerciasis, in 100% of patients with schistosomiasis, and in 94% of patients with leprosy. Little or no increase in anti-tubulin antibody levels was seen in sera from patients with malaria (Plasmodium vivax) or tuberculosis."}
{"id": "3115280", "title": "A direct agglutination test discriminative toward Chagas' disease for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil: preliminary results.", "content": "A direct agglutination test discriminative toward Chagas' disease for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil: preliminary results. Two-hundred and sixty-five human sera from Brazil were tested in a direct agglutination assay using trypsinated Leishmania donovani donovani antigen. The assay proved to be of value for the diagnosis of American visceral leishmaniasis in that it was discriminative toward Chagas' disease."}
{"id": "3100620", "title": "An analysis of T cell responsiveness in Indian kala-azar.", "content": "An analysis of T cell responsiveness in Indian kala-azar. The inability of most untreated patients with Kala-azar to control their visceral infections with Leishmania donovani has been attributed to a defective cell-mediated immune response to leishmanial antigens. We examined the in vitro response of T cells, including Leu-2+-depleted T cell populations, to determine whether unresponsiveness could be reversed. These studies on patients with visceral leishmaniasis in Bihar, north India, support previous observations regarding T cell unresponsiveness in patients with active disease: it is profound, it is specific, and it is reversible after successful chemotherapy. However, these studies also indicate that the specific unresponsiveness cannot be reversed by depletion of \"suppressor\" Leu-2+ T lymphocytes, nor by the addition of exogenously supplied human IL 2 to the cultures. One interpretation of these results is that in active cases of Kala-azar, there is an absence of Leishmania-specific T cells in the periphery. The possibility that reactive cells can be found in situ cannot be excluded. The observation that 13 of 25 family members of active cases were able respond to L. donovani in vitro or by skin testing suggests that the frequency of infection within an endemic area in Bihar is very high, and that assays for T cell responsiveness are far better epidemiologic tools for the detection of asymptomatic infection than is ELISA. Identification of such an exposed, Kala-azar-resistant population will be required to study host factors which influence the development of disease in infected individuals."}
{"id": "3782864", "title": "New perspectives on a subclinical form of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "New perspectives on a subclinical form of visceral leishmaniasis. During an epidemiological study of visceral leishmaniasis in an endemic region of Brazil, new perspectives emerged on a subclinical form of the disease. A group of 86 children with antibody to Leishmania were identified. None of these children had a history of leishmaniasis. The children were segregated into four groups: One group remained asymptomatic (n = 20), whereas another developed classic kala-azar within weeks of the index serology (n = 15). The remaining 51 patients initially had subclinical disease; 13 (25%) of these patients progressed to classic kala-azar (mean, five months). The others (75%) resolved their illness after a prolonged period (mean, 35 months). The initial illness in the subclinical group was characterized by hepatomegaly, frequent splenomegaly, intermittent cough, diarrhea, and low-grade fever. Malaise and poor weight gain were common. Giemsa-stained smears and cultures of bone marrow aspirates were usually negative for Leishmania in the absence of symptoms of classic kala-azar."}
{"id": "3768597", "title": "Field use of the Dot-ELISA test for visceral leishmaniasis in Honduras.", "content": "Field use of the Dot-ELISA test for visceral leishmaniasis in Honduras."}
{"id": "3731524", "title": "Characterization of the humoral immune response in Sudanese leishmaniasis: specific antibody detected by class- and subclass-specific reagents.", "content": "Characterization of the humoral immune response in Sudanese leishmaniasis: specific antibody detected by class- and subclass-specific reagents. Sera from Sudanese patients with either visceral or mucosal manifestations of infection with Leishmania were investigated to determine the class of antibodies against the causative parasite in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) with intact promastigotes as antigen. All patient sera had significantly more IgG and more antiparasite IgG than did control Sudanese or control Dutch sera; little or no IgM or IgA antiparasite antibody activity was detected. When sera specific for the subclasses of IgG were used to detect the anti-promastigote antibodies, these were found in IgG1- and IgG3-specific ELISA but not in those for IgG2 or IgG4."}
{"id": "3720902", "title": "Leishmania major: solid phase radioimmunoassay for antibody detection in human cutaneous leishmaniasis.", "content": "Leishmania major: solid phase radioimmunoassay for antibody detection in human cutaneous leishmaniasis. A radioimmunoassay for the quantitative determination of antileishmanial antibody in sera from patients suffering from cutaneous leishmaniasis was developed. The assay, using as antigen either the soluble fraction from freeze-thawed sonicated Leishmania major (LRC-L137) promastigotes or a carbohydrate-lipid containing fraction obtained by extraction with hexane-isopropanol, was shown to be sensitive and reproducible. The sera of 95 patients were examined. These were from patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis (26 from the Jordan Valley and 13 from Sinai), kala-azar (9), malaria (24), schistosomiasis (10), toxoplasmosis (5), and leprosy (8); controls were 37 normal human sera. No significant antigen dependent differences were observed using sera from cutaneous leishmaniasis patients, although differences in the immunological response were observed between the two populations of these patients. Antileishmanial activity was not detected in sera from patients with malaria, schistosomiasis, or toxoplasmosis. Although sera from leprosy patients crossreacted with the carbohydrate-lipid containing fraction, it was nevertheless more strain specific than freeze thawed sonicated L. major."}
{"id": "3603654", "title": "ELISA titres to polysaccharide antigens of Leishmania donovani promastigotes in kala-azar.", "content": "ELISA titres to polysaccharide antigens of Leishmania donovani promastigotes in kala-azar."}
{"id": "3538523", "title": "Serodiagnosis of Sudanese visceral and mucosal leishmaniasis: comparison of ELISA--immunofluorescence and indirect haemagglutination.", "content": "Serodiagnosis of Sudanese visceral and mucosal leishmaniasis: comparison of ELISA--immunofluorescence and indirect haemagglutination. Two established immunodiagnostic techniques, immunofluorescence and indirect haemagglutination, were compared with ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) using intact promastigotes as antigen for the detection of specific antibodies against Leishmania in the serum of patients with visceral or mucosal leishmaniasis from the Sudan. The ELISA was found to be more sensitive and more specific than either of the other two tests."}
{"id": "3531227", "title": "Evaluation of dot enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for mucocutaneous leishmaniasis and comparison with microplate enzyme immunoassay.", "content": "Evaluation of dot enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for mucocutaneous leishmaniasis and comparison with microplate enzyme immunoassay. A dot enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (dot ELISA) was evaluated and compared with a standard microplate ELISA (immunoglobulin G [IgG] ELISA) for the serological diagnosis of mucocutaneous leishmaniasis. The two assays were used to test 113 serum specimens from the following groups: normal individuals and patients with deep mycoses, toxoplasmosis, mucocutaneous leishmaniasis, visceral leishmaniasis, Chagas' disease, malaria, and schistosomiasis. Both tests exhibited cross-reactivity when testing specimens from cases of visceral leishmaniasis and Chagas' disease. The dot ELISA proved to be economical with respect to use of reagents and was easy to perform. Interpretation could easily be made by visual inspection of reaction endpoints in the nitrocellulose disks, obviating the need for spectrophotometric readings. There were no significant differences in sensitivity between the dot ELISA and the IgG ELISA at a cutoff level either of 20 or 40. However, its most remarkable feature was the high specificity compared with that of the IgG ELISA. Because of its ease of performance and high sensitivity and specificity, the dot ELISA should be an excellent test to be executed in the field during seroepidemiological surveys."}
{"id": "3101241", "title": "A simple and economical direct agglutination test for serodiagnosis and sero-epidemiological studies of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "A simple and economical direct agglutination test for serodiagnosis and sero-epidemiological studies of visceral leishmaniasis. A simple and economical direct agglutination test for the detection of visceral leishmaniasis is described. Trypsin-treated, Coomassie Brilliant Blue-stained, formalin-preserved promastigotes were used as antigen in re-usable V-well microtitre plates. In 21 patients with recent kala-azar, titres of 1:51200 or higher were found. Cured kala-azar patients treated 4 to 14 months before testing, showed titres in the range of 1:3,200 to greater than 1:51,200. Healthy and diseased controls had titres below 1:1,600 with the exception of African trypanosomiasis patients who showed titres of 1:200 to 1:12,800, overlapping with the titres of cured kala-azar patients. Where trypanosomiasis is not a consideration, a titre of 1:1,600 could be considered indicative of visceral leishmaniasis, the sensitivity and specificity were then 100%. The test was applied to sera of 280 inhabitants of Baringo District, a known focus of visceral leishmaniasis in Kenya. When treated cases were included, the test showed a sensitivity of 100% and specificity of 99.3%. This test could be used in district hospitals and health centres in endemic areas as an aid in diagnosis of kala-azar and in the field for sero-epidemiological studies."}
{"id": "3080918", "title": "Evaluation of the micro enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for antibodies in American visceral leishmaniasis: antigen selection for detection of infection-specific responses.", "content": "Evaluation of the micro enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for antibodies in American visceral leishmaniasis: antigen selection for detection of infection-specific responses. This study was designed to evaluate the ELISA for diagnosis of American visceral leishmaniasis (AVL) using antigen prepared from different Leishmania isolates and from a strain of Trypanosoma cruzi. Two Leishmania donovani chagasi isolates from Bahia and Maranh\u00e3o (both states of northern Brazil), one L. donovani from Sudan, one L. mexicana amazonensis isolate, and one T. cruzi isolate were used. A total of 375 sera were tested, including 119 from AVL patients, 96 from nonleishmaniasis hospitalized patients, 20 from healthy persons, 30 from patients with mucocutaneous leishmaniasis, 28 from patients with Chagas' disease, 20 from patients with tuberculosis, 21 from leprosy patients, 27 from schistosomiasis patients and 14 from patients with systemic mycoses. The antigens prepared from L. d. chagasi (Bahia) and L. m. amazonensis showed the highest sensitivity (98% and 99%, respectively) for detecting antibodies in sera from AVL patients. However, the specificity of L. d. chagasi (Bahia) antigen was better than that of L. m. amazonensis (96% vs. 86%). Comparison among the three L. donovani isolates demonstrated that the antigen prepared with the isolate from the same area where the sera originated yielded higher mean absorbance than the others. By using spectrophotometric absorbance values it was possible to use a single dilution of serum (between 1/100-1/400) since a clear separation was seen between AVL patients and controls. No patients with the other diseases who were tested gave positive results. We suggest that ELISA can be a very convenient, sensitive, and specific test for diagnosis of AVL when soluble antigen, preferably from an isolate from the test area, is used."}
{"id": "3079507", "title": "[Indirect hemagglutination in the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Comparison with indirect immunofluorescence].", "content": "[Indirect hemagglutination in the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Comparison with indirect immunofluorescence]."}
{"id": "3021967", "title": "Seroepidemiological study on kala-azar in Baringo District, Kenya.", "content": "Seroepidemiological study on kala-azar in Baringo District, Kenya. This paper reports on 164 cases of kala-azar observed in the Baringo District of Kenya between February 1981 and February 1983. All were confirmed serologically by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and all but 20 by parasitological examination as well. Following the standard treatment with a 30 day course of sodium stibogluconate (Pentostam) two non-responders and four relapses were observed. Children between 2 and 15 years old were found to be the most affected age group; male patients predominated slightly at 57%. All cases occurred in the semi-arid and arid parts of the district below 1500 m, where pastoralism predominates. Besides scattered cases, certain kala-azar foci could be identified. Two of these--Endao with 49 households, 228 inhabitants and 13 cases of kala-azar, and Koriema with 22 households, 93 inhabitants and 11 cases--were subject to a house to house survey. People were examined physically, their weight and height recorded and fingerprick blood collected on blotting paper for later serological testing. Each household was mapped and the relevant environmental factors recorded. A positive correlation could be demonstrated between kala-azar cases and the vicinity of their homesteads to seasonal rivers and also between kala-azar cases and people living in timber houses, rather than mud and wattle houses. Eroded termite hills were not found to be of epidemiological importance. No satisfying explanation could be found for the striking temporal and local clustering of cases. The homestead was identified as an important site of transmission with optimum conditions for transmission occurring during supper in the evening. Based on spleen rates, Endao was classified as hyperendemic for malaria and Koriema as mesoendemic. Diagnostic ELISA values above 0.2 were observed in all cases of active kala-azar. However, ELISA values above 0.04, taken as the borderline non-specific reaction, could be found in about half of the study areas population. Therefore we conclude that asymptomatic infection must be common. Observations demonstrated that spontaneous recovery may follow clinical illness and visceralization of the parasite. Comparison of parasitological and serological data suggest that this may be expected in more than 15% of cases."}
{"id": "4035734", "title": "ELISA using intact promastigotes for immunodiagnosis of kala-azar.", "content": "ELISA using intact promastigotes for immunodiagnosis of kala-azar. The commonly used diagnostic methods for visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar) have many disadvantages. ELISA appears to be a more easily applied test for diagnosis, follow-up of treatment and epidemiology. The preparation of the ELISA antigen has given rise to difficulties in standardization since these are usually soluble. Intact cultured promastigotes have been used to develop an ELISA which is sensitive and specific while avoiding the extra handling which is a source of variability and lack of reproducibility. When tested on sera from kala-azar patients and patients with other tropical diseases, this ELISA was able to detect specific antibodies at very high serum dilutions. It is thus promising as a screening method applicable in the field."}
{"id": "3992635", "title": "Disposable nitrocellulose filtration plates simplify the Dot-ELISA for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Disposable nitrocellulose filtration plates simplify the Dot-ELISA for serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "3973425", "title": "Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Kenya.", "content": "Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis in Kenya."}
{"id": "3929365", "title": "[Screening for Chagas disease by immunoenzymology: comparison of ELISA with immunofluorescence and indirect hemagglutination in 976 blood donors].", "content": "[Screening for Chagas disease by immunoenzymology: comparison of ELISA with immunofluorescence and indirect hemagglutination in 976 blood donors]. The efficiency of an immunoenzymatic technique (ELISA) for the systematic research of Chagas' disease in blood donors was compared with one of 2 well-known methods, indirect haemagglutination (IHA) and indirect fluoro immuno assay (IFA). For the ELISA technique two different antigenic extracts from epimastigote culture forms of T. cruzi, were used for sensitizing the polystyrene plates: a crude extract (Ag R) and a delipidized one (Ag B). Firstly the authors tested these 3 techniques in 5 control groups: sera from Chagas' disease, negative control sera, sera from visceral leishmaniasis, african trypanosomiasis and finally monoclonal gammapathies, the high levels of blood proteins being a possible cause of false positives. Secondly the screening of Chagas' disease was performed in the same way in 976 blood donors from Recife, Brazil. In the case of the Ag-R extract used in the ELISA technique a high cross-reactivity was found with visceral leishmaniasis sera, along a risk of false positives with gammapathic ones. The sensitivity of this technique was found to be high (3,3 +/- 1 p. cent of positive blood donors) and a very good correlation was found with the reference techniques, IFA and IHA, the sensitivity of which is lower (2,3 +/- 1 and 1,7 +/- p. cent). The use of a delipidized antigenic extract (Ag B) for the ELISA technique is not suitable, in spite of an apparent higher specificity: indeed, the positives rate is high (11,5 +/- 0,2 p. cent), but the correlation is very weak or non existent in the case of IHA or IFA. In conclusion, the ELISA technique using a crude extract of T. cruzi appears to be a very convenient method for screening blood donors with Chagas' disease, the lack of specificity due to leishmaniasis or monoclonal blood proteins not posing any real problem to blood banking."}
{"id": "3918821", "title": "Reduced false positive reactions in the Dot-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for human visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Reduced false positive reactions in the Dot-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for human visceral leishmaniasis. Specificity of the Dot-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Dot-ELISA) for visceral leishmaniasis was significantly improved through the use of enzyme-conjugated antisera specific for IgG heavy chains. Of sera from Kenyans with visceral leishmaniasis, 97% (29/30) were positive using horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-conjugated anti-IgG (heavy and light chain specific) which detected bound IgG and IgM. False positive reactions occurred in 80% of sera from both trypanosomiasis-infected patients (8/10) and apparently healthy Africans (24/30). HRP-conjugated anti-IgG (heavy chain specific), which detected only bound IgG, significantly reduced false positive reactions among trypanosomiasis-infected (2/10, P less than 0.02) and healthy Africans (6/30, P less than 0.001), without reducing test sensitivity in leishmaniasis patients. No false positives occurred when either HRP-conjugated antiserum was used to assay sera from 30 North Americans. Application of enzyme-conjugated antisera specific for IgG improves the serodiagnostic value of the Dot-ELISA for individual patient evaluation and epidemiologic investigations."}
{"id": "3913701", "title": "Immunodiagnosis of kala-azar.", "content": "Immunodiagnosis of kala-azar."}
{"id": "3911041", "title": "[Basis for the possible use of the indirect immunofluorescence reaction for the serological diagnosis of tick-borne borreliosis].", "content": "[Basis for the possible use of the indirect immunofluorescence reaction for the serological diagnosis of tick-borne borreliosis]."}
{"id": "3890778", "title": "[Value of the ELISA IgG and IgM test in the diagnosis and post-therapeutic monitoring of kala-azar].", "content": "[Value of the ELISA IgG and IgM test in the diagnosis and post-therapeutic monitoring of kala-azar]."}
{"id": "3831071", "title": "Bulk production and comparison of promastigote and amastigote antigens of Leishmania donovani for serodiagnosis and value of serum protein and immunoglobulin changes in diagnosis of kala-azar cases.", "content": "Bulk production and comparison of promastigote and amastigote antigens of Leishmania donovani for serodiagnosis and value of serum protein and immunoglobulin changes in diagnosis of kala-azar cases."}
{"id": "2984847", "title": "[A rare cause of septic syndrome].", "content": "[A rare cause of septic syndrome]. The case report is presented of a 18-year old patient, who was admitted to the Haematology Department of the Hanusch Hospital with septic fever, an enlarged spleen and suspected bone marrow failure. Since the patient reported a stay in Sicily prior to the onset of his disease, an infection with Leishmania was suspected. The serological test was highly positive and Leishmania was also isolated from the spleen aspirate. Chemotherapy with Pentostam was successful and the patient made an uneventful recovery. This paper deals with the epidemiology of the disease and discusses the diagnostic approaches."}
{"id": "6524994", "title": "Investigation of possible zoonotic reservoirs of Indian kala-azar.", "content": "Investigation of possible zoonotic reservoirs of Indian kala-azar. Possible animal reservoirs of Indian kala-azar were investigated during a recent outbreak of the disease; dogs, Rattus rattus and Bandicoota bengalensis were examined. Microscopical and serological examinations were carried out and antileishmanial antibodies found in five out of 226 B. bengalensis."}
{"id": "6433537", "title": "Dot enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Dot-ELISA): comparison with standard ELISA and complement fixation assays for the diagnosis of human visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Dot enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Dot-ELISA): comparison with standard ELISA and complement fixation assays for the diagnosis of human visceral leishmaniasis. The dot enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Dot-ELISA), standard ELISA and the complement fixation (CF) tests were compared in the serodiagnosis of African visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar). Assay sensitivity was determined using sera from 44 patients with parasitologically confirmed kala-azar. Using the Dot-ELISA, 42 of 44 patients (95%) were positive at a reciprocal titer of greater than or equal to 32 (titer range 512-524 288). In the standard ELISA technique, 43 of 44 patients (98%) were positive (titer range 32-32 768). At a reciprocal titer of greater than or equal to 8 in the CF test, 35 patients (80%) were positive, 1 (2%) was negative and 8 patients (18%) showed anticomplementary (AC) activity (titer range 8-2048). Specificity, determined using 33 sera from healthy individuals not living in endemic areas, was 97% in both the Dot-ELISA and the standard ELISA (32 of 33 sera); in he CF test, all sera were negative except 1 (3%) which showed AC activity. Sera from patients with Chagas' disease cross-reacted in the dot-ELISA up to a titer of 512. In the standard ELISA, cross-reactions occurred mainly using sera from patients with Chagas' disease, malaria and syphilis, and to a lesser extent with sera from amebiasis, schistosomiasis and trichinosis patients. Overall titer agreement in replicate experiments was highest in the Dot-ELISA (89%), followed by the standard ELISA (80%) and the CF test (72%)."}
{"id": "6394475", "title": "Comparison of ELISA & indirect immunofluorescence in sero-epidemiology of kala-azar.", "content": "Comparison of ELISA & indirect immunofluorescence in sero-epidemiology of kala-azar."}
{"id": "6391221", "title": "Standardization of the dot enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Dot-ELISA) for human visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Standardization of the dot enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Dot-ELISA) for human visceral leishmaniasis. The Dot-ELISA, a rapid, visually read micro enzyme immunoassay for visceral leishmaniasis utilizing minute volumes of antigen \"dotted\" on nitrocellulose filter discs and precipitable chromogenic substrate, was analyzed under a variety of experimental parameters. Raising assay incubation temperatures from 23 degrees C to 28 degrees C resulted in titer increases in three of five leishmaniasis patient sera; at 37 degrees C, all five patient sera and one of five normal human sera showed titer increases. The amount of antigen used could be reduced 50% by incubating patient serum overnight at 4 degrees C. Antigen discs stored at - 20 degrees C were optimally reactive with leishmaniasis sera over a 270-day period. Antigen discs stored at 4 degrees C and 23 degrees C showed reproducible titer decreases at 90 days. Aging either peroxidase-conjugated antibody or substrate for up to 28 days at 4 degrees C did not adversely affect titers of positive and negative control sera and reagent controls. Activated substrate stored at 23 degrees C was optimally reactive in the assay for at least 24 hours. No changes in titers of positive and negative control sera or nonspecific reactions in reagent controls occurred when using different brands of microtiter plates. The long shelf lives and stabilities of Dot-ELISA antigen and reagents indicate this test should prove useful both in the laboratory and in the field."}
{"id": "6383236", "title": "Leishmaniasis in Greece I. Isolation and identification of the parasite causing human and canine visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Leishmaniasis in Greece I. Isolation and identification of the parasite causing human and canine visceral leishmaniasis. Three human and 19 canine leishmanial stocks were typed according to their excreted factor serotype and the electrophoretic mobility of their MDH, GPI, G6PDH and 6PGDH and shown to be identical with regard to these characters and, thus with Leishmania donovani infantum. This verifies the opinion of earlier researchers, who suggested that the parasites which cause human and canine visceral leishmaniasis in Greece are the same organism and that dogs are the reservoir for the human infection. The complexities raised by the co-existence of human cutaneous leishmaniasis in Greece caused by L. tropica (formerly L. t. minor) are stressed. A comparison was made of the clinical symptomatology, serological diagnosis by IFA and ELISA tests and parasitological diagnosis of the human cases and canine infections."}
{"id": "6374406", "title": "[Current problems of the study and prevention of leishmaniasis].", "content": "[Current problems of the study and prevention of leishmaniasis]."}
{"id": "6373035", "title": "[Seroimmunological profile of kala-azar in Tunisia].", "content": "[Seroimmunological profile of kala-azar in Tunisia]. 165 sera of patients suffering from kala-azar were collected before and after treatment (N-methyl glucamine: Glucantime ) and analysed for anti-leishmania antibodies by the counter immunoelectrophoresis and fluorescent antibody techniques. Serum immunoglobulins G, A, M and Complement C4 and C3 were studied as well; and C reactive protein, rheumatoid factor and anti-nuclear, anti-mitochondrial and anti-smooth muscle antibodies were investigated. Before treatment, counter immuno-electrophoresis was positive in 63.88% and immunofluorescent antibody test in 94.6%. The analysis of immunoglobulins has shown an increase of IgG in nearly all cases, an increase of IgM in 78.26% of sera tested. Little change has been noted with IgA. C reactive protein has been found in 87.67% and rheumatoid factor in 76.4% of sera examined. In 4 patients, anti-smooth muscle antibodies have been found at a relatively weak dilution. A decrease of complement C4 has been observed whereas complement C3 was slightly increased. After treatment (2 cures of Glucantime ) counter immunoelectrophoresis was positive in 23.07% of cases whereas immunofluorescent antibody test was still positive in 84.62%. IgG remained increases in the whole cases and IgM in only 43,48%. C reactive protein and rheumatoid factor have been found in 14.81% and 50% of cases respectively. Complement C4 remained low whereas complement C3 showed normal mean value. The relationship between the serological disturbances observed and the prognosis were discussed."}
{"id": "6642649", "title": "Cell-mediated immune response in Indian kala-azar and post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis.", "content": "Cell-mediated immune response in Indian kala-azar and post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis. Cell-mediated immune (CMI) response in 16 Indian kala-azar (KA) and 12 post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKADL) patients was studied in detail by in vitro lymphocyte transformation experiments and by in vivo skin testing. Peripheral blood lymphocytes of active KA patients failed to be stimulated by leishmania antigen. On the other hand, lymphocytes from a majority of the active KA patients could be stimulated by phytohemagglutinin. Active KA patients also failed to show delayed type hypersensitivity reaction to leishmanin, although 72% of them showed delayed type hypersensitivity to a purified protein derivative of tuberculin. Longitudinal studies indicated that antigen-specific CMI response usually appeared in treated KA patients after 12 to 20 weeks of antileishmanial drug therapy, although individual variations were noted. CMI response in PKADL patients was variable as about two-thirds of them showed positive sensitization to leishmania antigen in either in vivo or in vitro tests. Usually, patients with newly acquired PKADL exhibited better CMI response than those with chronic PKADL. However, lymphocytes from all of these patients could be stimulated normally by phytohemagglutinin. Results presented in this study show an impairment of CMI response in active KA which appears to be more specific to leishmania than generalized in nature. Moreover, restoration of specific T-cell responsiveness was aided by antileishmanial drug therapy which resulted in the reduction of antigenic load by parasite destruction and a concomitant decrease in circulating antibody levels, particularly that of the immunoglobulin G class. We suggest that the protection afforded by specific CMI response against Leishmania donovani infection may not be absolute and probably depends on other host-related factors leading to parasite destruction and patient recovery."}
{"id": "6636271", "title": "Evaluation of a visually read ELISA for serodiagnosis and sero-epidemiological studies of kala-azar in the Baringo District, Kenya.", "content": "Evaluation of a visually read ELISA for serodiagnosis and sero-epidemiological studies of kala-azar in the Baringo District, Kenya. ELISA for detecting leishmanial antibodies was established at Baringo District Hospital Kabarnet, Kenya, and successfully applied in clinical routine and sero-epidemiological surveys. To simplify the procedure and to make it more economical, ELISA was read as visual endpoint titre and blood was collected by the blotting paper method. 63 parasitologically confirmed kala-azar patients all showed a diagnostic IgG specific ELISA titre of 1:27,000 or more, which indicates a sensitivity of 100%. 11 of 14 persons found with this diagnostic titre during a house-to-house survey in a known focus of kala-azar could be confirmed parasitologically. Two more showed typical signs and symptoms of kala-azar and were successfully treated accordingly. Controls from unaffected areas were all negative. Low titres of 1:1000 and 1:3000 were observed in healthy individuals from foci of kala-azar, but could be easily distinguished from active cases. ELISA has been shown to be a convenient and reliable method for the serodiagnosis of East African kala-azar. The technique can be integrated into the routine work of a clinical laboratory at the level of a district hospital, without sophisticated equipment and with a minimum of funds. Blood of suspected kala-azar cases can be collected on blotting paper in dispensaries and health centres near known foci and sent to the laboratory."}
{"id": "6623602", "title": "Development of an antigen conservative enzyme immunoassay (Dot-ELISA) for the rapid diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Development of an antigen conservative enzyme immunoassay (Dot-ELISA) for the rapid diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "6549606", "title": "Dot enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Dot-ELISA): a micro technique for the rapid diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Dot enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Dot-ELISA): a micro technique for the rapid diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. A micro enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay utilizing antigen dotted onto nitrocellulose filter discs (Dot-ELISA) was developed for the rapid diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. Leishmania donovani promastigotes applied to filter discs in volumes of 1 microliter were placed in 96-well microtiter plates, blocked with bovine serum albumin, then incubated with 4-fold dilutions of patient sera. After incubation with peroxidase-conjugated anti-human antibody, washing and addition of precipitable substrate, positive reactions appeared as blue dots on a white background which were easily read by eye. The procedure is performed at room temperature, takes about 2 h and is economical. At a reciprocal diagnostic titer of greater than or equal to 32, 41 of 42 (98%) leishmaniasis patients were positive, and positive titers ranged from 512 to 524,288. Control sera from healthy individuals showed 1 of 50 (2%) false positive reactions. Sera from patients with African trypanosomiasis, Chagas' disease, and lupus erythematosus were cross-reactive in the Dot-ELISA. No cross-reactivity was noted with sera from patients with amebiasis, coccidioidomycosis, cutaneous leishmaniasis, viral hepatitis, hydatidosis, malaria, schistosomiasis, syphilis, toxoplasmosis or trichinosis. In replicate experiments, 90% of 167 sera tested did not vary in titer. This rapid and inexpensive test should prove to be an important field diagnostic technique for visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "6370477", "title": "[ELISA methods for the detection of Trypanosoma cruzi carriers. Comparative study].", "content": "[ELISA methods for the detection of Trypanosoma cruzi carriers. Comparative study]. Each of the serological methods used for the screening of T. cruzi carriers has its advantage and disadvantage. Owing to the detection, particularly concerning blood transfusion, a selection of techniques, as wide as possible, and which don't aim the same antibodies is now carried out. Therefore, we have tried to perfect an ELISA-like reaction. This kind of analysis appeared very sensitive, faithful and reproducible in other parasitology fields. It became evident for us to try to apply this method to the diagnosis of Chagas disease. In order to test this method , we compared the results obtained with the one given by other usual reactions: immunofluorescence and passive hemagglutination test. In an other hand, we have, for the whole three methods, estimated the possible crossed reactions, particularly with leishmaniasis, african trypanosomiasis and myeloma. From these results, it can be deduced that: --the ELISA reaction used with a total homologous antigen is sensitive and discriminant towards the other trypanosoma. The ratio of the crossed reactions with visceral leishmaniasis is the same compared to immunofluorescence. It allows the exploration of recent infestations; --the ELISA reaction done with a dislipided antigen is very sensitive. In the meantime, crossed reactions are possible with other trypanosomiasis."}
{"id": "6353959", "title": "An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for field diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for field diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. A simplified enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was evaluated as a diagnostic test for visceral leishmaniasis in the field on 222 individuals with splenomegaly and 110 controls. The test was shown to have a sensitivity of 98.4% and specificity of 100% when compared with parasite identification by splenic aspiration. The data indicate that the ELISA is an accurate, safe, and economical alternative to splenic aspiration for the diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "6353496", "title": "[Serological diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis using indirect immunofluorescence].", "content": "[Serological diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis using indirect immunofluorescence]."}
{"id": "7174006", "title": "Isolation and partial characterization of antigen from Leishmania donovani promastigotes and its possible use in serodiagnosis.", "content": "Isolation and partial characterization of antigen from Leishmania donovani promastigotes and its possible use in serodiagnosis."}
{"id": "7156848", "title": "[Epidemiological research of a new case of visceral leishmaniasis in Greater S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil].", "content": "[Epidemiological research of a new case of visceral leishmaniasis in Greater S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil]."}
{"id": "6817988", "title": "Micro-enzyme-linked-immunosorbent assay in diagnosis of kala-azar.", "content": "Micro-enzyme-linked-immunosorbent assay in diagnosis of kala-azar."}
{"id": "7324125", "title": "Serological profiles in Indian post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis.", "content": "Serological profiles in Indian post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis. The sera of 20 Indian post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKADL) patients were analysed for immunoglobulin (IgG, IgM and IgA), third component of complement (C3) and specific antibody contents and the results compared with those of normal controls and kala-azar (KA) patients as obtained in an earlier study. Mean values of serum IgG and IgM in PKADL were found to be significantly higher than those of normal controls, although these values were substantially lower to those of KA patients. No significant difference, however, was noted in the mean levels of serum IgA and C3 between PKADL and control groups. Specific antibodies to Leishmania antigen could be demonstrated in PKADL sera by the indirect haemagglutination (IHA) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) methods. Most of these antibodies belonged to IgG class although some IgM antibodies were also demonstrable. Antibody titre ranges in PKADL sera were, however, definitely lower than those of KA sera. A reasonably good correlation between the severity of dermal lesions and IgG-ELISA titres was obtained. Of 12 chronic PKADL cases, only four and ten were found to be serologically positive by IHA and micro-ELISA methods respectively. All eight fresh cases were seropositive by both these tests. Analysis of the data suggests an over-all difference between the serological profiles of PKADL and KA patients."}
{"id": "7292592", "title": "Status of visceral leishmaniasis in northern Pakistan: a seroepidemiological assessment.", "content": "Status of visceral leishmaniasis in northern Pakistan: a seroepidemiological assessment."}
{"id": "6792937", "title": "Immunoenzymatic assy (ELISA) in mucocutaneous leishmaniasis, kala-azar, and Chagas' disease: an epimastigote Trypanosoma cruzi antigen able to distinguish between anti-Trypanosoma and anti-Leishmania antibodies.", "content": "Immunoenzymatic assy (ELISA) in mucocutaneous leishmaniasis, kala-azar, and Chagas' disease: an epimastigote Trypanosoma cruzi antigen able to distinguish between anti-Trypanosoma and anti-Leishmania antibodies. Areas where mucocutaneous leishmaniasis, kala-azar and Chagas' disease are prevalent often overlap in Latin America. Due to a variable degree of cross-reactivity between the three etiological agents and antibodies synthesized during the course of the disease, a test able to distinguish between them is greatly needed. Saline-extracted antigen from live Trypanosoma cruzi epimastigotes behaved towards Chagas' disease sera in immunoenzymatic assays (ELISA) with the same specificity and sensitivity as the antigen used routinely for such tests. In tests using mucocutaneous leishmaniasis or kala-azar sera, the live T. cruzi antigen showed a much lower geometric mean titer (GMT) than the standard T. cruzi antigen. In ELISA tests with L. braziliensis antigen a higher GMT was seen with kala-azar sera than with those from cases of mucocutaneous leishmaniasis. Also, sera from Vale do Ribeira leishmaniasis showed higher GMT with an L. donovani antigen than with a homologous one. Such discrepancies were not seen in immunofluorescence tests employing the same sera and antigens."}
{"id": "6174454", "title": "Evaluation of antigens for the serodiagnosis of kala-azar and oriental sores by means of the indirect immunofluorescence antibody test (IFAT).", "content": "Evaluation of antigens for the serodiagnosis of kala-azar and oriental sores by means of the indirect immunofluorescence antibody test (IFAT). Antigens and corresponding sera were collected from travellers with leishmaniasis returning to Germany from different endemic areas of the old world. The antigenicity of these Leishmania strains, which were maintained in Syrian hamsters, was compared by indirect immunofluorescence (IFAT). Antigenicity was demonstrated by antibody titres in 18 sera from 11 patients. The amastigotic stages of nine strains of Leishmania donovani and four strains of Leishmania tropica were compared with each other and with the culture forms of insect flagellates (Strigomonas oncopelti and Leptomonas ctenocephali). Eighteen sera from 11 patients were available for antibody determination with these antigens. The maximal antibody titres in a single serum varied considerably depending on which antigen was used for the test. High antibody levels could only be maintained when Leishmania donovani was employed as the antigen, but considerable differences also occurred between the different strains of this species. The other antigens were weaker. No differences in antigenicity between amastigotes and promastigotes of the same strain were observed. It is important to select suitable antigens. Low titres may be of doubtful specificity and are a poor baseline for the fall in titre which is an essential index of effective treatment."}
{"id": "7438541", "title": "Serological investigations on Indian kala-azar.", "content": "Serological investigations on Indian kala-azar. Detailed serological investigations were carried out in forty-nine active kala-azar (KA) cases in North Bihar, India. Various classes of immunoglobulin (IgG, IgA, and IgM) and third component of complement (C3) levels were determined in these sera and results were compared with those obtained in normal controls. Antibody titres were determined by the indirect haemagglutination (IHA) method using soluble Leishmania antigen. Immunoglobulin G and M class-specific antibody titres were also determined separately by the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method. Polyclonal hypergammaglobulinaemia with marked increase in serum IgG (and to a lesser extent in IgM) level was a rather common feature in the majority of these sera. Much of this immunoglobulin increase, however, appeared to be non-specific in nature and no absolute correlation could be noted between serum IgG or IgM levels and corresponding IgG or IgM antibody titres. Significant decrease in serum C3 level was observed in KA and this decrease was found to be independent of immunoglobulin levels or specific antibody titres. A fairly good correlation between aldehyde test and serum IgG level was evident from this study. Aldehyde-positive KA sera usually gave higher antibody titres than aldehyde-negative ones. Anti-leishmanial antibodies belonged mostly to IgG class although some IgM antibodies were also demonstrable. The latter class of antibodies probably appeared early in KA infection although their serological specificity was poorer to IgG antibodies. Out of forty-nine KA sera examined in this study thirty-six (73.5%) gave positive IHA titres while forty-six (93.9%) were positive by IgG-ELISA which appeared to be a highly specific and sensitive serodiagnostic method particularly for the early detection of KA cases."}
{"id": "6997199", "title": "Microplate enzyme linked immunosorbent assay for visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "Microplate enzyme linked immunosorbent assay for visceral leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "6772116", "title": "Comparative diagnostic study of kala azar.", "content": "Comparative diagnostic study of kala azar. Sera from 58 children with hepatosplenomegaly were tested for kala azar by gel diffusion immunoelectrophoresis, countercurrent immunoelectrophoresis and micro-ELISA. The results are compared with those from bone marrow cultures: 40 cases were diagnosed as kala azar by the four immunological techniques and Leishmania parasites were grown in 37 of 40 bone marrow cultures. The techniques used are discussed in terms of sensitivity, specificity and simplicity. The micro-ELISA technique was the most sensitive and convenient to carry out and is strongly recommended for use in routine diagnosis and epidermiological surveys."}
{"id": "6154425", "title": "Detection of circulating antibodies in cutaneous leishmaniasis by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).", "content": "Detection of circulating antibodies in cutaneous leishmaniasis by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). An immunoenzymatic diagnostic technique applicable to cutaneous leishmaniasis is described. The antigen used (Leishmania tropica major) was equally useful in diagnosing visceral and mucocutaneous forms of the disease. The criteria for positivity were defined by using groups of negative controls, and the specificity of the reaction was evaluated by using sera from patients with various diseases. Among these, sera from patients with lepromatous leprosy, tuberculosis, or African trypanosomiasis strongly cross-reacted with leishmania antigen. Examining serial dilutions of the sera facilitated the interpretation of the results and eliminated a significant percentage of false positives."}
{"id": "541005", "title": "The role of counter immunoelectrophoresis as a diagnostic tool in kala-azar.", "content": "The role of counter immunoelectrophoresis as a diagnostic tool in kala-azar."}
{"id": "515671", "title": "[Epidemiological survey of a case of visceral leishmaniasis autochthonous in greater S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil].", "content": "[Epidemiological survey of a case of visceral leishmaniasis autochthonous in greater S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil]."}
{"id": "382470", "title": "A comparison of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and indirect fluorescent antibody test in the sero-diagnosis of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis in Iran.", "content": "A comparison of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and indirect fluorescent antibody test in the sero-diagnosis of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis in Iran. ELISA AND IFAT have been applied to the sero-diagnosis of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis and the levels of leishmanial antibody detected by Leishmania donovani antigens in both tests have been compared. From the results it appears that ELISA is a little more sensitive than IFAT, but IFAT seems to be more specific in detecting leishmanial antibodies. In both tests reactions between leishmanial antigen and some other infections, such as malaria and typhoid, were observed. These non-specific reactions reduce the validity of both tests, especially ELISA, in the sero-diagnosis of cutaneous leishmaniasis but, in visceral leishmaniasis, the leishmanial antibody levels were high enough to be unaffected by non-specific reactions. In general, ELISA is as good as IFAT and more practical in the sero-diagnosis and mass screening surveys for kala-azar."}
{"id": "666392", "title": "The micro-ELISA technique in the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis.", "content": "The micro-ELISA technique in the serodiagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. The micro-scale Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay (micro-ELISA) technique, with alkaline phosphatase as a marker enzyme, has been used for the serodiagnosis of human and canine visceral leishmaniasis, from foci in southern France. This technique which uses a soluble antigen is highly sensitive, with a degree of specificity slightly higher than that of the IFA. It is suggested that the micro-ELISA procedure can be added to the battery of serological techniques and would be particularly useful for large scale epidemiological studies of leishmaniasis."}
{"id": "399802", "title": "[Serological diagnosis of human leishmaniasis by ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay)].", "content": "[Serological diagnosis of human leishmaniasis by ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay)]."}
{"id": "382338", "title": "[Serological diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (kala azar) using Crithidia sp. as an antigen (preliminary report)].", "content": "[Serological diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (kala azar) using Crithidia sp. as an antigen (preliminary report)]."}
{"id": "804268", "title": "A direct agglutination test for leishmaniasis.", "content": "A direct agglutination test for leishmaniasis. Antigen suspensions of enzyme-treated, formalin-fixed promastigotes of three species of Leishmania (L. donovani, L. tropica, and L. braziliensis) were evaluated by using the direct agglutination test with serum samples from healthy individuals and patients with confirmed cases of visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis. High cross-reactivity was obtained with the three antigens in tests with leishmania sera. Sera from patients with kala-azar were 61% to 96% positive when tested with all three antigens. In tests with sera from patients with American cutaneous leishmaniasis, 81% were positive with L. donovania and L. braziliensis antigen, whereas only 54% to 55% were positive with the other two antigens. Normal sera were reactive at low dilutions of 1:16 or less with L. braziliensis antigens. Normal sera tested with L. tropica antigen reacted to a titer of 128."}
{"id": "786188", "title": "[Immunological diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (10 years' experience].", "content": "[Immunological diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis (10 years' experience]."}
{"id": "4618482", "title": "[BCG in the diagnosis of leishmaniasis. Comparison of the complement fixation test and latex agglutination test].", "content": "[BCG in the diagnosis of leishmaniasis. Comparison of the complement fixation test and latex agglutination test]."}
{"id": "4604567", "title": "Immunodiagnostic studies in tropical splenomegaly syndrome in Uganda.", "content": "Immunodiagnostic studies in tropical splenomegaly syndrome in Uganda."}
{"id": "4480470", "title": "[Kala-azar in adults in western France during the last 15 years].", "content": "[Kala-azar in adults in western France during the last 15 years]."}
{"id": "4215001", "title": "[Serological problems in the diagnosis of protozoal diseases (author's transl)].", "content": "[Serological problems in the diagnosis of protozoal diseases (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "4213454", "title": "The laboratory diagnosis of tropical diseases with special reference to Britain: a review.", "content": "The laboratory diagnosis of tropical diseases with special reference to Britain: a review."}
{"id": "4603824", "title": "[Serodiagnosis of human visceral leishmaniasis and its evaluation of on the experimental practice].", "content": "[Serodiagnosis of human visceral leishmaniasis and its evaluation of on the experimental practice]."}
{"id": "4198290", "title": "[Immunoelectrophoretic diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis with the use of a hydrosoluble antigenic extract of Leishmania donovani. Preliminary results].", "content": "[Immunoelectrophoretic diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis with the use of a hydrosoluble antigenic extract of Leishmania donovani. Preliminary results]."}
{"id": "4657671", "title": "[Latex test in the diagnosis of American kala-azar].", "content": "[Latex test in the diagnosis of American kala-azar]."}
{"id": "4197659", "title": "[Common antigenic fractions revealed by immunoprecipitation in gel, between Mycobacterium phlei (Mycobacteriaceae) and Leishmania donovani (Trypanosomidae)].", "content": "[Common antigenic fractions revealed by immunoprecipitation in gel, between Mycobacterium phlei (Mycobacteriaceae) and Leishmania donovani (Trypanosomidae)]."}
{"id": "5126293", "title": "[Kala-azar in infants].", "content": "[Kala-azar in infants]."}
{"id": "5537811", "title": "[Diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis by the culture inhibition reaction].", "content": "[Diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis by the culture inhibition reaction]."}
{"id": "5789081", "title": "Immunodiagnosis of kala-azar.", "content": "Immunodiagnosis of kala-azar."}
{"id": "4978596", "title": "Cross-reactivity in fluorescence tests for Trypanosoma and Leishmania antibodies. A simple inhibition procedure to ensure specific results.", "content": "Cross-reactivity in fluorescence tests for Trypanosoma and Leishmania antibodies. A simple inhibition procedure to ensure specific results."}
{"id": "14190488", "title": "EVALUATION OF IMMUNOFLUORESCENT AND DIRECT AGGLUTINATION METHODS FOR DETECTION OF SPECIFIC TOXOPLASMA ANTIBODIES.", "content": "EVALUATION OF IMMUNOFLUORESCENT AND DIRECT AGGLUTINATION METHODS FOR DETECTION OF SPECIFIC TOXOPLASMA ANTIBODIES."}
{"id": "14112046", "title": "[ANOTHER 3 PROVEN CASES OF KALA-AZAR IN THE ZARAZA DISTRICT, STATE OF GU'ARICO, INCLUDING A FATAL CASE].", "content": "[ANOTHER 3 PROVEN CASES OF KALA-AZAR IN THE ZARAZA DISTRICT, STATE OF GU'ARICO, INCLUDING A FATAL CASE]."}
{"id": "14496767", "title": "[Serodiagnosis of kala-azar].", "content": "[Serodiagnosis of kala-azar]."}
{"id": "13540351", "title": "[Kala-azar with positive serodiagnosis for para B in a diabetic].", "content": "[Kala-azar with positive serodiagnosis for para B in a diabetic]."}
{"id": "13394308", "title": "[Some aspects of the serodiagnosis of kala-azar and variations of leukocyte].", "content": "[Some aspects of the serodiagnosis of kala-azar and variations of leukocyte]."}
{"id": "15432204", "title": "[Serological diagnosis of kala-azar; contribution to the study of the Sanchis Bayarri-Marco Ahuir reaction].", "content": "[Serological diagnosis of kala-azar; contribution to the study of the Sanchis Bayarri-Marco Ahuir reaction]."}
