{"id": "23593613", "title": "A case of variceal bleeding from the jejunum in liver cirrhosis.", "content": "A case of variceal bleeding from the jejunum in liver cirrhosis. While esophagogastric varices are common manifestations of portal hypertension, variceal bleeding from the jejunum is a rare complication of liver cirrhosis. In addition, ectopic variceal bleeding occurs in the duodenum and at sites of previous bowel surgery in most cases, including of stomas. We report a case of obscure overt gastrointestinal bleeding from jejunal varices in a 55-year-old woman who had not previously undergone abdominal surgery, who had liver cirrhosis induced by the hepatitis C virus. Emergency endoscopy revealed the presence of esophageal varices without stigmata of recent bleeding, and no bleeding focus was found at colonoscopy. She continued to produce recurrent melena with hematochezia and received up to 21 units of packed red blood cells. CT angiography revealed the presence of jejunal varices, but no active bleeding was found. Capsule endoscopy revealed fresh blood in the jejunum. The patient submitted to embolization of the jejunal varices via the portal vein, after which she had a stable hemoglobin level and no recurrence of the melena. This is a case of variceal bleeding from the jejunum in a liver cirrhosis patient without a prior history of abdominal surgery."}
{"id": "23029720", "title": "Advances in small bowel imaging--capsule endoscopy.", "content": "Advances in small bowel imaging--capsule endoscopy. The small bowel has been a difficult area to examine due to its anatomy, location and relative tortuosity. Capsule technology has revolutionized the imaging of small bowel. Capsule endoscopy has been recommended as the 3rd diagnostic test for patients with obscure bleeding after a normal endoscopic evaluation of the upper and lower gastrointestinal tract. Many studies have established its role in other clinical situations, such as detection of small bowel lesions in Crohn's disease, non steroidal anti-inflammatory drug enteropathies, celiac disease, small bowel polyposis syndromes and small bowel tumors. Capsule endoscopy of the oesophagus is recommended as an alternative to oesophagogastroduodenoscopy for screening Barrett's oesophagus, esophageal varices and of the colon for colorectal cancer."}
{"id": "22379346", "title": "Jejunal variceal bleeding successfully treated with percutaneous coil embolization.", "content": "Jejunal variceal bleeding successfully treated with percutaneous coil embolization. A 52-yr-old male with alcoholic liver cirrhosis was hospitalized for hematochezia. He had undergone small-bowel resection due to trauma 15 yr previously. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy showed grade 1 esophageal varices without bleeding. No bleeding lesion was seen on colonoscopy, but capsule endoscopy showed suspicious bleeding from angiodysplasia in the small bowel. After 2 weeks of conservative treatment, the hematochezia stopped. However, 1 week later, the patient was re-admitted with hematochezia and a hemoglobin level of 5.5 g/dL. Capsule endoscopy was performed again and showed active bleeding in the mid-jejunum. Abdominal computed tomography revealed a varix in the jejunal branch of the superior mesenteric vein. A direct portogram performed via the transhepatic route showed portosystemic collaterals at the distal jejunum. The patient underwent coil embolization of the superior mesenteric vein just above the portosystemic collaterals and was subsequently discharged without re-bleeding. At 8 months after discharge, his condition has remained stable, without further bleeding episodes."}
{"id": "22346246", "title": "Update of endoscopy in liver disease: more than just treating varices.", "content": "Update of endoscopy in liver disease: more than just treating varices. The management of complications in liver disease is often complex and challenging. Endoscopy has undergone a period of rapid expansion with numerous novel and specialized endoscopic modalities that are of increasing value in the investigation and management of the patient with liver disease. In this review, relevant literature search and expert opinions have been used to provide a brief overview and update of the current endoscopic management of patients with liver disease and portal hypertension. The main areas covered are safety of endoscopy in patients with liver disease, the use of standard endoscopy for the treatment of varices and the role of new endoscopic modalities such as endoscopic ultrasound, esophageal capsule, argon plasma coagulation, spyglass and endomicroscopy in the investigation and treatment of liver-related gastrointestinal and biliary pathology. It is clear that the role of the endoscopy in liver disease is well beyond that of just treating varices. As the technology in endoscopy expands, so does the role of the endoscopist in liver disease."}
{"id": "22155754", "title": "Capsule endoscopy is not as accurate as esophagogastroduodenoscopy in screening cirrhotic patients for varices.", "content": "Capsule endoscopy is not as accurate as esophagogastroduodenoscopy in screening cirrhotic patients for varices. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) is the standard technique for screening cirrhotic patients for high-risk varices and other significant upper gastrointestinal lesions (HRVLs). We investigated whether esophageal capsule endoscopy (ECE) is as convenient and accurate as EGD for the detection of HRVLs. We analyzed data from 65 cirrhotic patients without prior upper gastrointestinal bleeding who were examined for varices and HRVLs by ECE and EGD (both procedures were performed on the same day). EGD was performed by 2 physicians (75% of patients were unsedated) who used standard grading for esophageal and gastric varices, portal hypertensive gastropathy, and HRVLs. Coded capsule tracings were read by 2 investigators, blinded to the EGD findings, using standard grading. The median procedure time for EGD (with or without biopsy collection) was 3 minutes, compared with 20 minutes for ECE. The overall accuracy for diagnosis of esophageal varices was 63.2% \u00b1 5.9%; for detection of esophageal varices red marks was 68.8% \u00b1 5.4%; and for diagnosis of other HRVLs was 51.5% \u00b1 4.2%. The interobserver agreement in the diagnosis of esophageal varices was 90.8%; in the detection of esophageal varices red marks was 86.2%; and in the diagnosis of other HRVLs was 7.3%. ECE is not as accurate as EGD in the diagnosis of esophageal varices and red markings or in grading esophageal varices. Moreover, ECE had poor accuracy in grading portal hypertensive gastropathy and detecting ulcers, gastric varices, and other significant upper gastrointestinal lesions. It took significantly longer to perform ECE and interpret the results than for EGD. These findings do not support ECE as a preferred tool for screening esophageal varices and HRVLs."}
{"id": "21814064", "title": "Influence of operator experience and reporting time on the accuracy of esophageal capsule endoscopy screening for varices.", "content": "Influence of operator experience and reporting time on the accuracy of esophageal capsule endoscopy screening for varices. Conflicting data exist concerning the accuracy of esophageal capsule endoscopy (ECE) for the screening of varices. No study has examined the influence of operator factors on the accuracy of ECE reporting. The primary aims of this study were, therefore, to examine how operator experience with esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) and operator reporting times of capsule videos influenced test accuracy. Twelve cirrhotic patients presenting for EGD had same-day ECE performed. The gold standard for variceal grade was determined using a panel of experienced endoscopists. Six novice capsule endoscopists, blinded to results of EGD, subsequently reported capsule videos for each of the 12 patients.Novice capsule endoscopists accurately identified high-risk varices. The mean area under the receiver operating characteristic curve for identifying high-risk varices for the six operators was 0.88 \u00b1/-0.14. The mean sensitivity, specificity, positive, and negative predictive values for identifying high-risk varices for the six operators were 83%, 93%, 82%, and 97%, respectively. Years of prior EGD experience were not associated with accuracy of capsule reporting (OR = 0.9, 95% CI [0.74, 1.08]; p = .26). Time spent reporting capsule videos was associated with accuracy of capsule reporting for high-risk varices using British Society of Gastroenterology criteria (OR = 1.33, 95% CI [1.05, 1.08]; p = .018). Novice capsule endoscopists are able to accurately identify high-risk esophageal varices. Time taken to report capsule videos, but not amount of prior EGD experience, influenced capsule report accuracy. These findings may have implications for the design of further trials and the cost-effectiveness of ECE screening of varices."}
{"id": "21624583", "title": "Melena from jejunal mucosal varices caused by esophageal variceal sclerotherapy-induced splenic arteriovenous fistula.", "content": "Melena from jejunal mucosal varices caused by esophageal variceal sclerotherapy-induced splenic arteriovenous fistula."}
{"id": "21429016", "title": "Surveillance of small intestinal abnormalities in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma: a prospective capsule endoscopy study.", "content": "Surveillance of small intestinal abnormalities in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma: a prospective capsule endoscopy study. Patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) sometimes suffer from obscure gastrointestinal bleeding. Portal hypertension (PH), common in cirrhosis, induces esophagogastric varices. Because of the location, PH also may influence mucosal abnormalities in the small intestine. The objective of this study is to estimate the prevalence of small intestinal mucosal abnormalities in HCC patients using capsule endoscopy (CE). We prospectively conducted CE in HCC patients, and analyzed the findings in relation to hepatic function, the number and size of HCC tumor and findings obtained by conventional endoscopy. Thirty-six patients (aged 66.7 \u00b1 7.5 years, 29 men) underwent CE. Abnormal findings in the small bowel were found in 16 patients (44%), angioectasias in eight patients (22%), erosions in five (14%), varices in four (11%), polyps in four (11%), and submucosal tumor in one (3%). The patients with angioectasia had a larger spleen index than the no abnormal lesions group (85.4 \u00b1 15.8 vs 59.0 \u00b1 24.4, P = 0.02). The former group had been more frequently treated for esophageal varices endoscopically (62% vs 15%, P = 0.02). Large HCC nodules seemed more common in the patients with angioectasia than subjects without abnormal lesions (38% vs 5%, P = 0.06). Small intestinal varices also seemed to have a positive association with large HCC. During the follow up after CE, one patient with small intestinal polyps suffered from obscure gastrointestinal bleeding. CE revealed that HCC patients frequently have small intestinal mucosal lesions. In particular, small intestinal angioectasia, which may cause obscure gastrointestinal bleeding, seems to be associated with portal hypertension."}
{"id": "21372764", "title": "Capsule endoscopy with PILLCAM ESO for detecting esophageal varices: a meta-analysis.", "content": "Capsule endoscopy with PILLCAM ESO for detecting esophageal varices: a meta-analysis. The aim of the present study was to perform meta-analysis of studies that compare diagnostic capabilities of esophageal capsule endoscopy (ECE) against conventional esophago-gastro-duodenoscopy (EGD) in detecting esophageal varices. A literature search is done for studies that compared the performance of ECE and EGD in screening and surveillance of esophageal varices. Data was extracted to estimate the pooled sensitivity, pooled specificity, positive diagnostic ratio, negative diagnostic ratio and diagnostic odds ratio. We included 9 studies and total number of patients was 631. There were 12 capsule failures so data was available for 619 patients. The pooled sensitivity and specificity of CE for detecting esophageal varices were 83% and 85% respectively. The pooled positive likelihood and negative likelihood ratios are 4.09 and 0.25, respectively. Pooled diagnostic odds ratio was 24.92. In our meta- analysis PillCam ESO performed well in detecting esophageal varices but it was not comparable to EGD; it can be an acceptable alternative in certain situations but cannot be recommended to replace EGD."}
{"id": "21274889", "title": "Noninvasive assessment of portal hypertension in patients with cirrhosis.", "content": "Noninvasive assessment of portal hypertension in patients with cirrhosis. Severe portal hypertension is responsible for complications and death. Although measurement of the hepatic venous pressure gradient is the most accurate method for evaluating the presence and severity of portal hypertension, this technique is considered invasive and is not routinely performed in all centers. Several noninvasive techniques have been proposed to measure portal hypertension. Certain methods evaluate elements related to the pathogenesis of portal hypertension through the measurement of hyperkinetic syndrome, for example, or they investigate the development of hepatic fibrosis through the measurement of increased intrahepatic vascular resistance. Other methods evaluate the clinical consequences of portal hypertension, such as the presence of esophageal varices or the development of portosystemic shunts. Methods evaluating increased hepatic vascular resistance are fairly accurate and mainly involve the detection of hepatic fibrosis by serum markers and transient elastography. The radiological assessment of hyperkinetic syndrome probably has value but is still under investigation. The assessment of severe portal hypertension by the presence of varices may be performed with simple tools such as biological assays, computed tomography, and esophageal capsules. More sophisticated procedures seem promising but are still under development. Screening tools for large populations must be simple, whereas more complicated procedures could help in the follow-up of already diagnosed patients. Although most of these noninvasive methods effectively identify severe portal hypertension, methods for diagnosing moderate portal hypertension need to be developed; this shows that further investigation is needed in this field."}
{"id": "20490679", "title": "Defining the threshold: new data on the ability of capsule endoscopy to discriminate the size of esophageal varices.", "content": "Defining the threshold: new data on the ability of capsule endoscopy to discriminate the size of esophageal varices. Endoscopy (esophagogastroduodenoscopy, EGD) to screen for esophageal varices (EV) is recommended in patients with portal hypertension. Reports indicate that capsule endoscopy (CE) is capable of identifying large/medium varices (L/MV) when the varix comprises more than 25% of the circumference of the field of view. We evaluated the ability of CE to discriminate the size of EV using this grading scale. Patients underwent CE and EGD on the same day. A blinded investigator interpreted capsule findings. CE labeled EV as L/MV if \u226525% of the lumen circumference was occupied, and small/none for <25%. A total of 37 patients were enrolled in this prospective, observational study at a single tertiary-care academic center. Three CE were excluded due to rapid esophageal transit time or technical malfunction. Using a 25% threshold, the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV) for EC to discriminate L/MV were 23.5%, 88.2%, 66.7%, and 53.6%, respectively (\u03ba=0.12). Reducing the threshold to 12.5% resulted in sensitivity, specificity, PPV, and NPV of 88.2%, 64.7%, 71.4%, and 84.6%, respectively (\u03ba=0.53). A receiver-operator characteristic (ROC) curve showed a 15% threshold to be optimal in discriminating EV size using CE, resulting in sensitivity, specificity, PPV, and NPV of 76.5%, 82.4%, 81.3%, and 77.8%, respectively (\u03ba=0.59). This study indicates that discriminating EV size by the current capsule scale is unreliable. Lowering the grading threshold improved the ability to discriminate EV size by CE. In the proper context, CE is an alternative to EGD to screen for EV."}
{"id": "20684186", "title": "Capsule endoscopy: no longer limited to the small bowel.", "content": "Capsule endoscopy: no longer limited to the small bowel. Capsule endoscopy is the latest evolution in gastrointestinal endoscopy and the first to enable complete investigation of the small bowel. Recent new developments in the field of capsule endoscopy include the esophageal capsule (Pilcam ESO) and the colonic capsule (PillCam Colon). esophageal and colonic capsules have two heads with two lenses and cameras. The new capsules have the capability of taking more frames from both sides. The indications for the esophageal capsule examination are diagnosis and follow-up of Barrett's esophagus and esophageal varices. The colonic capsule can be used for colorectal cancer screening and for incomplete colonoscopy. Regarding other new technologies, continuous quality control is needed for the performance, appropriateness of the indications, diagnostic yield, procedure-specific outcome assessment, and cost-effectiveness."}
{"id": "20682230", "title": "Capsule endoscopy in portal hypertension.", "content": "Capsule endoscopy in portal hypertension. Since the introduction of small bowel capsule endoscopy, and more recently of esophageal capsule endoscopy, these diagnostic tools have become available for the evaluation of the consequences of portal hypertension in the esophagus, stomach, and small intestine. The main advantage of the esophageal and the small bowel capsule is the relatively less invasiveness that could potentially increase patients' adherence to endoscopic screening/surveillance programs. When esophageal capsule endoscopy was compared with traditional gastroscopy, it showed good sensitivity and specificity in recognizing the presence and the size of esophageal varices. However, the results are not consistent among studies, and more data are needed."}
{"id": "20363433", "title": "Small-bowel lesions caused by portal hypertension of schistosomal origin: a capsule endoscopy pilot study.", "content": "Small-bowel lesions caused by portal hypertension of schistosomal origin: a capsule endoscopy pilot study. Schistosomiasis is a highly prevalent disease. It can evolve to its hepatosplenic form in up to 10% of the cases. The small-bowel lesions developed during the hepatosplenic stage of the disease have not been described in vivo. The aim of this study was to describe, for the first time, in a pilot study, the endoscopic aspects of the lesions in the small bowel of patients with portal hypertension due to schistosomiasis, using the PillCam SB, and to determine the usefulness of the method for the diagnosis of esophageal varices. Case series. Tertiary-care medical center. Nine nonrandomized patients with hepatosplenic schistosomiasis and esophageal varices without previous GI bleeding were selected based on findings from the PillCam SB. Patients using medications that could alter the coagulation, with history of abdominal surgery, who were undergoing treatment of the portal hypertension other than beta-blocker, and with symptoms suggesting bowel obstruction were excluded. The findings were interpreted by a single endoscopist. Capsule endoscopy was able to diagnose esophageal varices in all 9 patients. All of the patients presented angioectasias and venectasias in the small bowel. Small-bowel varices were present in 22.2% of the patients; edema and erosions were found in 66.7% and 88.9%, respectively. Lesions of so-called \"scarred mucosa\" were found in 55.5% of the patients. Small number of patients; case series. The PillCam SB was effective, giving a significant contribution to the description of the esophageal varices and small-bowel lesions of the patients with portal hypertension caused by Schistosoma mansoni."}
{"id": "20135731", "title": "Meta-analysis of capsule endoscopy in patients diagnosed or suspected with esophageal varices.", "content": "Meta-analysis of capsule endoscopy in patients diagnosed or suspected with esophageal varices. The PillCam ESO (Given Imaging, Israel) or esophageal capsule endoscopy (ECE) is a novel technique used in the diagnostic evaluation of esophagus. Many studies have been performed to compare the accuracy of ECE against the current gold standard esophago-gastro-duodenoscopy and a meta-analysis recently published by Lu et al suggests that ECE may have an acceptable sensitivity and specificity in detecting esophageal varices. We would like to discuss the importance and implication of publication bias in this meta-analysis."}
{"id": "20054320", "title": "\"Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed\".", "content": "\"Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed\"."}
{"id": "19809355", "title": "Screening for esophageal varices: is esophageal capsule endoscopy ready for prime time?", "content": "Screening for esophageal varices: is esophageal capsule endoscopy ready for prime time?"}
{"id": "19743993", "title": "Minimally invasive prediction of esophageal varices and portal hypertension.", "content": "Minimally invasive prediction of esophageal varices and portal hypertension."}
{"id": "19679416", "title": "[Future prospects in digestive endoscopy: wireless capsule endoscopy].", "content": "[Future prospects in digestive endoscopy: wireless capsule endoscopy]. Since the beginning of the millennium, the development of wireless capsule endoscopy has represented a major technological advance. The capsule is ingested by the patient and images are transmitted via several sensors positioned on the skin of the patient and downloaded in a computer system. The first applications were focused on the exploration of the small bowel which was previously considered as an obscure area for conventional endoscopy. Wireless capsule endoscopy of the small bowel is now an established technique with many acknowledged indications for the diagnosis of obscure bleeding, anemia of presumed digestive origin, Crohn's disease and small bowel tumors. Recently, thanks to technological progresses, novel capsules have been developed for specific segments of the gut namely the oesophagus and the colon. Recent data suggest that these new capsules could have potential applications for the diagnosis of oesophageal varices, Barrett's oesophagus and for the screening and/or surveillance of polyps of the colon. However, further studies are required before such strategies could be approved for clinical use or even replace conventional endoscopic modalities. In the long-term, progresses in signal processing as well as in the miniaturisation of sensors or markers may lead to a new generation of endoscopic robots. This technological breakthrough may ultimately result in new concepts and change current practice of digestive endoscopy."}
{"id": "19673028", "title": "Percutaneous paraumbilical embolization as an unconventional and successful treatment for bleeding jejunal varices.", "content": "Percutaneous paraumbilical embolization as an unconventional and successful treatment for bleeding jejunal varices. A 48-year-old Indian male with alcoholic liver cirrhosis was admitted after being found unresponsive. He was hypotensive and had hematochezia. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) showed small esophageal varices and a clean-based duodenal ulcer. He continued to have hematochezia and anemia despite blood transfusions. Colonoscopy was normal. Repeat EGD did not reveal any source of recent bleed. Twelve days after admission, his hematochezia ceased. He refused further investigation and was discharged two days later. He presented one week after discharge with hematochezia. EGD showed non-bleeding Grade 1 esophageal varices and a clean-based duodenal ulcer. Colonoscopy was normal. Abdominal computed tomography (CT) showed liver cirrhosis with mild ascites, paraumbilical varices, and splenomegaly. He had multiple episodes of hematochezia, requiring repeated blood transfusions. Capsule endoscopy identified the bleeding site in the jejunum. Concurrently, CT angiography showed paraumbilical varices inseparable from a loop of small bowel, which had herniated through an umbilical hernia. The lumen of this loop of small bowel opacified in the delayed phase, which suggested variceal bleeding into the small bowel. Portal vein thrombosis was present. As he had severe coagulopathy and extensive paraumbilical varices, surgery was of high risk. He was not suitable for transjugular intrahepatic porto-systemic shunt as he had portal vein thrombosis. Percutaneous paraumbilical embolization via caput medusa was performed on day 9 of hospitalization. Following the embolization, the hematochezia stopped. However, he defaulted subsequent follow-up."}
{"id": "19661814", "title": "PillCam ESO versus esophagogastroduodenoscopy in esophageal variceal screening: A decision analysis.", "content": "PillCam ESO versus esophagogastroduodenoscopy in esophageal variceal screening: A decision analysis. PillCam ESO has been evaluated as a possible strategy to screen patients with cirrhosis for esophageal varices, but current guidelines recommend patients undergo screening with esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD), as it is currently the gold standard. Although recent data have suggested that PillCam ESO may be an acceptable alternative for screening, there is limited data on its cost-effectiveness compared with other screening modalities. This study was performed to compare the cost-effectiveness of PillCam ESO versus EGD for esophageal variceal screening. Markov models were constructed to compare 2 screening strategies: PillCam ESO versus EGD. In each arm, patients were followed for a time horizon of 15 years in 1-year transition intervals. All variables, transition probabilities, and costs were derived from the medical literature, and sensitivity analyses were performed on the different variables in the model. Base-case analysis shows that PillCam ESO is associated with an average expected cost of $22,589 and an average expected effectiveness measure of 12.81 life-years. EGD is associated with an average expected cost of $23,083 and an average expected effectiveness measure of 12.67 life-years. PillCam ESO was found to dominate EGD as a screening strategy for patients with cirrhosis. Sensitivity analyses found several variables within the model to have influential effects on the results. PillCam ESO is the dominant strategy for screening patients with cirrhosis for esophageal varices. However, based on a small difference in costs and effectiveness between each strategy, the results would suggest that PillCam ESO and EGD are essentially equivalent strategies."}
{"id": "19646642", "title": "Gastrointestinal bleeding in the cancer patient.", "content": "Gastrointestinal bleeding in the cancer patient. Gastrointestinal bleeding is a common occurrence in patients with cancer and is a frequent indicator of a gastrointestinal malignancy. Rapid evaluation and treatment is key for the hemodynamically unstable patient. Endoscopy remains the cornerstone of diagnosis and management for cancer patients with gastrointestinal bleeding. The emergency physician should also be aware of other diagnostic and treatment modalities that may be needed to take care of these patients."}
{"id": "19568182", "title": "Capsule endoscopy of the esophagus.", "content": "Capsule endoscopy of the esophagus. Video capsule endoscopy has acquired wide clinical acceptance since its the US Food and Drug Administration approval in 2001. Recently, the technology of video capsule endoscopy has been adapted to other organs in the gastrointestinal tract, including the esophagus and colon. In this review, we discuss esophageal capsule endoscopy (ECE)-the procedure, its indications, contraindications, safety, and future applications. ECE is a minimally invasive procedure that uses special video capsules with ability to acquire images from 2 cameras with high image storing speed of 14 to 18 frames per second. A special ingestion procedure allows for prolonged esophageal transit time and an optimized view of the gastroesophageal junction. ECE has been shown to have moderately high sensitivity and accuracy in the diagnosis and surveillance of Barrett esophagus in patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease but has not demonstrated superiority to esogastroduodenoscopy in cost-effectiveness models. In patients with portal hypertension, ECE has a sensitivity of 63% to 100% for screening of esophageal varices, but does not seem to be superior to esogastroduodenoscopy in its cost-effectiveness. No serious complications have been reported after ECE although a low rate of esophageal capsule retention (0.7% to 2.2%) has been reported, usually because of unsuspected esophageal strictures. Contraindications to capsule endoscopy include known or suspected gastrointestinal and esophageal obstruction, strictures, or fistulas, intestinal pseudoobstruction, and children under 10 years of age. It is expected that improvements in imaging technology will improve the accuracy of ECE with the development of immunological-based and chemical-based diagnostic capabilities."}
{"id": "19396956", "title": "Portal hypertension.", "content": "Portal hypertension. Portal hypertension is the most common complication of cirrhosis accounting for significant morbidity and mortality mainly because of variceal hemorrhage, ascites, bacterial infections, hepatic encephalopathy, and hepatorenal syndrome. Advances in the diagnosis and management of portal hypertension over the last year are reviewed. The measurement of the hepatic venous pressure gradient provides important prognostic information in patients with portal hypertension. Noninvasive testing with transient elastography, capsule endoscopy, and computed tomography scanning for the diagnosis of esophageal varices is promising but more information is needed. Easily obtainable clinical data have been identified in patients with acute variceal bleeding that provides important information in determining initial response to therapy and prognosis. New therapies for patients with dilutional hyponatremia with vasopressin antagonists are promising and may improve the management of this condition. Terlipressin is the best medical therapy currently available for the management of hepatorenal syndrome as confirmed in recent studies. Patients with advanced liver disease benefit from the long-term administration of norfloxacin as it prevents the development of hepatorenal syndrome and improves survival. The ongoing advances in the diagnosis and management of patients with cirrhosis and portal hypertension will improve the high morbidity and mortality of the complications of cirrhosis"}
{"id": "19337246", "title": "Esophageal capsule endoscopy vs. EGD for the evaluation of portal hypertension: a French prospective multicenter comparative study.", "content": "Esophageal capsule endoscopy vs. EGD for the evaluation of portal hypertension: a French prospective multicenter comparative study. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) is the standard method for the diagnosis of esophago-gastric varices. The aim of this prospective multicenter study was to evaluate the PillCam esophageal capsule endoscopy (ECE) for this indication. Patients presenting with cirrhotic or noncirrhotic portal hypertension underwent ECEfollowed by EGD at the time of diagnosis. Capsule recordings were blindly read by two endoscopists. A total of 120 patients (72 males, mean age: 58 years; mean Child-Pugh score: 7.2) were included. Esophageal varices were detected in 74 patients. No adverse event was observed after either EGD or ECE. Seven (6%) patients were unable to swallow the capsule. The mean recording time was 204 s (range 1-876). Sensitivity, specificity, negative predictive value, and positive predictive value of ECE for the detection of esophageal varices were 77%, 86%, 69%, and 90%, respectively. Sensitivity, specificity, negative and positive predictive values of ECE for the indication of primary prophylaxis (esophageal varices > or = grade 2 and/or red signs) were 77, 88, 90, and 75%, respectively, and 85% of the patients were adequately classified for the indication (or not) of prophylaxis. Interobserver concordance for ECE readings was 79.4% for the diagnosis of varices, 66.4% for the grading of varices, and 89.7% for the indication of prophylaxis. This large multicenter study confirms the safety and acceptable accuracy of ECE for the evaluation of esophageal varices. ECE might be proposed as an alternative to EGD for the screening of portal hypertension, especially in patients unable or unwilling to undergo EGD."}
{"id": "19291827", "title": "Meta-analysis of capsule endoscopy in patients diagnosed or suspected with esophageal varices.", "content": "Meta-analysis of capsule endoscopy in patients diagnosed or suspected with esophageal varices. To review the literature on capsule endoscopy (CE) for detecting esophageal varices using conventional esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) as the standard. A strict literature search of studies comparing the yield of CE and EGD in patients diagnosed or suspected as having esophageal varices was conducted by both computer search and manual search. Data were extracted to estimate the pooled diagnostic sensitivity and specificity. There were seven studies appropriate for meta-analysis in our study, involving 446 patients. The pooled sensitivity and specificity of CE for detecting esophageal varices were 85.8% and 80.5%, respectively. In subgroup analysis, the pooled sensitivity and specificity were 82.7% and 54.8% in screened patients, and 87.3% and 84.7% in the screened/patients under surveillance, respectively. CE appears to have acceptable sensitivity and specificity in detecting esophageal varices. However, data are insufficient to determine the accurate diagnostic value of CE in the screen/surveillance of patients alone."}
{"id": "19271599", "title": "Is this the end of an era for conventional diagnostic endoscopy?", "content": "Is this the end of an era for conventional diagnostic endoscopy?"}
{"id": "19191853", "title": "A study comparing tolerability, satisfaction and acceptance of three different techniques for esophageal endoscopy: sedated conventional, unsedated peroral ultra thin, and esophageal capsule.", "content": "A study comparing tolerability, satisfaction and acceptance of three different techniques for esophageal endoscopy: sedated conventional, unsedated peroral ultra thin, and esophageal capsule. Three methods of esophagoscopy are available until now: sedated conventional endoscopy, unsedated ultrathin endoscopy, and esophageal capsule endoscopy. The three methods carry comparable diagnostic accuracy and different complication rates. Although all of them have been found well accepted from patients, no comparative study comprising the three techniques has been published. The aim of this study was to compare the three methods of esophagoscopy regarding tolerability, satisfaction, and acceptance. Twenty patients with large esophageal varices and 10 with gastroesophageal reflux disease were prospectively included. All patients underwent consecutively sedated conventional endoscopy, unsedated ultrathin endoscopy, and esophageal capsule endoscopy. After each procedure, patients completed a seven-item questionnaire. The total positive attitude of patients toward all methods was high. However, statistical analysis revealed the following differences in favor of esophageal capsule endoscopy: (i) total positive attitude has been found higher (chi(2)= 18.2, df = 2, P= 0.00), (ii) less patients felt pain (chi(2)= 6.9, df = 2, P= 0.03) and discomfort (chi(2)= 22.1, df = 2, P= 0.00), (iii) less patients experienced difficulty (chi(2)= 13.7, df = 2, P= 0.01), and (iv) more patients were willing to undergo esophageal capsule endoscopy in the future (chi(2)= 12.1, df = 2, P= 0.002). Esophageal capsule endoscopy was characterized by a more positive general attitude and caused less pain and discomfort. Sedated conventional endoscopy has been found more difficult. More patients would repeat esophageal capsule endoscopy in the future. Patients' total position for all three available techniques for esophageal endoscopy was excellent and renders the observed advantage of esophageal capsule endoscopy over both sedated conventional and unsedated ultrathin endoscopy a statistical finding without a real clinical benefit."}
{"id": "18790438", "title": "Endoscopic haemostasis.", "content": "Endoscopic haemostasis. Endoscopic haemostasis should be attempted as the initial approach in most cases of gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding, although cross-disciplinary collaboration is a prerequisite. For variceal bleeding, band ligation is the method of choice in the elective setting, although injection therapy still has a role in acute bleeding. Histoacryl remains preferable for fundic varices in most parts of the world. For peptic ulcer bleeds, injection therapy should be combined with at least one 'mechanical' modality, thermal treatment or clipping. In rebleeding, a single endoscopic retreatment can be attempted, but alternative approaches must be considered. Acute lower GI bleeding is primarily a diagnostic challenge but, if the focus is found, the regular techniques for haemostasis can usually be applied. If small bowel haemorrhage is suspected after upper and lower endoscopy, capsule endoscopy and balloon enteroscopy offer make it possible to address even small bowel foci."}
{"id": "18790434", "title": "Capsule endoscopy: technique and indications.", "content": "Capsule endoscopy: technique and indications. Since it was introduced in 2000, capsule endoscopy has become the gold standard for endoscopic examination of the small bowel in several clinical situations such as obscure gastrointestinal bleeding, suspicion of Crohn's disease, and surveillance of polyposis syndromes. In this technique a miniaturised endoscope, embedded in a swallowable capsule, is propelled through the gut by peristalsis and reaches the right colon in 5-8h. Images captured by the capsule are recorded on a hard drive in a belt worn by the patient. In addition to the extensive literature currently available on small bowel CE, new capsule devices are currently under evaluation for the examination of the colon with the purpose of screening for colorectal cancer, and of the oesophagus for screening for oesophageal varices and Barrett's oesophagus. These latter indications currently remain under evaluation. This review considers the technical aspects of capsule endoscopy and discusses the indications. Issues of safety and tolerance are also discussed."}
{"id": "18785275", "title": "Esophageal capsule endoscopy.", "content": "Esophageal capsule endoscopy. Capsule endoscopy is now considered as the first imaging tool for small bowel examination. Recently, new capsule endoscopy applications have been developed, such as esophageal capsule endoscopy and colon capsule endoscopy. Esophageal capsule endoscopy in patients with suspected esophageal disorders is feasible and safe, and could be also an alternative procedure in those patients refusing upper endoscopy. Although large-scale studies are needed to confirm its utility in GERD and cirrhotic patients, current results are encouraging and open a new era in esophageal examination."}
{"id": "18706733", "title": "Non-invasive (and minimally invasive) diagnosis of oesophageal varices.", "content": "Non-invasive (and minimally invasive) diagnosis of oesophageal varices. Current guidelines recommend screening all cirrhotic patients by endoscopy, to identify patients at risk of bleeding who should undergo prophylactic treatment. However, since the prevalence of varices in cirrhotic patients is variable, universal screening would imply a large number of unnecessary endoscopies and a heavy burden for endoscopy units. In addition, compliance to screening programs may be hampered by the perceived unpleasantness of endoscopy. Predicting the presence of oesophageal varices by non-invasive means might increase compliance and would permit to restrict the performance of endoscopy to those patients with a high probability of having varices. Over the years, several studies have addressed this issue by assessing the potential of biochemical, clinical and ultrasound parameters, transient elastography, CT scanning and video capsule endoscopy. The platelet count/spleen diameter ratio, CT scanning and video capsule endoscopy have shown promising performance characteristics, although none of them is equivalent to EGD. These methods are perceived by patients as preferable to endoscopy and thus might increase adherence to screening programs. Whether this will compensate for the lower sensitivity of these alternative techniques, and ultimately improve the outcomes if more patients undergo screening, is the crucial question that will have to be answered in the future."}
{"id": "18680226", "title": "Comparison of esophageal capsule endoscopy and esophagogastroduodenoscopy for diagnosis of esophageal varices.", "content": "Comparison of esophageal capsule endoscopy and esophagogastroduodenoscopy for diagnosis of esophageal varices. To investigate the utility of esophageal capsule endoscopy in the diagnosis and grading of esophageal varices. Cirrhotic patients who were undergoing esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) for variceal screening or surveillance underwent capsule endoscopy. Two separate blinded investigators read each capsule endoscopy for the following results: variceal grade, need for treatment with variceal banding or prophylaxis with beta-blocker therapy, degree of portal hypertensive gastropathy, and gastric varices. Fifty patients underwent both capsule and EGD. Forty-eight patients had both procedures on the same day, and 2 patients had capsule endoscopy within 72 h of EGD. The accuracy of capsule endoscopy to decide on the need for prophylaxis was 74%, with sensitivity of 63% and specificity of 82%. Inter-rater agreement was moderate (kappa = 0.56). Agreement between EGD and capsule endoscopy on grade of varices was 0.53 (moderate). Inter-rater reliability was good (kappa = 0.77). In diagnosis of portal hypertensive gastropathy, accuracy was 57%, with sensitivity of 96% and specificity of 17%. Two patients had gastric varices seen on EGD, one of which was seen on capsule endoscopy. There were no complications from capsule endoscopy. We conclude that capsule endoscopy has a limited role in deciding which patients would benefit from EGD with banding or beta-blocker therapy. More data is needed to assess accuracy for staging esophageal varices, PHG, and the detection of gastric varices."}
{"id": "18636658", "title": "The future of wireless capsule endoscopy.", "content": "The future of wireless capsule endoscopy. We outline probable and possible developments with wireless capsule endoscopy. It seems likely that capsule endoscopy will become increasingly effective in diagnostic gastrointestinal endoscopy. This will be attractive to patients especially for cancer or varices detection because capsule endoscopy is painless and is likely to have a higher take up rate compared to conventional colonoscopy and gastroscopy. Double imager capsules with increased frame rates have been used to image the esophagus for Barrett's and esophageal varices. The image quality is not bad but needs to be improved if it is to become a realistic substitute for flexible upper and lower gastrointestinal endoscopy. An increase in the frame rate, angle of view, depth of field, image numbers, duration of the procedure and improvements in illumination seem likely. Colonic, esophageal and gastric capsules will improve in quality, eroding the supremacy of flexible endoscopy, and become embedded into screening programs. Therapeutic capsules will emerge with brushing, cytology, fluid aspiration, biopsy and drug delivery capabilities. Electrocautery may also become possible. Diagnostic capsules will integrate physiological measurements with imaging and optical biopsy, and immunologic cancer recognition. Remote control movement will improve with the use of magnets and/or electrostimulation and perhaps electromechanical methods. External wireless commands will influence capsule diagnosis and therapy and will increasingly entail the use of real-time imaging. However, it should be noted that speculations about the future of technology in any detail are almost always wrong."}
{"id": "18478132", "title": "Capsule endoscopy in the investigation of patients with portal hypertension and anemia.", "content": "Capsule endoscopy in the investigation of patients with portal hypertension and anemia. Data on small bowel abnormalities in patients with portal hypertension (PHT) are limited. Bleeding from the gastrointestinal tract and anemia are common complications in these patients. Capsule endoscopy (CE) was used to evaluate small bowel (SB) pathology in patients with PHT and anemia, and possible associations with various parameters were examined. Thirty-five patients with PHT referred for CE investigation of the SB for anemia were prospectively enrolled in the study, as well as 70 age- and sex-matched control patients with anemia, normal liver function and no evidence of PHT who underwent CE. Findings compatible with portal hypertensive enteropathy (PHE) were detected in 65.7% of the patients and in 15.7% of the controls chi2=26.641, P=0.000). Abnormalities in PHT patients included varices in 25.7%, diffuse changes of mucosa with inflammatory-like appearance in 42.9%, and angiodysplasias and/or spider angiomas in 22.9% of cases. The presence of PHE was significantly associated only with the presence of severe portal hypertensive gastropathy, while the presence of SB varices alone was significantly associated with the presence of severe portal hypertensive gastropathy, larger esophageal varices and the presence of colonic varices. Varices, diffuse changes of mucosa with inflammatory-like appearance, and angiodysplasias and/or spider angiomas are detected more often in patients with PHT than in controls, and probably constitute the endoscopic characteristics of PHE. CE of the SB added a significant number of likely important findings to those detected by conventional endoscopic techniques for the clinical management of patients with PHT and anemia."}
{"id": "18477965", "title": "New frontiers in small-bowel imaging: the expanding technology of capsule endoscopy and its impact in clinical gastroenterology.", "content": "New frontiers in small-bowel imaging: the expanding technology of capsule endoscopy and its impact in clinical gastroenterology. Capsule endoscopy (CE) is now recognized as a significant technologic advancement in gastrointestinal endoscopy that provides noninvasive, high-resolution imaging of the small bowel and esophagus. There is also growing evidence that it may be useful in the colon. Since the introduction of CE to clinical practice, its diagnostic utility has become well established for evaluation of patients with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding. It seems also to be useful in evaluating small-bowel Crohn's disease, compared with other imaging modalities. With respect to esophageal diseases, CE shows promise in the screening of esophageal varices and possibly Barrett's esophagus. A colon capsule endoscope has also been developed, and its potential use in screening for colorectal neoplasia is currently being studied. The technology and software of CE is also rapidly expanding to allow the physician to read and evaluate the capsule videos in a more efficient manner. The Given Imaging system has progressed significantly over the past several years. In addition to Given Imaging, Olympus now offers a small-bowel capsule endoscope system. This new Olympus capsule technology and how it compares with the Given Imaging System is reviewed, in addition to the various clinical uses of CE."}
{"id": "18435461", "title": "Esophageal capsule endoscopy for screening and surveillance of esophageal varices in patients with portal hypertension.", "content": "Esophageal capsule endoscopy for screening and surveillance of esophageal varices in patients with portal hypertension. Bleeding from esophageal varices (EV) is a serious consequence of portal hypertension. Current guidelines recommend screening patients with cirrhosis with esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) to detect varices. However, the unpleasantness and need for sedation of EGD may limit adherence to screening programs. Pilot studies have shown good performance of esophageal capsule endoscopy in detecting varices. This multicenter trial was designed to assess the diagnostic performance of capsule endoscopy in comparison with EGD. Patients undergoing EGD for screening or surveillance of EV underwent a capsule study previously. The study was designed as an equivalence study, assuming that a difference of <or=10% between capsule endoscopy and EGD in diagnosing EV would demonstrate equivalence. Two hundred eighty-eight patients were enrolled. Endoscopy was for screening in 195 patients and for surveillance of known EV in 93. Overall agreement for detecting EV between EGD and capsule endoscopy was 85.8%; the kappa score was 0.73. Capsule endoscopy had a sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value of 84%, 88%, 92%, and 77%, respectively. The difference in diagnosing EV was 15.6% in favor of EGD. There was complete agreement on variceal grade in 227 of 288 cases (79%). In differentiating between medium/large varices requiring treatment and small/absent varices requiring surveillance, the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value for capsule endoscopy were 78%, 96%, 87%, and 92%, respectively. Overall agreement on treatment decisions based on EV size was substantial at 91% (kappa = 0.77). We recommend that EGD be used to screen patients with cirrhosis for large EV. However, the minimal invasiveness, good tolerance, and good agreement of capsule endoscopy with EGD might increase adherence to screening programs. Whether this is the case needs to be determined."}
{"id": "18360329", "title": "Capsule endoscopy: a review.", "content": "Capsule endoscopy: a review. Capsule endoscopy (CE) is a novel technology that allows direct noninvasive visualization of the entire small intestine. CE permits a detailed examination in the ambulatory setting, allowing identification of clinically relevant lesions, and it is appealing to both patients and providers. There are two types of capsules that are currently commercially available: one specifically designed to view the small bowel and the other for the esophagus. Common indications for small bowel CE include obscure gastrointestinal bleeding, initial diagnosis of suspected Crohn's disease, and other small bowel pathology. The esophageal capsule is currently used to evaluate Barrett esophagus and esophageal varices. It is a well-tolerated procedure with relatively few complications. Although CE performance may be superior to existing technologies, its impact on clinical decision-making and patient outcomes are of even greater importance. Herein lies a review of the latest information on CE, its indications, complications, future utilities, and developing technology."}
{"id": "18294933", "title": "Diagnosis and monitoring of portal hypertension.", "content": "Diagnosis and monitoring of portal hypertension. Currently, oesophago-gastroduodenoscopy is the standard method to diagnose the presence of oesophago-gastric varices and to estimate the risk of bleeding. It is recommended that all patients undergo endoscopic screening for varices at the time when cirrhosis is diagnosed. After screening endoscopy, patients with medium or large varices should be treated to prevent bleeding, while all other patients should undergo periodic surveillance endoscopy. However, at a given point in time a variable proportion of patients will not have varices, since the prevalence of varices is variable. Thus, screening all cirrhotic patients with endoscopy to detect the presence of varices implies a number of unnecessary endoscopies. In recent years a wealth of new methods have been proposed as alternatives to conventional oesophago-gastroduodenoscopy for the non-invasive or minimally invasive diagnosis of oesophageal varices. Three of these methods (the platelet count/spleen diameter ratio, Fibrotest and Fibroscan) are truly non-invasive. Of these, the former is promising and needs a proper validation, Fibrotest appears to be insufficiently precise, while Fibroscan needs further evaluation. Multidetector CT oesophagography and capsule endoscopy are not entirely \"non-invasive\", since the first requires air insufflation into the oesophagus via an orally passed tube, and the latter requires swallowing the capsule. Multidetector CT oesophagography is promising, but needs further evaluation; capsule endoscopy is safe and reliable and might be proposed as an alternative to oesophago-gastroduodenoscopy in patients unable or unwilling to undergo oesophago-gastroduodenoscopy."}
{"id": "18277884", "title": "Using capsule endoscopy to identify GI tract lesions in cirrhotic patients with portal hypertension and chronic anemia.", "content": "Using capsule endoscopy to identify GI tract lesions in cirrhotic patients with portal hypertension and chronic anemia. We aimed to evaluate the ability of capsule endoscopy (CE) to detect small intestine (SI) lesions, especially SI varices, in patients with intrahepatic cirrhosis, portal hypertension (PHTN), and chronic anemia. Gastroesophageal variceal bleeding is a well-recognized complication of cirrhosis and PHTN, yet methods of identifying lesions in the SI that may contribute to covert bleeding and anemia, such as small bowel enteroscopy and angiography, are invasive and may be inadequate. In this observational pilot study, 19 consecutive patients presenting to a tertiary care, liver transplantation referral center with cirrhosis, PHTN, and chronic anemia after obliterative esophageal variceal therapy were evaluated with wireless CE using the GIVEN Pillcam SB M2A capsule. Two independent and blinded examiners reviewed the CE examinations. SI varices were identified in 15.8% (3/19) of patients. Other PHTN-related findings included portal hypertensive gastropathy (13/19, 68.4%), portal hypertensive enteropathy (12/19, 63.1%), and portal hypertensive colopathy (3/19, 15.8%). Two patients had nonbleeding esophageal varices (2/19, 10.5%). A potential source of gastrointestinal blood loss was identified in 89.5% (17/19) of patients. Active bleeding sites were identified in 15.8% (3/19). CE can identify potential bleeding sources and could have diagnostic utility in patients with end-stage liver disease and chronic anemia after obliterative esophageal variceal therapy."}
{"id": "18210340", "title": "Gastrointestinal bleeding: from conventional to nonconventional!", "content": "Gastrointestinal bleeding: from conventional to nonconventional!"}
{"id": "18082473", "title": "Study comparing oesophageal capsule endoscopy versus EGD in the detection of varices.", "content": "Study comparing oesophageal capsule endoscopy versus EGD in the detection of varices. Endoscopic screening and surveillance of cirrhotic patients for oesophageal varices is advocated before initiation of prophylactic therapy for prevention of the first variceal haemorrhage. To compare the diagnostic yield of oesophageal capsule endoscopy (ECE) with Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) for detecting and grading oesophageal varices and to determine patient tolerance for each procedure. Twenty consecutive cirrhotic patients scheduled for EGD were enrolled in the study. Patients underwent ECE followed by EGD. Patients completed a visual analogue scale after each procedure, assessing level of anxiety, pain, overall satisfaction, and willingness to repeat each procedure. On EGD, 19/20 patients had oesophageal varices. ECE detected varices in 13/19 (68% sensitivity). ECE identified nine out of ten varices rated grade II or higher on EGD. The post-study analogue scale showed a greater level of anxiety before EGD (avg. 2.75/10) versus ECE (avg. 1.5/10). ECE may be used in the assessment of EV. It appears to have more discordance with EGD when evaluating smaller varices. The minimal discomfort, lack of sedation, and decreased risk make ECE a possible substitute to EGD in patients unable or unwilling to undergo EGD."}
{"id": "18058656", "title": "Esophageal capsule endoscopy in patients with suspected esophageal disease: double blinded comparison with esophagogastroduodenoscopy and assessment of interobserver variability.", "content": "Esophageal capsule endoscopy in patients with suspected esophageal disease: double blinded comparison with esophagogastroduodenoscopy and assessment of interobserver variability. The study aim was to compare the diagnostic yield of capsule endoscopy and esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) in patients with suspected esophageal disease. Secondary aims were to assess interobserver variability of capsule endoscopy readings and safety. In total, 98 patients (53 men, 53 +/- 13 years) with an indication for EGD were included. The patient population was artificially enriched to include two thirds of patients with abnormal esophageal findings at EGD, which was followed by capsule endoscopy. Capsule recordings were blindly read by three endoscopists, one from the center that recruited the patient and two from the other center. Study outcomes were the findings described on EGD and capsule endoscopy, agreement between EGD and capsule endoscopy for findings, quality of the capsule recording, and interobserver agreement for capsule endoscopy quality and findings. EGD was normal in 34 patients and showed esophageal findings in 62 (esophagitis 28, hiatus hernia 21, varices 21, Barrett's esophagus 11, others 7). Average esophageal transit time of the capsule was 361 +/- 393 seconds. Capsule endoscopy was normal in 36 patients but detected esophagitis in 23, hiatus hernia in 0, varices in 23, Barrett's esophagus in 18, and others in 4. The positive predictive value of capsule endoscopy was 80.0 % and the negative predictive value was 61.1 %. Overall agreement per patient was moderate between EGD and capsule endoscopy for the per-patient (kappa = 0.42) and per-findings (kappa = 0.40) analyses. Interobserver agreement between capsule endoscopy readings was moderate for findings (kappa = 0.39) and quality assessment (kappa = 0.24). No adverse event was observed after either EGD or capsule endoscopy. In this study, despite artificial prevalence enrichment, capsule endoscopy showed a moderate sensitivity and specificity in the detection of esophageal diseases."}
{"id": "18047544", "title": "Capsule endoscopy for screening for short-segment Barrett's esophagus.", "content": "Capsule endoscopy for screening for short-segment Barrett's esophagus. The rise in the incidence of esophageal adenocarcinoma has led to the development of new methods to screen for the precursor lesion, Barrett's esophagus. To evaluate the potential role of esophageal capsule endoscopy in identifying the presence of short-segment Barrett's esophagus. Patients with biopsy-proven short-segment Barrett's esophagus underwent esophageal capsule endoscopy. The images were reviewed by two expert observers with no knowledge of the purpose of the study. The data collected included transit time, quality of image, presence or absence of Z-line, Schatzki's ring, hiatal hernia, and Barrett's esophagus (long or short, definite or suspected). Twenty patients were studied; in 18, the capsule passed into the stomach. Barrett's esophagus was identified or suspected in eight cases (44%) by one observer and three (16%) by the second (P= 0.14). Although the Z-line was seen in the 18 cases that were qualified by both observers, there was an agreement in only six cases as to whether it was regular or irregular. Erosive gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) was scored as present in three and absent in six patients by both readers. Nonexisting feline esophagus, varices, and distal esophageal stricture were suspected in one patient each. Esophageal capsule endoscopy had a high interobserver variability and a low yield for short-segment Barrett's esophagus. Esophageal capsule endoscopy cannot be recommended for screening for short-segment Barrett's esophagus."}
{"id": "18227890", "title": "[New applications of capsule endoscopy: PILLCAMTM ESO].", "content": "[New applications of capsule endoscopy: PILLCAMTM ESO]. Capsule endoscopy has opened a new era in small bowel examination. Its indications are now well-defined and currently, wireless capsule endoscopy is considered as the first-line imaging tool for the diagnosis of small bowel diseases. ECE has been shown to be feasible, safe and a good alternative technique in patients refusing conventional endoscopy. Although results reported in both GERD and cirrhotic patients are encouraging, great differences in terms of accuracy (particularly in GERD patients) have been found in published studies. These differences have been attributed to study designs, the lack of adequate experience and inconvenience of ingestion protocols. In summary, more large-scale studies evaluating the new 14-fps capsule, adequate ECE-experience and new modified ingestion protocols are still needed."}
{"id": "18028926", "title": "The yield and safety of string capsule endoscopy in patients with dysphagia.", "content": "The yield and safety of string capsule endoscopy in patients with dysphagia. Dysphagia is a contraindication for the use of conventional capsule endoscopy (CE). Because string CE (SCE) allows for the immediate retrieval of the device, it eliminates the risk of capsule retention. To assess the yield and safety of SCE in patients with dysphagia. Comparative study of SCE and EGD. Phoenix Veteran Affairs Medical Center. Patients with dysphagia underwent SCE and EGD. In 40 patients with dysphagia, the EGD findings were normal in 13 (32.5%); Schatzki's ring in 10 (25%); esophageal tumors in 9 (22.5%), with 1 of these having 2 separate and distinct malignancies; erosive esophagitis in 4 (10%); strictures in 2 (5%); and a web and large esophageal varices in 1 patient each (2.5%). The sensitivity of SCE for diagnosing anatomic pathology as the likely cause of dysphagia was 92.9%, with a specificity of 92.3%, a positive predictive value of 96.3%, and negative predictive value of 85.7%. The overall agreement between SCE and EGD was 92.7% and the kappa index was 0.83. There were no complications with either procedure. There was no case of capsule retention. The SCE recording time was 385.8 seconds; 77.5% patients preferred SCE to EGD. (1) SCE was safe, well tolerated, and accurate for the diagnosis of pathology responsible for dysphagia; (2) SCE was preferred to EGD by more than three fourths of patients; (3) SCE can be safely performed in patients with dysphagia."}
{"id": "17912188", "title": "Capsule endoscopy: a comprehensive review.", "content": "Capsule endoscopy: a comprehensive review. The development of wireless capsule endoscopy (CE) has been a significant technologic advancement for the non-invasive visual evaluation of the entire small bowel and esophagus. The capsule endoscope is disposable and measures 11 x 26 mm. There are two capsule endoscopes currently available: PillCam ESO and PillCam SB for the evaluation of the esophagus and the small bowel, respectively. The PillCam ESO has two cameras on each end and captures images 7 frames per second per each camera, while the PillCam SB has one camera and captures images at a rate of 2 frames per second. Both capsule endoscopes transmit the image data using a radiofrequency signal to a recording device worn on the patient's waist. Once image acquisition is completed, the data from the recording device is downloaded to a computer workstation and analyzed by a gastroenterologist. Common indications for the small bowel CE include obscure gastrointestinal bleeding (OGIB), suspected Crohn disease (CD), as well as other suspected small bowel pathologies, while indications for the esophageal CE include screening of Barrett esophagus and esophageal varices. Small bowel CE appears to be more sensitive in the evaluation of OGIB and small bowel CD compared with other conventional radiological and endoscopic modalities. Preliminary results for the esophageal CE reveal good accuracy for screening of both Barrett and esophageal varices. CE is well tolerated by most patients, requires no sedation, and carries few side effects. One of the complications of CE is capsule retention; however, a patency capsule system has been developed, which can indicate whether an obstructing lesion is present before CE is performed. Finally, there are preliminary data suggesting that a new capsule endoscope for the colon may be useful in the evaluation of patients for colon polyps and possibly, screening for colon cancer."}
{"id": "17905009", "title": "The budget impact of endoscopic screening for esophageal varices in cirrhosis.", "content": "The budget impact of endoscopic screening for esophageal varices in cirrhosis. The cost-effectiveness of screening for esophageal varices in cirrhosis remains uncertain. Previous analyses found that screening with upper endoscopy (EGD) may not be cost effective versus empiric beta-blocker (BB) therapy. However, these models were conducted before advances in variceal screening, including capsule endoscopy (CE), and they did not measure the budget impact (vs cost-effectiveness) of variceal screening. To compare the managed care budget impact of variceal screening strategies. Budget impact model. Hypothetical managed care organization with 1 million covered lives. Patients with compensated cirrhosis. Compared 5 strategies: (1) empiric BB, (2) screening EGD followed by BB if varices present (EGD --> BB), (3) EGD followed by endoscopic band ligation if varices present (EGD --> EBL), (4) CE followed by BB if varices present (CE --> BB), and (5) CE followed by EBL if varices present (CE --> EBL). Per-member per-month cost. BB was the least expensive, and CE --> EBL was the most expensive. Substituting CE --> BB in lieu of BB cost each member an additional $0.20 per month to subsidize. Compared with CE --> BB, both EGD-based strategies were more expensive. However, CE was not viable in managed care organizations capable of reducing the cost of endoscopy below $410, unless the cost of CE was reduced in lockstep. Data on CE remain limited. Screening for varices may have an acceptable budget impact but is highly sensitive to local costs of EGD and CE. In managed care organizations willing to subsidize EBL for variceal prophylaxis, it is inefficient to screen with CE compared with EGD."}
{"id": "17827950", "title": "Capsule endoscopy--state of the art.", "content": "Capsule endoscopy--state of the art. Capsule endoscopy is a new technology that was recently introduced into clinical practice for the diagnosis of gastrointestinal diseases. As of today, three different capsule types have been produced, designed for the exploration of the small bowel (PillCam SB), the esophagus (PillCam ESO) and the colon (PillCam Colon). The PillCam SB has gained widespread acceptance as a powerful tool for the diagnosis of bleeding from the small bowel as well as for other indications. The PillCam ESO has been used to study patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease, for the screening of Barrett's esophagus, and for the screening and surveillance of esophageal varices in patients with cirrhosis. The results of the pilot studies carried out with this capsule have been encouraging. Large-scale studies are ongoing. The evaluation of the potential of the PillCam Colon capsule is still in its infancy: the two pilot studies published showed that this capsule can produce high-quality images of the colon. The potential of this capsule for clinical purposes, such as colon cancer screening, needs to be evaluated."}
{"id": "17611174", "title": "Recent oesophageal varices ligation: a new contra-indication for videocapsule.", "content": "Recent oesophageal varices ligation: a new contra-indication for videocapsule."}
{"id": "17545780", "title": "Diagnosis and therapy of esophageal vascular disorders.", "content": "Diagnosis and therapy of esophageal vascular disorders. The most relevant studies concerning the diagnosis of esophageal varices, primary and secondary prophylaxis and treatment of variceal bleeding published in the last year are reported. The specific areas reviewed are those that refer to studies on the noninvasive or minimally invasive diagnosis of the presence of esophageal varices, the prevention of the formation and of the progression of varices from small to large, the prevention of the first variceal haemorrhage, the treatment of the acute bleeding episode, and the prevention of rebleeding. Relevant studies are reviewed regarding the validation of noninvasive indices for the presence of varices, the use of the esophageal videocapsule to diagnose varices, the comparison of methods to prevent the first variceal haemorrhage, the use of the hepatic vein pressure measurement to monitor the haemodynamic response to beta-blockers, the long-term protection from bleeding by beta-blockers, the use of a double dose of somatostatin to control bleeding, the evaluation of the best endoscopic method to treat variceal bleeding in addition to vasoactive drugs, and the identification of prognostic factors for early and late mortality after a variceal bleed."}
{"id": "17415347", "title": "Endoscopic frontiers in the field of hepatology.", "content": "Endoscopic frontiers in the field of hepatology. Hepatology is considered a cognitive specialty, but it will not be surprising if a subgroup of future hepatologists (''invasive hepatologists'') performed a variety of advanced endoscopic, laparoscopic, vascular or ablative procedures just like interventional gastroenterologists, interventional radiologists or minimally invasive surgeons. The increase in the prevalence of liver diseases including hepatocellular carcinoma, and effective treatment of end-stage liver disease with liver transplantation has expanded the subspecialty of hepatology into a major specialty. Therefore, it is only natural that some of the trainees in hepatology, familiar with invasive procedures just like their counterparts in gastroenterology, may become subspecialized in invasive aspects of this specialty, traditionally performed by interventional endoscopists, radiologists and surgeons. Moreover, there will be major developments in the management of the complications of liver disease. Endoscopic screening with esophageal capsule endoscopy and, to a lesser extent, ultrathin upper gastrointestinal endoscopy may replace conventional endoscopy. In addition to standard treatments for esophageal varices, removable esophageal stents with expansile pressure may be utilized in refractory variceal hemorrhage. Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunts may be performed by hepatologists. Advances in argon plasma coagulation, cryotherapy and photodynamic therapy may result in novel treatment options for portal hypertensive gastropathy. Single-fiber cholangioscopy will allow for directed endoscopic screening for cholangiocarcinoma and primary sclerosing cholangitis in high-risk individuals. Minilaparoscopy will allow a macroscopic assessment of the liver surface as well as the ability to target specific regions for histopathology, and treatment including radiofrequency ablation of liver cancer. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) may provide the potential to directly measure portal vein pressure and this may have a future role in titration and optimization of pharmacological therapy of portal hypertension. EUS and fine needle aspiration may be used for staging hepatocellular and bile duct cancer. Finally, natural orifice transluminal surgery and endoscopic ultrasound-guided angiography may allow for targeted therapies traditionally outside the realm of the hepatologists."}
{"id": "17018501", "title": "Cavernous transformation of the portal vein complicating pregnancy.", "content": "Cavernous transformation of the portal vein complicating pregnancy. Cavernous transformation of the portal vein, associated with varices and thrombocytopenia, rarely complicates pregnancy. A 20-year-old primigravida with cavernous transformation of the portal vein underwent wireless video esophageal capsule endoscopy at 28 weeks of gestation, which ruled out esophageal and gastric varices and the need for prophylactic sclerotherapy. Magnetic resonance angiography at 32 weeks of gestation showed no abdominal wall varices or abnormally dilated lumbar or extradural veins, which ensured a safe surgical approach for cesarean and preserved the patient's ability to receive regional anesthesia. New noninvasive imaging modalities aided evaluation and management of the gravida with cavernous transformation of the portal vein."}
{"id": "16944004", "title": "Obscure gastrointestinal hemorrhage from mesenteric varices diagnosed by video capsule endoscopy.", "content": "Obscure gastrointestinal hemorrhage from mesenteric varices diagnosed by video capsule endoscopy."}
{"id": "16894311", "title": "Esophageal capsule endoscopy in patients refusing conventional endoscopy for the study of suspected esophageal pathology.", "content": "Esophageal capsule endoscopy in patients refusing conventional endoscopy for the study of suspected esophageal pathology. Esophageal capsule endoscopy is a well tolerated procedure that does not require sedation and has proved its value for the study of the esophagus. The aim of our study was to assess the feasibility, accuracy, safety and acceptability of esophageal capsule endoscopy for the study of gastroesophageal reflux disease and esophageal varices in patients who refused conventional upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. Thirty consecutive examinations performed in 28 patients (15 men/13 women; mean age: 58.5+/-12.4 years; range: 23-87 years) were reviewed. Twenty-five examinations were performed in 23 patients presenting with chronic gastroesophageal reflux disease symptoms and the remaining five were carried out in patients with cirrhosis for screening of esophageal varices. The procedures were done with the new PillCam ESO that harbors two viewing cupules and takes a total of 14 frames/s. Technical data (total recording time, esophageal transit time and Z-line visualization), clinical findings (Savary-Miller grade; presence and characteristics of esophageal varices or portal hypertension gastropathy), and patient's opinion (quality and comfort questionnaire) were analyzed. All the patients ingested and excreted the capsule without complications. Two examinations in the gastroesophageal reflux disease group were repeated; one was issued as a follow-up and the other because no images were recorded in the first capsule endoscopy. From the former, only the satisfaction questionnaire was analyzed. Mean total recording time and esophageal transit time were 1224 and 243.79 s, respectively (range: 2-1192 s). Complete study of the Z-line was possible in 23 examinations (23/29; 79.3%). Esophageal erosions were seen in 58.33% (14/24) of the examinations carried out in patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease. Nine out of 14 patients (64.29%) presented with grade I esophagitis and the other five (35.71%) with grade II esophagitis. Among the five patients with cirrhosis, small varices were visualized in one (1/5; 20%), while large varices with red spots were evidenced in the remaining three (3/5; 60%). All four patients showing esophageal varices were found to have portal hypertension gastropathy. In most examinations, patients found the capsule easy to swallow (28/30; 93.33%), asymptomatic (29/30; 96.66%), evaluated the procedure as comfortable (29/30; 96.66%), and would repeat it if necessary (30/30; 100%). Esophageal capsule endoscopy is an adequate alternative diagnostic method for the study of gastroesophageal reflux disease and for the screening of esophageal varices in patients refusing to undergo conventional upper gastrointestinal endoscopy."}
{"id": "16644462", "title": "The economics of PillCam.", "content": "The economics of PillCam. Evaluation of the economics of PillCam technology is in its infancy. Most studies of the use of the PillCam, both small bowel and esophageal, have focused only on the capsules' diagnostic characteristics. Although the results have compared favorably with other more invasive and sometimes less accurate modalities, the true cost effectiveness of PillCam is not yet fully known. The few cost-effectiveness assessments performed suggest that PillCam compares favorably with traditional diagnostic methods in Crohn's disease and in screening for complications of GERD and for esophageal varices. The data included in these models are quite limited, however. Sensitivity analyses can permit assessment of a wide range of possibilities regarding cost and diagnostic efficacy. Still, these models need to be anchored by robust and reproducible data input. Large-scale studies with long-term follow-up are needed. Capture of both direct and indirect medical costs accrued by using PillCam or other diagnostic tests in these studies will permit more robust economic analyses. As data accrue,they may give clinicians more confidence that PillCam use will realize economic savings and improve patient outcomes."}
{"id": "16429353", "title": "Esophageal capsule endoscopy versus esophagogastroduodenoscopy for evaluating portal hypertension: a prospective comparative study of performance and tolerance.", "content": "Esophageal capsule endoscopy versus esophagogastroduodenoscopy for evaluating portal hypertension: a prospective comparative study of performance and tolerance. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) is the most effective method for examining the upper gastrointestinal tract, and particularly for evaluating portal hypertension in cirrhotic patients, especially for screening purposes. The aim of this study was to assess the feasibility, safety, accuracy, and tolerance of PillCam ESO capsule endoscopy for this indication. In this prospective study, unsedated EGD and capsule endoscopy examinations were conducted on the same day in cirrhotic patients at the time of diagnosis. The patients quantified the tolerability (relative to pain, nausea, choking sensations, etc.) of the two procedures using a 100-mm visual analogue scale. The time required for the recording and for diagnosis with the capsule examination were documented, as were the patients' preferences in comparison with EGD. Two independent endoscopists blinded to the EGD diagnoses assessed the diagnostic accuracy of the images obtained. Twenty-one patients were included in the study (mean age 62, mean Model for End-Stage Liver Disease score 10.5, mean Child-Pugh score 7.3). The procedure was safe. One patient was unable to swallow the capsule. The mean recording time was 213 s (range 6 - 1200 s); the procedure accurately assessed the presence or absence of esophageal varices in 16 of 19 patients (84.2 %); and it correctly indicated a need for primary prophylaxis (esophageal varices of grade 2 or more and/or red signs) in 100 % of cases. The tolerability of the capsule endoscopy examination was significantly better, and all of the patients preferred capsule endoscopy to EGD (which was transnasal in 11 patients). Capsule endoscopy was feasible, safe, accurate, highly acceptable, and preferred by cirrhotic patients undergoing screening for portal hypertension. This new technique requires further and more extensive evaluation, as well as assessment of its cost-effectiveness."}
{"id": "16429352", "title": "The accuracy of PillCam ESO capsule endoscopy versus conventional upper endoscopy for the diagnosis of esophageal varices: a prospective three-center pilot study.", "content": "The accuracy of PillCam ESO capsule endoscopy versus conventional upper endoscopy for the diagnosis of esophageal varices: a prospective three-center pilot study. Variceal bleeding is a major complication of cirrhosis, and is associated with a 20 % mortality at 6 weeks. Current international guidelines recommend that patients with cirrhosis are screened by conventional upper endoscopy (esophagogastroduodenoscopy, EGD) in order to detect esophageal varices. The recently developed PillCam ESO esophageal capsule endoscope has been shown to be an accurate diagnostic tool in the investigation of patients with gastroesophageal reflux and Barrett's esophagus. We compared the PillCam ESO capsule endoscope with EGD for the detection of esophagogastric varices and portal hypertensive gastropathy in patients with cirrhosis. A pilot trial was conducted at three sites. Patients with cirrhosis who were undergoing clinically indicated EGD for screening or surveillance for esophageal varices underwent a PillCam ESO study followed by an EGD within 48 hours. Capsule videos were assessed by an investigator who was blinded to the patient's medical history and EGD findings. A total of 23 of the 32 enrolled patients were found to have esophageal varices at both EGD and PillCam ESO endoscopy. In one patient PillCam ESO detected small varices that were not seen at EGD. The overall concordance between PillCam ESO and EGD was 96.9 % for the diagnosis of esophageal varices and 90.6 % for the diagnosis of portal hypertensive gastropathy. There were no adverse events related to PillCam ESO endoscopy. In a high-prevalence population, PillCam ESO may represent an accurate noninvasive alternative to EGD for the detection of esophageal varices and portal hypertensive gastropathy. A large-scale trial is underway to validate and expand these findings."}
{"id": "16435503", "title": "[Non-invasive diagnosis of portal hypertension in cirrhosis. Application to the primary prevention of varices].", "content": "[Non-invasive diagnosis of portal hypertension in cirrhosis. Application to the primary prevention of varices]. One of the major complications of cirrhosis is the occurrence of portal hypertension and esophageal varices. At present, universal endoscopic screening of esophageal varices is recommended in association to primary prophylaxis in patients at high risk of variceal bleeding. But this screening is invasive and could be not cost-effective. Besides, pre-primary phrophylaxis is not effective and hampared by side effects. So, non invasive diagnosis of portal hypertension might be useful. This one could depend on non invasive measurement of hepatic venous pressure gradient, but its application to screening is not well-documented and its use in treatment monitoring is debated. A second way could be non invasive diagnosis of large esophageal varices because of prognostic and economic issues. Indirect echographic markers of portal hypertension and esophageal varices (ascites, portal vein diameter > or = 13 mm, spleen length, maximal and mean velocimetry of portal vein flow, respectively < 20 cm/s and < 12 cm/s) could be useful. Among this parameters, spleen length is an independent predictive marker of esophageal varices. Besides, several direct or indirect blood markers of fibrosis have been tested. Platelet count is repeatedly a predictive marker of esophageal varices in multivariate analysis. The other predictive factors of esophageal varices could be: prothrombin time, splenomegaly, spider naevi, Child-Pugh class, bilirubinemia, platelet count/spleen diameter ratio and Fibrotest, but these data require validation. In summary, in regard to actual results, non invasive diagnosis of portal hypertension might be useful in esophageal varices screening, but the substitutes to endoscopy have limited place actually in clinical practice, and exclusive non invasive diagnosis of portal hypertension is not applicable; the only test that seems to be useful in clinical practice is conventional endoscopy awaiting the results of videocapsule."}
{"id": "16185966", "title": "Mucosal abnormalities of the small bowel in patients with cirrhosis and portal hypertension: a capsule endoscopy study.", "content": "Mucosal abnormalities of the small bowel in patients with cirrhosis and portal hypertension: a capsule endoscopy study. The frequency of small-bowel mucosal changes in patients with portal hypertension is not known. The objective of the study is to better define the mucosal abnormalities of portal hypertensive enteropathy (PHE) and to determine whether these findings are associated with the severity of liver disease, esophageal varices, portal gastropathy, portal colonopathy, or other clinical characteristics. We compared the medical records of 37 patients with cirrhosis and portal hypertension with 34 control patients who underwent capsule endoscopy over a 3-year period. Mucosal changes were found to be significantly more common in the cirrhotic patients than in the control patients (67.5% vs. 0, p < 0.001). The lesions included telangiectasias or angiodysplastic-like lesions in 9 (24.3%) patients, red spots in 23 (62.2%), and varices in 3 (8.1%). Active bleeding was seen during endoscopic examinations in 4 (10.8%) patients. A comparison of patients with and those without PHE showed that grade 2+ or larger esophageal varices, portal gastropathy, portal colonopathy, and Child-Pugh class C cirrhosis were all significantly associated with PHE. There were no differences between these two groups of patients with regard to the etiology of cirrhosis, gender, or history of esophageal variceal bleeding. Mucosal abnormalities in portal jejunopathy include edema, erythema, and vascular lesions findings. A standardized grading system to classify the endoscopic appearance and the severity of portal enteropathy is proposed. The clinical import of these changes remains to be explained."}
{"id": "16053016", "title": "[Octreotide in the treatment of angiodysplasia in patients with advanced chronic renal failure].", "content": "[Octreotide in the treatment of angiodysplasia in patients with advanced chronic renal failure]. Angiodysplasia is an important cause of gastrointestinal bleeding in patients with chronic renal failure. Octreotide, a long-acting synthetic somatostatin analogue that reduces splachnic blood flow have been used to treat esophageal varicose hemorrhage, but its efficacy for bleeding vascular ecstasies is awaiting support. We present three patients with chronic renal failure (two with diabetic nephropaty and the third with mesangiocapilar glomerulonephritis and hepatic cirrosis), seric creatinine 3-4,5 mg/dl, and recurrent gastrointestinal bleeding due to diffuse angiodysplasia and vascular ecstasies, diagnosed by oral endoscopy, colonoscopy and video capsule. They all were treated with octreotide, administered subcutanesly 0.1 mg twice a day for six months, with significantly decreased blood requirements in all of them, as well as the occurrence of bleeding episodes. It was well tolerated and none side-effects occurred in any subject. In our experience, octreotide is an effective and safe drug in bleeding angiodysplasia and ecstasies vascular of the gastrointestinal tract in patients with chronic renal failure, and it may be a good option especially in patients who are not candidates for surgery or endoscopic treatment due to inaccessible sites, spread of the lesion, old age and/or concomitant disorders."}
{"id": "15842580", "title": "Feasibility and safety of string wireless capsule endoscopy in the diagnosis of esophageal varices.", "content": "Feasibility and safety of string wireless capsule endoscopy in the diagnosis of esophageal varices. To assess the feasibility, safety, accuracy, and acceptability of \"string-capsule endoscopy\" in the evaluation of esophageal varices. Strings were attached to the wireless capsule endoscopy device to allow its controlled movement up and down the esophagus. Time of recording and discomfort associated with the procedure was documented. Patient's preference compared to conventional esophago-gastro-duodenoscopy (EGD) was recorded. An independent endoscopist blinded to EGD diagnoses assessed the diagnostic accuracy of pictures obtained. Thirty patients with clinical liver cirrhosis (mean age: 54.4 yr; mean MELD score: 12.5, and mean Child-Pugh score: 6.3) were enrolled; 19 for surveillance and 11 for screening purposes. The procedure was safe (no strings were disrupted and no capsule was lost). The mean recording time was 5.8 min (2.9-8.7), the accuracy 96.7%, and discomfort was minimal. The majority (83.3%) of patients preferred string-capsule endoscopy to EGD. String-capsule endoscopy was feasible, safe, accurate, highly acceptable, and preferred by cirrhotic patients undergoing screening/surveillance of esophageal varices. The technique may prove to be more cost effective than conventional EGD."}
{"id": "14618949", "title": "A prospective comparative study of push and wireless-capsule enteroscopy in patients with obscure digestive bleeding.", "content": "A prospective comparative study of push and wireless-capsule enteroscopy in patients with obscure digestive bleeding. To prospectively compare the global and specific diagnostic yields of push and wireless videocapsule enteroscopy for small bowel lesions in patients with obscure digestive bleeding after esogastroduodenoscopy and colonoscopy. The patients studied had unexplained chronic iron-deficient anemia or digestive blood loss after routine investigations. Small bowel investigation was performed first with the wireless-capsule (M2A, Given Imaging) and then with the push-enteroscope (Olympus SIF100). Twenty-one patients were included in the protocol (14 females and 7 males), whose mean age was 60 years (range: 18 to 81). All patients had iron-deficient anemia with occult bleeding (n = 16) or overt bleeding (n = 5). A digestive lesion was observed in 14 of 21 cases (66%). Lesions were: esophageal varices (n = 2), reflux esophagitis (n = 1), upper gastrointestinal tract ulcerations (n = 9), intestinal angioectasia (n = 4), ileal varices (n = 1), cecal angioectasia (n = 1) and tumor-like angioma in the jejunum (n = 1). These 19 lesions were discovered by both methods in 10 cases (52%), by push-enteroscopy only in 6 (31%) and by wireless-capsule endoscopy only in 3 (17%). The global diagnostic yield was therefore slightly but not significantly higher for push wireless-capsule enteroscopy (61 vs 52%; NS) and the specific diagnostic yield was similar (20%). Interobserver agreement on the wireless-capsule recordings reached 85% for detection of findings. In patients with obscure digestive bleeding, no significant difference in diagnostic yield was evidenced between push and wireless-capsule endoscopy. The main advantage of the latter method versus the former was the detection of distal lesions in the small bowel. Wireless-capsule enteroscopy is mandatory for patients with active unexplained bleeding and negative push-enteroscopy, or for defining the extension of a disease involving, for instance, the presence of angioectasia."}
{"id": "12510456", "title": "Recent advances in the endoscopic diagnosis and therapy of upper gastrointestinal, small intestinal, and colonic bleeding.", "content": "Recent advances in the endoscopic diagnosis and therapy of upper gastrointestinal, small intestinal, and colonic bleeding. Endoscopy has become the first and primary diagnostic and therapeutic modality in the management of patients with severe gastrointestinal bleeding. Panendoscopy, push enteroscopy, and colonoscopy provide the diagnostic, prognostic, and therapeutic elements to improve patient outcomes and to reduce morbidity and mortality from severe GI hemorrhage. Recent improvements in endoscopic hemostatic techniques and in imaging modalities using wireless capsule endoscopy suggest that diagnostic and therapeutic endoscopy will be even more important in determining patient outcomes in the future."}
