{"id": "20620001", "title": "Restenosis after carotid endarterectomy in a multicenter regional registry.", "content": "Restenosis after carotid endarterectomy in a multicenter regional registry. Level I evidence shows conventional carotid endarterectomy (CEA) with patch angioplasty results in lower rates of restenosis. However, whether this information has affected practice patterns and outcomes in real-world vascular surgery settings is unclear. Within the Vascular Study Group of New England (VSGNE), we studied 2981 patients undergoing 2981 first-time CEAs between January 1, 2003, and June 31, 2008. Rates of restenosis (defined by duplex ultrasound imaging at the 1-year follow-up) were estimated using life-table analysis. Cox proportional hazards models were used to identify multivariable predictors of postoperative restenosis \u2264 1 year. Across 58 surgeons and 11 hospitals, we studied 2611 conventional CEAs (88% of all CEAs) and 370 eversion CEAs (12% of all CEAs). Median follow-up was 12.8 months (range, 1-35 months). The proportion of conventional CEAs performed with patching increased from 87% to 96% (P < .001) between 2003 and 2008, whereas eversion CEA declined from 18% to 5% (P < .001). Restenosis occurred in 303 patients (10%); by life-table analysis, the restenosis rate at 1 year was 6.2% (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.7%-6.8%). Restenoses were most commonly noncritical: 50%-79% restenosis in 7.9%, 80%-99% restenosis in 1.7%, and occlusion in 0.5%. Univariate analyses showed significant differences in 80% to 100% restenosis by procedure type (2% in conventional CEA, 6% in eversion CEA, P < .002), the year of procedure (3.2% in 2003, 0% in 2008; P < .03), and use of patching in conventional CEA (2.9% no patch, 1% with patch; P < .008). By multivariable analysis, absence of patching (hazard ratio [HR], 3.2; 95% CI, 1.5-7.0), contralateral internal carotid artery stenosis > 80% (HR, 4.1; 95% CI, 1.4-11.5), and dialysis dependence (HR, 3.5; 95% CI, 1.2-9.8) were independently associated with a higher risk of an 80% to 100% restenosis. Of the 51 patients with 80% to 99% restenosis, 14 underwent reintervention \u2264 1 year, comprising 4 reoperations and 10 carotid artery stent procedures. Of the 15 patients with a carotid occlusion \u2264 1 year, transient ischemic attacks occurred in 2 and a disabling stroke in 1. In our region, restenosis after CEA, especially clinically significant restenosis \u2264 1 year after surgery, decreased slightly over time. This improvement in outcome was associated with several factors, including an increase in patching after conventional CEA, a process of care that was studied and encouraged within our vascular study group. These results highlight the utility of regional quality-improvement efforts in improving outcomes in vascular surgery."}
{"id": "19628361", "title": "Validation of the PIII CLI risk score for the prediction of amputation-free survival in patients undergoing infrainguinal autogenous vein bypass for critical limb ischemia.", "content": "Validation of the PIII CLI risk score for the prediction of amputation-free survival in patients undergoing infrainguinal autogenous vein bypass for critical limb ischemia. The PREVENT III (PIII) critical limb ischemia (CLI) risk score is a simple, published tool derived from the PIII randomized clinical trial that can be used for estimating amputation-free survival (AFS) in CLI patients considered for infrainguinal bypass (IB). The current study sought to validate this risk stratification model using data from the prospectively collected Vascular Study Group of Northern New England (VSGNNE). We calculated the PIII CLI risk score for 1166 patients undergoing IB with autogenous vein by 59 surgeons at 11 hospitals between January 1, 2003, and December 31, 2007. Points (pts) were assigned to each patient for the presence of dialysis (4 pts), tissue loss (3 pts), age >or=75 (2 pts), and coronary artery disease (CAD) (1 pt). Baseline hematocrit was not included due to a large proportion of missing values. Total scores were used to stratify each patient into low-risk (<or=3 pts), med-risk (4-7 pts), and high-risk (>or=8 pts) categories. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to calculate AFS for the three risk groups. Log-rank test was used for intergroup comparisons. To assess validation, comparison to the PIII derivation and validation sets was performed. Stratification of the VSGNNE patients by risk category yielded three significantly different estimates for 1-year AFS (86.4%, 74.0%, and 56.1%, for low-, med-, and high-risk groups). Intergroup comparison demonstrated precise discrimination (P < .0001). For a given risk category (low, med, or high), the 1-year AFS estimates in the VSGNNE dataset were consistent with those observed in the previously published PIII derivation set (85.9%, 73.0%, and 44.6%, respectively), PIII validation set (87.7%, 63.7%, and 45.0%, respectively), and retrospective multicenter validation set (86.3%, 70.1%, and 47.8%, respectively). The PIII CLI risk score has now been both internally and externally validated by testing it against the outcomes of 3286 CLI patients who underwent autogenous vein bypass at 94 institutions by a diverse array of physicians (three independent cohorts of patients). This tool provides a simple and reliable method to risk stratify CLI patients being considered for IB. At initial consultation, calculation of the PIII CLI risk score can reliably stratify patients according to their risk of death or major amputation at 1 year."}
{"id": "19632640", "title": "Inclusion and exclusion criteria for CRT.", "content": "Inclusion and exclusion criteria for CRT."}
{"id": "16269994", "title": "Cardiovascular risk in patients with mild renal insufficiency: implications for the use of ACE inhibitors.", "content": "Cardiovascular risk in patients with mild renal insufficiency: implications for the use of ACE inhibitors. We review the evidence linking mild renal insufficiency (MRI) with increased cardiovascular risk. MRI is associated with a number of cardiovascular risk factors, including nighttime hypertension, and increased levels of lipoprotein (a), homocysteine, asymmetric dimethyl-arginine, and inflammation and insulin resistance markers and mediators. Epidemiologic evidence associates coronary artery disease and nephrosclerosis, a frequent cause of early renal insufficiency in the elderly. In a middle-aged general population MRI was found in 8% of women and 9% of men, but was not associated with cardiovascular disease. Nonetheless, in a representative sample of middle-aged British men the risk of stroke was 60% higher for the sub-group with MRI: in people at high cardiovascular risk (mostly coronary disease), the HOPE study found a 2-fold (unadjusted) or 1.4-fold (adjusted) higher incidence of cardiovascular outcomes with MRI. The combined incidence of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction and stroke increased with the level of serum creatinine. Several studies have examined the cardiovascular risk associated with MRI in hypertension. In HDFP, as in HOPE, cardiovascular mortality increased with serum creatinine (five-fold difference in cardiovascular mortality between the lowest and the highest creatinine strata). The risk associated with renal insufficiency was independent of other classic cardiovascular risk factors. Two trials of hypertensives with low risk (HOT and a small Italian trial) found that cardiovascular outcomes approximately doubled in subjects with MRI. Another study (MRFIT) found that it was not baseline creatinine, but its increase on follow-up that predicted future cardiovascular disease. These observational data suggest that regardless of etiology MRI is a strong predictor of cardiovascular disease and is found in 10% of populations at low cardiovascular risk and in up to 30% of those at high risk. No prospective therapeutic trials aimed at reducing the cardiovascular burden in people with MRI are available. Subgroup analyses of the HOPE study indicate that angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition with ramipril is beneficial and does not increase the risk of such side effects as acute renal failure or hyperkalemia. Thus the frequent practice of withholding ACE inhibitors from patients with mild renal insufficiency is unwarranted, especially since MRI identifies a group at high risk that appears to benefit most from treatment. Moreover, there is evidence that ACE inhibitors improve renal outcomes in renal insufficiency. Prospective studies should test the predictive power of early renal insufficiency for cardiovascular disease and prognosis with various therapeutic options."}
{"id": "20186233", "title": "Mesenchymal stem cells: a new therapeutic tool for AKI.", "content": "Mesenchymal stem cells: a new therapeutic tool for AKI. Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a common clinical complication, associated with poor outcomes and the development of chronic kidney disease. Despite major advances in the understanding of its pathophysiology, available therapies for AKI are only supportive; therefore, adequate functional recovery from AKI must predominantly rely on the kidney's own reparative ability. An extensive body of preclinical data from our own and from other laboratories has shown that administration of adult multipotent marrow stromal cells (commonly referred to as mesenchymal stem cells [MSCs]), effectively ameliorates experimental AKI by exerting paracrine renoprotective effects and by stimulating tissue repair. Based on these findings, a clinical trial has been conducted to investigate the safety and efficacy of MSCs administered to open-heart surgery patients who are at high risk of postoperative AKI. In this Perspectives article, we discuss some of the early data from this trial and describe potential applications for stem cell therapies in other fields of nephrology."}
{"id": "19362802", "title": "[Coronary artery disease in patients with diabetes].", "content": "[Coronary artery disease in patients with diabetes]. Diabetes in patients with coronary artery disease multiplies the risk of a cardiovascular event by a factor of 2 to 3. The risk is still higher for patients with heart or kidney failure. The detection of silent ischemia makes it possible to identify patients with revascularizable stenosis of the coronary artery or three-vessel atheroma. The choice between angioplasty and coronary bypass for diabetes patients with multiple-vessel disease requires multidisciplinary discussion. The onset of acute coronary syndrome in a patient with diabetes justifies coronary angiography to attempt any possible revascularization. Coronary angioplasty with a drug-eluting stent reduces the risk of need for revascularization due to restenosis, without modifying the risk of death/infarction compared with a bare-metal stent. Prognosis is improved only if appropriate comprehensive management follows, including intensive correction of risk factors. The management of a patient with coronary artery disease and diabetes must be multidisciplinary, in a network of care coordinated by the general practitioner."}
{"id": "1837116", "title": "[Coronary ischemia after kidney transplantation in patients over 60 years of age].", "content": "[Coronary ischemia after kidney transplantation in patients over 60 years of age]. Many elderly patients (aged over 60) are waiting for renal allograft but are considered a risk population for myocardial infarction or sudden cardiac death. Between 1987 and January 1st, 1990, 22 elderly patients (16 men and 6 women; mean age 63.4 +/- 0.7 years; range 60-69 years) underwent cadaveric kidney transplantation. Twenty patients had been on haemodialysis for 4.8 +/- 1 years (range: 1-16.3), one had been on peritoneal dialysis for 5 years and one had developed chronic rejection of a previous cadaveric allograft. Among these 22 patients, 6 (27 percent) developed antibodies directed against the random lymphocyte panel and one had a second transplant. Cardiovascular risk factors were systematically estimated, including medical history, cervical arterial Doppler, echocardiography and stress thallium testing (STT). Coronary angiography was performed if there was evidence of myocardial ischaemia. STT did not show any coronary disease in 16 patients and was not maximal (less than 60 percent of maximal theoretical stress) in 4 patients. In 2 patients, STT showed myocardial ischaemia: one, with a history of angina, underwent coronary angiography and angioplasty; the other had silent ischaemia and refused coronary angiography. Two patients died of myocardial infarction. One of them was the patient with silent ischaemia and positive STT test. The patient with angioplasty had a successful transplantation 20 months later, without any cardiovascular complication. After 9 to 32 months of follow-up, 19 patients have functioning allografts (mean serum creatinine level 151 +/- 6 mumol/l). One patient lost his kidney from urinary fistula. Eight patients (36 percent) developed acute rejection and all responded to intravenous corticosteroids. No immunological transplant loss was observed. After 18 months, the graft actuarial survival rate was 85 percent. We conclude that elderly patients free of clinical or silent myocardial ischaemia are good transplant recipients. The cardiovascular risk could be prevented by using STT during the pretransplant screening. If the STT is not maximal or shows coronary ischaemia, coronary angiography is mandatory."}
{"id": "10701411", "title": "[Cardiac anomalies in chronic renal failure].", "content": "[Cardiac anomalies in chronic renal failure]. PRINCIPAL CARDIOVASCULAR COMPLICATIONS IN END STAGE RENAL DISEASE: Cardiovascular diseases are the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in end stage renal disease patients. Very often, complications observed are left ventricular hypertrophy and various forms of arterial degenerative lesions involving coronary arteries, less frequently pericarditis and calcifying valvulopathy are diagnosed. THE REASONS ARE COMPLEX: Risk factors can be either specific of uremia per se such as anemia, overhydration, fistula or the same as in the general population. Hemodynamic alterations including tensile stress or blood flow play a major role associated to various locally or generally generated substances whose role remains currently to be determined. THEIR TREATMENTS: Treatments of cardiovascular complications are not specific in this end stage renal disease population but are more often the treatment of the etiology: reduction of fistula blood flow, increase of hemoglobin, best control of weight gain between two hemodialysis sessions or blood pressure control."}
{"id": "19541818", "title": "Chronic Renal Insufficiency Cohort (CRIC) Study: baseline characteristics and associations with kidney function.", "content": "Chronic Renal Insufficiency Cohort (CRIC) Study: baseline characteristics and associations with kidney function. The Chronic Renal Insufficiency Cohort (CRIC) Study was established to examine risk factors for the progression of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) in patients with CKD. We examined baseline demographic and clinical characteristics. Seven clinical centers recruited adults who were aged 21 to 74 yr and had CKD using age-based estimated GFR (eGFR) inclusion criteria. At baseline, blood and urine specimens were collected and information regarding health behaviors, diet, quality of life, and functional status was obtained. GFR was measured using radiolabeled iothalamate in one third of participants. A total of 3612 participants were enrolled with mean age +/- SD of 58.2 +/- 11.0 yr; 46% were women, and 47% had diabetes. Overall, 45% were non-Hispanic white, 46% were non-Hispanic black, and 5% were Hispanic. Eighty-six percent reported hypertension, 22% coronary disease, and 10% heart failure. Mean body mass index was 32.1 +/- 7.9 kg/m(2), and 47% had a BP >130/80 mmHg. Mean eGFR was 43.4 +/- 13.5 ml/min per 1.73 m(2), and median (interquartile range) protein excretion was 0.17 g/24 h (0.07 to 0.81 g/24 h). Lower eGFR was associated with older age, lower socioeconomic and educational level, cigarette smoking, self-reported CVD, peripheral arterial disease, and elevated BP. Lower level of eGFR was associated with a greater burden of CVD as well as lower socioeconomic and educational status. Long-term follow-up of participants will provide critical insights into the epidemiology of CKD and its relationship to adverse outcomes."}
{"id": "20485689", "title": "The 2010 Canadian Hypertension Education Program recommendations for the management of hypertension: part 2 - therapy.", "content": "The 2010 Canadian Hypertension Education Program recommendations for the management of hypertension: part 2 - therapy. To update the evidence-based recommendations for the prevention and treatment of hypertension in adults for 2010. For lifestyle and pharmacological interventions, randomized trials and systematic reviews of trials were preferentially reviewed. Changes in cardiovascular morbidity and mortality were the primary outcomes of interest. However, for lifestyle interventions, blood pressure lowering was accepted as a primary outcome given the general lack of long-term morbidity and mortality data in this field. Progressive renal impairment was also accepted as a clinically relevant primary outcome among patients with chronic kidney disease. A Cochrane Collaboration librarian conducted an independent MEDLINE search from 2008 to August 2009 to update the 2009 recommendations. To identify additional studies, reference lists were reviewed and experts were contacted. All relevant articles were reviewed and appraised independently by both content and methodological experts using prespecified levels of evidence. For lifestyle modifications to prevent and treat hypertension, restrict dietary sodium to 1500 mg (65 mmol) per day in adults 50 years of age or younger, to 1300 mg (57 mmol) per day in adults 51 to 70 years of age, and to 1200 mg (52 mmol) per day in adults older than 70 years of age; perform 30 min to 60 min of moderate aerobic exercise four to seven days per week; maintain a healthy body weight (body mass index 18.5 kg/m(2) to 24.9 kg/m(2)) and waist circumference (less than 102 cm for men and less than 88 cm for women); limit alcohol consumption to no more than 14 standard drinks per week for men or nine standard drinks per week for women; follow a diet that emphasizes fruits, vegetables and low-fat dairy products, dietary and soluble fibre, whole grains and protein from plant sources, and that is low in saturated fat and cholesterol; and consider stress management in selected individuals with hypertension. For the pharmacological management of hypertension, treatment thresholds and targets should be predicated on the patient's global atherosclerotic risk, target organ damage and comorbid conditions. Blood pressure should be decreased to less than 140/90 mmHg in all patients, and to less than 130/80 mmHg in patients with diabetes mellitus or chronic kidney disease. Most patients will require more than one agent to achieve these target blood pressures. Antihypertensive therapy should be considered in all adult patients regardless of age (caution should be exercised in elderly patients who are frail). For adults without compelling indications for other agents, considerations for initial therapy should include thiazide diuretics, angiotensin- converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors (in patients who are not black), long-acting calcium channel blockers (CCBs), angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) or beta-blockers (in those younger than 60 years of age). A combination of two first-line agents may also be considered as initial treatment of hypertension if systolic blood pressure is 20 mmHg above target or if diastolic blood pressure is 10 mmHg above target. The combination of ACE inhibitors and ARBs should not be used, unless compelling indications are present to suggest consideration of dual therapy. Agents appropriate for first-line therapy for isolated systolic hypertension include thiazide diuretics, long-acting dihydropyridine CCBs or ARBs. In patients with coronary artery disease, ACE inhibitors, ARBs or betablockers are recommended as first-line therapy; in patients with cerebrovascular disease, an ACE inhibitor/diuretic combination is preferred; in patients with proteinuric nondiabetic chronic kidney disease, ACE inhibitors or ARBs (if intolerant to ACE inhibitors) are recommended; and in patients with diabetes mellitus, ACE inhibitors or ARBs (or, in patients without albuminuria, thiazides or dihydropyridine CCBs) are appropriate first-line therapies. In selected high-risk patients in whom combination therapy is being considered, an ACE inhibitor plus a long-acting dihydropyridine CCB is preferable to an ACE inhibitor plus a thiazide diuretic. All hypertensive patients with dyslipidemia should be treated using the thresholds, targets and agents outlined in the Canadian lipid treatment guidelines. Selected patients with hypertension who do not achieve thresholds for statin therapy, but who are otherwise at high risk for cardiovascular events, should nonetheless receive statin therapy. Once blood pressure is controlled, low-dose acetylsalicylic acid therapy should be considered. All recommendations were graded according to the strength of the evidence and voted on by the 63 members of the Canadian Hypertension Education Program Evidence-Based Recommendations Task Force. All recommendations reported here achieved at least 80% consensus. These guidelines will continue to be updated annually. The Canadian Hypertension Education Program process is sponsored by the Canadian Hypertension Society, Blood Pressure Canada, the Public Health Agency of Canada, the College of Family Physicians of Canada, the Canadian Pharmacists Association, the Canadian Council of Cardiovascular Nurses, and the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada."}
{"id": "20970625", "title": "Prevalence of cardiovascular disease in kidney transplant candidates: outpatient cardiac evaluation.", "content": "Prevalence of cardiovascular disease in kidney transplant candidates: outpatient cardiac evaluation. Cardiovascular disease is the most common cause of death after kidney transplantation. Pretransplant cardiovascular screening is an integral part of the assessment of patients with end-stage renal disease in most transplantation centers. Through this descriptive study we sought to highlight the major cardiovascular diseases that cause the high mortality rate before and after renal transplantation. Between November 2005 and December 2009 we screened 356 patients for cardiovascular disease before inclusion in the renal transplant waiting list. All candidates underwent an analytical study, chest radiography, electrocardiogram, and echocardiography, as well as coronary angiography in high-risk patients. Clinical evaluations were performed in 356 patients (63% men) of mean age 54.3\u00b111 years. They had been on renal replacement treatment for a median 13.2 months. Risk factors included hypertension (95.8%), dyslipidemia (56.5%), smoking (53.4%), and diabetes (27.2%). Cardiovascular disease included peripheral artery disease (15%), coronary artery disease (CAD; 12.1%), and stroke (9.8%). Significant CAD was found in 89 individuals (38.4%), 73 (82%) of whom were asymptomatic. Peripheral artery disease (P=.02), high levels of total cholesterol (P=.03), triglycerides (P=.03), and C-reactive protein (P=.03) were associated with the presence of severe CAD. The main diagnoses were hypertensive heart disease (70.8%), ischemic heart disease (33.1%), aortic valve disease (24.4%), and mitral valve disease (30.1%). Patients with chronic kidney disease show a high prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors and ischemic heart disease, principally occult coronary artery stenosis, which could explain their high cardiovascular mortality after renal transplantation."}
{"id": "20970072", "title": "2010 guidelines of the Taiwan Society of Cardiology for the management of hypertension.", "content": "2010 guidelines of the Taiwan Society of Cardiology for the management of hypertension. Hypertension is one of the most important risk factors for atherosclerosis-related mortality and morbidity. In this document, the Hypertension Committee of the Taiwan Society of Cardiology provides new guidelines for hypertension management. The key messages are as follows. (1) The life-time risk for hypertension is 90%. (2) Both the increase in the prevalence rate and the relative risk of hypertension for causing cardiovascular events are higher in Asians than in Caucasians. (3) The control rate has been improved significantly in Taiwan from 2.4% to 21% in men, and from 5% to 29% in women in recent years (1995-2002). (4) Systolic and diastolic blood pressure (BP) = 130/80 mmHg are thresholds of treatment for high-risk patients, such as those with diabetes, chronic kidney disease, stroke, established coronary heart disease, and coronary heart disease equivalents (carotid artery disease, peripheral arterial disease, and abdominal aortic aneurysm). (5) Ambulatory and home BP monitoring correlate more closely with end-organ damage and have a stronger relationship with cardiovascular events than office BP monitoring, but the feasibility of home monitoring makes it a more attractive alternative. (6) Patients with masked hypertension have higher cardiovascular risk than those with white-coat hypertension. (7) Lifestyle changes should be encouraged in all patients, and include the following six items: S-ABCDE (Salt restriction; Alcohol limitation; Body weight reduction; Cessation of smoking; Diet adaptation; Exercise adoption). (8) When pharmacological therapy is needed, physicians should consider \"PROCEED\" (Previous experience of patient; Risk factors; Organ damage; Contraindication or unfavorable conditions; Expert or doctor judgment; Expense or cost; Delivery and compliance) to decide the optimal treatment. (9) The main benefits of antihypertensive agents are derived from lowering of BP per se, and are generally independent of the drugs being used, except that certain associated cardiovascular conditions might favor certain classes of drugs. (10) There are five major classes of drugs: thiazide diuretics; \u03b2-blockers; calcium channel blockers; angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs); and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs). Any one of these can be used as the initial treatment, except for \u03b2-blockers, which are only indicated in patients with heart failure, a history of coronary heart disease, and hyperadrenergic state. (11) A standard dose of any one of the five major classes of antihypertensive drugs can produce an \u223c10-mmHg decrease in systolic BP (rule of 10) and a 5-mmHg decrease in diastolic BP (rule of 5), after placebo subtraction. (11) Combination therapy is frequently needed for optimal control of BP, and the amount of the decrease in BP by a two-drug combination is approximately the same as the sum of the decrease by each individual drug (\u223c20 mmHg in systolic BP and 10 mmHg in diastolic BP) if their mechanisms of action are independent, with the exception of the combination of ACEIs and ARBs. (13) An ACEI or ARB plus a calcium channel blocker or a diuretic (A + C or A + D) are reasonable two-drug combinations, and A+C + D is a reasonable three-drug combination, unless patients have special indications for \u03b2-blockers. (14) Single-pill (fixed-dose) combinations that contain more than one drug in a single tablet are highly recommended because they reduce pill burden and cost, and improve compliance. (15) Very elderly patients (> 80 years) should be treated without delay, but BP should be reduced gradually and more cautiously. Finally, these guidelines are not mandatory; the responsible physician's decision remains most important in hypertension management."}
{"id": "20954975", "title": "Perfusion defects on real-time myocardial contrast echocardiography predict higher mortality in patients with end-stage renal disease - a 3-year follow-up.", "content": "Perfusion defects on real-time myocardial contrast echocardiography predict higher mortality in patients with end-stage renal disease - a 3-year follow-up. The aim of this study was to assess the prognostic significance of myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on a 3-year follow-up and to compare the value of MCE with demographic, clinical, and laboratory parameters. Fifty-eight ESRD patients on regular dialysis were prospectively screened for coronary artery disease (CAD) using perfusion assessment on real-time MCE. We analyzed the following end points during the 3-year follow-up: death, cardiovascular complications, and combined end point, which consisted of adverse cardiac events mentioned above. All features were compared between the two groups with and without perfusion disturbances on MCE. No adverse events related to MCE administration have been observed. Twenty-seven (47%) patients with ESRD demonstrated perfusion defects on MCE. The patients with perfusion defects on MCE comparison with those without perfusion disturbances were older (p = 0.008) and had lower ejection fraction (EF) (p = 0.0001) and higher wall motion index (WMSI) (p = 0.0001). After the 3-year follow-up, the incidence of death (p = 0.00018), cardiovascular end points, revascularizations [both percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and coronary artery bypass grafts (CABG) p = 0.0016 and p = 0.004, respectively], and composite end point (p = 0.0015) was significantly higher in patients with perfusion defect on MCE. In patients with ESRD, MCE appears to be a safe and useful tool for risk stratification. MCE facilitates decision for coronary angiography."}
{"id": "20948378", "title": "Screening and management of pretransplant cardiovascular disease.", "content": "Screening and management of pretransplant cardiovascular disease. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in kidney transplant recipients. Hence, accurate cardiac risk assessment in potential candidates is an important issue. The purpose of this review is to examine the existing research on the screening and management of pretransplant cardiovascular disease, with an emphasis on defining the optimal approach for asymptomatic high-risk candidates. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) in the general population demonstrate that prophylactic revascularization in stable patients prior to major noncardiac surgery does not reduce cardiac events or improve survival postoperatively. The benefit of noninvasive stress testing in this population is doubtful based on smaller RCTs and observational studies. Perioperative beta-blockade in intermediate-risk or high-risk candidates appears to be beneficial but acute administration is harmful. Investigation for coronary artery disease is warranted for kidney transplant candidates with symptoms of myocardial ischemia. However, there is insufficient evidence to support routine cardiovascular screening in asymptomatic candidates regardless of their cardiac risk factor status. RCTs specifically looking at this issue in renal transplant candidates are a research priority."}
{"id": "20948377", "title": "Periodontal disease as a risk marker in coronary heart disease and chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Periodontal disease as a risk marker in coronary heart disease and chronic kidney disease. More than half a million Americans die each year from coronary heart disease (CHD), 26 million suffer from chronic kidney disease (CKD), and a large proportion have periodontal disease, a chronic infection of the tissues surrounding teeth. Chronic inflammation contributes to CHD and CKD occurrence and progression, and periodontal disease contributes to the cumulated chronic systemic inflammatory burden. This review examines recent evidence regarding the role of periodontal disease in CHD and CKD. Periodontal pathogens cause both local infection and bacteremia, eliciting local and systemic inflammatory responses. Periodontal disease is associated with the systemic inflammatory reactant C-reactive protein (CRP), a major risk factor for both CHD and CKD. Nonsurgical periodontal disease treatment is shown to improve periodontal health, endothelial function, levels of CRP, and other inflammatory markers. Evidence for the association of periodontal disease with CKD consists of a small body of literature represented mainly by cross-sectional studies. No definitive randomized controlled trials exist with either CHD or CKD as primary endpoints. Recent evidence links periodontal disease with CHD and CKD. Adding oral health self-care and referral for professional periodontal assessment and therapy to the repertoire of medical care recommendations is prudent to improve patients' oral health and possibly reduce CHD and CKD risk."}
{"id": "20947866", "title": "Impact of contrast-induced nephropathy and cardiovascular events by serum cystatin C in renal insufficiency patients undergoing cardiac catheterization.", "content": "Impact of contrast-induced nephropathy and cardiovascular events by serum cystatin C in renal insufficiency patients undergoing cardiac catheterization. We assessed the usefulness of serum cystatin C for predicting contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) in patients (n = 100) undergoing coronary catheterization. After a 12-month follow-up, the incidence of CIN was 8.3% (n = 5) in patients with mild renal insufficiency (estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR] 60-89 mL/min per 1.73 m\u00b2), 34.4% (n = 10) in those with moderate renal insufficiency (eGFR 30-59 mL/min per 1.73 m\u00b2), and 100% (n = 3) in those with severe renal insufficiency (eGFR 15-29 mL/min per 1.73 m\u00b2). The sensitivity was 81.8% and specificity was 90.9% at the cutoff level of serum cystatin C >1.18 mg/L. Serum cystatin C levels were significantly (P < .001) higher in the patients with moderate renal insufficiency in the CIN group than those in the non-CIN group. Multivariate logistic regression analysis demonstrated that baseline serum cystatin C independently predicted short-term mortality (odds ratio [OR], 0.311; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.058-0.538; P = .026). Baseline serum cystatin C significantly predicted the occurrence of CIN in the patients with moderate renal insufficiency."}
{"id": "20930432", "title": "Improved assessment of aortic calcification in Japanese patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis.", "content": "Improved assessment of aortic calcification in Japanese patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis. Vascular calcification is a feature of arteriosclerosis and in hemodialysis (HD) patients it may be severe, even at a relatively young age, and is closely related to the overall prognosis. We used the aortic calcification area index (ACAI), derived from the aortic calcification index (ACI), to evaluate and analyze the risk factors for abdominal aortic calcification in HD patients. Subjects comprised 137 patients on maintenance HD. ACAI was measured on abdominal plain computed tomography: 10 slices of the abdominal aorta were obtained at 1-cm intervals from the bifurcation of the common iliac artery and the area of the aortic cross-section and calcification was measured using image software. The calcification area was divided by the cross-sectional area and expressed as a percentage (%). The mean value for the 10 slices was also calculated. Patients were divided into 2 groups according to ACAI being lower or higher than the mean value and the risk factors in each group were compared by multivariate analysis. Results Group comparison showed significant differences in age, systolic blood pressure, serum calcium, and lipoprotein(a). On multiple regression analysis, age, systolic blood pressure, and serum calcium were independent risk factors. On logistic regression analysis, age, duration of dialysis, systolic blood pressure, and serum calcium were independent risk factors. Risk factors for abdominal aortic calcification in HD patients include age, systolic blood pressure, and serum calcium, according to ACAI evaluation. The ACAI was accurate and useful for evaluating abdominal calcification."}
{"id": "20924324", "title": "DeBakey type I dissection: when hybrid stent-grafting is indicated?", "content": "DeBakey type I dissection: when hybrid stent-grafting is indicated? For avoidance of late downstream complications after classic DeBakey type I aortic dissection repair, replacement of the arch with simultaneous antegrade descending stent-grafting using a hybrid prosthesis was applied in acute and chronic aortic dissection. Indication and results were studied. Between January 2001 and January 2010, 168 patients were operated for acute and chronic aortic dissection (AD). Forty-five patients received an E-vita open stent-graft prosthesis, 29 for acute aortic dissection (AAD) (28 for DeBakey type I, 1 for type III) and 16 for chronic aortic dissection (CAD) (13 type I, 3 type III). Indication was full circular arch dissection, an entry or re-entry tear distal to the left subclavian artery in AAD, and new abdominal malperfusion, rapid growth of the false lumen (FL), impending or contained rupture in CAD. Hospital mortality was 10% in AAD and 0 in CAD. Complications like new stroke occurred in 7% versus 6%, temporary dialysis in 55% versus 19%, and false lumen obliteration was observed in 93% versus 63% in AAD versus CAD, respectively. Follow-up was 100% at a mean of 19 months. Overall survival at four years was 72% in AAD versus 94% in CAD. FL thrombosis was stable in AAD (92%) and increased to 93% in CAD over time. Freedom from secondary aortic intervention was 90% in AAD and 75% in CAD. This hybrid approach in patients with AAD and CAD type I is safe when indicated and renders stable results over time down to the stent-graft end. Secondary TEVAR can be easily performed downstream when necessary. The international E-vita open registry data supports this single center results."}
{"id": "20921817", "title": "Plasma cystatin C concentration reflects the severity of coronary artery disease in patients without chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Plasma cystatin C concentration reflects the severity of coronary artery disease in patients without chronic kidney disease. This study examines whether the serum concentration of cystatin C (Cys C) correlates with the severity of coronary artery disease (CAD) and whether it provides additional information on the risk for CAD in patients without chronic kidney disease (CKD) estimated by the creatinine-based glomerular filtration rate (GFR). The relationship between serum Cys C and the severity of CAD in 526 patients was investigated. Based on GFR, patients were divided into those with and without CKD. The relationship of serum Cys C with the severity of CAD was examined. Serum Cys C was closely correlated with GFR in all cases and in CKD patients, but not in non-CKD patients. The average number of stenotic coronary arteries was significantly higher in the quartiles of higher concentration of Cys C as well as in those of GFR. In 348 patients (66%) the GFR was \u226560 ml \u00b7 min(-1)\u00b71.73 m(-2). Those patients with increased Cys C (>0.90 mg/L, 143 patients) had a significantly larger number of stenotic coronary arteries than those patients with normal Cys C. Among patients considered to be at low risk based on the estimated GFR using serum creatinine, those with high concentrations of Cys C could have severe CAD. Besides CKD, Cys C might serve as a marker of CAD severity."}
{"id": "20868811", "title": "Diabetes does not affect long-term results after total arterial off-pump coronary revascularization.", "content": "Diabetes does not affect long-term results after total arterial off-pump coronary revascularization. We evaluated the influence of diabetes mellitus (DM) on 5-year angiographic results and long-term clinical outcomes in patients who underwent total arterial off-pump coronary revascularization for multivessel coronary disease. Between January 1998 and July 2004, total arterial revascularization for multivessel coronary disease was performed in 558 patients; 247 patients were diabetic (DM group) and 311 were nondiabetic (NDM group). Follow-up duration was 81 \u00b1 26 months. Long-term survival, cardiac deaths, and major advanced cardiovascular or cerebral events were studied. Effects of DM on early, 1-year, and 5-year graft patency rates were compared using the generalized linear mixed model. No differences in operative mortality and morbidity were observed. Overall survival in the DM group was significantly lower (p = 0.004), with 10-year survival rates of 78.5% (vs 88.1% in the NDM group). Independent risk factors for long-term survival included smoking, chronic renal failure, and preoperative left ventricular dysfunction, but not DM itself. No differences in freedom from cardiac death were found between the 2 groups (p = 0.171). Freedom from reintervention and major adverse cardiovascular and cerebral events were also similar between the groups. Early, 1-year, and 5-year postoperative angiographic patency rates in the DM group were 98.2%, 95.3%, and 94.6%, respectively. Those of the NDM group were 98.6%, 94.7%, and 90.5%. Diabetes mellitus did not affect graft patency rates. Diabetes mellitus did not affect 5-year angiographic results, long-term survival, and clinical events in patients with multivessel coronary disease who underwent total arterial off-pump revascularization."}
{"id": "20826266", "title": "Comparison of rotational with conventional coronary angiography.", "content": "Comparison of rotational with conventional coronary angiography. Patient radiation exposure and consumption of contrast medium are considered major risks of diagnostic coronary angiography (CA). Rotation of the C-arm during CA could provide similar diagnostic accuracy and lower radiation exposure and contrast medium consumption. To compare feasibility, safety, diagnostic accuracy, patient radiation exposure, and consumption of contrast medium of rotational CA with the invasive standard technique, intraindividual comparisons of the results obtained by both techniques were performed in 235 patients with an indication for first-time elective CA. In addition to conventional angiography, we performed 2 isocentric radiographic coronary spins with cranial and caudal tilts by 20 degrees around the left coronary artery and 1 strict posteroanterior rotational spin around the right coronary artery. In 16 patients, rotational CA was not performed because of safety concerns. In a further 12 patients, image quality of rotational scans was considered inadequate. In the remaining 207 patients, both modes of CA were proven suitable for anonymized, separate analysis by 3 independent cardiologists. Intraindividual comparison of both CA modes revealed a high degree of diagnostic agreement (Cohen (K) >0.8 for all cardiologists and for each coronary segment). Contrast medium volume during rotational CA and conventional CA amounted to 31.9 +/- 4.5 mL versus 52.2 +/- 8.0 mL (P < .001) and patient radiation exposure amounted to 5.0 +/- 2.6 Gy \u00d7 cm(2) versus 11.5 +/- 5.5 Gy \u00d7 cm(2) (P < .001), respectively. Rotational CA represents a safe and feasible method in clinical routine. Whereas diagnostic accuracy is similar to the usual conventional mode, consumption of contrast medium and patient radiation exposure are significantly reduced."}
{"id": "20821937", "title": "Impact of mitral valve repair in patients with mitral regurgitation undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting.", "content": "Impact of mitral valve repair in patients with mitral regurgitation undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. The benefit of concomitant mitral valve correction (replacement or reconstruction, MVR) and coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in patients with coronary artery disease and mitral regurgitation (MR) remains unclear. 298 consecutive patients underwent CABG alone (n=196) or CABG+ MVR (n=102) between January 2003 and April 2008. Clinical data were collected and MR graded according to preoperative echocardiographic studies. Four severity grades of MR were determined and patients assigned accordingly. Echocardiographic follow-up was performed postoperatively to assess heart and valve function. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was performed for perioperative morbidity and mortality. Patients were comparable within the groups regarding age, gender, NYHA-class, ejection fraction and number of graft vessels. Perioperative mortality (10.8% vs. 5.1%, P < 0.05) and degree of MR were higher among CABG+MVR patients. Among patients with moderate to severe or severe MR, postoperative echocardiography showed an improvement of mitral regurgitation in 95% of CABG+MVR and in 64% of CABG only patients. In patients with mild or moderate MR, improvement rates of both groups were similar (74% and 69%, respectively). Postoperatively, ejection fraction increased in both groups (CABG+MVR: 31.3 +/- 8.5 to 36.4 +/- 11.2; CABG only: 29.9 +/- 6.1 to 33.3 +/- 8.1, P > 0.05). Significant predictors for peri-operative mortality were renal insufficiency, older age and NYHA class III/IV. For reduction of ischaemic MR, CABG+MVR is preferable in patients with moderate to severe or severe MR. Combined CABG+MVR procedures cannot be recommended for patients with a particular risk profile because of disproportionately high peri-operative mortality."}
{"id": "20814046", "title": "Parallel cholesterol crystals: a sign of impending plaque rupture?", "content": "Parallel cholesterol crystals: a sign of impending plaque rupture? Currently, there are no available methods that can reliably predict when or if an atheroma will rupture. Recent reports suggest cholesterol crystals (CCs), present within the necrotic core, are sharp and can penetrate and disrupt the fibrous cap, contributing to plaque rupture. Our aim is to show CC, normally distributed at random within the necrotic core, often develop a parallel configuration at the site of plaque disruption (PD) which may be a sign of impending plaque rupture. The coronary arteries of 83 patients who died of acute coronary disease (ACD) were injected with a colored barium gelatin mass. The arteries were dissected, decalcified, cut at 2-3 mm intervals, and all segments mounted for microscopic study. All segments were reviewed to identify PDs and to determine the frequency of parallel cholesterol crystals (P-CCs) at the site of these PDs. There were 215 separate PDs in 83 patients, with 64 (77%) patients showing more than one PD. P-CCs were present in 126 (59%) of all PDs regardless of plaque size or the severity of luminal stenosis and were present with or without luminal thrombosis. Luminal thrombosis was present in 105 PDs (49%), primarily in those segments showing significant luminal stenosis. There was no significant difference in the frequency of luminal thrombosis in those PDs with or without P-CCs. P-CCs are commonly present at the site of PD and may contribute to PD by penetrating and disrupting the fibrous cap. The ability to recognize this parallel configuration may help to identify plaques with impending plaque rupture."}
{"id": "20811968", "title": "Chronic kidney disease and risk for coronary events: value of myocardial perfusion imaging.", "content": "Chronic kidney disease and risk for coronary events: value of myocardial perfusion imaging."}
{"id": "20798338", "title": "Serum uric acid predicts progression of subclinical coronary atherosclerosis in individuals without renal disease.", "content": "Serum uric acid predicts progression of subclinical coronary atherosclerosis in individuals without renal disease. To examine uric acid (UA) as a possible predictor of the progression of coronary artery calcification (CAC) using data from the prospective Coronary Artery Calcification in Type 1 Diabetes (CACTI) Study. CAC was measured by electron beam tomography at the baseline and at a follow-up 6.0\u00b10.5 years later. The study population included 443 participants with type 1 diabetes and 526 control subjects who were free of diagnosed coronary artery disease at baseline. The presence of renal disease was defined by the presence of albuminuria and/or low glomerular filtration rate. In subjects without renal disease, serum UA predicted CAC progression (odds ratio 1.30 [95% CI 1.07-1.58], P=0.007) independent of conventional cardiovascular risk factors including diabetes and the presence of metabolic syndrome. Serum UA levels predict the progression of coronary atherosclerosis and may be useful in identifying who is at risk for vascular disease in the absence of significant chronic kidney disease."}
{"id": "20733103", "title": "Homoarginine, cardiovascular risk, and mortality.", "content": "Homoarginine, cardiovascular risk, and mortality. Homoarginine is an amino acid derivative that may increase nitric oxide availability and enhance endothelial function. The effect of the level of homoarginine on cardiovascular outcome and mortality is unknown. We assessed cardiovascular and all-cause mortality according to homoarginine levels in a cohort of 3,305 subjects referred for coronary angiography from the LUdwigshafen RIsk and Cardiovascular Health (LURIC) Study. After investigating the relation of homoarginine with kidney function and markers of endothelial dysfunction, we explored its effects on adverse outcomes in a second high-risk cohort of 1244 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus receiving maintenance hemodialysis (4D study [Die Deutsche Diabetes Dialyse Studie]). In the LURIC study, mean serum homoarginine levels were 2.6+/-1.1 micromol/L. During a median follow-up of 7.7 years, 766 patients died. After adjustments for age and sex, patients in the lowest quartile (<1.85 micromol/L) had a >4-fold higher rate of dying of cardiovascular disease (hazard ratio 4.1, 95% confidence interval 3.0 to 5.7) than patients in the highest quartile (>3.1 micromol/L). Lower homoarginine levels were associated with lower estimated glomerular filtration rate and higher levels of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1. Hemodialysed patients had lower mean homoarginine levels of 1.2+/-0.5 micromol/L and experienced a 5-fold increased mortality rate compared with LURIC patients (608 deaths during a median follow-up of 4 years). Homoarginine consistently affected mortality, which was 2-fold higher in 4D study patients in the lowest quartile (<0.87 micromol/L) than in patients in the highest quartile (>1.4 micromol/L). Homoarginine levels are independently associated with cardiovascular and all-cause mortality in patients referred for coronary angiography and in patients undergoing hemodialysis. Future studies are needed to elucidate the underlying pathomechanisms."}
{"id": "20731105", "title": "[Phosphorus and calcium metabolism and the cardiovascular system status in patients with early-stage chronic renal disease].", "content": "[Phosphorus and calcium metabolism and the cardiovascular system status in patients with early-stage chronic renal disease]. To define the impact of phosphorus and calcium metabolic disturbances in patients with early-stage chronic renal disease (CRD) on the cardiovascular system. The levels of phosphate (P), calcium, parathyroid hormone (PTH), 25(OH) vitamin D and 1,25(OH)2 vitamin D, serum lipidogram, carotid artery intima-media thickness (IMT), and X-ray degree of abdominal artery calcification (AAC) were determined and echocardiography, electrocardiography and blood pressure monitoring were made in 465 patients with Stages I-V CRD who did not receive renal replacement therapy (of them, 73.5% of the patients had early (I to III) stages). Blood 1,25(OH)2D was related inversely to left ventricular (LV) posterior wall thickness, blood pressure (BP), triglycerides, and the degree of AAC and correlated directly to the severity of LV diastolic dysfunction and inversely to IMT, the presence of coronary heart disease and heart failure (HF). ACC, LV hypertrophy, and arterial hypertension (AH) were more significant in patients with higher serum levels PTH and P. In patients with early-stage CRD, phosphorus and calcium metabolic disturbances promote the development of AH, vascular and cardiac valvular calcification, myocardial hypertrophy, and HF."}
{"id": "20723638", "title": "A novel percutaneous coronary intervention risk score to predict one-year mortality.", "content": "A novel percutaneous coronary intervention risk score to predict one-year mortality. Clinical and angiographic risk factors associated with adverse outcomes after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) have been included in previous validated risk scores. Complications after PCI are known to increase mortality and morbidity but have not been included in any model. Records of 6,932 consecutive patients who underwent PCI from 2000 to 2005 were reviewed. Patients presenting with cardiogenic shock were excluded. Logistic regression and bootstrap methods were used to build an integer risk score for estimating risk of death at 1 year after PCI using baseline, angiographic, and procedural characteristics and postprocedural complications. This risk score was validated in a set of consecutive patients who underwent PCI from 2006 to 2007. The following 8 variables were significantly correlated with outcome: older age, history of diabetes mellitus, chronic renal failure, heart failure, left main coronary artery disease, lower baseline hematocrit, greater hematocrit decrease after PCI, and Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction grade <3 flow after PCI. In the validation population (n = 973), average receiver operating characteristic curve area was 0.836. In conclusion, we developed and validated a simple integer risk score, including postprocedural variables that closely predict long-term mortality after PCI. This model emphasizes the significant impact of complications occurring after PCI on long-term outcomes."}
{"id": "20718199", "title": "Quadricuspid aortic valve diagnosed by transthoracic echocardiography in childhood.", "content": "Quadricuspid aortic valve diagnosed by transthoracic echocardiography in childhood. Quadricuspid aortic valve is a rare congenital malformation of the heart leading to significant aortic regurgitation or stenosis. Its diagnosis by transthoracic echocardiography is difficult. Most of the cases are diagnosed during surgery or autopsy. Associated abnormalities of the coronary arteries should also be searched, since surgical injury may have devastating results. We herein present an eight-year-old girl found to have a quadricuspid aortic valve during evaluation of chronic renal disease and systemic hypertension."}
{"id": "20715464", "title": "[Usefulness of photo dynamic eye system for detection of graft spasm in off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting].", "content": "[Usefulness of photo dynamic eye system for detection of graft spasm in off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting]. A 54-year-old-man on hemodialysis was admitted to the hospital because of effort angina. A coronary angiography revealed multiple stenoses including 90% stenosis in the left main trunk. Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) was performed with Y-composite grafts constructed by the right internal thoracic artery (RITA) and the free gastroepiploic artery (GEA) which were anastomosed to left anterior descending artery (LAD) and the diagonal branch (D1) using the off-pump technique. After completion of anastomosis, Photo Dynamic Eye (PDE) system showed fluorescence not in the free GEA but at the anastomotic site of GEA to D1. Because the graft spasm of GEA was diagnosed by PDE, papaverine solution was sprayed to the graft, which resolved the spasm and re-anastomosis was avoided. PDE system is a useful tool for the diagnosis of graft spasm, and may contribute to improvement of quality of CABG."}
{"id": "20706134", "title": "Left ventricular hypertrophy as a determinant of renal outcome in patients with high cardiovascular risk.", "content": "Left ventricular hypertrophy as a determinant of renal outcome in patients with high cardiovascular risk. The prognostic importance of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) on renal impairment has not been addressed previously. We investigated whether LVH determines renal outcomes in patients with high cardiovascular risk. We retrospectively studied 6163 men with high cardiovascular risk (68 \u00b1 13 years, 23% with coronary artery disease, 34% with diabetes, 83% with hypertension and 30% smokers) followed for a period of 14 years. Left ventricular mass index was assessed at baseline, whereas kidney function and blood pressure levels were determined at both baseline and the end of the follow-up period. Renal outcomes were doubling of serum creatinine, estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) below 30 ml/min per 1.73 m and incident hemodialysis. During the follow-up, 5.8% (n = 356), 7% (n = 429) and 2.7% (n = 165) of men fulfilled the above-mentioned three outcomes, respectively. After adjustment, for each 42 g/m (1 SD) increase in left ventricular mass index, there was a rise in risk of all renal outcomes by 45.7% (95% confidence interval 28.5-58.3) for doubling of serum creatinine, 51.9% (95% confidence interval 39.7-65%) for eGFR below 30 ml/min per 1.73 m and 58.3% (95% confidence interval 39.7-79.3) for hemodialysis (P < 0.001 for all). Severe LVH (160 < left ventricular mass index \u2264 180 g/m) compared with non-LVH predicted a significant increase in: doubling of serum creatinine by 103.8%, eGFR-guided outcome by 109.1% and hemodialysis by 74.1%. In those with LVH and impaired kidney function at baseline (GFR <60 ml/min per 1.73 m) compared with those without such entities, serum creatinine, eGFR and hemodialysis-guided outcomes were increased by four-fold, 15-fold and 16-fold, respectively. Increased left ventricular mass is a predictor of subsequent kidney dysfunction and should be considered in renal risk stratification in a broad spectrum of men with high cardiovascular risk."}
{"id": "20690090", "title": "Coronary computed tomography angiography in dialysis patients undergoing pre-renal transplantation cardiac risk stratification.", "content": "Coronary computed tomography angiography in dialysis patients undergoing pre-renal transplantation cardiac risk stratification. This study addresses the safety, feasibility, and interpretability of coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) in excluding significant coronary artery disease in end-stage renal disease patients on dialysis undergoing pre-renal transplant cardiac risk evaluation. Twenty nine patients (55.5 +/- 10.2 years) undergoing cardiac risk assessment prior to renal transplantation, underwent research CCTA with calcium scoring and formed the study group. All CCTAs were performed using retrospective acquisition, with beta-blockade provided one hour prior to scanning. No major complications occurred in this group up to 30 days after CCTA. Of the total of 374 segments interpreted by both readers, only 36 (10%) were uninterpretable by both readers. Of these, 31 (86%) were from distal segments or branches. On a segmental level, there was 95% concordance between both readers for < 50% stenosis detection. Only three out of 28 (11%) CCTAs were deemed uninterpretable. Ten patients (36%) had zero calcium score, despite being on dialysis with no evidence of obstructive coronary artery disease by CCTA. CCTA is feasible and safe in end-stage renal disease dialysis patients with the advent of 64-slice CCTA. Despite significant calcium burden, there was excellent inter-observer agreement at segment level for the left main and all three proximal-mid coronary arteries in excluding obstructive coronary artery disease (> 50% stenosis)."}
{"id": "20690086", "title": "Images beyond clinical presentation? Promising, but not confirmed in ESRD transplant candidates.", "content": "Images beyond clinical presentation? Promising, but not confirmed in ESRD transplant candidates."}
{"id": "20653359", "title": "Effects of lipid-lowering therapy on reduction of cardiovascular events in patients with end-stage renal disease requiring hemodialysis.", "content": "Effects of lipid-lowering therapy on reduction of cardiovascular events in patients with end-stage renal disease requiring hemodialysis. In the general population, dyslipidemia is an established independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. In patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), comorbid cardiovascular disease is present at alarming rates, and those who require hemodialysis and have cardiovascular disease continue to have a high mortality rate. Lipid abnormalities associated with chronic kidney disease (CKD) vary depending on the stage of disease (stages 1-5), but low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL) has been established as the primary lipid treatment target. Guidelines support an LDL level of less than 100 mg/dl in patients with all stages of CKD, except when the triglyceride level is above 500 mg/dl. As patients progress to stage 5 CKD (ESRD with hemodialysis), the high triglyceride, low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and increased lipoprotein(a) levels of the early stages become more pronounced, with increases in small dense LDL particles; however, total cholesterol and LDL values remain normal or decrease. In patients undergoing hemodialysis, lipid abnormalities are driven by an increase in hepatic secretion and delayed catabolism of very low-density lipoproteins, as well as a reduction in lipoprotein lipase and hepatic lipase. Epidemiologic data support the role of cholesterol lowering as a means to lower cardiovascular events in the hemodialysis population. We conducted a literature search of various databases (1966-September 2009) to identify relevant clinical trials that evaluated the efficacy and safety of multiple lipid-lowering agents for the treatment of dyslipidemia in patients with ESRD requiring hemodialysis. Only those trials that used clinical primary end points of coronary heart disease (e.g., cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, stroke) were included in this review. Evidence demonstrates that 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor (statin) therapy (i.e., atorvastatin and rosuvastatin) significantly reduces surrogate cardiovascular markers, particularly LDL, in patients with ESRD requiring hemodialysis; however, no statin has proved to reduce cardiovascular morbidity or mortality in this population. Trials evaluating omega-3 fatty acids did not show significant reductions in LDL or cardiovascular events in this population. Clinicians should appreciate these limitations when deciding whether to continue lipid-lowering pharmacotherapy in these patients, depending on their overall cardiovascular risk assessment."}
{"id": "20651884", "title": "[Carotid ultrasound: prevention of heart disease and mortality on haemodialysis].", "content": "[Carotid ultrasound: prevention of heart disease and mortality on haemodialysis]. Cardiovascular disease and other complications of atherosclerosis are the most common cause of death in patients with chronic renal failure in maintenance hemodialysis (MHD). Carotid ultrasonography is a simple non-invasive tool to investigate the vascular system, by means of intima media thickness (IMT) measurement and carotid wall calcifications. To determine IMT and the presence of plaques, and their possible clinical relationships; finally we tried to investigate whether they would predict cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in patients in MHD. We studied 60 MHD patients (age 68 +/- 13 years, 48% male, 50% diabetics, time on MHD 32 +/- 11 months) and a control group of 274 people matched for age and sex. Follow-up period was 66 +/- 13 months. Demographic and clinical data, serum levels of homocysteine (tHcy), folic acid (FA) and B6 and B12 vitamins. IMT was measured by high-resolution B-mode ultrasonography. IMT was higher in MHD patients than in those in the control group (0.947 +/- 0.308 vs 0.619 +/- 0.176 mm; P < 0.001). IMT was related with age (r = 0.268; P = 0.038), diabetic (r = 0.650; P < 0.001) and hypertensive condition (r = 0.333; P = 0.012), but not wih lipids, tHcy or FA. Patients who suffered from coronary artery disease, peripheral artery disease or stroke had higher IMT than those without those events (1.156 +/- 0.371 vs 0.875 +/- 0.285 mm; P < 0.001; 1.205 +/- 0.374 vs 0.911 +/- 0.231 mm; P = 0.007; 1.195 +/- 0.264 vs 0.844 +/- 0.251; P < 0.001 respectively). Something similar occurred with the presence of plaques. During the follow-up period 36 patients died (60%), 67% of them due to cardiovascular causes. IMT was higher in patients who died than those who survived (1.020 +/- 0.264 vs 0.858 +/- 0.334 mm; P = 0.044). The survival rate during the observation period was significantly lower in the final IMT fourth (20%) than in the first (72%) (P = 0.014). The presence of carotid plaques was an independent predictor of cardiovascular mortality. These findings suggests that measurement of carotid IMT and the presence of wall plaques are useful tools to predict cardiovascular events and mortality in patients in MHD."}
{"id": "20649758", "title": "Prognostic study of cardiac and renal events in Japanese patients with chronic kidney disease and cardiovascular risk using myocardial perfusion SPECT: J-ACCESS 3 study design.", "content": "Prognostic study of cardiac and renal events in Japanese patients with chronic kidney disease and cardiovascular risk using myocardial perfusion SPECT: J-ACCESS 3 study design. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with chronic kidney disease. Recent studies have indicated that the incidence of cardiovascular disease increases inversely with estimated glomerular filtration rate. Although coronary angiography is considered the gold standard for detecting coronary artery disease, contrast-induced nephropathy or cholesterol microembolization remain serious problems; therefore, a method of detecting coronary artery disease without renal deterioration is desirable. From this viewpoint, stress myocardial perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) might be useful for patients with chronic kidney disease. We recently performed the Japanese Assessment of Cardiac Events and Survival Study by Quantitative Gated SPECT (J-ACCESS) investigating patients with suspected or extant coronary artery disease and the J-ACCESS 2 study of patients with diabetes. The findings from these studies showed that SPECT can detect coronary artery disease and help to predict future cardiac events. Thus, we proposed a multicenter, prospective cohort study called \"J-ACCESS 3\" in patients with chronic kidney disease and cardiovascular risk. The study aimed at predicting cardiovascular and renal events based on myocardial perfusion imaging and clinical backgrounds. We began enrolling patients in J-ACCESS 3 at 74 facilities from April 2009 and will continue to do so until 31 March 2010, with the aim of having a cohort of 800 patients. These will be followed up for three years. The primary endpoints will be cardiac death and sudden death. The secondary endpoints will comprise any cardiovascular or renal events. This study will be completed in 2013. Here, we describe the design of the J-ACCESS 3 study."}
{"id": "20648438", "title": "Risk factors for carotid artery disease in patients scheduled for coronary artery bypass grafting.", "content": "Risk factors for carotid artery disease in patients scheduled for coronary artery bypass grafting. Carotid artery disease is thought to be a risk factor for neurological complications after cardiac surgery. Routine ultrasonographic screening is still not performed in every patient scheduled for coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). To assess factors which may facilitate the selection for elective carotid artery ultrasound examination in patients undergoing CABG. 682 patients (mean age 63.2 +/- 8.7, range: 37-85 years) scheduled for CABG underwent preoperative duplex ultrasound examination of the carotid arteries. The following factors were collected and analysed: age, sex, LVEF, history of cerebrovascular accidents (stroke and/or TIA), myocardial infarction, and presence of hypertension, diabetes, unstable angina, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic kidney disease, left main stenosis > or = 50%, lower-extremity peripheral arterial disease, and obesity (BMI > 30 kg/m(2)). Logistic regression analysis was used to determine the risk factors for carotid artery stenosis. Internal or common carotid artery stenosis > or = 50% was detected in 123 (18%) patients. Bilateral stenosis occurred in 35 (5.1%) patients, of whom 29 (4.5%) presented at least a monolateral vessel diameter reduction of > or= 70%. History of cerebrovascular accidents, presence of lower-extremity peripheral arterial disease, and unstable angina were independent risk factors for at least monolateral vessel diameter reduction > or = 50%. Although older age was also an independent predictor (Exp(B) = 1.035, p < 0.05), the ROC curve analysis did not reveal an age threshold above which the probability of detecting carotid disease increases significantly with satisfying sensitivity and specificity. The predictors of bilateral stenosis (at least one of them > or = 70%) were a history of stroke, presence of left main disease, and lower-extremity peripheral arterial disease. Carotid disease is common in patients scheduled for CABG. Preoperative carotid artery ultrasound examination should be performed, regardless of age, in all patients with more advanced symptomatic atherosclerosis, such as a history of cerebrovascular accidents, presence of lower-extremity peripheral arterial disease, left main disease, or unstable angina."}
{"id": "20647563", "title": "Iodixanol versus low-osmolar contrast media for prevention of contrast induced nephropathy: meta-analysis of randomized, controlled trials.", "content": "Iodixanol versus low-osmolar contrast media for prevention of contrast induced nephropathy: meta-analysis of randomized, controlled trials. Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. The objective of our meta-analysis was to assess the efficacy of iodixanol compared with low-osmolar contrast media (LOCM) for prevention of CIN. We searched MEDLINE, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, and internet sources of cardiology trial results for individual and relevant reviews of randomized, controlled trials, for the terms contrast media, contrast nephropathy, renal failure, iodixanol, Visipaque, and low-osmolar contrast media. All studies reported an incidence rate of CIN for each study group; there was no restriction on the definition of CIN. There were no restrictions on journal type or patient population. Overall, 36 trials were identified for analysis of aggregated summary data on 7166 patients; 3672 patients received iodixanol and 3494 patients received LOCM. Overall, iodixanol showed no statistically significant reduction in CIN incidence below that observed with heterogeneous comparator agents (P=0.11). Analysis of patient subgroups revealed that there was a significant benefit of iodixanol when compared with iohexol alone (odds ratio, 0.25; 95% confidence interval, 0.11 to 0.55; P<0.001) but not when compared with LOCM other than iohexol or with other ionic dimers or among patients receiving intra-arterial contrast injections or among patients undergoing coronary angiography with or without percutaneous intervention. Analysis of aggregated summary data from multiple randomized, controlled trials of iodixanol against diverse LOCMs for heterogeneous procedures and definitions of CIN show an iodixanol-associated reduction that is suggestive but statistically nonsignificant."}
{"id": "20645679", "title": "Apelin: a potential link between inflammation and cardiovascular disease in end stage renal disease patients.", "content": "Apelin: a potential link between inflammation and cardiovascular disease in end stage renal disease patients. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in hemodialysis patients. Increasing evidence suggests a role for apelin in the pathology of the cardiovascular system. In the present study, the plasma level of apelin was studied in patients with hemodialysis to assess the effect of renal transplantation and dialysis session on plasma apelin and whether circulating apelin levels reflect cardiovascular homeostasis and inflammation in these patients. Plasma apelin, high sensitive CRP (hsCRP) and IL-6 levels were investigated in 30 end stage renal disease (ESRD) patients on maintenance hemodialysis (HD), a group of 15 HD patients scheduled for renal transplantation and a group of 15 HD patients on maintenance HD, as well as ten healthy volunteer subjects who served as controls. An echocardiography was performed for all subjects. Plasma apelin levels were significantly lower in hemodialyzed patients compared to controls. Plasma apelin was also found to be positively correlated with left ventricular end systolic dimension (LVESD), left ventricular end diastolic dimension (LVEDD), interventricular septum (IVS), right ventricle (RV), left atrium (LA), Aorta (Ao), while, it was negatively correlated with hsCRP and IL-6 in ESRD patients. Regarding the effect of hemodialysis on plasma apelin levels, no significant effect was found after a single hemodialysis session, while levels increased significantly in the early post-transplant period. Apelin is related to echocardiographic features and inflammatory markers in hemodialyzed patients. Apelin may provide a mechanism for systemic inflammatory monitoring and adaptive regulation of cardiovascular function."}
{"id": "20635028", "title": "[Detection of platelet-activating factor in unstimulated mixed saliva and gingival crevicular fluid of periodontitis patients with coronary heart disease].", "content": "[Detection of platelet-activating factor in unstimulated mixed saliva and gingival crevicular fluid of periodontitis patients with coronary heart disease]. To explore the correlation between periodontitis and coronary heart diseases(CHD) by comparing the levels of platelet-activating factor (PAF) in saliva and gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) among 4 groups. One hundred and twenty subjects were divided into 4 groups according to the diagnostic angiography and periodontal examination as group (C+P), group C, group P and group H.Group (C+P) was made up of 24 CHD patients with moderate to advanced periodontitis.36 CHD patients without periodontitis were as group C.Group P was made up of 32 patients suffering moderate to advanced periodontitis.Group H was 28 healthy volunteers. The general information and periodontal status of all the subjects were recorded and unstimulated mixed saliva and GCF samples were collected.The PAF level was detected by ELISA. Then the difference in PAF level of each group was analyzed with SPSS13.0 software package. One way analysis of variance showed that the levels of PAF in saliva and GCF from the patients of group (C+P) and P were significantly higher than the group C and group H. The results of Pearson correlation analysis showed that the levels of PAF in saliva and GCF positively correlated with pocket depth (PD) and attachment loss (AL) (P<0.05). Inflammation of periodontal tissues can increase the level of PAF which may be a risk factor of coronary heart diseases. It indicates that the raising level of PAF may be another significant factor in the process of periodontitis affecting the progress of coronary heart disease."}
{"id": "20633853", "title": "Chronic kidney disease as a potent risk modifier for CAD in diabetics.", "content": "Chronic kidney disease as a potent risk modifier for CAD in diabetics."}
{"id": "20633852", "title": "Renal function and risk stratification of diabetic and nondiabetic patients undergoing evaluation for coronary artery disease.", "content": "Renal function and risk stratification of diabetic and nondiabetic patients undergoing evaluation for coronary artery disease. The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of renal function by estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) on risk stratification of diabetic and nondiabetic patients undergoing myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) by single-photon emission computed tomography for suspected ischemia. Coronary artery disease is the leading cause of death among diabetic persons; however, diabetic persons are a very heterogeneous group in terms of cardiovascular risk, necessitating further risk stratification. Patients (n = 1,747, age 65 +/- 10 years, 37% diabetic) undergoing MPI were followed for cardiac death (CD) for a mean of 2.15 +/- 0.8 years. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) was defined by an eGFR <60 ml/min. In the presence of a normal scan, annual CD rate was 0.9% for those with no diabetes mellitus (DM) and no CKD, 0.5% in the DM alone group, 2.35% in CKD alone, and 2.9% in those with both DM and CKD (p < 0.001). Patients with DM+CKD had a 2.7-fold risk of CD compared with no DM no CKD (p = 0.001) after controlling for age, ejection fraction, history of coronary artery disease, and other risk factors. The risk of CD increased as a function of the presence and severity of perfusion defects, regardless of CKD or DM status. Presence of CKD conferred a several-fold higher risk of CD for the various strata of perfusion defects. Log-rank test for difference in probability of CD was nonsignificant for comparison between patients with no DM no CKD and those with DM alone (p = 0.73) but was significant for comparison between patients with no DM no CKD and patients with CKD alone (p < 0.001) or DM+CKD (p < 0.001). MPI and eGFR provide valuable risk stratification for diabetic and nondiabetic patients. Diabetic patients without CKD seem to have similar short-term cardiac outcomes compared with nondiabetic patients. Underlying CKD seems to identify a high-risk subgroup of diabetic patients."}
{"id": "20603087", "title": "Magnetic resonance angiography and Doppler scanning for detecting atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis.", "content": "Magnetic resonance angiography and Doppler scanning for detecting atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis. Atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis (ARAS) is a progressive but potentially reversible chronic kidney disease. Although the high sensitivity and specificity of renal Doppler scanning (RDS) for ARAS has been reported in western countries, ARAS has not been detected by RDS. This study used magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of RDS for detecting ARAS among outpatients at a nephrology clinic, and to calculate the degree of underestimation of ARAS by RDS. A total of 257 outpatients, aged > 50 years were examined for ARAS by RDS and MRA. Thirty-seven (14.4%) and 139 (54.1%) of 257 patients had stenosis detected by RDS and MRA, respectively. Among the 220 patients whose RDS results were negative, MRA detected stenosis in 111 (50.45%). Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that age > 65 years, duration of smoking, coronary artery disease, and serum creatinine levels > 354 mmol/L (4 mg/dL) were significant and independent factors that influenced ARAS in patients with negative results by RDS. RDS might still be the diagnostic procedure of choice for screening outpatients for ARAS because it is inexpensive, convenient, able to detect severity, and avoids the use of contrast media. When RDS is negative in aged people who have smoked longer than 20 years, with coronary artery disease or serum creatinine > 4 mg/dL, MRA is recommended for further evaluation of ARAS."}
{"id": "20586902", "title": "Screening for cardiovascular disease in patients with advanced chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Screening for cardiovascular disease in patients with advanced chronic kidney disease. Cardiovascular disease remains the major cause of mortality and morbidity in patients with advanced chronic kidney disease (CKD) and after renal transplantation. The mechanisms for cardiotoxicity are multiple. Identifying high-risk patients remains a challenge. Given, the poor long-term outcome of dialysis patients who do not receive renal transplantation and the lower supply of donor kidneys relative to demand, optimal selection of renal transplantation candidates is crucial. This requires a clear understanding of the validity of cardiac tests in this patient group. This paper explores the strengths and weaknesses of currently available diagnostic tools in patients with advanced CKD. Echocardiography is very useful for the detection of cardiomyopathy and prognosis. Stress echocardiography, myocardial perfusion imaging and coronary angiography are the best tools for the assessment of coronary artery disease. All predict outcome. No single gold standard investigation exists. At present, there is not an optimal technique for predicting sudden cardiac death in this patient group. Ultimately, the choice of cardiac test will always be determined by patient preference, local expertise and availability."}
{"id": "20586900", "title": "Ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death in patients with chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death in patients with chronic kidney disease. One in four dialysis patients will die suddenly. Most do not fall into the high-risk categories that are associated with sudden death in the general population. The cause of sudden death in the dialysis population is unknown. It may be related to factors associated with chronic kidney disease (CKD) itself, for example, inflammation, vascular stiffness, left ventricular hypertrophy, coronary artery disease, electrolyte/fluid abnormalities or autonomic dysfunction. Studies of patients with implantable cardioverter defibrillators have shown that patients with CKD are more likely to use their devices for ventricular arrhythmias but in spite of this still have a high associated mortality. Until a comprehensive risk stratification strategy is understood, minimising risk by good control of basic parameters such as fluid balance, electrolytes and blood pressure, along with careful assessment of all patients for evidence of coronary artery disease and heart failure is the mainstay of management of the CKD patient."}
{"id": "20576827", "title": "Effect of kidney disease on acute coronary syndrome.", "content": "Effect of kidney disease on acute coronary syndrome. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is highly prevalent worldwide and is associated with an increased risk for adverse outcomes in patients hospitalized with acute coronary syndrome (ACS). In studies including thousands of patients admitted with myocardial infarction, CKD consistently determines a poorer prognosis for ACS patients. In contrast with CKD, information about the effect of acute kidney injury (AKI) on clinical outcomes after ACS is limited. Most data come from retrospective registry databank studies of nonconsecutive patients with a significant number of patients excluded from analyses. There are no prospective studies designed to determine whether AKI strictly diagnosed by the new the Acute Kidney Injury Network (AKIN) or RIFLE (Risk, Injury, Failure, Loss, and End-stage kidney disease) criteria is a risk factor for death after ACS, and there are no data comparing the RIFLE and AKIN criteria for AKI diagnosis after myocardial infarction. This article reviews the most important data on CKD and ACS and the available data on AKI and ACS. The importance of obtaining an early serum creatinine level after admission for ACS and the importance of renal function monitoring during hospitalization are stressed."}
{"id": "20576822", "title": "Fibroblast growth factor 23 and fetuin A are independent predictors for the coronary artery disease extent in mild chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Fibroblast growth factor 23 and fetuin A are independent predictors for the coronary artery disease extent in mild chronic kidney disease. Cardiovascular disease in chronic kidney disease (CKD) is explained in part by traditional cardiovascular risk factors; by uremia-specific factors; and by abnormalities of mineral metabolism, factors involved in its regulation, and in the vascular calcification process. In an unselected population of 177 patients with calculated GFR (eGFR) between 90 and 30 ml/min per 1.73 m(2), the link between the mineral metabolism abnormalities (calcium, phosphorus, calcium-phosphorus product), regulatory factors (parathyroid hormone [PTH], intact PTH [iPTH], vitamin D, fibroblast growth factor 23 [FGF 23], and fetuin A), and the severity of coronary artery disease (CAD) assessed by coronary angiography were evaluated in three subgroups defined by tertiles of Gensini lesion severity score. The mean serum values for FGF 23 in the entire study population was 28.1 \u00b1 17.3 RU/ml and for fetuin A was 473.1 \u00b1 156.2 \u03bcg/ml. Patients with eGFR < 60 ml/min per 1.73 m(2) had significantly higher values of FGF 23 compared with patients with eGFR > 60 ml/min per 1.73 m(2). The Gensini score values significantly correlated with gender; arterial hypertension; and HDL cholesterol, eGFR, iPTH, FGF 23, and fetuin A levels. After the adjustments for traditional and uremia-related cardiovascular risk factors, the FGF 23 and fetuin A remained significant predictors of the Gensini score. This study suggests that in a relatively young population with mild-to-moderate alteration of kidney function and with less traditional cardiovascular risk factors, anomalies of the serum FGF 23 and fetuin A levels appear early in the course of disease and are independent major predictors for extent of CAD."}
{"id": "20565936", "title": "Risk factors of one year increment of coronary calcifications and survival in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Risk factors of one year increment of coronary calcifications and survival in hemodialysis patients. Heart and coronary calcifications in hemodialysis patients are of very common occurrence and linked to cardiovascular events and mortality. Several studies have been published with similar results. Most of them were mainly cross-sectional and some of the prospective protocols were aimed to evaluate the results of the control of altered biochemical parameters of mineral disturbances with special regard to serum calcium, phosphate and CaxP with the use of calcium containing and calcium free phosphate chelating agents. The aim of the present study was to evaluate in hemodialysis patients classic and some non classic risk factors as predictors of calcification changes after one year and to evaluate the impact of progression on survival. 81 patients on hemodialysis were studied, with a wide age range and HD vintage. Several classic parameters and some less classic risk factors were studied like fetuin-A, CRP, 25-OHD and leptin. Calcifications, as Agatston scores, were evaluated with Multislice CT basally and after 12-18 months. Coronary artery calcifications were observed in 71 of 81 patients. Non parametric correlations between Agatston scores and Age, HD Age, PTH and CRP were significant. Delta increments of Agatston scores correlated also with serum calcium, CaxP, Fetuin-A, triglycerides and serum albumin. Logistic regression analysis showed Age, PTH and serum calcium as important predictors of Delta Agatston scores. LN transformation of the not normally distributed variables restricted the significant correlations to Age, BMI and CRP. Considering the Delta Agatston scores as dependent, significant predictors were Age, PTH and HDL. A strong association was found between basal calcification scores and Delta increment at one year. By logistic analysis, the one year increments in Agatston scores were found to be predictors of mortality. Diabetic and hypertensive patients have significantly higher Delta scores. Progression of calcification is of common occurrence, with special regard to elevated basal scores, and is predictive of survival. Higher predictive value of survival is linked to the one year increment of calcification scores. Some classic and non classic risk factors play an important role in progression. Some of them could be controlled with appropriate management with possible improvement of mortality."}
{"id": "20557861", "title": "Impact of phosphate binder type on coronary artery calcification in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Impact of phosphate binder type on coronary artery calcification in hemodialysis patients. In individuals with chronic kidney disease (CKD), including those undergoing maintenance hemodialysis (MHD), coronary artery calcification (CAC) is common. We hypothesized that, in MHD patients, intake of the calcium-free phosphate binder sevelamer is associated with lower CAC compared to calcium-based phosphate binders (CBPB). This is a cross-sectional study of MHD patients, who underwent computerized tomography to assess coronary artery calcium scores (CACS). Patients were stratified into two mutually exclusive groups based on taking only a CBPB vs. sevelamer. Logistic regression was used to calculate adjusted odds ratio (OR) of CACS > or = 400, CACS 100 < or =; CACS < 400, 10 < or =; CACS < 100 vs. CACS < 10. 117 MHD patients were either on a CBPB alone (n = 60) or sevelamer alone (n = 57). Despite increased prevalence of DM in the sevelamer group (58%) as compared to the CBPB group (35%), CACS was significantly lower with sevelamer use (283 + or - 83 vs. 494 + or - 94, p = 0.02). The OR of significant CACS > or =; 400 vs. CAC < 10 was 4.35 (95% confidence interval: 1.5 - 9.9, p = 0.008) for CBPB compared with sevelamer, after controlling for case-mix, cholesterol-lowering medication, DM, and inflammatory markers. In our cohort, significant CAC was significantly more prevalent among MHD patients taking CBPB as compared to sevelamer monotherapy."}
{"id": "20556806", "title": "QT prolongation is an independent predictor of mortality in end-stage renal disease.", "content": "QT prolongation is an independent predictor of mortality in end-stage renal disease. Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the predominant cause of sudden cardiac death in the general population, and sudden cardiac death is the leading cause of mortality in end-stage renal disease (ESRD). QT-interval prolongation is an independent prognosticator in ESRD. We reviewed clinical, electrocardiographic, stress test, and coronary angiography data on ESRD patients evaluated for transplantation at our institution between 2000 and 2004 who underwent coronary angiography. The QT interval was corrected for heart rate and QRS duration (QTc). All-cause mortality data were prospectively collected and verified against the Social Security Death Index database. During 40 +/- 28 months of follow-up, 132 of the 280 (47%) patients died prior to renal transplantation. Patients with a prolonged QTc (39%) had 1-, 3-, and 5-year death-rates of 12%, 36%, and 47%, respectively, vs 8%, 24%, and 36% for those with normal QTc (log-rank P = 0.03). In a multivariate Cox regression model that adjusted for age, gender, diabetes mellitus, myocardial infarction, presence and severity of CAD on angiography, left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy, LV ejection fraction (EF), and multiple other variables, QTc remained to be an independent predictor of survival (hazard ratio [HR]: 1.008, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.001-1.014, P = 0.016). Female gender, decreasing LVEF, and decreasing severity of CAD on angiography were independent predictors of prolonged QTc. QTc prolongation is an independent predictor of mortality in ESRD patients being evaluated for renal transplantation. The prognostic information gained from the QTc is additive to that provided by the LVEF and the severity of CAD."}
{"id": "20538833", "title": "Effect of allopurinol in chronic kidney disease progression and cardiovascular risk.", "content": "Effect of allopurinol in chronic kidney disease progression and cardiovascular risk. Hyperuricemia is associated with hypertension, inflammation, renal disease progression, and cardiovascular disease. However, no data are available regarding the effect of allopurinol in patients with chronic kidney disease. We conducted a prospective, randomized trial of 113 patients with estimated GFR (eGFR) <60 ml/min. Patients were randomly assigned to treatment with allopurinol 100 mg/d (n = 57) or to continue the usual therapy (n = 56). Clinical, biochemical, and inflammatory parameters were measured at baseline and at 6, 12, and 24 months of treatment. The objectives of study were: (1) renal disease progression; (2) cardiovascular events; and (3) hospitalizations of any causes. Serum uric acid and C-reactive protein levels were significantly decreased in subjects treated with allopurinol. In the control group, eGFR decreased 3.3 +/- 1.2 ml/min per 1.73 m(2), and in the allopurinol group, eGFR increased 1.3 +/- 1.3 ml/min per 1.73 m(2) after 24 months. Allopurinol treatment slowed down renal disease progression independently of age, gender, diabetes, C-reactive protein, albuminuria, and renin-angiotensin system blockers use. After a mean follow-up time of 23.4 +/- 7.8 months, 22 patients suffered a cardiovascular event. Diabetes mellitus, previous coronary heart disease, and C-reactive protein levels increased cardiovascular risk. Allopurinol treatment reduces risk of cardiovascular events in 71% compared with standard therapy. Allopurinol decreases C-reactive protein and slows down the progression of renal disease in patients with chronic kidney disease. In addition, allopurinol reduces cardiovascular and hospitalization risk in these subjects."}
{"id": "20535117", "title": "Prevalence and risk factors for renal artery stenosis and chronic kidney disease in Japanese patients with peripheral arterial disease.", "content": "Prevalence and risk factors for renal artery stenosis and chronic kidney disease in Japanese patients with peripheral arterial disease. The prevalence and risk factors for renal artery stenosis (RAS) and chronic kidney disease (CKD) are unclear in Japanese patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD). To examine these issues, we performed renal angiography in 410 patients with PAD. Renal function and damage were assessed using the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) and urinary level of microalbumin (MA). Multiple logistic and multiple regression analyses were used to examine the relationships of potential risk factors with RAS and CKD. In all, 94 subjects (22.9%) had RAS >50% and 45 subjects (11.0%) had RAS >75%. The incidences of an abnormal level of MA and renal insufficiency (eGFR <60 ml min(-1) per 1.73 m(2)) were 37.0 and 60.7%, respectively. RAS > or =50% was associated with critical limb ischemia (CLI; hazard ratio (HR) 2.519; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.203-5.276, P=0.014), coronary heart disease (CHD; HR 2.143; 95% CI 1.129-4.069; P=0.020) and hypertension (HR 1.907; 95% CI 1.009-3.628; P=0.045). RAS > or =75% had a relationship with hypertension (HR 3.093; 95% CI 1.002-9.548; P=0.048). eGFR was negatively correlated with age, uric acid and CHD (P=0.013), and MA had a significant positive correlation with low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, CLI, age, CHD and diabetes (P<0.001). These results show that the prevalences of RAS and CKD are very high in Japanese patients with PAD; that CLI and CHD are major risk factors for RAS; and that hyperuricemia, hypercholesterolemia and diabetes are risk factors for CKD in PAD. We also found that MA is a simple and noninvasive marker of renal dysfunction and general vascular damage."}
{"id": "20527709", "title": "Off-pump coronary revascularization in chronic dialysis-dependent patients: early outcomes at a single institution.", "content": "Off-pump coronary revascularization in chronic dialysis-dependent patients: early outcomes at a single institution. Atherosclerotic vascular disease is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with end-stage renal disease. Several authors reported that chronic dialytic patients have a high operative risk when submitted to coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) on cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) whereas little information exists about off-pump myocardial revascularization in these patients. Between January 2000 and December 2008, 17 consecutive patients (12 men, mean age of 62.3 +/- 12.3 years) with end-stage renal failure maintained on chronic hemodialysis underwent isolated off-pump CABG at our center. To evaluate this approach we compared the outcomes of off-pump revascularization with those obtained in the same period in 23 patients (20 men, mean age of 64.0 +/- 9.7 years), with the same preoperative features, who underwent conventional CABG on the arrested heart using CPB. Off-pump revascularization in end-stage renal disease patients showed a satisfactory incidence of mortality and morbidity rates. When compared with conventional CPB CABG group, off-pump patients had a lower incidence of bleeding, transfusions, ventilation support time, length of inotropic support and perioperative myocardial infarction. Also ICU and hospital stay and incidence of new-onset atrial fibrillation were lower in off-pump CABG patients. In our experience, avoidance of CPB in end-stage renal disease patients was associated with an acceptable incidence of postoperative complications and of major adverse events. Off-pump CABG is a safe and effective method of myocardial revascularization in chronically dialyzed patients that should strongly be taken in consideration when planning the surgical strategy in this selected cohort of patients, although multicentric prospective randomized controlled trials are strongly recommended."}
{"id": "20522535", "title": "A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of spironolactone on carotid intima-media thickness in nondiabetic hemodialysis patients.", "content": "A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of spironolactone on carotid intima-media thickness in nondiabetic hemodialysis patients. Hemodialysis patients (HD) display high rates of cardiac diseases and mortality. In chronic kidney disease, vascular injury leads to coronary artery disease, heart failure, and stroke. Carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) measurements are currently widely used in randomized controlled trials (RCTs) to study the efficacy of interventions. An RCT was designed for the assessment of the safety and effectiveness of spironolactone to inhibit the progression of CIMT in HD patients as a primary outcome. Secondary outcomes included measurements of plasma potassium. HD patients were randomly assigned to receive 50 mg spironolactone or placebo thrice weekly after dialysis. In between dialysis sessions, plasma potassium concentrations were measured every month. Ultrasonographic measurements of CIMT were done at the beginning of the study and after 2 years. Fifty-three age- and sex-adjusted patients (30 with drug and 23 with placebo) successfully completed the trial. There were no significant differences between the two groups in all profiles studied at baseline. Measurements of CIMT after 2 years showed a progression in the placebo group, whereas in the spironolactone group a significant decrease or even reversed CIMT was observed. Progression rates (mm/yr) were: common carotid, placebo: 0.06 +/- 0.07, spironolactone: 0.01 +/- 0.04; carotid bifurcation, placebo: 0.15 +/- 0.27, spironolactone: 0.0001 +/- 0.01; internal carotid, placebo: 0.10 +/- 0.12, spironolactone: -0.10 +/- 0.15. No episodes of hyperkalemia were observed, but a slight increase in plasma potassium was found in the spironolactone group. Fifty milligrams of spironolactone thrice weekly significantly reduced the progression of CIMT in HD patients."}
{"id": "20507962", "title": "Statin therapy is not associated with improved vascular access outcomes.", "content": "Statin therapy is not associated with improved vascular access outcomes. Neointimal hyperplasia is the major cause of vascular access failure in hemodialysis patients. Statins reduce neointimal hyperplasia in experimental models, which may reduce access failure. The study presented here evaluated whether vascular access outcomes are superior in patients receiving statin therapy than in those not on statins. A prospective computerized vascular access database was retrospectively queried to determine the access outcomes of 601 patients receiving an upper-arm fistula or graft at a single large dialysis center. Primary fistula failure was observed in 37% of patients on statin therapy versus 38% not on statin therapy. Primary graft failure occurred in 20% of patients on statin therapy versus 14% not on statin therapy. A multiple variable logistic regression analysis including statin use, diabetes, coronary artery disease, peripheral artery disease, sex, and age found that only sex predicted primary fistula failure and graft failure. After excluding primary failures, cumulative fistula survival was similar for patients with or without statin therapy (hazard ratio [HR] 1.26; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.76 to 2.16). Likewise, cumulative graft survival was similar for statin therapy versus no statin therapy (HR 0.88; 95% CI 0.59 to 1.32). Using a multivariable survival analysis model to predict cumulative fistula survival, only age predicted fistula failure (HR 1.21 per decade; 95% CI 1.02 to 1.44). None of the variables in this model predicted cumulative graft survival. Statin therapy is not associated with improved fistula or graft outcomes in patients with chronic kidney disease."}
{"id": "20503025", "title": "Gross proteinuria and subacute renal failure after coronary angiography - a case report of cholesterol crystal embolization.", "content": "Gross proteinuria and subacute renal failure after coronary angiography - a case report of cholesterol crystal embolization. We report on a 55-year-old man who was admitted with increased serum-creatinine (3.4 mg/dl), gross proteinuria (4.6 g/24 h) and arterial hypertension. The medical history included hyperlipidemia, coronary artery disease (CAD) and a recent coronary angiography, but normal serum-creatinine and no proteinuria before coronary intervention. Serology and urinary analysis did not show any signs of a systemic disease. A renal biopsy, however, revealed multiple cholesterol crystal emboli in small vessels along with a typical infiltration of eosinophilic granulocytes. The patient was subsequently treated with an angiotensin-receptor-1 (AT1R) blocker and high-dose statins and was then evaluated for LDL-apheresis. Gross proteinuria was largely unaffected by (AT1R) blockade and renal function further declined necessitating, initiation of hemodialysis. Renal CCE with profound proteinuria is an unusual presentation of acute renal failure, potentially misleading and thereby prolonging correct diagnostics of a rare entity. Identification of high-risk patients is of utmost importance as efficient therapeutic strategies do not exist."}
{"id": "20501456", "title": "Coronary artery calcification: a strong predictor of cardiovascular events in renal transplant recipients.", "content": "Coronary artery calcification: a strong predictor of cardiovascular events in renal transplant recipients. Coronary artery calcification (CAC) independently predicts cardiovascular events (CVE) in the general population. Whether this applies to renal transplant recipients (RTR) is unknown. This prospective study assessed the prognostic impact of CAC on CVE in RTR. We followed up a published cohort of 281 prevalent RTR. At baseline, 16-slice chest spiral computerized tomography scan was performed and classical as well as CKD-related risk factors were recorded. Major CVE (MCVE) was defined as cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, stroke or transient ischaemic attack. All CVE (ACVE) included MCVE and revascularizations. Prognostic factors were assessed by univariate and multivariate Cox regression. During 2.3 \u00b1 0.5 years of follow-up, 16 patients died from CV (n = 8) or non-CV causes (n = 8). Thirty-one RTR developed at least one CVE (first CVE cardiac in 15, peripheral in 12 and cerebrovascular in 4) for a total of 36 CVE. Thirty-month CV survival, MCVE-free survival and ACVE-free survival was 96.4, 93.9 and 87.9%, respectively. By multivariate analysis, the independent predictors of ACVE were CAC score (hazards ratios [HR] = 1.40 [1.12; 1.75] for a 2.72-fold increase in CAC, P < 0.003) and history of CVE (HR = 2.76 [1.21; 6.39], P < 0.02). Our study shows for the first time that CAC is a strong independent predictor of CVE in RTR."}
{"id": "20491972", "title": "Malnutrition-inflammation-coronary calcification in pediatric patients receiving chronic hemodialysis.", "content": "Malnutrition-inflammation-coronary calcification in pediatric patients receiving chronic hemodialysis. Malnutrition, inflammation, and renal osteodystrophy parameters with resultant coronary calcification (CC) are associated with increased cardiovascular mortality in adults. Previous pediatric studies demonstrated CC in children but none assessed for an association between inflammation, malnutrition, renal osteodystrophy, and CC. To assess CC, ultrafast computerized tomogram was obtained for 16 pediatric patients (6 females; median age 17.2 years; range 9.1-21.2 years) receiving hemodialysis for >/=2 months. Inflammation was assessed by serum IL-6, IL-8, and C-reactive protein levels on the day of the computerized tomogram scan; nutrition parameters included serum albumin, cholesterol, the body mass index standard deviation score, and normalized protein catabolic rate. Renal osteodystrophy parameters included time-averaged serum calcium, phosphorus, total PTH, and calcitriol/calcium dose. Patients received hemodialysis thrice-weekly; mean single pool Kt/V 1.48+/-0.13; and mean normalized protein catabolic rate 1.27+/-0.17 g/kg/day. Five of 16 patients had CC. Patients with CC were older (19.1+/-2.1 vs. 15.4+/-3.1 months; P=0.03), had longer dialysis vintage (49.4+/-15.3 vs. 17.2+/-10.5 months, P=0.0002), lower serum cholesterol (122+/-17.7 vs. 160.4+/-10.6 mg/dL, P=0.02), and higher phosphorus (9.05+/-1.2 vs. 6.1+/-0.96 mg/dL, P=0.0001). Mean serum albumin and normalized protein catabolic rate did not differ for patients with CC. All patients had elevated IL-6 and IL-8 levels compared with healthy norms; the mean IL-6, IL-8, and C-reactive protein levels were not different in patients with CC. Coronary calcification was prevalent in older children receiving maintenance hemodialysis with a longer dialysis vintage. Worse renal osteodystrophy control and malnutrition (low cholesterol) may contribute to CC development."}
{"id": "20476884", "title": "Periodontal disease in association with systemic levels of interleukin-18 and CXC ligand 16 in patients undergoing cardiac catheterization.", "content": "Periodontal disease in association with systemic levels of interleukin-18 and CXC ligand 16 in patients undergoing cardiac catheterization. Interleukin (IL)-18 is a proinflammatory cytokine that is present in chronically inflamed tissues; IL-18 was positively associated with periodontitis and coronary artery disease (CAD). CXC ligand (CXCL) 16, a recently discovered chemokine, was identified in atherosclerotic lesions; its role in periodontal disease is largely unknown. This research study correlates periodontal parameters with systemic levels of IL-18 and CXCL16. Fifty-one patients who presented for clinically indicated coronary angiography received full-mouth periodontal examinations. The periodontal status of patients was defined using frequency distributions of probing depth (PD), clinical attachment loss (AL), and bleeding on probing (BOP). Blood samples were collected during cardiac catheterization, and plasma levels of IL-18 and CXCL16 were analyzed. The severity of CAD was determined by the presence and extent of coronary artery stenosis. Correlations between periodontal parameters, levels of inflammatory mediators, and CAD status were analyzed. The extent of BOP exhibited a significant positive correlation with IL-18 in the Spearman rank correlation analysis (P = 0.039), which indicated a correlation between periodontal inflammation and systemic IL-18 levels. When multiple regression analysis was performed, the extent of clinical AL > or =3 mm (P = 0.045) and > or =5 mm (P = 0.024) exhibited an association with IL-18, whereas CXCL16 was associated with clinical AL > or =5 mm (P = 0.040) and PD > or =7 mm (P = 0.047). A significant correlation is identified between periodontitis and systemic levels of IL-18 and CXCL16 in patients undergoing diagnostic coronary angiography."}
{"id": "20470427", "title": "The estimated GFR, but not the stage of diabetic nephropathy graded by the urinary albumin excretion, is associated with the carotid intima-media thickness in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a cross-sectional study.", "content": "The estimated GFR, but not the stage of diabetic nephropathy graded by the urinary albumin excretion, is associated with the carotid intima-media thickness in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a cross-sectional study. To study the relationship between the intima-media thickness (IMT) of the carotid artery and the stage of chronic kidney disease (CKD) based on the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) and diabetic nephropathy graded by the urinary albumin excretion (UAE) in the patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. A cross-sectional study was performed in 338 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. The carotid IMT was measured using an ultrasonographic examination. The mean carotid IMT was 1.06 +/- 0.27 mm, and 42% of the subjects showed IMT thickening (>or= 1.1 mm). Cerebrovascular disease and coronary heart disease were frequent in the patients with IMT thickening. The carotid IMT elevated significantly with the stage progression of CKD (0.87 +/- 0.19 mm in stage 1, 1.02 +/- 0.26 mm in stage 2, 1.11 +/- 0.26 mm in stage 3, and 1.11 +/- 0.27 mm in stage 4+5). However, the IMT was not significantly different among the various stages of diabetic nephropathy. The IMT was significantly greater in the diabetic patients with hypertension compared to those without hypertension. The IMT positively correlated with the age, the duration of diabetes mellitus, and the brachial-ankle pulse wave velocities (baPWV), and negatively correlated with the eGFR. In a stepwise multivariate regression analysis, the eGFR and the baPWV were independently associated with the carotid IMT. Our study is the first report showing a relationship between the carotid IMT and the renal parameters including eGFR and the stages of diabetic nephropathy with a confirmed association between the IMT and diabetic macroangiopathy. Our study further confirms the importance of intensive examinations for the early detection of atherosclerosis and positive treatments for hypertension, dyslipidaemia, obesity, as well as hyperglycaemia are necessary when a reduced eGFR is found in diabetic patients."}
{"id": "20470297", "title": "Ankle brachial index as a predictor for mortality in patients with chronic kidney disease and undergoing haemodialysis.", "content": "Ankle brachial index as a predictor for mortality in patients with chronic kidney disease and undergoing haemodialysis. The ankle brachial index (ABI) is a marker for peripheral artery disease and can predict mortality in advanced chronic kidney disease (CKD) and haemodialysis patients, respectively. However, it is seldom studied in Taiwan, an area with high prevalence of CKD and end-stage renal disease. The aim of this study was to investigate the predictors for mortality by using ABI value in patients with CKD and undergoing haemodialysis in Taiwan. One hundred and sixty-nine patients with CKD stage 3-5 and 231 haemodialysis patients were enrolled in one regional hospital. The mean follow-up period was 23.3 + or - 3.3 months. Patients were stratified into three groups according to ABI value (<0.9, > or = 0.9 to < 1.3, and > or = 1.3). The relative mortality risk was analyzed by Cox-regression methods. In multivariate analysis, an ABI of 1.3 or more (hazard ratio, 3.846; P = 0.043) and coronary artery disease (P = 0.012) were positively associated with overall mortality, and serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level (P = 0.042) was negatively associated with overall mortality. In addition, an ABI of less than 0.9 (P = 0.049), an ABI of 1.3 or more (P = 0.033), coronary artery disease (P = 0.024) and haemodialysis treatment (P = 0.043) were strong predictors for cardiovascular mortality. Our findings show that an ABI of 1.3 or more predicts for both overall and cardiovascular mortality, and an ABI of less than 0.9 predicts for cardiovascular mortality in CKD and haemodialysis patients. Screening patients with chronic renal failure by means of ABI may help to identify a high-risk group for increased mortality."}
{"id": "20470277", "title": "Tight relations between coronary calcification and atherosclerotic lesions in the carotid artery in chronic dialysis patients.", "content": "Tight relations between coronary calcification and atherosclerotic lesions in the carotid artery in chronic dialysis patients. Both vascular calcification and atherosclerosis are highly prevalent in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and have been associated with increased cardiovascular morbidity. Because those two phenomena might be only coincidentally related in chronic haemodialysis (HD) patients, in this study, coronary artery calcification (CAC), common carotid artery intima media thickness (CCA-IMT) and thickness of atherosclerotic plaques in the carotid artery were simultaneously measured. In a cross-sectional study of 47 HD patients (31 male, mean age 56.8 +/- 11.4 years, and 16 female, mean age 56.0 +/- 7.5 years) without history of major cardiovascular complications. CCA-IMT and presence and thickness of atherosclerotic plaques were measured with ultrasound and CAC with multidetector computed tomography. The CAC were present in 70.2% of patients. The mean CAC was 1055 +/- 232, the mean CCA-IMT was 0.96 +/- 0.21. The atherosclerotic plaques in the common carotid arteries were visualized in 38 patients (80.1%), the mean thickness of the atherosclerotic plaque was 1.61 +/- 0.8 mm. We found a significant positive correlation between CAC and CCA-IMT (r = 0.70, P < 0.001). The thickness of atherosclerosis plaque positively correlated with CAC as well as with CCA-IMT (r = 0.60, P < 0.001 and r = 0.7, P < 0.003, respectively). The study revealed close relationships between CAC, intima media thickness and the thickness of atherosclerotic plaques in dialysis patients. It may indicate that both vascular calcification and atherosclerotic lesions frequently coexist in patients with ESRD and that the intima media thickness could serve as a surrogate marker of vascular calcification."}
{"id": "20459398", "title": "[In-hospital and long-term (to 3 years) results of using bare-metal stents in patients with coronary artery disease and chronic kidney disease].", "content": "[In-hospital and long-term (to 3 years) results of using bare-metal stents in patients with coronary artery disease and chronic kidney disease]. Patients (n=727) who had been subjected to implantation of one or several standard stents in 2004 were included into this study. These patients were divided into 3 groups according to initial level of glomerular filtration rate (GFR, MDRD equation): group 1 - 466 patients with GFR >60 ml/min/1,73 m(2), group 2 - 233 patients with GFR 30 - 60 ml/min/1,73 m(2), group 3 - 38 patients with GFR <30 ml/min/1,73 m(2). In all group 2 and 3 patients prevention of contrast induced nephropathy (CIN) was implemented: hydration before and after angiography, limitation of intake of nephrotoxic drugs, N acetylcysteine 600 mg/day orally. In all group 2 and 3 patients only contrast preparation iodixanol was used. Total amount of contrast did not exceed 350 ml in patients with GFR 45-59 ml/min/1.73 m(2) and 250 ml - with GFR <45 ml/min/1.73 m(2). In all patients with GFR 60 ml/min/1.73 m(2) low osmolar contrast preparations were used (total amount - less then 600 ml per patient). Immediate success of PCI was similar in all groups (99.4%, 98.2% 97.4%, respectively). Rate of CIN rose significantly in groups 2 and 3 (0.4%, 4.9%, 13.2%, respectively, <0.001). Before 6 months after PCI restenosis developed more frequently with lowering of GFR (group 1 - 11%, group 2 - 22%, group 3 - 34%, <0.001). Myocardial infarction developed by 3 years in 6, 10, and 26% of patients in groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively. Lethality during 3 years was 5, 10, and 24% in groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively. Regression analysis showed that as a whole 3 years rate of myocardial infarction rose 1.57 times in group 2 compared with group 1, and 3.91 times in group 3 compared with group 1. Mortality by 3 years rose 1.93 times in group 2 compared with group 1, and 4.52 times in group 3 compared with group 1. Thus, presence of initially lowered GFR increases risk of CIN after elective implantations of standard stents, leads to rise of restenosis rate by 6 months and increase of mortality and rate of nonfatal myocardial infarction by 3 years."}
{"id": "20446782", "title": "Predictive markers of asymptomatic atherosclerosis in end-stage renal disease patients.", "content": "Predictive markers of asymptomatic atherosclerosis in end-stage renal disease patients. Uremia is associated with accelerated atherosclerosis and increased cardiovascular mortality in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Cardiac injury markers, such as myoglobin, creatine kinase-MB (CK-MB), or troponins, frequently used to recognize acute coronary events, may be falsely elevated in this patient group. In this study, our aim was to (i) test serum levels of myoglobin, CK-MB, and troponin I (cTnI) in ESRD patients without coronary artery disease (CAD) and compare the results with healthy controls and (ii) to investigate the association between these markers and carotid artery intima-media thickness (CA-IMT), high-sensitive C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), and serum uric acid (SUA) levels in ESRD patients. Fifty-two ESRD patients (25 hemodialysis and 27 peritoneal dialysis) and 17 healthy controls were included in the study. Serum levels of myoglobin, CK-MB, and cTnI were measured and ultrasonographic CA-IMT was determined in all participants. SUA and hs-CRP levels were only measured in the ESRD group. Serum myoglobin, CK-MB levels, and the mean CA-IMT were significantly higher in ESRD group (p < 0.01), whereas cTnI levels were not different compared to healthy controls (p = 0.70). There was also a positive correlation between CA-IMT and cTnI levels (p = 0.003, r = 0.35) and CA-IMT and hs-CRP (p = 0.03, r = 0.30) or SUA levels (p = 0.003, r = 0.43). cTnI may serve as a more sensitive marker in detecting cardiovascular events in patients with renal failure. Besides the traditional risk factors of atherosclerosis, cTnI, hs-CRP, and SUA may have a predictive role in recognizing premature atherosclerosis in ESRD patients."}
{"id": "20439784", "title": "Cystatin C and contrast-induced acute kidney injury.", "content": "Cystatin C and contrast-induced acute kidney injury. Cystatin C (CyC) is more sensitive than serum creatinine (sCr) to rapidly detect acute changes in renal function. We measured CyC together with sCr in 410 consecutive patients with chronic kidney disease undergoing either coronary and/or peripheral angiography and/or angioplasty. sCr was assessed at baseline and 24 and 48 hours after contrast media exposure. CyC was assessed at baseline and at 24 hours. Major adverse events (including death of any cause and dialysis) at 12 months were assessed. At 48 hours after contrast media exposure, contrast-induced acute kidney injury (defined as a sCr increase > or =0.3 mg/dL) occurred in 34 patients (8.2%). A CyC increase concentration > or =10% at 24 hours after contrast media exposure was detected in 87 patients (21.2%). This was the best CyC cutoff for the early identification of patients at risk for contrast-induced acute kidney injury (negative predictive value=100%; positive predictive value=39.1%). According to the defined cutoffs (that is, increase in CyC > or =10% and sCr > or =0.3 mg/dL), major adverse events occurred in 16 of 297 patients (5.4%) without any cutoffs satisfied (group 1), in 9 of 49 patients (18.4%) with only a CyC increase > or =10% (group 2), and in 9 of 31 patients (29%) with both cutoffs satisfied (group 3). By logistic regression analysis, the independent predictors of major adverse events at 1 year were group 2 (odds ratio=2.52; 95% confidence interval, 1.17 to 5.41; P=0.02), group 3 (odds ratio=4.45; 95% confidence interval, 1.72 to 11.54; P=0.002), and baseline glomerular filtration rate (odds ratio=0.91; 95% confidence interval, 0.88 to 0.95; P<0.001). In patients with chronic kidney disease, CyC seems to be a reliable marker for the early diagnosis and prognosis of contrast-induced acute kidney injury."}
{"id": "20436705", "title": "Correlates of the severity of coronary atherosclerosis in long-term kidney transplant patients.", "content": "Correlates of the severity of coronary atherosclerosis in long-term kidney transplant patients. Coronary artery disease remains the leading cause of early death and graft loss in renal transplant patients. The aim of this study was to identify clinical and echocardiographic parameters independently associated with the angiographically-determined severity of coronary atherosclerosis in long-term kidney transplant patients. Fifty-two kidney transplant recipients who underwent elective coronary angiography were reviewed retrospectively. Angiographic severity was evaluated using the modified Gensini index (MGI). The mean age at coronary angiography was 52.5+/-7.9 yr with a mean prior transplant duration of 118.1+/-58.8 months. Pearson correlation analysis demonstrated a positive correlation of MGI with transplant duration before coronary angiography and chronic allograft nephropathy, whereas an inverse correlation was demonstrated with ejection fraction and statin use. On subsequent multivariate linear regression analysis, transplant duration before coronary angiography, statin use, and ejection fraction were independently associated with the severity of coronary atherosclerosis in long-term kidney transplant patients. In summary, our study demonstrates that statin use, ejection fraction, and transplant duration before coronary angiography are independent parameters associated with the severity of coronary atherosclerosis in long-term kidney transplant patients. Further investigation is required to reduce the atherosclerotic burden in kidney transplant patients."}
{"id": "20430390", "title": "Central versus peripheral arterial stiffness in association with coronary, cerebral and peripheral arterial disease.", "content": "Central versus peripheral arterial stiffness in association with coronary, cerebral and peripheral arterial disease. Although stiffness of central arteries is more preferentially associated with coronary artery disease (CAD) than that of peripheral arteries, less is known for cerebrovascular disease (CVD) and peripheral artery disease (PAD). We measured pulse wave velocity (PWV) in four arterial segments, and examined the relative changes in the four regional PWVs in patients with CAD, CVD or PAD. The 2798 subjects were selected from 3300 consecutive participants of our non-invasive vascular lab. 342 subjects had one or more pre-existing atherosclerotic diseases including 128 CAD (N=128), CVD (N=195) and PAD (N=83). PWVs were simultaneously measured using an automated pulse wave analyzer (model BP-203RPE, Colin) in the heart-femoral (hf, aorta), heart-carotid (hc), heart-brachial (hb), and femoral-ankle (fa) segments. As compared to the subjects without atheroscletoric disease, those with CAD, CVD, or PAD showed higher levels of PWV in the four arterial segments, particularly in hfPWV. The relative increase in hfPWV remained significant after adjustment for age, sex, hypertension, pulse rate, smoking, diabetes mellistus, dyslipidemia, and chronic kidney disease. This study indicates that the preferential increase in central arterial stiffness is found not only in CAD but CVD and PAD as well."}
{"id": "20428622", "title": "[Coronary calcium score as predictor of stenosis and events in pretransplant renal chronic failure].", "content": "[Coronary calcium score as predictor of stenosis and events in pretransplant renal chronic failure]. Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the major cause of death among chronic renal failure (CRF) patients. Traditional, non-invasive exams to detect CAD and to predict events have shown insufficient results in this group. CT Scan evaluation of Coronary Calcium Score (CCS) has proven to be of prognostic value for the population reporting no renal condition. To investigate CCS accuracy in detecting obstructive CAD and in predicting cardiovascular events in candidates to renal transplant as compared to quantitative invasive coronary angiography (ICA). Ninety-seven (97) CRF patients aged > or =35 were evaluated. Obstructive CAD was considered as > or =50% or > or =70% stenosis on ICA. Descriptive data, concordance, diagnostic tests, Kaplan-Meier, and multivariate analysis were used. Agatston mean score was 580.6 +/- 1,102.2. Minimum and maximum values were 0 and 7,994, with median at 176. Only 14 patients had zero calcium score. No differences were reported in regard to ethnicity. Highest regional calcium was associated to the highest probability of coronary stenosis in the same segment. Agatston calcium score showed high accuracy for the diagnosis of > or =50% and > or =70% stenosis, with area under ROC curve (AUC) of 0.75 and 0.70, respectively. At the threshold of 400, calcium score identified a subgroup with a higher rate of cardiovascular events at an average follow-up time of 29+/-11.0 months. CCS proved to have good diagnostic and prognostic performance for cardiovascular events evaluation in CRF patients."}
{"id": "20427046", "title": "Serum levels of total p-cresylsulphate are associated with angiographic coronary atherosclerosis severity in stable angina patients with early stage of renal failure.", "content": "Serum levels of total p-cresylsulphate are associated with angiographic coronary atherosclerosis severity in stable angina patients with early stage of renal failure. p-Cresylsulphate (PCS), a protein-bound uraemic retention solute, is known to cause endothelial dysfunction and possibly plays a role in coronary atherosclerosis. We aimed to investigate the relationship of total PCS with traditional biomarkers associated with chronic coronary atherosclerosis. In addition, the relationship between serum total PCS levels and the severity of coronary artery stenosis was also explored. Serum total PCS concentrations were measured by using the Ultra Performance LC System in 202 consecutive stable angina patients, and their associations with angiographic indexes of the number of diseased vessels and modified Gensini score were estimated. Patients with significant coronary artery stenosis have higher median serum total PCS levels than patients with normal coronary arteries. Statistically significant associations were observed between the serum total PCS levels and the number of diseased vessels (beta=0.261, p=0.0002), and modified Gensini score (beta=0.171, p=0.016). Using multivariate analysis, serum total PCS level was independently associated with the presence and severity of CAD. This study indicates that serum total PCS levels are significantly higher in the presence of CAD and are correlated with the severity of the disease, which suggest that increased serum total PCS may be involved in the pathogenesis of coronary atherosclerosis."}
{"id": "20424476", "title": "Meta-analysis comparing sevelamer and calcium-based phosphate binders on cardiovascular calcification in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Meta-analysis comparing sevelamer and calcium-based phosphate binders on cardiovascular calcification in hemodialysis patients. Accelerated cardiovascular calcification often occurs in patients with cardiovascular disease who are on hemodialysis. We performed a meta-analysis to compare the effects of sevelamer hydrochloride and calcium-based phosphate binders on coronary artery calcification, C-reactive protein, alkaline phosphatase and intact parathyroid hormone in patients undergoing hemodialysis. We used the key words 'sevelamer' and 'Renagel' to retrieve studies from Medline, the Cochrane Library and conference proceedings. The trials searched were evaluated for eligibility and quality, and then the data were abstracted and analyzed. We ultimately included 14 studies that enrolled a total of 3,271 patients. There was no difference in coronary artery calcium progression between the calcium and the sevelamer groups. Use of sevelamer, rather than calcium-based phosphate binders, was associated with significantly lower C-reactive protein levels (weighted mean difference (WMD) -1.42; 95% confidence interval (CI) -2.09 to -0.74), higher alkaline phosphatase levels (WMD 22.66; 95% CI 13.81-31.5) and higher intact parathyroid hormone levels (WMD 55.85; 95% CI 14.47-97.24). Treatment with sevelamer did not affect cardiovascular calcification, but there was a trend for lower C-reactive protein levels, higher alkaline phosphatase levels and intact parathyroid hormone levels among sevelamer-treated patients."}
{"id": "20424475", "title": "Systemic levels of MMP2/TIMP2 and cardiovascular risk in CAPD patients.", "content": "Systemic levels of MMP2/TIMP2 and cardiovascular risk in CAPD patients. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), their inhibitors (TIMPs), oxidative stress (SOX) and kynurenine (KYN) pathway have been postulated in cardiovascular disease (CVD) progression. We hypothesized the possible association between the MMP/TIMP system, KYNs and CVD prevalence in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients. We assessed MMP-2, MMP-9, TIMP-1, TIMP-2, KYN and its metabolite - quinolinic acid (QA), and SOX marker - Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (Cu/Zn SOD) levels in CAPD patients both with and without CVD and healthy controls. MMP-2, TIMP-2, Cu/Zn SOD, KYN and QA were significantly higher in CAPD patients with CVD than in patients without CVD and controls. MMP-2 and TIMP-2 were positively correlated with QA and Cu/Zn SOD levels, and the strong association was between MMP-2 and TIMP-2 levels. Multiple regression analyses identified Cu/Zn SOD, TIMP-2, QA and QA/KYN ratio as the factors independently associated with MMP-2, whereas MMP-2 and Cu/Zn SOD were independent variables affecting TIMP-2 levels. MMP-2 and TIMP-2 concentrations were higher in CAPD patients with CVD than in patients without CVD and healthy controls. Upregulation of the MMP-2/TIMP-2 system was associated with QA levels and increased oxidative status, suggesting the connection between KYN pathway activation, arterial remodeling and CVD prevalence in uremic patients on CAPD treatment."}
{"id": "20417761", "title": "Long-term survival after open repair of chronic distal aortic dissection.", "content": "Long-term survival after open repair of chronic distal aortic dissection. The optimal treatment of chronic distal aortic dissection remains controversial, with endovascular stent-graft techniques challenging traditional surgery. From January 1994 to April 2007, 104 patients (82 male, median age 60.5 years) with chronic distal aortic dissection underwent surgical repair, 0 to 21 years after initial diagnosis of acute type A or B dissection (median 2.1 years). Twenty-three (22%) patients underwent urgent-emergent surgery. Mean aortic diameter was 6.9 +/- 1.4 cm. Indications for surgery, other than aortic expansion, were pain in 6 (6%) patients, malperfusion in 6 (6%), and rupture in 11 (11%). Forty-nine (47%) had previous cardioaortic surgery (29% dissection-related), 21 (20%) had coronary artery disease, 12 (12%) had Marfan syndrome, and 4 (4%) were on chronic dialysis. Twenty-six (25%) had a thrombosed false lumen. Thirty (29%) patients required reimplantation of visceral arteries; 8.3 +/- 2.7 segmental artery pairs were sacrificed. Hospital mortality was 9.6% (10 patients). Paraplegia occurred in 5 (4.8%). Twenty-seven patients (26%) experienced adverse outcome (death within one year, paraplegia, stroke, or dialysis). Adverse outcome was associated with atheroma (p = 0.04, odds ratio = 4.3). Survival was 78% at 1, 68% at 5, and 59% at 10 years (average follow-up, 7.7 +/- 4.1 years). Freedom from distal aortic reoperation was 99% at 1, 93% at 5, and 83% at 10 years. After one year, patients enjoyed longevity equivalent to a normal age-sex matched population (standardized mortality ratio = 1.38, p = 0.23). By multivariate analysis, atheroma (p = 0.0005, relative risk = 9.32) and age (p = 0.0003, relative risk = 1.15/year) were risk factors for long-term survival. The efficacy of open repair for distal chronic dissection is highlighted by normal survival after the first year, and a low reoperation-reintervention rate."}
{"id": "20407112", "title": "Major predictors of long-term clinical outcomes after coronary revascularization in patients with unprotected left main coronary disease: analysis from the MAIN-COMPARE study.", "content": "Major predictors of long-term clinical outcomes after coronary revascularization in patients with unprotected left main coronary disease: analysis from the MAIN-COMPARE study. The clinical characteristics that identify high-risk subsets of patients with unprotected left main coronary artery disease undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) have not been well established. Between January 2000 and June 2006, 2240 patients with unprotected left main coronary artery disease underwent PCI (n=1102) or CABG (n=1138). Twenty-six preprocedural parameters were evaluated by univariate and multivariate Cox regression analysis to identify independent predictors of all-cause mortality and target-vessel revascularization. Interaction tests were performed to compare heterogeneities of effects of preprocedural parameters depending on the revascularization methods. During follow-up (median of 3.1 years), 187 patients died (78 PCI and 109 CABG) and 149 patients had target-vessel revascularization (121 PCI and 28 CABG). EuroSCORE > or =6 was an independent predictor of death in both groups. Additional independent predictors were chronic renal failure and previous congestive heart failure in the PCI group and age > or =75 years, atrial fibrillation, right coronary artery disease, and left main distal bifurcation disease in the CABG group. Interaction analysis showed no heterogeneities of the effects of variables depending on the revascularization methods. Independent predictors of target-vessel revascularization were acute coronary syndrome and left main distal bifurcation disease in the PCI group and history of coronary intervention in the CABG group. The interaction between previous PCI and treatment remained after adjustment for all independent predictors of target-vessel revascularization (interaction P=0.0345). Several clinical characteristics were identified as important preprocedural predictors of long-term adverse outcomes after percutaneous or surgical revascularization in patients with unprotected left main coronary artery disease."}
{"id": "20381999", "title": "A preoperative echocardiographic predictive model for assessment of cardiovascular outcome after renal transplantation.", "content": "A preoperative echocardiographic predictive model for assessment of cardiovascular outcome after renal transplantation. Major adverse cardiac events (MACE) frequently determine the outcome of renal transplantation (RT). Stress testing is advocated for preoperative risk assessment, but limited information is available on the prognostic value of these tests. We aimed to retrospectively assess the value of preoperative dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) in predicting MACE in patients undergoing RT. A total of 185 patients (age 56 +/- 11 years, 64% were men, creatinine level of 7.3 +/- 2.9 mg/d, 27% were smokers, 86% had hypertension, 54% had diabetes, 57% were dyslipidemic) with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) underwent DSE before RT. A standard DSE protocol was used with the administration of 5-50 mug/kg/min incremental doses in 3-minute intervals and up to 1 mg of atropine if needed to reach prespecified end points. Regional left ventricular wall motion abnormality (WMA) at rest (fixed), with stress (inducible), or both were present in 54, 35, and 18 patients, respectively. In 38 patients who underwent coronary angiography, the sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of inducible WMA for predicting angiographic coronary artery disease (> or = 70% luminal diameter reduction) were 88%, 62%, 65%, and 87%, respectively. Cox regression analysis identified the presence of combined fixed and inducible WMA (ie, resting WMA that did not change during DSE, accompanied by new WMA evident during DSE; hazard ratio [HR] 5.6, P = .012), left atrial enlargement (HR 4.2, P = .002), and aortic valve sclerosis (HR 3.9, P = .013) as independent predictors of 48-month MACE (cardiac death, nonfatal acute myocardial infarction, and coronary revascularization after RT). Patients with all 3 predictors had a 48-month MACE of 60% compared with 5% in those with none (P = .007). Compared with those without WMA, patients with both fixed and inducible WMA had a higher rate of MACE at 48 months (7% vs 33%, P = .004). In RT candidates, DSE can effectively identify those at low and high risk of MACE."}
{"id": "20364553", "title": "Early and intermediate outcomes of left main coronary intervention.", "content": "Early and intermediate outcomes of left main coronary intervention. We examined the immediate and long-term outcomes after stenting of all comers for left main coronary artery (LMCA) stenoses. Left main coronary artery disease is regarded as an absolute contraindication for coronary angioplasty. Recently, several reports on protected or unprotected LMCA stenting, or both, suggested the possibility of percutaneous intervention for this prohibited area. Eighty-one consecutive patients with LMCA stenoses were treated with stents. The post-stent antithrombotic regimens were aspirin and clopidogrel. The major adverse cardiac events (MACE) including death, Q-wave myocardial infarction, or repeat target lesion revascularization were followed. Patients were followed very closely and all attended office visit at 12 months. The procedural success rate was 86.4%, with no episodes of acute thrombosis. Follow-up angiography was performed in 30 of 65 eligible patients (46.2%). Angiographic restenosis occurred in eight patients (9.9%). Cumulative death occurred in 16 patients (19.7%). MACE at 30 day and 12-month was 12.3% and 33.3% respectively. From multivariate analysis, dialysis (HR =3.22, p = 0.048), urgent PCI (HR =2.39, p = 0.036), post-procedure TIMI flow < 3 (HR =25.99, p = 0.001) and final kissing balloon inflation (HR = 0.30, p = 0.04) were independent predictors of MACE at 12-month. There was one definite late stent thrombosis (1.2%). Stenting of LMCA stenosis may be a safe and effective alternative to CABG in carefully selected patients. Further studies in larger patient populations are needed to assess late outcome."}
{"id": "20363099", "title": "Long-term cardiovascular outcome after elective abdominal aortic aneurysm open repair.", "content": "Long-term cardiovascular outcome after elective abdominal aortic aneurysm open repair. We analyzed the incidence of late cardiovascular events and mortality after elective infra-/juxtarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm open repair (AAA-OR). We included patients who survived AAA-OR in our center in 1988-2006. We registered late cardiac, cerebrovascular, and peripheral vascular events, as well as all-cause and cardiovascular mortality. We calculated patient survival and freedom from cardiovascular events (Kaplan-Meier) and evaluated risk factors (multivariate analysis). We studied 297 patients: 292 (98.3%) men, aged 67 +/- 7 (44-83) years, 143 (48.1%) bifurcated grafts. In a mean follow-up of 78.7 +/- 52.9 months, we registered 203 cardiovascular events in 123 (41.4%) patients, at a rate of 0.16 cardiovascular events/patient-year. Eleven (3.7%) patients suffered graft-related complications. Freedom from cardiovascular events was 94.2%, 67.2%, 45.7%, and 27.6% at 1, 5, 10, and 15 years, respectively. Survival was 96.6%, 74.7%, 50.7%, and 31.5%, respectively. The main cause of death was cardiovascular disease (n = 54, 18.2%), followed by cancer (n = 43, 14.5%). Only four (1.3%) deaths were graft-related. Coronary artery disease and chronic renal failure were predictive of cardiovascular mortality (p = 0.033 and 0.006). Although long-term survival is similar to that in the general population, successful AAA-OR patients remain at increased risk of cardiovascular events throughout their lifetime. Graft-related complications are rare, confirming the durability of the procedure."}
{"id": "20350989", "title": "Progression of preclinical diastolic dysfunction to the development of symptoms.", "content": "Progression of preclinical diastolic dysfunction to the development of symptoms. Preclinical diastolic dysfunction (PDD) has been defined as subjects with normal systolic function, diastolic dysfunction but no symptoms of heart failure (HF). The clinical phenotype and natural history of the syndrome remains poorly defined. This study's objective was to determine the clinical phenotype and progression to HF in a group of patients with normal systolic function and moderate or severe diastolic dysfunction as determinate by Doppler criteria without any clinical diagnosis of HF according to the Framingham criteria or any symptoms of HF, specifically dyspnoea, oedema or fatigue at the time of echocardiography. The authors used resources of the Mayo Clinic echocardiography database to consecutively select among patients who had an echocardiogram in 2005, a cohort with moderate or severe diastolic dysfunction by Doppler criteria and EF >or=50%. Patients could not have a diagnosis of HF, or any HF symptoms-specifically dyspnoea, oedema or fatigue-at the time of echocardiography; nor grade 3 or greater valvular dysfunction (except tricuspid valve). A total of 82 patients had their medical chart reviewed. Primary endpoint was the time to the development of (1) HF according to the Framingham criteria or (2) any symptoms of dyspnoea, oedema or fatigue. The mean age of the cohort of PDD subjects was 69+/-10 years with a female (67%) preponderance. Presence of hypertension was 76%, coronary artery disease was 29%, paroxysmal atrial fibrillation was 26%, estimated creatinine clearance <60 ml/min was 51%. The 2-year cumulative probability of development of HF according to the Framingham criteria was 1.9%; however, the 2-year cumulative probability of development of any symptoms was 31.1%. The 2-year cumulative probability for cardiac hospitalisation was 21.2%. Peripheral vascular disease and hypertension were independently associated with increased likelihood for the development of symptoms. The study demonstrates that hypertension, hyperlipidaemia, CAD and renal dysfunction are prevalent in patients with PDD. More importantly, although the progression to the development of clinical HF over 2 years was low, there was a moderate degree of progression to development of symptoms and cardiac hospitalisations over 2 years. Based on the finding that only PVD and hypertension were independently associated with the progression to the development of symptoms in subject with PDD, the authors speculate that ventricular-arterial interaction may be important to the progression of diastolic dysfunction to the development of symptoms."}
{"id": "20350504", "title": "The impact of chronic kidney disease as a predictor of major cardiac events in patients with no evidence of coronary artery disease.", "content": "The impact of chronic kidney disease as a predictor of major cardiac events in patients with no evidence of coronary artery disease. Normal stress myocardial perfusion images (MPI) generally show good prognosis for cardiovascular events. However, chronic kidney disease (CKD) is one of the important risk factors for coronary artery disease (CAD), and the interpretation of normal stress MPI has not been well established in CKD patients with no evidence of CAD. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the long-term prognostic value of stress MPI in CKD patients with no evidence of myocardial ischemia or infarction. Patients who had no history but were suspected of CAD and had normal stress MPI (n=307, male=208, age=67 years, CKD/non-CKD=46/261) were followed-up for 4.5 years. CKD was defined as a glomerular filtration ratio of <60 ml/min/1.73 m(2) and/or persistent proteinuria. Cardiac death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, and unstable angina requiring hospitalization were defined as major cardiac events. Major cardiac events were observed in 3 of 261 (1.1%) non-CKD patients and 6 of 46 (13%) CKD patients (p<0.001, with log-rank test). CKD was an independent risk factor for major cardiac events (hazard ratio=13.1, p<0.001, multivariate Cox regression analysis). Normal stress MPI does not always promise a good prognosis for major cardiac events. Even in patients with no evidence of CAD from stress MPI, CKD can be an independent and significant risk factor for major cardiac events."}
{"id": "20349410", "title": "Myocardial scintigraphy and clinical stratification as predictors of events in renal transplant candidates.", "content": "Myocardial scintigraphy and clinical stratification as predictors of events in renal transplant candidates. We tested the hypothesis that the universal application of myocardial scanning with single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) would result in better risk stratification in renal transplant candidates (RTC) compared with SPECT being restricted to patients who, in addition to renal disease, had other clinical risk factors. RTCs (n=363) underwent SPECT and clinical risk stratification according to the American Society of Transplantation (AST) algorithm and were followed up until a major adverse cardiovascular event (MACE) or death. Of the 363 patients, 79 patients (22%) had an abnormal SPECT scan and 270 (74%) were classified as high risk. Both methods correctly identified patients with increased probability of MACE. However, clinical stratification performed better (sensitivity and negative predictive value 99% and 99% vs. 25% and 87%, respectively). High-risk patients with an abnormal SPECT scan had a modest increased risk of events (log-rank = 0.03; hazard ratio [HR] = 1.37; 95% confidence interval [95% CI], 1.02-1.82). Eighty-six patients underwent coronary angiography, and coronary artery disease (CAD) was found in 60%. High-risk patients with CAD had an increased incidence of events (log-rank = 0.008; HR=3.85; 95% CI, 1.46-13.22), but in those with an abnormal SPECT scan, the incidence of events was not influenced by CAD (log-rank = 0.23). Forty-six patients died. Clinical stratification, but not SPECT, correlated with the probability of death (log-rank = 0.02; HR=3.25; 95% CI, 1.31-10.82). SPECT should be restricted to high-risk patients. Moreover, in contrast to SPECT, the AST algorithm was also useful for predicting death by any cause in RTCs and for selecting patients for invasive coronary testing."}
{"id": "20347678", "title": "The challenge of associated intramural hematoma with endovascular repair for penetrating ulcers of the descending thoracic aorta.", "content": "The challenge of associated intramural hematoma with endovascular repair for penetrating ulcers of the descending thoracic aorta. The presence of penetrating aortic ulcers (PAUs) of the descending thoracic aorta has been associated with a poor long-term prognosis. Although early results have suggested acceptable outcomes for thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR) for PAU, few studies have described the late outcomes of this approach. From 1993 to 2009, 37 patients (43.2% male; mean age, 72 years) underwent TEVAR for PAU. Associated intramural hematoma was present in 19. Comorbidities included hypertension in 31, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in 16, coronary artery disease in 22, and renal failure (mean preoperative creatinine, 1.4 mg/dL). Urgent or emergent indications were identified in 22 patients (59.5%), including presentation with rupture in 15 (40.5%). TEVAR was successfully performed in all patients. Arch repair was performed in 14 and total descending repair in 13. Concomitant procedures included coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and total arch debranching in one patient electively presenting with an asymptomatic PAU. Early morbidity included stroke (5.4%), temporary paraplegia (5.4%), and need for dialysis (2.7%). In-hospital or 30-day mortality was seen in two patients (5.4%). By Kaplan-Meier analysis, median survival was 89.8 months. Independent predictors of late mortality included urgent or emergent presentation (odds ratio, 14.7; P = .007). Actuarial freedom from TEVAR treatment failure (ie, need for open or endovascular aortic reintervention, aortic rupture, or aortic-related death) was 81.6% +/- 7.8% at 5 years. Analysis stratified by type of pathology (PAU vs PAU and intramural hematoma) showed no significant baseline differences in age, comorbidities, or extent of repair. By Kaplan-Meier analysis, however, presentation with PAU and intramural hematoma was associated with an increased risk for TEVAR treatment failure (P = .033). TEVAR can be safely accomplished for patients presenting with PAU. The presence of associated intramural hematoma may adversely affect the late outcomes of therapy, highlighting the need for careful planning, prudent balancing of the benefits of immediate vs delayed treatment of the fragile aortic wall, and the imperative nature of attentive follow-up in patients with PAU."}
{"id": "20347648", "title": "Translating associations between common kidney diseases and genetic variation into the clinic.", "content": "Translating associations between common kidney diseases and genetic variation into the clinic. Studies of the genetics of common diseases have revealed multiple risk alleles associated with end-stage renal disease, albuminuria, serum creatinine, diabetes, coronary heart disease, and increased triglyceride levels. These associations have prompted further basic science research, which has led to the discovery of novel pathways and a better understanding of the pathophysiology of common diseases. Currently, the ability to translate these discoveries into clinical practice is limited by the small effect size of these risk alleles and a lack of studies showing meaningful impact of genetic variation on risk assessment and clinical outcomes. Advances in genetic testing will continue to yield highly significant associations but translation into clinical practice will require effective collaboration between physicians and basic and social scientists. Rigorous clinical trials eventually will reveal which combination of genetic tests improves risk stratification and identifies individuals most likely to benefit from specific prevention strategies and therapies."}
{"id": "20346337", "title": "Uninsured South Florida vascular surgery patients are less likely to receive optimal medical management than their insured counterparts.", "content": "Uninsured South Florida vascular surgery patients are less likely to receive optimal medical management than their insured counterparts. Vascular disease is the most prevalent condition in patients aged >60 years, leading to increasing complications associated with their comorbid conditions. Poor medical compliance could be one reason why the rate of complications may be higher in this patient population, particularly the uninsured. This study was conducted to better assess rates of medication compliance in vascular surgical patients. Consecutive patients seen in vascular clinics at a busy tertiary academic center were prospectively studied. Physicians and physician assistants used a standardized questionnaire to collect patient data and evaluated patients for coexisting medical conditions and medication use. Optimal medical therapy was defined according to the 2006 American Heart Association (AHA)/American College of Cardiology (ACC) \"Guidelines for Secondary Prevention for Atherosclerotic Vascular Disease.\" Data were analyzed using multivariate regression. During the 4-month study period, 180 consecutive patients (47% men) were seen in vascular surgery clinics. Most patients (79%) were nonsmokers and only 21% admitted to smoking. Comorbid conditions surveyed included hypertension in 141, diabetes mellitus in 56, coronary artery disease in 24, hypercholesterolemia in 89, and chronic renal failure in 13; of these, 61% were insured and 39% had no insurance. Overall, only 31% of all patients were receiving adequate medical therapy for their comorbid conditions, and about 66% were receiving suboptimal medical treatment for their vascular disease. Uninsured patients were less likely (19%) than insured patients (39%) to receive optimal medical therapy (P = .012). Lack of insurance was a predictor of suboptimal medical therapy for hypertension (odds ratio [OR], 3.13; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.20-8.16; P = .016), hypercholesterolemia (OR, 5.1; 95% CI, 1.87-13.88; P = .001), peripheral arterial disease (OR, 13.32; 95% CI, 2.84-62.54, P < .001), and any disease overall (OR, 2.43; 95% CI, 1.21-4.88, P = .012). Overall, men and women were equally likely (68%) to receive suboptimal medical therapy; however, women were significantly more likely to be undertreated for coronary artery disease (OR, 0.022; 95% CI, 0.0017-0.293; P < .001). Compliance with optimal medical therapy for secondary risk factor management amongst our vascular surgery patients is low. Uninsured patients are less likely to receive optimal medical therapy than their insured counterparts. This survey provides sobering statistics regarding medical compliance in our population. This issue deserves further study and may indirectly affect outcomes in minority groups that are disproportionately represented in our uninsured patients."}
{"id": "20345449", "title": "Left ventricular diastolic size in patients with normal ejection fraction and elevated left filling pressures.", "content": "Left ventricular diastolic size in patients with normal ejection fraction and elevated left filling pressures. To evaluate the left-ventricular diastolic chamber size in patients with a normal ejection fraction and elevated left-sided filling pressures. The consensus view that patients with normal left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and elevated left-sided filling pressures have a normal left ventricular diastolic size is a point of controversy. We reviewed the coded database of echocardiographic studies performed at one institution between July 2007 and July 2008. We performed a retrospective descriptive study of 35 patients with normal ejection fraction (> or = 55%) and elevated left-sided filling pressures. We looked at their left ventricular internal diastolic diameter (LVIDD). Our population had a high prevalence of hypertension (100%), obesity (63%), diabetes (40%), chronic kidney disease (51%), coronary artery disease (25%), anemia (43%), and left ventricular hypertrophy (65%). Clinical diagnosis of heart failure was documented in 63% of the patients. LVIDD was mildly increased in comparison to a normal historical population: 4.85 + or - 0.5 cm for females, 5.3 + or - 0.5 cm for males, as compared to 4.6 + or - 0.3 cm for normal females (P = 0.045) and 5 + or - 0.4 cm for normal males (P < 0.001). However, the distribution of the indexed LVIDDs in these patients was comparable to the normal population (2.6 + or - 0.4 cm/m(2) for the study population, as compared to 2.7 + or - 0.2 cm/m(2) for the normal population, P = 0.16). In a population of patients with a normal LVEF and high left ventricular filling pressures, the indexed LV diastolic size is not increased in comparison to a normal population. (Echocardiography 2010;27:501-504)."}
{"id": "20345390", "title": "Dialysis patients treated with Epoetin alfa show improved anemia symptoms: A new analysis of the Canadian Erythropoietin Study Group trial.", "content": "Dialysis patients treated with Epoetin alfa show improved anemia symptoms: A new analysis of the Canadian Erythropoietin Study Group trial. The health-related quality of life (HRQOL) claims in the current Epoetin alfa label are based on the reanalyses of the exercise and physical function data from the Canadian Erythropoietin Study Group trial. The reanalysis was done to comply with the Food and Drug Administration's requirement of using statistical methods that are currently standard in evaluating clinical trial data. Presented here are HRQOL results associated with anemia. The Canadian Erythropoietin Study Group trial was a multicenter, double blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial evaluating the effects of Epoetin alfa on HRQOL in anemic hemodialysis patients. A total of 118 patients who were 18-75 years old, on hemodialysis for >3 months, who had a hemoglobin <9.0 g/dL, and did not have coronary artery disease or diabetes mellitus, were randomized to either receive placebo (n=40), or receive intravenous Epoetin alfa to achieve a target hemoglobin of 9.5-11.0 g/dL (n=40) or a target of 11.5-13.0 g/dL (n=38). Patients were followed for 6 months. The two Epoetin alfa-treatment groups were combined for all analyses performed. This post hoc analysis was conducted using an intent-to-treat repeated measures mixed model analysis of variance using Bonferroni's multiplicity correction. The Epoetin alfa-treated group showed a statistically significant improvement in the Kidney Disease Questionnaire symptom of fatigue in comparison with placebo. Additionally, the change in hemoglobin at 2 months was correlated with change in fatigue, energy, shortness of breath, and weakness, but had minimal effect on depression. These analyses confirm previously reported results, which indicate that treating hemodialysis patients with an erythropoiesis-stimulating agent improves HRQOL."}
{"id": "20345389", "title": "Impact of coronary artery calcification in hemodialysis patients: Risk factors and associations with prognosis.", "content": "Impact of coronary artery calcification in hemodialysis patients: Risk factors and associations with prognosis. The risk factors of coronary artery calcification (CAC) and the impact of CAC on cardiovascular events, cardiovascular deaths, and all-cause deaths in hemodialysis (HD) patients have not been fully elucidated. We examined the CAC score (CACS) in 74 HD patients using electron-beam computed tomography. Fifty-six patients underwent a second electron-beam computed tomography after a 15-month interval to evaluate CAC progression. We evaluated (1) the risk factors for CAC and its progression and (2) the impact of CAC on the prognosis. In the cross-sectional study, HD vintage and high-sensitive C-reactive protein (hsCRP) were the independent risk factors for CAC. In the prospective cohort study, delta CACS (progression of CAC) was significantly correlated with hsCRP, fibrinogen, and serum calcium level in the univariate analysis. Stepwise multiple regression analysis revealed that only hsCRP was the independent risk factor for CAC progression in HD patients. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis revealed that cardiovascular events (P<0.0001), cardiovascular deaths (P=0.039), and all-cause deaths (P=0.026) were significantly associated with CACS. In conclusion, CAC had significantly progressed in HD patients during the 15-month observation period. Microinflammation was the only independent risk factor for CAC progression in HD patients. The advanced CAC was a significant prognostic factor in HD patients, i.e., which was strongly associated with future cardiovascular events, cardiovascular deaths, and all-cause deaths."}
{"id": "20308894", "title": "Cardiac risk evaluation for abdominal transplantation.", "content": "Cardiac risk evaluation for abdominal transplantation. Cardiovascular disease has emerged as a leading cause of perioperative morbidity and mortality in renal and liver transplant patients. There is no consensus on how to diagnose cardiac disease in transplant patients. Further, there is significant disagreement in the literature regarding the use of routine screening methods to detect disease. This review will explore published observations on cardiac complications in renal and liver transplant patients to try and determine why investigators hold such divergent opinions. The prevalence of cardiac disease is greater in renal and liver transplant patients than in the general public. Complications of cardiac disease play a large role in early mortality and graft loss in the postoperative period. While the presence of risk factors seems to predict coronary disease in renal disease, these factors do not perform as well in liver disease. Noninvasive stress testing for coronary artery disease seems to have low sensitivity in both transplant populations. However, the measurement of cardiac troponin seems to be of some value in predicting early mortality. Physicians have not identified an effective yet cost-effective way to screen transplant patients for cardiac disease. Therefore, the first step in creating widely accepted protocols demand that physicians decide what predictive power that screening tests should have in this unique population."}
{"id": "20304581", "title": "Insulin use is associated with poor limb salvage and survival in diabetic patients with chronic limb ischemia.", "content": "Insulin use is associated with poor limb salvage and survival in diabetic patients with chronic limb ischemia. The goal was to compare the outcomes in patients with disabling claudication (DC) or critical limb ischemia (CLI) to determine if diabetics (DM) have poorer patency, limb salvage (LS), and survival rates than nondiabetic patients and if the diabetic regimen affects these outcomes. All patients who presented with DC or CLI between June 2001 and September 2008 were included. Non-DM patients were compared with those with DM who are currently managed by diet only or oral medications (D-OM), oral medications plus insulin (OM+INS), or insulin alone (INS). Of the 746 patients (886 limbs), there were 406 patients (464 limbs) in non-DM, 96 patients (135 limbs) in D-OM, 98 patients (118 limbs) in OM+INS, and 146 patients (185 limbs) in INS groups. There were more patients with coronary artery disease, hypertension, and renal insufficiency in the DM group than non-DM, with the INS group having the highest incidence of renal insufficiency/dialysis (46%/20%). Gangrene and foot sepsis were significantly more frequent in patients in OM+INS (45%/3%) and INS (50%/6%) than non-DM (15%/0.2%) and D-OM groups (25%/1%; P < .001). More patients in the INS group (14%) and OM+INS (9%) had primary amputation than non-DM (4%) and D-OM (4%; P < .01). Mean follow-up was 26.3 +/- 20.7 months. Overall survival following revascularization was similar in D-OM and non-DM and OM+INS and INS, the latter being significantly worse (P < .001). The LS rate in D-OM and non-DM was also identical, whereas OM-INS and INS had significantly worse LS, with OM-INS marginally better than INS (P = .094). Primary patency (PP) was worse in endovascular-treated patients on insulin than non-DM and D-OM patients (P < .001), whereas PP was similar between groups in open-treated patients. Multivariate analysis showed that coronary artery disease, renal insufficiency, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, indication for intervention, insulin use, nonambulatory status, and statin drug non-use were independently associated with decreased survival, whereas insulin use, presence of gangrene, need for infrapopliteal interventions, and nonambulatory status were independently associated with limb loss. TransAtlantic Inter-Society Consensus (TASC) classification of the treated lesions being C or D, infrapopliteal interventions, and indication of intervention (DC vs CLI) were independently associated with primary patency, whereas insulin use was not. Diabetic patients who present with limb ischemia can be subdivided into three distinct subgroups based on their diabetic regimen. The survival and LS rates of those controlled with diet or OM are nearly identical to nondiabetics, both of which are significantly better than OM+INS or INS. The PP rate in endovascular-treated patients is worse in patients who are on insulin. Being on insulin is independently associated with decreased survival and limb loss but not PP."}
{"id": "20299981", "title": "Validation of a strategy to diagnose coronary artery disease and predict cardiac events in high-risk renal transplant candidates.", "content": "Validation of a strategy to diagnose coronary artery disease and predict cardiac events in high-risk renal transplant candidates. We validated a strategy for diagnosis of coronary artery disease (CAD) and prediction of cardiac events in high-risk renal transplant candidates (at least one of the following: age > or =50 years, diabetes, cardiovascular disease). A diagnosis and risk assessment strategy was used in 228 renal transplant candidates to validate an algorithm. Patients underwent dipyridamole myocardial stress testing and coronary angiography and were followed up until death, renal transplantation, or cardiac events. The prevalence of CAD was 47%. Stress testing did not detect significant CAD in 1/3 of patients. The sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of the stress test for detecting CAD were 70, 74, 69, and 71%, respectively. CAD, defined by angiography, was associated with increased probability of cardiac events [log-rank: 0.001; hazard ratio: 1.90, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.29-2.92]. Diabetes (P=0.03; hazard ratio: 1.58, 95% CI: 1.06-2.45) and angiographically defined CAD (P=0.03; hazard ratio: 1.69, 95% CI: 1.08-2.78) were the independent predictors of events. The results validate our observations in a smaller number of high-risk transplant candidates and indicate that stress testing is not appropriate for the diagnosis of CAD or prediction of cardiac events in this group of patients. Coronary angiography was correlated with events but, because less than 50% of patients had significant disease, it seems premature to recommend the test to all high-risk renal transplant candidates. The results suggest that angiography is necessary in many high-risk renal transplant candidates and that better noninvasive methods are still lacking to identify with precision patients who will benefit from invasive procedures."}
{"id": "20237457", "title": "Coronary artery calcification and mortality in diabetic patients with proteinuria.", "content": "Coronary artery calcification and mortality in diabetic patients with proteinuria. Vascular calcification is one of the mechanisms mediating the higher mortality risk associated with the hyperphosphatemia of chronic kidney disease. Though common, and often severe in non-dialyzed proteinuric diabetics, there are no studies on the prognostic significance of coronary artery calcification in early stage type 2 diabetic nephropathy. Here we determine this significance in 225 proteinuric diabetic patients (mean age 57 years, mean estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) 52 ml/min per 1.73 m(2) and a median urine protein-creatinine ratio of 2.7). Coronary artery calcification, measured by electron beam computed tomography, was diagnosed in 86% of the patients, the severity of which correlated with older age, male gender, and white ethnicity. However, no association was found between eGFR, serum calcium, phosphorus, parathyroid hormone, or 25-hydroxy vitamin D. Over an average follow-up of 39 months, 54 patients died. A graded relationship between the severity of calcification and all-cause mortality was consistently demonstrated on both univariate and multivariate analyses. Patients in the highest quartile of calcification score had a 2.5-fold higher risk for death. Our results show the severity of coronary artery calcification early in the course of chronic kidney disease is an independent predictor of all-cause mortality. Additional studies need to determine whether altering the natural history of coronary artery calcification in early chronic kidney disease prolongs survival."}
{"id": "20233537", "title": "Impact of long-acting calcium channel blockers on the prognosis of patients with coronary artery disease with and without chronic kidney disease: a comparison of three drugs.", "content": "Impact of long-acting calcium channel blockers on the prognosis of patients with coronary artery disease with and without chronic kidney disease: a comparison of three drugs. Calcium channel blockers (CCBs) can prevent cardiovascular events in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). This study looked retrospectively at the prognosis of CAD in hypertensive patients with CAD who had undergone a coronary angiograph, had been given a CCB (benidipine [n = 66], amlodipine [n = 45], or long-acting nifedipine [n = 31]) on hospital discharge and were then followed up for a mean +/- SD of 5.2 +/- 2.9 years. Systolic/diastolic blood pressure for all 142 patients decreased significantly from a mean +/- SD of 137 +/- 20/74 +/- 15 mmHg to 129 +/- 20/71 +/- 12 mmHg. Major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) occurred in 15 patients. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) was a significant risk factor for MACE (hazard ratio 2.35, 95% confidence intervals 1.45, 3.80). Benidipine was superior to nifedipine in preventing MACE in patients both with and without CKD. In conclusion, benidipine and amlodipine reduced the frequency of MACE in hypertensive patients with CAD, particularly in those with complicating CKD."}
{"id": "20226394", "title": "Ranolazine-related dyspnea on exertion.", "content": "Ranolazine-related dyspnea on exertion. Ranolazine is increasingly being prescribed for the treatment of chronic stable angina. This report describes an adverse effect that may be related to ranolazine. A 77-year-old white man with chronic renal insufficiency was evaluated for moderate dyspnea on exertion (DOE). Cardiac and pulmonary workup revealed nonobstructive coronary artery disease and mild obstructive lung disease. The patient had been taking ranolazine 500 mg daily for possible angina for the past 2 months. Given the temporal association of his symptoms with drug initiation, ranolazine was discontinued during the hospitalization. One month after discontinuing ranolazine, the patient's DOE had completely resolved; the only intervention had been discontinuation of ranolazine. The patient's Naranjo algorithm score was 3, indicating a possible adverse drug reaction. No previous cases of ranolazine-related DOE requiring drug cessation have been published. Ranolazine may be associated with DOE in this elderly man."}
{"id": "20224838", "title": "The simplified modification of diet in renal disease equation as a predictor of renal function after coronary artery bypass graft surgery.", "content": "The simplified modification of diet in renal disease equation as a predictor of renal function after coronary artery bypass graft surgery. After open-heart surgery, a percentage of patients have impaired renal function. This deterioration is even seen in patients with serum creatinine (s-creatinine) values that fall within the normal laboratory range, therefore s-creatinine is not an accurate reflection of renal function. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is a better indication of renal status. GFR can be calculated with the simplified modification of diet in renal disease (MDRD) equation - a formula that takes age, gender, race and s-creatinine level into account. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between estimated GFR pre-operatively and renal impairment postoperatively. All patients who had an isolated coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) done by one surgeon in one hospital between January 2005 and October 2007 had their s-creatinine levels determined pre-operatively. Using a computer desktop calculator, the patient's age, gender and race were used together with the s-creatinine value to estimate the GFR. Prior to CABG, all patients were grouped into the five stages of chronic kidney disease. Renal outcome postoperatively was compared with the estimated pre-operative GFR. Nineteen per cent of the 451 patients had chronic kidney disease pre-operatively, as defined by the National Kidney Foundation, according to their estimated GFR. Twenty-three per cent of these patients had renal impairment after surgery. Of the patients with reasonable renal function pre-operatively only 4% had further deterioration of renal function. Mortality did not differ significantly, but patients with postoperative renal impairment stayed in hospital on average 2.4 days longer than those who had no renal impairment postoperatively. Patients with chronic kidney disease before CABG have a six times greater chance of developing further renal impairment postoperatively than those with reasonable renal function beforehand. There is therefore a significant relationship between estimated GFR before CABG and deterioration of kidney function after surgery. The GFR, as calculated with the simplified MDRD, is a predictor of the risk of having renal dysfunction after CABG."}
{"id": "20215836", "title": "The prevalence and predictors of atrial fibrillation in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "The prevalence and predictors of atrial fibrillation in hemodialysis patients. The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence of atrial fibrillation in long-term hemodialysis patients and to identify clinical and echocardiographic risk factors. The study included 183 patients (93 males, 90 females; mean age 52+/-17 years) who had been on long-term hemodialysis treatment (mean 41.6+/-39.8 months) and had preserved systolic function. Atrial fibrillation was determined electrocardiographically and the patients were divided into two groups depending on the presence or absence of atrial fibrillation. Conventional and tissue Doppler echocardiographic examinations were performed on interdialytic days. Clinical, laboratory, and echocardiographic parameters were compared. Twenty-four patients (13.1%) had atrial fibrillation. Patients with atrial fibrillation significantly differed in terms of higher age (64.9+/-9.8 vs. 49.9+/-16.6 years; p<0.001), higher frequency of coronary artery disease (37.5% vs. 10.7%; p=0.008), and lower serum albumin level (3.6+/-0.4 vs. 3.9+/-0.5 mg/dl; p=0.015). Echocardiographic examination showed significantly increased left and right atrial diameters (p<0.05), higher incidence of mitral and/or aortic calcification (p=0.033), increased systolic pulmonary artery pressure (38.1+/-6.1 vs. 28.5+/-5.5 mmHg, p<0.001) and E/E' ratio (11.8+/-3.8 vs. 8.8+/-4.7, p=0.008) in patients with atrial fibrillation. In multivariate logistic regression analysis, age (OR 1.09; 95% CI 1.00-1.17; p=0.036) and right atrial diameter (OR 1.19; 95% CI 1.05-1.35; p=0.008) were independent risk factors for the development of atrial fibrillation. Our findings highlight age and right atrial diameter as independent predictors of atrial fibrillation in hemodialysis patients. In addition, the E/E' ratio and pulmonary artery pressure may be considered new risk factors of atrial fibrillation in this population."}
{"id": "20200622", "title": "Revascularization options in patients with chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Revascularization options in patients with chronic kidney disease. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in patients who have chronic kidney disease or end-stage renal disease and are undergoing hemodialysis. Chronic kidney disease is a recognized risk factor for premature atherosclerosis. Unfortunately, most major randomized clinical trials that form the basis for evidence-based use of revascularization procedures exclude patients who have renal insufficiency. Retrospective, observational studies suggest that patients with end-stage renal disease and severe coronary occlusive disease have a lower risk of death if they undergo coronary revascularization rather than medical therapy alone. Due to a lack of prospective studies, however, the relative merits of percutaneous versus surgical revascularization are merely a matter of opinion. Several small, retrospective studies have shown that coronary artery bypass grafting is associated with higher procedural death but better long-term survival than is percutaneous coronary intervention. This difference appears to result from poor long-term results of percutaneous coronary intervention in patients who have chronic kidney disease or end-stage renal disease.Because randomized trials comparing percutaneous coronary intervention and coronary artery bypass grafting have included patients undergoing balloon angioplasty and placement of bare-metal stents, their conclusions are suspect in the era of drug-eluting stents. In this review, we discuss different revascularization options for patients with chronic kidney disease, the outcomes of revascularization procedures, and the risk factors for adverse outcomes."}
{"id": "20190240", "title": "Coronary artery calcification and coronary flow velocity in haemodialysis patients.", "content": "Coronary artery calcification and coronary flow velocity in haemodialysis patients. Decreased coronary flow reserve (CFR) is a marker of endothelial dysfunction, coronary artery calcification and inflammation, well-known cardiovascular risk factors in haemodialysis (HD) patients. In this study, we aimed to investigate the correlation of coronary artery calcification scores (CACS) with CFR in HD patients. Sixty-four end-stage renal failure patients were enrolled in this study (38 males, 26 females). Thirty-nine healthy subjects (22 males, 17 females) were included in the control group. Biochemical parameters and acute-phase inflammation marker [high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP)] of patients were recorded before dialysis. The CACS were measured by electron beam computerized tomography method. CFR recordings were performed by trans-thoracic Doppler echocardiography. The relationship between CACS and CFR was evaluated. The mean CACS was 281 +/- 589 and 29 patients had CACS < 10. Patients with CACS > 10 had significantly lower CFR values compared to patients with CACS < 10 (1.56 +/- 0.38 vs 1.84 +/- 0.53, P = 0.024). However, there was no difference in hs-CRP values between the groups. CFR was negatively correlated with CACS (r = -0.276, P = 0.030). In multiple stepwise regression analysis, CACS was found to be an independent variable for predicting CFR (P = 0.048). During a follow-up of 18 months, 10 patients had experience of cardiovascular events. Patients with CACS > 10 had significantly higher event rate [34.5% (10/29) vs 0% (0/24)] compared to those with CACS < 10 (P = 0.001). Patients who developed cardiovascular events had significantly higher mean CACS and lower CFR values than the remaining group (P = 0.019 and P = 0.039). All of four patients who died during follow-up were in the CFR < 2 and CACS > 10 groups. CACS was associated with CFR in HD patients. However, we did not find any association of inflammation with CACS and CFR. This association between CFR and CACS might indicate two different (anatomical and functional) aspects of the common pathophysiology of the arterial system in HD patients."}
{"id": "20189275", "title": "Risk implications of the new CKD Epidemiology Collaboration (CKD-EPI) equation compared with the MDRD Study equation for estimated GFR: the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) Study.", "content": "Risk implications of the new CKD Epidemiology Collaboration (CKD-EPI) equation compared with the MDRD Study equation for estimated GFR: the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) Study. The Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration (CKD-EPI) recently published an equation for estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) using the same variables (serum creatinine level, age, sex, and race) as the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) Study equation. Although the CKD-EPI equation estimates GFR more precisely compared with the MDRD Study equation, whether this equation improves risk prediction is unknown. Prospective cohort study, the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) Study. 13,905 middle-aged participants without a history of cardiovascular disease with median follow-up of 16.9 years. eGFR. We compared the association of eGFR in categories (>or=120, 90-119, 60-89, 30-59, and <30 mL/min/1.73 m(2)) using the CKD-EPI and MDRD Study equations with risk of incident end-stage renal disease, all-cause mortality, coronary heart disease, and stroke. The median value for eGFR(CKD-EPI) was higher than that for eGFR(MDRD) (97.6 vs 88.8 mL/min/1.73 m(2); P < 0.001). The CKD-EPI equation reclassified 44.9% (n = 3,079) and 43.5% (n = 151) of participants with eGFR(MDRD) of 60-89 and 30-59 mL/min/1.73 m(2), respectively, upward to a higher eGFR category, but reclassified no one with eGFR(MDRD) of 90-119 or <30 mL/min/1.73 m(2), decreasing the prevalence of CKD stages 3-5 from 2.7% to 1.6%. Participants with eGFR(MDRD) of 30-59 mL/min/1.73 m(2) who were reclassified upward had lower risk compared with those who were not reclassified (end-stage renal disease incidence rate ratio, 0.10 [95% CI, 0.03-0.33]; all-cause mortality, 0.30 [95% CI, 0.19-0.48]; coronary heart disease, 0.36 [95% CI, 0.21-0.61]; and stroke, 0.50 [95% CI, 0.24-1.02]). Similar results were observed for participants with eGFR(MDRD) of 60-89 mL/min/1.73 m(2). More frequent reclassification of younger, female, and white participants explained some of these trends. Net reclassification improvement in participants with eGFR < 120 mL/min/1.73 m(2) was positive for all outcomes (P < 0.001). Limited number of cases with eGFR < 60 mL/min/1.73 m(2) and no measurement of albuminuria. The CKD-EPI equation more appropriately categorized individuals with respect to long-term clinical risk compared with the MDRD Study equation, suggesting improved clinical usefulness in this middle-aged population."}
{"id": "20186230", "title": "Transplantation: Coronary angiography prior to renal transplantation.", "content": "Transplantation: Coronary angiography prior to renal transplantation."}
{"id": "20171408", "title": "Effects of oral cilostazol 100 mg BID on long-term patency after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in patients with femoropopliteal disease undergoing hemodialysis: a retrospective chart review in Japanese patients.", "content": "Effects of oral cilostazol 100 mg BID on long-term patency after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in patients with femoropopliteal disease undergoing hemodialysis: a retrospective chart review in Japanese patients. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) for femoropopliteal lesions in peripheral artery disease has been performed in patients undergoing hemodialysis as well as in the general population. Cilostazol, a selective inhibitor of phosphodiesterase 3, has been reported to reduce target lesion revascularization after PTA for femoropopliteal lesions in the general population. This study investigated the effects of cilostazol use on long-term patency after PTA in patients with femoropopliteal disease undergoing hemodialysis. In this retrospective study, data from patients undergoing hemodialysis who underwent successful PTA for femoropopliteal disease, defined as a final luminal diameter stenosis <30% without angiographically visual arterial dissection and no in-hospital complications, were included. One study group received long-term treatment with oral cilostazol 100 mg BID after PTA; the control group did not. The duration of follow-up was <or=6 years. The primary outcome of interest was cumulative patency, as measured by the event-free rate 6 years after PTA, with event defined as restenosis of >50% of the vessel diameter in femoropopliteal lesions. Data on baseline characteristics, patency, and covariates (diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, smoking, coronary artery disease, critical limb ischemia, TransAtlantic Inter-Society Consensus classification, and stenting) were obtained from electronic medical records and telephone interviews with patients. To minimize the effects of selection bias for cilostazol administration, a propensity-matched analysis using Cox univariate and multivariate models including the previously mentioned covariates was conducted. The propensity scores of the 2 groups were matched 1:1 (AUC = 0.69 [receiving operating characteristics analysis]). Data were obtained from electronic medical records and telephone interviews with patients by trained personnel who were blinded to treatment assignment. A total of 358 consecutive lesions of 174 patients undergoing hemodialysis were included (103 men, 71 women; mean [SD] age, 66 [11] years; cilostazol group, 61 patients, 121 lesions; control group, 113 patients, 237 lesions). The mean duration of follow-up was 37 (27) months. The 6-year event-free rate of restenosis of >50% of the vessel diameter was significantly higher in the cilostazol group than in the control group (72/121 [59.5%] vs 120/237 [50.6%]; P = 0.005 [logrank test]; hazard ratio [HR] = 0.63; 95% CI, 0.45-0.88; P = 0.008 [Cox univariate analysis]). Also, event-free rates of target lesion revascularization and limb amputation were significantly higher in the cilostazol group than in the control group (40/61 [65.6%] vs 57/113 [50.4%]; P = 0.013 [log-rank test] and 54/61 [88.5%] vs 90/113 [79.6%]; P = 0.047 [logrank test], respectively). On propensity score matching (105 lesions), the baseline characteristics were comparable between the 2 groups. The 6-year eventfree rate of restenosis was significantly higher in the cilostazol group than in the control group (66/105 [62.9%] vs 52/105 [49.5%]; HR = 0.58; 95% CI, 0.38-0.88; P = 0.012 [Cox univariate analysis]). On propensity-matched (Cox multivariate) analysis, cilostazol (HR = 0.51; 95% CI, 0.27-0.84; P = 0.008), age (HR = 1.01; 95% CI, 1.01-1.04; P = 0.031), and critical limb ischemia (HR = 2.21; 95% CI, 1.39-3.53; P = 0.001) were independent predictors of restenosis. None of the patients in the cilostazol group discontinued cilostazol treatment during the follow-up period. Four patients (6.6%) experienced mild headache. This study found that in these patients with femoropopliteal lesions in peripheral artery disease who were undergoing hemodialysis, those treated with cilostazol 100 mg BID after PTA had a higher mean rate of cumulative patency after PTA than those in the control group."}
{"id": "20152210", "title": "Nephrotoxicity of iodixanol versus iopamidol inpatients with chronic kidney disease and diabetes mellitus undergoing coronary angiographic procedures.", "content": "Nephrotoxicity of iodixanol versus iopamidol inpatients with chronic kidney disease and diabetes mellitus undergoing coronary angiographic procedures."}
{"id": "20146209", "title": "A novel technique for ultra-low contrast administration during angiography or intervention.", "content": "A novel technique for ultra-low contrast administration during angiography or intervention. Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) after coronary angiography or intervention is associated with substantial morbidity. The data supporting various prophylactic measures and adjunctive therapies to prevent this complication are conflicting. However, contrast volume is clearly related to CIN after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), and the risk of CIN has been shown to be directly related to contrast dose. Therefore, minimizing contrast exposure is a primary method to reduce the risk of CIN, especially in at-risk patients. We report a novel technique designed to deliver ultra-low (<15 cm(3)) volume contrast to patients with chronic kidney disease undergoing coronary angiography and PCI."}
{"id": "20127607", "title": "[Interpretation of elevated serum troponin levels in end stage renal disease - case 2/2010].", "content": "[Interpretation of elevated serum troponin levels in end stage renal disease - case 2/2010]. We report on a female patient with rheumatoid arthritis and end-stage renal-disease following AA-amyloidosis who presented with chest pain to the emergency department. ECG showed no signs of ischemia, echocardiography revealed a concentric left ventricular hypertrophy with increased texture. Serum concentration of troponin I was mildly elevated whereas creatine kinase (CK)/ CK-MB were normal. The chief complaints resolved spontaneously and there was no change in the serum troponin-I and CK/CK-MB concentrations. Coronary heart disease was ruled out by angiography and cardiac involvement of the underlying AA-amyloidosis was diagnosed. After one month, the patient suffered from a syncope complicated by a pelvic ring fracture with hemorrhagic shock and declined chronic dialysis treatment. Patients with end-stage renal disease may exhibit a persisting elevation of serum troponin concentration reflecting the high burden of cardiovascular disease. Myocardial infarction can be distinguished by the lack of increase in serial tests."}
{"id": "20119930", "title": "Ventricular function and all-cause mortality in chronic kidney disease patients with angiographic coronary artery disease.", "content": "Ventricular function and all-cause mortality in chronic kidney disease patients with angiographic coronary artery disease. Coronary artery disease (CAD) and chronic kidney disease (CKD) lead to high morbidity and mortality rates. Traditional and nontraditional risk factors, hypertension, fluid overloading and anemia can lead to myocardial ischemia, chamber hypertrophy and dilatation, and low left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) in CKD patients. The angiographic feature, ventriculographic LVEF and its relationship to all-cause mortality are unclear in patients with different stages of CKD who are not yet on dialysis. This retrospective study involved 980 CKD patients with suspected myocardial ischemia who underwent coronary angiography from 1995 to 2004. Demographic, clinical data and ventriculographic LVEF were assessed. Risk estimations for mortality were performed using Cox proportional hazard regression models. Of the CKD patients, 445 (45.4%) had angiographic CAD. Their hemoglobin, body mass index (BMI) and LVEF values decreased with decrease in eGFR. Using Cox proportional hazard regression analysis, low LVEF was independently associated with CKD after adjustment for age, sex, diabetes, hypertension, BMI, hemoglobin and the presence of CAD. Significant independent prognostic factors for mortality included diabetes (hazard ratio [HR] = 2.946; 95% confidence interval [95% CI], 1.185-7.322), BMI (HR=0.864; 95% CI, 0.757-0.985), hemoglobin (HR=0.742; 95% CI, 0.594-0.928) and LVEF (HR=0.944; 95% CI, 0.918-0.970). Low LVEF was the only independent significant prognostic factor in CKD patients with angiographic CAD (HR=0.957; 95% CI, 0.918-0.996). LVEF reduction was independently associated with CKD. Low LVEF was an independent predictor of mortality in CKD patients regardless of the presence of angiographic CAD."}
{"id": "20113272", "title": "Cystatin C and creatinine as markers for radiocontrast-induced nephropathy in patients treated with N-acetylcysteine.", "content": "Cystatin C and creatinine as markers for radiocontrast-induced nephropathy in patients treated with N-acetylcysteine. The beneficial effect of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) in the prevention of radiocontrast-induced nephropathy (RCIN) as well as the definition of an adequate surrogate parameter for the evaluation of the incidence of RCIN remain points of controversial discussion. Nearly all clinical studies used an increase in serum creatinine to define renal injury, although cystatin C is suggested to be superior to creatinine in estimating glomerular filtration rate (GFR). Furthermore, a recent study showed that in healthy volunteers, NAC leads to a decrease in serum creatinine without influencing serum cystatin C concentrations, implicating a possible overestimation of the protective effect of NAC on the incidence of RCIN. We compared serum creatinine and cystatin C levels in patients with chronic kidney disease undergoing coronary angiography, as these patients are to be considered at highest risk for the development of RCIN. A total of three doses of NAC was given orally, and patients received isotonic saline intravenously. Serum levels at baseline and 24 hours after angiography were not significantly different for serum creatinine (1.72 +/- 0.08 mg/dl and 1.72 +/- 0.08 mg/dl) and for cystatin C (1.72 +/- 0.09 mg/dl and 1.76 +/-0.10 mg/dl). There was a significant positive correlation between creatinine and cystatin C serum levels before and after exposure to radiocontrast medium (p < 0.05) in all patients, including subgroup analyses. We conclude that serum creatinine and cystatin C are equivalent surrogate parameters for the evaluation of NAC in the prevention of RCIN. Furthermore, we present a prophylactic treatment regime easily applicable even in an outpatient setting, which seems to protect very effectively against RCIN in a high-risk group of patients."}
{"id": "20110249", "title": "Study design and subject baseline characteristics in the ADVANCE Study: effects of cinacalcet on vascular calcification in haemodialysis patients.", "content": "Study design and subject baseline characteristics in the ADVANCE Study: effects of cinacalcet on vascular calcification in haemodialysis patients. The ADVANCE (A Randomized Study to Evaluate the Effects of Cinacalcet plus Low-Dose Vitamin D on Vascular Calcification in Subjects with Chronic Kidney Disease Receiving Haemodialysis) Study objective is to assess the effect of cinacalcet plus low-dose active vitamin D versus flexible dosing of active vitamin D on progression of coronary artery calcification (CAC) in haemodialysis patients. We report the ADVANCE Study design and baseline subject characteristics. ADVANCE is a multinational, multicentre, randomized, open-label study. Adult haemodialysis patients with moderate to severe secondary hyperparathyroidism (intact parathyroid hormone [iPTH] >300 pg/mL or bio-intact PTH >160 pg/mL) and baseline CAC score >or=30 were stratified by CAC score (>or=30-399, >or=400-999, >or=1000) and randomized in a 1:1 ratio to cinacalcet (30-180 mg/day) plus low-dose active vitamin D (cinacalcet group) or flexible dosing of active vitamin D alone (control). The study had three phases: screening, 20-week dose titration and 32-week follow-up. CAC scores obtained by cardiac computed tomography were determined at screening and weeks 28 and 52. The primary end point was percentage change in CAC score from baseline to Week 52. Subjects (n = 360) were randomized to cinacalcet or control. Mean age was 61.5 years, 43% were women, and median dialysis vintage was 36.7 months (range, 2.7-351.5 months). The baseline geometric mean CAC score by the Agatston method was 548.7 (95% confidence interval, 480.5-626.6). Baseline CAC score was independently associated with age, sex, dialysis vintage, diabetes and iPTH. Subjects also had extensive aortic and valvular calcification at baseline. Subjects enrolled in ADVANCE have extensive CAC at baseline. The ADVANCE Study should help determine whether cinacalcet attenuates progression of vascular calcification."}
{"id": "20103322", "title": "Minimally invasive transapical aortic valve implantation and the risk of acute kidney injury.", "content": "Minimally invasive transapical aortic valve implantation and the risk of acute kidney injury. The new technique of minimally invasive transapical aortic valve implantation (TAP-AVI) deals with high-risk patients and despite the absence of cardiopulmonary bypass it might lead to renal impairment. The aim of this study was to estimate the risk of the development of acute kidney injury (AKI) after TAP-AVI and to identify possible risk factors with regard to the morbidity and mortality of the patients. Data of 30 consecutive patients undergoing TAP-AVI were recorded and followed up for 8 weeks. Postoperative AKI has been defined according to RIFLE criteria. Two patients on chronic hemodialysis have been followed up. Of 28 patients, AKI occurred in 16 patients (57%). Statistical analysis revealed no influence on the risk of developing AKI caused by the dose of applicated contrast medium (p = 0.09), the patient's age (p = 0.5), or the existence of diabetes (p = 0. 16). Analysis concerning the relationship between a preexisting coronary heart disease and AKI showed a tendency to be associated with a higher risk of the development of AKI (70% preexisting congenital heart disease in the AKI group versus 50%; p = 0.28). Only a preoperative serum creatinine greater than 1.1 mg/dL was a strong predictor for developing AKI (p < 0.01). Length of stay in the intensive care unit and the complete length of hospital stay revealed no difference with regard to postoperative development of AKI though statistical analysis showed a trend to a higher mortality in the AKI group (27% vs 6%); univariate analysis did not reach statistical significance (p = 0.13). The TAP-AVI seems to be a feasible procedure for high-risk patients with a clear risk of developing AKI. Patients at risk should be identified and, if indicated, already preoperatively treated in collaboration with the attending nephrologists."}
{"id": "20102936", "title": "Usefulness of atorvastatin (80 mg) in prevention of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients with chronic renal disease.", "content": "Usefulness of atorvastatin (80 mg) in prevention of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients with chronic renal disease. We investigated the efficacy of short-term high-dose atorvastatin in decreasing the risk of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) subjected to coronary angiography and/or angioplasty. CIN occurs in up to 15% of patients with pre-existing CKD and affects clinical outcome. The protective effect of statin therapy against CIN is still controversial. A prospective, single-center study of 304 patients with baseline estimated creatinine clearance <60 ml/min were randomized to receive atorvastatin 80 mg/day or placebo for 48 hours before and 48 hours after contrast medium administration. All patients received intravenous saline hydration and oral N-acetylcysteine 1,200 mg 2 times/day. Iso-osmolar contrast medium was used. CIN was defined as an absolute increase of serum creatinine > or = 0.5 mg/dl within 5 days after the procedure. CIN occurred in 31 patients (10%), 16 (11%) in the placebo group and 15 (10%) in the atorvastatin group (p = 0.86). Mean increase in creatinine was not significantly different in the 2 groups (0.59 + or - 0.17 in placebo group vs 0.72 + or - 0.26 mg/dl in atorvastatin group, p = 0.31). Persistent kidney injury, defined as 1-month increase from baseline creatinine value > or = 25%, was observed in 30% in the placebo group and in 31% in the atorvastatin group (p = 0.58). In conclusion, a short-term administration of high doses of atorvastatin before and after contrast exposure, in addition to standard intravenous hydration and oral N-acetylcysteine, does not decrease CIN occurrence in patients with pre-existing CKD."}
{"id": "20093813", "title": "Haemodialysis-induced myocardial stunning in chronic kidney disease - a new aspect of cardiovascular disease.", "content": "Haemodialysis-induced myocardial stunning in chronic kidney disease - a new aspect of cardiovascular disease. Chronic haemodialysis (HD) patients are already primed by a large number of structural and functional peripheral vascular and cardiac abnormalities to experience demand myocardial ischaemia. Transient myocardial ischaemia may lead to left ventricular (LV) dysfunction that can persist after the return of normal perfusion. This prolonged dysfunction is known as myocardial stunning. Repetitive episodes of ischaemia can be cumulative and have been shown to lead to prolonged LV dysfunction (in patients with ischaemic heart disease). Conventional HD itself is a sufficient cardiovascular functional stressor to precipitate such recurrent ischaemic insults, leading to myocardial functional and structural changes, eventually resulting in fixed systolic dysfunction and heart failure (conferring a dismal prognosis for patients undergoing dialysis). Furthermore these same haemodynamic insults may also adversely affect other vascular beds in other vulnerable organ systems, driving an even wider range of pathophysiological processes. A variety of therapeutic manoeuvres aimed at improving the haemodynamic tolerability of treatment have been shown to reduce acute dialysis-induced myocardial ischaemia. This article aims to give an appreciation of the possibility that modification of the dialysis treatment to improve tolerability of therapy may have the potential to provide us with additional therapeutic targets, to reduce currently excessive rates of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality."}
{"id": "20090315", "title": "Magnesium in chronic kidney disease: challenges and opportunities.", "content": "Magnesium in chronic kidney disease: challenges and opportunities. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of mortality and morbidity in patients with chronic kidney disease, which is partly explained by the fact that 40-70% of patients receiving dialysis have significant coronary artery disease. Recent clinical studies have shown that lower serum magnesium (Mg) levels are associated with vascular calcification and cardiovascular mortality among patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). On the other hand, hypermagnesemia inhibits parathyroid hormone secretion, which is considered an important independent risk factor for vascular calcification, left ventricular hypertrophy and mortality in ESRD patients. Finally, increasing evidence points towards a link between Mg and cardiovascular disease, even in subjects without chronic kidney disease. The purpose of this review was to critically review the current literature examining the effects of plasma Mg levels on cardiovascular disease and parathyroid hormone homeostasis in ESRD, and renal transplant patients."}
{"id": "20083471", "title": "Sodium thiosulfate delays the progression of coronary artery calcification in haemodialysis patients.", "content": "Sodium thiosulfate delays the progression of coronary artery calcification in haemodialysis patients. Coronary artery calcification (CAC) is prevalent among haemodialysis patients and predicts cardiovascular mortality. In addition to modifying traditional cardiovascular risk factors, therapy aimed at lowering serum phosphate and calcium-phosphate product has been advocated. Sodium thiosulfate, through its chelating property, removes calcium from precipitated minerals decreasing calcification burden in calcific uraemic arteriolopathy and soft tissue calcification. The effect of sodium thiosulfate on CAC in haemodialysis patients has never been studied. Eighty-seven stable chronic haemodialysis patients underwent multi-row spiral computed tomography and bone mineral density (BMD) measurement. Patients with a CAC score >or=300 were included to receive intravenous sodium thiosulfate infusion twice weekly post-haemodialysis for 4 months. CAC and BMD were re-evaluated at the end of the treatment course. Progression of CAC occurred in 25% and 63% of the patients in the treatment and control group, respectively (P = 0.03). CAC score was unchanged in the treatment group but increased significantly in the control group. BMD of the total hip declined significantly in the treatment group. In multivariate analysis adjusted for factors that influenced CAC progression, therapy with sodium thiosulfate was an independent protective factor (odds ratio = 0.05, P = 0.04). Major side effects were persistent anorexia and metabolic acidosis. The effect of sodium thiosulfate in delaying the progression of CAC is encouraging and will require a larger study. Determination of the safe therapeutic window is necessary in order to avoid bone demineralization."}
{"id": "20083247", "title": "Impact of diabetes on survival in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction treated by primary angioplasty: insights from the POLISH STEMI registry.", "content": "Impact of diabetes on survival in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction treated by primary angioplasty: insights from the POLISH STEMI registry. It has been shown that, among patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), diabetes is associated with a significantly higher mortality. The aim of this study was to investigate in a large cohort of patients the impact of diabetes on mortality in a large cohort of patients with STEMI treated with primary angioplasty. Our population is represented by consecutive patients with STEMI treated by primary angioplasty and enrolled in the POLISH registry in 2003. All clinical, angiographic, and follow-up data were prospectively collected. Diagnosis of diabetes was based on history of diabetes at admission. Among 7193 patients, 877 (12.2%) had diabetes at admission. Diabetes was associated with more advanced age (p<0.0001), higher prevalence of female gender (p<0.0001), hyperlipidemia (p<0.0001), shock at presentation (p<0.0001), renal failure (p<0.0001), previous myocardial infarction (p<0.0001), more often treated after 6h from symptom onset (p<0.0001). Diabetes was associated with more extensive coronary artery disease (p<0.0001), less often treated with stenting (p<0.0001). Diabetes was significantly associated with impaired epicardial reperfusion (TIMI 0-2: OR [95% CI]=1.81 [1.5-2.18], p<0.0001), that persisted after correction for baseline confounding factors (OR [95% CI]=1.33 [1.075-1.64], p=0.009). At a mean follow-up of 524+/-194 days, diabetes was associated with higher mortality (unadjusted cumulative mortality: 23.5% vs. 12.6%, unadjusted HR=1.95 [1.66-2.3], p<0.0001), that persisted after correction for confounding factors (adjusted cumulative mortality: 13.3% vs. 10.7%, adjusted HR=1.23 [1.04-1.46], p=0.013). This study shows that among STEMI treated by primary angioplasty diabetes is independently associated with impaired epicardial reperfusion and higher mortality."}
{"id": "20080002", "title": "Evaluation of peripheral atherosclerosis: a comparative analysis of angiography and intravascular ultrasound imaging.", "content": "Evaluation of peripheral atherosclerosis: a comparative analysis of angiography and intravascular ultrasound imaging. Angiography remains a critical component for diagnostic imaging and therapeutic intervention in peripheral arterial disease (PAD). The goal of this study was to compare angiography with corresponding intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) imaging of the same vessels in patients with PAD. From 2004 to 2008, 93 patients undergoing angiography for PAD were recruited in a prospective observational analysis. At the time of angiography, diseased lower extremities were interrogated using a 10-cm IVUS pullback with registration points. IVUS data were analyzed with radiofrequency techniques for vessel and lumen diameter, plaque volume, plaque composition, and cross-sectional area. Similarly, three vascular surgeons blinded to the IVUS data graded corresponding angiographic images according to vessel diameter, degree of stenosis, degree of calcification, and extent of eccentricity. Statistical analyses of matched IVUS images and angiograms were performed. The distribution of demographic and risk variables were typical for PAD: 54% male, 96% hypertension, 78% hyperlipidemia, 44% diabetic, 87% tobacco history, 65% coronary artery disease, and 10% end-stage renal disease. Symptoms precipitating the angiographic evaluation included claudication (53%), rest pain (18%), and tissue loss (29%). Angiographic and IVUS interpretation were similar for luminal diameters, but external vessel diameter was greater by IVUS imaging (7.0 +/- 0.7 vs 5.2 +/- 0.8 mm, P < .05). The two-dimensional diameter method resulted in a significant correlation for stenosis determination (r = 0.84); however, IVUS determination of vessel area stenosis was greater by 10% (95% confidence interval, 0.3%-21%, P < .05). IVUS imaging indicated that a higher proportion of plaques were concentric. Grading of calcification was moderate to severe in 40% by angiography but in only 7% by IVUS (P < .05). In the evaluation of PAD, angiography and IVUS imaging provide similar luminal diameters and diameter-reducing stenosis measurements. Determination of overall vessel diameter and interpretation of plaque morphology by angiography are discordant from IVUS-derived data."}
{"id": "20061997", "title": "Screening for coronary artery disease before renal transplantation-rational or rationing?", "content": "Screening for coronary artery disease before renal transplantation-rational or rationing?"}
{"id": "20045628", "title": "The impact of isolated tibial disease on outcomes in the critical limb ischemic population.", "content": "The impact of isolated tibial disease on outcomes in the critical limb ischemic population. Most patients with critical limb ischemia (CLI) have multilevel infrainguinal peripheral arterial disease (M-PAD). One-third of CLI patients will have isolated tibial disease (ITD). The treatments for multilevel disease or ITD differ depending on whether open or endovascular procedures are used, but we questioned whether outcomes from these procedures differ. We evaluated outcomes of CLI patients after open and/or endovascular revascularization for CLI and assessed the impact of disease distribution. Four hundred forty-six CLI patients (Rutherford 4-6) who underwent revascularization from 2001 to 2005 were evaluated arteriographically and followed after revascularization with noninvasive testing. Based on arteriographic data, all patients with ITD (occlusions in one or more tibial arteries) were compared with patients with occlusive femoropopliteal disease with or without concomitant tibial occlusions (M-PAD). Patients with disease solely above the inguinal ligament were excluded. Clinical data (survival, amputation-free survival, primary patency, secondary patency, limb salvage, maintenance of ambulation, and maintenance of living status) were acquired from a prospective vascular database, allowing the comparison of revascularization outcomes according to disease distribution. In this study, 36% of patients had ITD and 64% presented with M-PAD. The severity of ischemia at presentation was rest pain (28.5%), ulceration (42.3%), and gangrene (29.1%). In this study, 92% presented exclusively with infrainguinal disease, and 8% presented with both suprainguinal and infrainguinal disease. Risk factors included diabetes mellitus (61.2%), smoking (61.0%), coronary artery disease (57.9%), hypertension (84.3%), hyperlipidemia (40.4%), obesity (15.5%), and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (19.3%). In comparing the ITD and M-PAD groups, there was no difference in primary patency at 2 years. All other outcomes were statistically different out to 3 years including survival (50.4% vs. 62.6%; p=0.0026, hazard ratio [HR] 0.669); amputation-free survival (35.1% vs. 50.2%; p=0.0062; HR 0.595); limb salvage (65.2% vs. 74.4%; p=0.0062; HR 0.595); maintenance of ambulation (68.9% vs. 76.9%; p=0.0352; HR 0.644); maintenance of living status (79.0% vs. 84.8%; p=0.0403; HR 0.599); and secondary patency (66.8% vs. 74.8%; p=0.0309; HR 0.665). Multivariate analyses reveal that ITD is not an independent predictor of outcome after controlling for confounding factors, of which tissue loss and end-stage renal disease correlate most consistently with poor clinical outcomes. After revascularization for CLI, ITD carries a worse prognosis (amputation-free survival, limb salvage, survival, maintenance of ambulation, and independent living status) compared with patients with M-PAD, despite the \"greater\" disease burden in M-PAD patients. ITD patients are more likely to have confounding factors such as diabetes mellitus, renal disease, and worse ischemia at presentation than those with M-PAD. The recognition of ITD may be helpful in identifying high-risk patients but is not an independent risk factor for poor outcomes."}
{"id": "20027593", "title": "Improved correction of spatial inhomogeneities of surface coils in quantitative analysis of first-pass myocardial perfusion imaging.", "content": "Improved correction of spatial inhomogeneities of surface coils in quantitative analysis of first-pass myocardial perfusion imaging. To test whether image normalization using either a separate 3D proton-density (PD)-weighted prescan, or 2D PD-weighted images prior to the perfusion series, improves correction of differences in spatial sensitivity induced by radiofrequency (RF) surface receiver coils. Originally, this correction was applied using the baseline signal in the myocardium before arrival of the contrast agent. This is of importance, as quantitative analysis of magnetic resonance (MR) myocardial perfusion using deconvolution with the arterial input assumes equal signal sensitivity over the heart. First-pass myocardial perfusion measurements were obtained in 13 patients without known coronary artery disease. Absolute perfusion values were assessed for 18 myocardial segments without any normalization and using the three different normalization methods. Using 2D or 3D PD-weighted normalization, similar mean perfusion values were found, but with reduced spatial variance over the 18 segments. The relative dispersion of perfusion at rest was 23% and 35% for the 3D prescan normalization and the baseline normalization, respectively. With 2D and 3D PD-weighted prescan normalization the relative dispersion was closer to the expected physiological heterogeneity. PD-weighted prescan normalization proved to be a valuable addition to quantitative analysis of myocardial perfusion, and better than baseline-based normalization."}
{"id": "20019646", "title": "Treatment of coronary artery disease in hemodialysis patients evaluated for transplant-a registry study.", "content": "Treatment of coronary artery disease in hemodialysis patients evaluated for transplant-a registry study. We assessed the results of a noninvasive therapeutic strategy on the long-term occurrence of cardiac events and death in a registry of patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) and coronary artery disease (CAD). We analyzed 519 patients with CKD (56+/-9 years, 67% men, 67% whites) on maintenance hemodialysis with clinical or scintigraphic evidence of CAD by using coronary angiography. In 230 (44%) patients, coronary angiography revealed significant CAD (lumen reduction > or =70%). Subjects with significant CAD were kept on medical treatment (MT; n=184) or referred for myocardial revascularization (percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty/coronary artery bypass graft-intervention; n=30) according to American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association guidelines. In addition, 16 subjects refused intervention and were also followed-up. Event-free survival for patients on MT at 12, 36, and 60 months was 86%, 71%, and 57%, whereas overall survival was 89%, 71%, and 50% in the same period, respectively. Patients who refused intervention had a significantly worse prognosis compared with those who actually underwent intervention (events: hazard ratio=4.50; % confidence interval=1.48-15.10; death: hazard ratio=3.39; % confidence interval 1.41-8.45). In patients with CKD and significant CAD, MT promotes adequate long-term event-free survival. However, failure to perform a coronary intervention when necessary results in an accentuated increased risk of events and death."}
{"id": "20002292", "title": "Coronary stenting with the sirolimus-eluting stent in clinical practice: final results from the prospective multicenter German Cypher Stent Registry.", "content": "Coronary stenting with the sirolimus-eluting stent in clinical practice: final results from the prospective multicenter German Cypher Stent Registry. Drug-eluting coronary stents (DES) have gained widespread use for the treatment of coronary artery disease. However, because of safety concerns and frequent \"off-label\" use data from \"real life,\" registries are necessary to monitor indications and outcome of DES in daily clinical practice. We evaluated data from the German Cypher Stent Registry. A total of 10,894 patients treated with at least one sirolimus-eluting stent (SES) at 152 hospitals were included. Follow-up at a median of 6.4 months was available in 10,006 patients (92%). Median age was 64.8 years and 75.5% were male. Per lesion a mean of 1.09 +/- 0.41 SES were implanted with a mean length of 21.1 +/- 11.5mm. During follow-up, death rate was 1.8% and the rates of myocardial infarction or stroke were 2.1% and 0.5%. Any target vessel revascularization (TVR) was performed in 8.0% of patients. Independent predictors for death, myocardial infarction, or stroke were: cardiogenic shock, acute coronary syndromes, reduced left ventricular function, renal insufficiency, diabetes mellitus, advanced age, three-vessel disease, degree of stenosis, and prior myocardial infarction. Predictors for a TVR were: two- or three-vessel disease, target vessel = coronary bypass, advanced age, stent diameter, ostial lesions, indication in-stent restenosis, renal failure, and target vessel = left anterior descended artery. These results demonstrate that SES use in clinical practice is safe and effective. The main predictors of clinical events during follow-up are clinical parameters whereas as predictors of TVR mainly are angiographic parameters."}
{"id": "19965535", "title": "Impact of cardiovascular calcification in nondialyzed patients after 24 months of follow-up.", "content": "Impact of cardiovascular calcification in nondialyzed patients after 24 months of follow-up. Coronary artery calcification (CAC) is highly prevalent among patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), and it has been described as a strong predictor of mortality in the dialysis population. Because there is a lack of information regarding cardiovascular calcification and clinical outcomes in the earlier stages of the disease, we aimed to evaluate the impact of CAC on cardiovascular events, hospitalization, and mortality in nondialyzed patients with CKD. This is a prospective study including 117 nondialyzed patients with CKD (age, 57 +/- 11.2 years; 61% male; 23% diabetics; creatinine clearance, 36.6 +/- 17.8 ml/min per 1.73 m(2)). CAC was quantified by multislice computed tomography. The occurrence of cardiovascular events, hospitalization, and death was recorded over 24 months. CAC >10 Agatston units (AU) was observed in 48% of the patients [334 (108 to 858.5) AU; median (interquartiles)], and calcification score >or=400 AU was found in 21% [873 (436-2500) AU]. During the follow-up, the occurrence of 15 cardiovascular events, 19 hospitalizations, and 4 deaths was registered. The presence of CAC >10 AU was associated with shorter hospitalization event-free time and lower survival. CAC >or=400 AU was additionally associated with shorter cardiovascular event-free time. Adjusting for age and diabetes, CAC >or=400 AU was independently associated with the occurrence of hospitalization and cardiovascular events. Cardiovascular events, hospitalization, and mortality were associated with the presence of CAC in nondialyzed patients with CKD. Severe CAC was a predictor of cardiovascular events and hospitalization in these patients."}
{"id": "19945953", "title": "Indices of systemic atherosclerosis are superior to ultrasound resistance indices for prediction of allograft survival.", "content": "Indices of systemic atherosclerosis are superior to ultrasound resistance indices for prediction of allograft survival. In renal allograft recipients, ultrasound resistance indices (RI) have been discussed as predictors of transplant survival. RI measurements are correlated with subclinical atherosclerosis. It is thus unclear whether RI measurements represent specific markers of allograft damage or merely reflect systemic vascular damage. We studied whether RI are superior outcome predictors compared to markers of subclinical atherosclerosis and global cardiovascular risk. In 105 renal transplant patients, intrarenal RI and common carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) were measured. Risk for coronary heart disease was determined by Framingham risk scoring (FRS). Patients were followed up for 5.4 +/- 0.4 years. The combined end point was a decrease of > or =50% in estimated glomerular filtration rate, need for dialysis or death. Both an increased IMT and a high FRS were predictors of the combined end point. In contrast, increased RI did not significantly predict the combined end point in the entire cohort. Only among low-risk patients with either normal IMT or FRS < or =20%, high RI measurements were associated with allograft loss. Compared to markers of cardiovascular risk or systemic atherosclerosis, renal RI are inferior outcome predictors in unselected transplant recipients. Only in patients with mild or moderate cardiovascular risk may RI measurements allow additional risk stratification."}
{"id": "19939822", "title": "Chronic kidney disease as a predictor of coronary lesion morphology.", "content": "Chronic kidney disease as a predictor of coronary lesion morphology. Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the main cause of death in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). We investigated whether CKD stage affected coronary lesion morphology in patients with established CAD. Coronary angiograms of 264 patients were evaluated. Chronic kidney disease was staged using the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) from the serum creatinine prior to coronary angiography. Patients were divided into 3 groups: dialysis or severe decrease in GFR <30 mL/min per 1.73 m(2) (group 1; n = 60), patients with moderate kidney failure (group 2; n = 116), and patients with normal renal function or mild decrease in GFR (group 3; n = 88). The likelihood of CAD and lesion complexity increased with decreasing eGFR (P = .001). Patients with CKD also had more significant CAD. The risk of significant coronary obstruction and lesion complexity increased progressively with decreasing eGFR. The eGFR may predict lesion complexity among patients with CKD undergoing coronary angiography."}
{"id": "19932544", "title": "Risk of incident ESRD: a comprehensive look at cardiovascular risk factors and 17 years of follow-up in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) Study.", "content": "Risk of incident ESRD: a comprehensive look at cardiovascular risk factors and 17 years of follow-up in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) Study. Diabetes and hypertension are potent risk factors for end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Previous studies suggest that other cardiovascular risk factors also may increase the risk of ESRD; however, risk associated with a comprehensive cardiovascular risk-factor assessment has not been quantified in a population-based sample. The Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) Study, a prospective observational cohort. 15,324 white and African American participants aged 45-64 years from 4 US communities were followed up after a baseline visit that occurred in 1987-1989. A comprehensive collection of cardiovascular risk factors were examined. Incidence of ESRD (transplant, dialysis, catheter placement or kidney failure, and death) exclusive of acute kidney failure was ascertained through active surveillance of hospitalizations through 2004. During a median 16-year follow-up, 241 cases of ESRD developed (incidence rate, 1.04 cases/1,000 person-years). Male sex, African American race, diabetes, hypertension, history of coronary heart disease, smoking, older age, body mass index, and triglyceride concentration were associated with increased risk of ESRD after adjustment for baseline estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) and each other. There was a graded curvilinear association between risk of ESRD and lower baseline eGFR at levels < 90 mL/min/1.73 m(2) and moderately increased levels > 120 mL/min/1.73 m(2). The relative risk of eGFR on ESRD risk generally was greater in women and individuals with diabetes than in their counterparts. Only events occurring in acute-care hospitals were investigated (but there was long-term continuous active surveillance of events). We quantify the relative risk of ESRD in a community-based African American and white population associated with established cardiovascular risk factors (diabetes, hypertension, male sex, and African American race) and report prospective data identifying greater risk of ESRD associated with other cardiovascular risk factors: moderately decreased eGFR, increased eGFR, higher body mass index, smoking, and increased triglyceride level."}
{"id": "19924001", "title": "Rationale and design of the Randomized comparison of XiEnce V and Multilink VisioN coronary stents in the sAme muLtivessel patient with chronic kiDnEy disease (RENAL-DES) study.", "content": "Rationale and design of the Randomized comparison of XiEnce V and Multilink VisioN coronary stents in the sAme muLtivessel patient with chronic kiDnEy disease (RENAL-DES) study. Percutaneous coronary intervention with bare metal stents (BMS) in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) has shown suboptimal results. Drug-eluting stents (DESs) might reduce the incidence of restenosis and therefore of target lesion revascularization in these patients. Of note, in patients with CKD, multiple concomitant individual variables may be responsible for neointimal hyperplasia after coronary stenting, thus making the comparison of BMS and DES in different patient groups difficult. The RENAL-DES is a prospective, randomized, multicenter, not-sponsored study to directly compare the efficacy in the prevention of clinical restenosis, of everolimus-eluting stent (Xience V) and BMS with identical design (Multilink Vision), both implanted in the same patient with multivessel coronary artery disease and CKD in order to obviate the multiple and unpredictable baseline differences. The primary endpoint of the study is 9-month ischemia-driven target vessel revascularization. The expected primary endpoint rates are 20% for BMS and 10% for DES. According to these estimates, with a significant level of 0.05, a sample size of 194 patients provides an 80% statistical power. Assuming a 10% dropout rate, the goal is to enroll 213 patients (426 treated vessels) from five Italian centers. As 20% of the patients will likely require stent implantation in three vessels, approximately 500 treated vessels will be analyzed. This intraindividual, randomized study will provide, for the first time, data on the efficacy, in the prevention of clinical restenosis, of DES compared to BMS in patients with multivessel coronary artery disease and CKD (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT 00818792)."}
{"id": "19919611", "title": "Influence of coronary artery disease assessment and treatment in the incidence of cardiac events in renal transplant recipients.", "content": "Influence of coronary artery disease assessment and treatment in the incidence of cardiac events in renal transplant recipients. \u2002 The best strategy for pre-transplant investigation and treatment of coronary artery disease (CAD) is controversial. We evaluated 167 renal transplant recipients before transplantation to determine the incidence of cardiac events and death. We performed clinical evaluations and myocardial scans in all patients and coronary angiography in select patients. Asymptomatic patients with normal myocardial scans (n=57) had significantly fewer cardiac events (log-rank=0.0002) and deaths (log-rank=0.0005) than did patients with abnormal scans but no angiographic evidence of CAD (n=76) and individuals with CAD (n=34) documented angiographically. CAD increased the probability of events (HR=2.27, % CI 1.007-5.11; p=0.04). The incidence of cardiac events (log-rank=0.349) and deaths (log-rank=0.588) was similar among patients treated medically (n=23) or by intervention (n=11). Asymptomatic patients with normal myocardial scans had a better cardiac prognosis than did patients with or without CAD and positive for myocardial ischemia. Patients with altered scan and CAD had the poorer outcome. Guideline-oriented medical treatment is safe and yields results comparable to coronary intervention in renal transplant patients with CAD. The data do not support preemptive myocardial revascularization for renal transplant candidates."}
{"id": "19910107", "title": "Invasive aspergillosis presenting with a painless complete ophthalmoplegia.", "content": "Invasive aspergillosis presenting with a painless complete ophthalmoplegia. We report on a patient who presented with complete ophthalmoplegia as a first symptom of fatal invasive aspergillosis. We present the clinical course of an immunocompromised 68-year-old man with unclear painless loss of vision, ptosis and ophthalmoplegia of the right eye lasting for 10 days which was referred from an ophthalmological outpatient clinic. He had a history of kidney transplantation after renal failure, diabetes mellitus II, and coronary heart disease. He was on immunosuppressive therapy with tacrolimus, mycophenolate and prednisolone since renal transplantation. The initial cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was unremarkable. The additional thin section computed tomography (CT) of the paranasal sinuses was suspicious for bone erosion of the superior wall of the right sphenoidal sinus. Initial laboratory testing and cerebrospinal fluid were without pathological findings. When the patient showed signs of generalised sepsis he was transferred to the intensive care unit. Due to fulminant sepsis it was not possible to perform the planned biopsy. The patient died a few days later of cardio-respiratory insufficiency. The consecutive autopsy revealed invasive aspergillosis of paranasal sinuses with infiltration into the orbita and intracranial spreading into sinus cavernous. Autopsy also showed aspergillus pneumonia. Invasive aspergillosis of the paranasal sinuses and the skull base is most often a lethal condition in immunocompromised patients. Therefore, rapid diagnostics applying radiological (CT and MRI) and surgical procedures (biopsy) and immediate ignition of antimycotic treatment can be life-saving."}
{"id": "19875377", "title": "Coronary blood flow in patients with end-stage renal disease assessed by thrombolysis in myocardial infarction frame count method.", "content": "Coronary blood flow in patients with end-stage renal disease assessed by thrombolysis in myocardial infarction frame count method. Myocardial ischaemia in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) develops both due to the epicardial coronary artery stenosis and to the microvascular injury. We aimed to evaluate coronary blood flow in ESRD patients by means of the thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI) frame count method (TFC). In patients with ESRD, implementation of the TFC as a marker of the coronary flow abnormalities have not been previously investigated. Thirty-nine ESRD patients on regular dialysis underwent elective coronary angiography. Coronary artery stenosis >75% was defined as significant. TFC for the three main coronary vessels was calculated. Higher TFC values reflected slower flow. In 19 patients (49%), significant epicardial coronary artery disease was found. Distribution of the TFC for the three main coronary arteries reflected prevalence for higher TFC values. Mean corrected TFC for the left anterior descending artery (LAD) was 34.7 +/- 16, for the circumflex artery (Cx) 41.5 +/- 25 and for the right coronary artery (RCA) 30.9 +/- 18 frames. For the three main coronary vessels, there were no statistically significant differences between the mean TFC values according to the presence or absence of the severe coronary artery stenoses on angiography (LAD: 30.2 +/- 12 vs 36.3 +/- 18; Cx: 41.5 +/- 20 vs 41.5 +/- 27; RCA: 34.9 +/- 16 vs 30.0 +/- 19, respectively). Our results demonstrate for the first time the reduction in blood flow velocity, assessed with TFC method, in the coronary arteries of ESRD patients. This phenomenon was observed regardless of the presence of the significant epicardial coronary artery stenosis. Therefore, TFC cannot be applied as a marker of significant coronary artery stenosis in ESRD population."}
{"id": "19853864", "title": "Survival of patients on dialysis having off-pump versus on-pump coronary artery bypass surgery in the United States.", "content": "Survival of patients on dialysis having off-pump versus on-pump coronary artery bypass surgery in the United States. Patients on dialysis sustain at least a threefold higher in-hospital mortality rate and markedly higher long-term mortality following coronary artery bypass graft surgery than the general population. Smaller studies have suggested that dialysis patients have superior outcomes with off-pump compared with on-pump coronary artery bypass surgery. From the United States Renal Data System database, 13,085 patients on dialysis having first coronary artery bypass surgery between 2001 and 2006 were identified. Of these, 2335 (17.8%) had off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate survival of patients having off-pump coronary artery bypass and patients having on-pump coronary artery bypass. A Cox proportional hazards model was used to assess effects of off-pump coronary artery bypass on mortality with adjustment for baseline patient characteristics. Off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery was associated with significantly reduced all-cause mortality compared with on-pump coronary artery bypass surgery (hazard ratio 0.92, 95% confidence interval 0.86-0.99, P = .02). The observed survival benefit was most notable in the first year after surgery (70.3% vs 68.7%) and was lost 2 years after surgery (55.4% vs 55.2%). No difference was noted in the in-hospital mortality rate with off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery versus on-pump coronary artery bypass surgery (9.7% vs 11.0%, P = .06). Cardiac mortality during the follow-up period was similar (23.6% vs 23.8%; adjusted hazard ratio 0.95, 95% confidence interval 0.86-1.04, P = .26). Use of internal thoracic grafts was independently associated with improved survival after coronary artery bypass surgery (hazard ratio, 0.92; 95% confidence interval, 0.87-0.98, P = .0057). Patients on dialysis sustain high in-hospital and 2-year mortality rates after coronary artery bypass surgery. Off-pump coronary artery bypass is associated with modestly increased survival compared with on-pump coronary artery bypass, a benefit most marked early after off-pump coronary artery bypass."}
{"id": "19850559", "title": "Pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A is an independent short-time predictor of mortality in patients on maintenance haemodialysis.", "content": "Pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A is an independent short-time predictor of mortality in patients on maintenance haemodialysis. Mortality of maintenance haemodialysis (HD) patients is very high due to polymorbidity, mostly from metabolic and cardiovascular disease. In order to identify patients with high risk for life-threatening complications, reliable prognostic markers would be helpful. Pregnancy-associated plasma protein-A (PAPP-A) has been shown to predict cardiovascular events and death in patients with stable coronary artery disease as well as in acute coronary syndrome in patients with normal renal function. It was the aim of this study to evaluate PAPP-A as a marker for death in patients on maintenance HD. PAPP-A serum levels were measured in 170 patients participating in the monitor! trial, a prospective dynamic dialysis cohort multicenter study in Switzerland. Patients were followed up for a median time of 17 months after measuring PAPP-A, and evaluated for death of any cause. Survivors and non-survivors were compared with regard to baseline PAPP-A concentrations. A multivariate logistic regression analysis for death was performed including PAPP-A, age, sex, number of comorbidities, dialysis vintage, Kt/V, IL-6, C-reactive protein, parathyroid hormone (PTH), Ca x PO(4) product, and total serum cholesterol. A cut-off value for PAPP-A was calculated for discrimination between patients with low and high mortality risk, respectively. A total of 23 deaths occurred during follow-up, equalling an incidence rate of 0.1. Baseline median PAPP-A levels were 40% higher in non-survivors vs. survivors (P = 0.023). In a multivariate analysis, only PAPP-A, age, and Ca x PO(4) product were independent predictors of mortality. A cut-off value of 24 mIU/L discriminates significantly (P = 0.015) between patients at low or high risk for death with a negative predictive value of 91%. PAPP-A is a novel and independent short-time predictor of mortality in a maintenance HD population. The pathogenetic relevance of PAPP-A, particularly in the development of cardiovascular disease, remains to be further elucidated."}
{"id": "19783341", "title": "Cardiovascular risk assessment among potential kidney transplant candidates: approaches and controversies.", "content": "Cardiovascular risk assessment among potential kidney transplant candidates: approaches and controversies. Cardiovascular disease is the most common cause of death after kidney transplantation. However, uncertainties regarding the optimal assessment of cardiovascular risk in potential transplant candidates have produced controversy and inconsistency in pretransplantation cardiac evaluation practices. In this review, we consider the evidence supporting cardiac evaluation in kidney transplant candidates, generally focused on coronary artery disease, according to the World Health Organization principles for screening. The importance of pretransplant cardiac evaluation is supported by the high prevalence of coronary artery disease and the incidence and adverse consequences of acute coronary syndromes in this population. Testing for coronary artery disease may be performed noninvasively by using modalities that include nuclear myocardial perfusion studies and dobutamine stress echocardiography. These tests have prognostic value for mortality, but imperfect sensitivity and specificity for detecting angiographically defined coronary artery disease in patients with end-stage renal disease. Associations of angiographically-defined coronary artery disease with subsequent survival also are inconsistent, likely because plaque instability is more critical for infarction risk than angiographic stenosis. The efficacy and best methods of myocardial revascularization have not been examined in large contemporary clinical trials in patients with end-stage renal disease. Biomarkers, such as cardiac troponin, have prognostic value in end-stage renal disease, but require further study to determine clinical applications in directing more expensive and invasive cardiac evaluation."}
{"id": "19781704", "title": "Coronary atherosclerosis detected by coronary CT angiography in asymptomatic subjects with early chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Coronary atherosclerosis detected by coronary CT angiography in asymptomatic subjects with early chronic kidney disease. The purpose of this study is to assess the independent association between early CKD (stages 1-3a) with coronary atherosclerosis and the feasibility of risk stratification of coronary atherosclerosis according to The Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative (K/DOQI) guidelines using non-invasive coronary angiography. We consecutively enrolled 4297 asymptomatic subjects who underwent coronary CT angiography as part of a general health evaluation and had estimated glomerular filtration rates (eGFR) over 45 ml/min/1.73 m(2). Subjects were categorized from no CKD to stage 3a CKD, and multiple regression analyses for coronary atherosclerosis were performed. Early CKD was an independent risk factor for coronary artery disease (CAD) and obstructive CAD. However, neither the risk of CAD nor CACS >100 increased as stage of CKD advanced. The reason for unsuccessful stratification of coronary atherosclerosis risk was that the presence of proteinuria, which was used to define stages 1 and 2 CKD, was an independent risk factor for coronary atherosclerosis, but eGFR of 45-89 ml/min/1.73 m(2) was not associated with coronary atherosclerosis. Early CKD was an independent risk factor for coronary atherosclerosis, and the risk stratification for coronary atherosclerosis should be based on the presence of proteinuria rather than decreased eGFR within early CKD."}
{"id": "19774498", "title": "Polyneuropathy associated with cholesterol crystal embolism.", "content": "Polyneuropathy associated with cholesterol crystal embolism. Cholesterol crystal embolism complicating arterial catheterization usually presents as a multiorgan disease with renal failure, abdominal problems, and skin manifestations. We present a patient with hypertension and generalized arteriosclerosis who presented with muscle weakness, diffuse pain in the extremities, and renal failure 3 weeks after coronary catheterization and angioplasty of the right coronary artery. Muscle weakness progressed during the following months. Nerve conduction studies and nerve biopsy showed severe axonal nerve injury. Biopsy of the kidney revealed the diagnosis of cholesterol crystal embolism. The clinical presentation indicates a direct association of cholesterol crystal embolism and polyneuropathy. Although cholesterol crystal embolism represents a rare cause of polyneuropathy, it should be considered in patients with acute onset polyneuropathy and sudden onset multiorgan disease after arterial catheterization."}
{"id": "19760091", "title": "Tc-99m sestamibi single photon emission computed tomography for guiding percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with multivessel disease: a comparison with quantitative coronary angiography and fractional flow reserve.", "content": "Tc-99m sestamibi single photon emission computed tomography for guiding percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with multivessel disease: a comparison with quantitative coronary angiography and fractional flow reserve. To evaluate the accuracy of myocardial perfusion SPECT (MPI) in the detection and allocation of vessel specific perfusion defects (PD) using standard distribution territories in a routine clinical procedure of patients with multivessel disease (MVD). Combined quantitative coronary angiography and fractional flow reserve (QCA/FFR) measurements were used as invasive reference standard. 216 vessels in 72 MVD patients (67 +/- 10 years, 28 female) were investigated using MPI and QCA. FFR of 93 vessels with intermediate stenoses was determined. MPI detected significant stenoses according to QCA/FFR findings with a sensitivity of 85%. However, vessel-based evaluation using standard myocardial distribution territories delivered a sensitivity of only 62% (28 MPI+ out of 45 (QCA/FFR)+ findings), with specificity, PPV and NPV of 90, 62 and 90%. 7/17 false positive and 7/17 false negative findings (41%) could be attributed to incorrect allocation of reversible PD to their respective coronary arteries. 6/17 (35%) perfusion territories were classified as false negative when additional fixed PD were present. MPI had reasonable sensitivity for the detection of significant coronary artery disease in patients with multivessel disease. However, sensitivity decreased markedly, when the significance of each individual stenosis was evaluated using standard myocardial supplying territories. In this setting, 41% of false negative and false positive MPI findings resulted from incorrect allocation of reversible perfusion defects to their determining supplying vessel."}
{"id": "19660392", "title": "Detecting occult coronary artery disease followed by early coronary artery bypass surgery in patients with diabetic retinopathy: report from a diabetic retinocoronary clinic.", "content": "Detecting occult coronary artery disease followed by early coronary artery bypass surgery in patients with diabetic retinopathy: report from a diabetic retinocoronary clinic. We hypothesized that a large number of patients with diabetic retinopathy who could benefit greatly from early coronary artery bypass grafting would not be identified. Patients with diabetic retinopathy receiving ophthalmologic care as outpatients in our hospital in whom coronary artery disease was not previously suspected were referred randomly to the diabetic retinocoronary clinic and were asked to participate in diagnostic tests, including an exercise treadmill test and exercise thallium scintigraphy or coronary computed tomography. Patients who had type 1 diabetes mellitus, required hemodialysis, or both were excluded from this study. A definitive diagnosis of coronary artery disease was confirmed by means of coronary angiography. Of 214 patients with diabetic retinopathy, 55 (25.7%) were confirmed as having significant stenotic coronary artery disease. Patients with angiographically confirmed coronary disease were older than those with negative results on diagnostic tests (62.2 + or - 9.8 vs 57.9 + or - 10.3 years, P = .01). Fifteen had 1-vessel disease, 17 had 2-vessel disease, 14 had 3-vessel disease, 1 had left main trunk plus 1-vessel disease, 2 had left main trunk plus 2-vessel disease, and 5 had left main trunk plus 3-vessel disease. Eight patients had left main trunk disease, and 18 patients with non-left main trunk disease had proximal left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) disease. Forty-two patients showed indications of coronary revascularization (coronary artery bypass grafting in 17 and percutaneous coronary intervention in 25). During the entire follow-up (287.6 + or - 183.2 days) of 39 patients undergoing coronary revascularization, all were alive without myocardial infarction, but 8 experienced vitreous hemorrhage. Approximately 25% of patients with diabetic retinopathy receiving ophthalmologic care as outpatients have a significant stenotic coronary artery disease. Of the total diabetic population, a large number of patients with diabetic retinopathy who show strong indications for early coronary artery bypass grafting might well go unrecognized."}
{"id": "19594321", "title": "Coronary calcification is associated with lower bone formation rate in CKD patients not yet in dialysis treatment.", "content": "Coronary calcification is associated with lower bone formation rate in CKD patients not yet in dialysis treatment. Vascular calcification is a strong prognostic marker of mortality in hemodialysis patients and has been associated with bone metabolism disorders in this population. In earlier stages of chronic kidney disease (CKD), vascular calcification also has been documented. This study evaluated the association between coronary artery calcification (CAC) and bone histomorphometric parameters in CKD predialysis patients assessed by multislice coronary tomography and by undecalcified bone biopsy. CAC was detected in 33 (66%) patients, and their median calcium score was 89.7 (0.4-2299.3 AU). The most frequent bone histologic alterations observed included low trabecular bone volume, increased eroded and osteoclast surfaces, and low bone-formation rate (BFR/BS). Multiple logistic regression analysis, adjusted for age, sex, and diabetes, showed that BFR/BS was independently associated with the presence of coronary calcification [p = .009; odd ratio (OR) = 0.15; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.036-0.619]. This study showed a high prevalence of CAC in asymptomatic predialysis CKD patients. Also, there was an independent association of low bone formation and CAC in this population. In conclusion, our results provide evidence that low bone-formation rate constitutes another nontraditional risk factor for cardiovascular disease in CKD patients."}
{"id": "19406493", "title": "Relationship between renal function and outcomes in high-risk patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes: results from SYNERGY.", "content": "Relationship between renal function and outcomes in high-risk patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes: results from SYNERGY. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a risk factor for coronary heart disease and bleeding with antithrombotic therapy in patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS). We evaluated the effect of renal function on efficacy and outcomes in high-risk patients with NSTE ACS in the SYNERGY trial. Creatinine clearance (CrCl) at the time of randomization was analyzed as a continuous variable added to multivariable logistic regression models for 30-day death or MI, non-CABG-associated TIMI major bleeding, GUSTO severe bleeding, and transfusion in the overall study population, patients undergoing coronary angiography, and patients undergoing PCI. Of 9838 patients with a CrCl value, 70.6% (N=6950) had CrCl\u226560\u00a0mL/min, 27.8% (N=2732) had CrCl 30-59\u00a0mL/min, and 1.6% (N=156) had CrCl<30\u00a0mL/min. No randomized treatment by CrCl interaction test was found to be statistically significant, suggesting renal insufficiency affected enoxaparin and unfractionated heparin outcomes similarly. After adjustment, CrCl was an independent predictor of 30-day death or MI (OR 1.06, 95% CI 1.03-1.09), TIMI major bleeding (OR 1.06, 95% CI 1.02-1.10), GUSTO severe bleeding (OR 1.10, 95% CI 1.03-1.17), and transfusion (OR 1.07, 95% CI 1.04-1.11). Patients with CKD had higher rates of 30-day death or MI and bleeding than those without CKD, regardless of randomized antithrombin therapy. While this analysis suggests that there is a rise in bleeding events as CrCl falls for patients in either treatment group, it is unknown whether a reduction in dose would decrease bleeding risk."}
{"id": "19056138", "title": "Frequency and predictors of contrast-induced nephropathy after angioplasty for chronic total occlusions.", "content": "Frequency and predictors of contrast-induced nephropathy after angioplasty for chronic total occlusions. The incidence and predictors of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) of chronic total occlusions (CTO) have not been specifically reported. This retrospective analysis included all consecutive patients referred for PCI of CTO between April 2003 and March 2008, with baseline and 24 h postprocedural available creatinine levels. CIN was defined as 24 h postprocedural increase of baseline creatinine levels > or =0.5 mg/dl (CIN(05)) or > or =25% (CIN(25)). Severe renal dysfunction (SRD) was defined as acute renal failure requiring dialysis, or an increase in baseline creatinine levels > or =2.0 mg/dl (SRD(2)) or > or =50% (SRD%). Patients were classified into risk categories for CIN, according to the validated Mehran risk score. A total of 227 patients were included, mean age of 64+/-10 years, the majority being at low risk for CIN (55% with < or =5 points in the Mehran score). CIN(25) occurred in 6.16% (14/227) patients and CIN(05) in 0.88% (2/227). The incidence of SRD(2) or SDR% was 0% (0/227) and 0.9% (2/227), respectively, with no patient requiring dialysis. Patients who developed CIN(25) received a higher contrast volume than those who did not (312 ml (210-400) vs 260 ml (200-345), p=0.14), but the difference was not statistically significant. In this consecutive cohort of patients, the incidence of CIN following PCI for CTO was low despite the administration of moderate to large volumes of contrast media. Attempts at revascularization of CTO should not be discouraged or be prematurely interrupted because of the fear of CIN."}
{"id": "20503835", "title": "Development of a coronary artery aneurysm (CAA) following implantation of a bare metal stent in a patient with chronic renal failure--a case report.", "content": "Development of a coronary artery aneurysm (CAA) following implantation of a bare metal stent in a patient with chronic renal failure--a case report."}
{"id": "20146888", "title": "Comparison of anti-Xa activity after a single intravenous bolus of low-dose enoxaparin in patients with and without end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Comparison of anti-Xa activity after a single intravenous bolus of low-dose enoxaparin in patients with and without end-stage renal disease. This study was designed to evaluate anti-Xa activity hourly during the first 3 h after a single intravenous bolus of 0.5 mg/kg enoxaparin in 30 patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) who underwent haemodialysis, and in 30 patients with normal or mildly reduced renal function who underwent coronary angiography for chest pain (non-ESRD group). Mean +/- SD haemodialysis time was 3.9 +/- 0.3 h in the ESRD group. Of 24 patients diagnosed with coronary artery disease in the non-ESRD group, 20 underwent percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). A peak anti-Xa activity > 0.5 IU/ml 10 min after enoxaparin injection was obtained in 90% and 93% of the non-ESRD and ESRD patients, respectively. The percentages of patients with peak anti-Xa activity in the target range (0.5 - 1.5 IU/ml) were similar in the two groups (non-ESRD 80%, ESRD 93%). Adequate anti-Xa activity (> 0.5 IU/ml) lasted about 2 h in both groups. It is concluded that a single intravenous low-dose enoxaparin (0.5 mg/kg) bolus provides anti-Xa activity adequate for elective PCI within 2 h irrespective of whether or not the patient had ESRD."}
{"id": "20142185", "title": "How should I treat a complex Post-CABG patient?", "content": "How should I treat a complex Post-CABG patient? A 69 year old man was admitted with unstable angina (Class IIB). He had a history of chronic renal impairment, diabetes mellitus, hypertension and coronary bypass surgery in 1997 (LIMA graft to the LAD anf diagonal branch, saphenous vein grafts to the RCA and first marginal branch of LCx. Coronary angiography. Unstable angina (Class IIB). Occlusion of the LCx and RCA. Functionally occluded LIMA on the LAD and diagonal branch. Diffuse disease of the LAD with two significant lesions at the LAD-first diagonal and mid-distal LAD. Revascularisation."}
{"id": "20135884", "title": "[Specific features of cardiac insufficiency in elderly patients with chronic renal disease].", "content": "[Specific features of cardiac insufficiency in elderly patients with chronic renal disease]. To evaluate clinical features of chronic cardiac insufficiency (CCI) in elderly patients with renal dysfunction. 260 patents (143 men and 117 women) aged above 60 (mean 68.7 +/- 6.6) yr with I-IV FC CCI. 25 patients had hypertensive disease (HD), 30 coronary heart disease (CHD), 205 HD+CHD. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was estimated using MDRD formula. Chronic renal disease (CRD) with GFR reduced below 60 ml/min/1.73 m2 was diagnosed in 126 (48.5%) patients. Its severity was not significantly different between patients with and without CCI. (2.3 +/- 0.7 and 2.1 +/- 0.7 respectively, p = 0.13). The entire study group was dominated by men, the CCI group by women. Atrial fibrillation (AF) was diagnosed in 25.8% of the patients with CI + CRD. Multivariate regression analysis revealed independent correlation of AF with CCI FC (p = 0.02) and GFR (p = 0.2). CCI patients with CRD had higher frequency of mitral regurgitation (MR) than without CRD. Occurrence of MR correlated with age (p < 0.001) and GFR (p < 0.001). 1. Renal dysfunction occurred in 48.55% of elderly patients with CCI. 2. A distinctive clinical feature of CCI + CRD in elderly patients is frequent development of AF and MR. 3. CCI + CRD is more frequent in women and CCI without CRD in men."}
{"id": "20083074", "title": "Prediction of new-onset refractory congestive heart failure using gated myocardial perfusion SPECT imaging in patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease subanalysis of the J-ACCESS database.", "content": "Prediction of new-onset refractory congestive heart failure using gated myocardial perfusion SPECT imaging in patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease subanalysis of the J-ACCESS database. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the predictive value of perfusion/function parameters measured by gated myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)in combination with clinical variables in patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease to predict refractory heart failure (HF). The increasing number of HF patients requires the establishment of a prophylactic strategy that can identify patients at high risk of HF due to coronary artery disease. We analyzed clinical and stress/rest-gated SPECT data from the multicenter, prospective, and observational J-ACCESS (Japanese Assessment of Cardiac Events and Survival Study by Quantitative Gated SPECT) database of 3,835 known or suspected coronary artery disease patients in which new-onset congestive HF symptoms requiring aggressive medical treatment were observed in 71 patients for 3 years. The multivariable Cox hazard model revealed that chronic renal dysfunction (hazard ratio(HR): 6.227 [95% confidence interval (CI): 2.920 to 13.279]), the end-systolic volume index (ESVI) (HR:1.019 [95% CI: 1.011 to 1.029]), and moderate to high stress summed score (SSS) (HR: 3.012 [95% CI: 1.757 to 5.181]) independently (p < 0.0001) predicted HF. In addition to the close (p < 0.0001) correlation of ESVI and SSS with HF incidence, the combined tertiles of SSS and ESVI revealed high-risk patients with a maximally 17.3 times greater risk (5.2%/3 years) compared with the minimal risk (0.3%/3 years) at a normal to low SSS and lower ESVI. Chronic renal dysfunction combined with ESVI and SSS categories had the greatest (p < 0.005 to 0.001) incremental prognostic value with a global chi-square value (125.0)over single or other combined risks. Chronic renal dysfunction, greater stress-induced perfusion abnormality, and higher ESVI provide independent and additive information for predicting the risk of refractory HF in known or suspected coronary patients, indicating the efficacy of perfusion/function parameters measured by stress gated perfusion SPECT for identifying patients at greater risk of future refractory HF."}
{"id": "20039505", "title": "Revascularization of left main bifurcation lesions by \"Mini-Crush technique\" in a subject on haemodialysis.", "content": "Revascularization of left main bifurcation lesions by \"Mini-Crush technique\" in a subject on haemodialysis. A 75 old diabetic, hypertensive subject with chronic kidney disease stage V (on haemodialysis) had Acute Coronary Syndrome. Coronary angiography revealed bifurcation lesion of the distal Left Main Coronary Artery involving the origins of LAD & LCx, CABG was denied because of comorbidites, old age and unwillingness of the patient to face the risk of surgery. The LM bifurcation was treated in \"Mini-Crush technique\" resulting in TIMI-III flow and there was uneventful post-interventional recovery without MACE."}
{"id": "20035639", "title": "Uric Acid is not an independent predictor of cardiovascular death in patients with angiographically proven coronary artery disease.", "content": "Uric Acid is not an independent predictor of cardiovascular death in patients with angiographically proven coronary artery disease. The aim of this study is to investigate the impact of uric acid on clinical outcomes in patients with angiographically proven coronary artery disease. Six hundred and forty seven consecutive patients with angiographically proven significant coronary artery disease were enrolled in this retrospective study. Patients were assigned to serum uric acid level >or= 6.4 mg/dL and < 6.4 mg/dL groups based on baseline fasting uric acid levels and determined by a receiver operating characteristic curve. The mean follow-up duration was 4.6 +/- 1.1 years after coronary angiography. The primary endpoints were all cause mortality and death from cardiovascular disease. The five-year survival rates for patients free from all-cause mortality with levels of uric acid >or= 6.4 mg/dL and < 6.4 mg/dL were 82% and 92% respectively (p < 0.0001). Five-year survival rates for patients free from cardiovascular mortality with levels of uric acid uric acid >or= 6.4 mg/dL and < 6.4 mg/dL were 91% and 97% respectively (p = 0.003). Multivariate Cox regression analysis showed that serum uric acid was an independent predictor of all-cause death (p = 0.01) but was not an independent predictor of cardiovascular mortality (p = 0.063) after adjusting for multi-vessel coronary artery disease, chronic renal insufficiency and a left ventricular ejection fraction < 40%. After multivariate adjustment, the fasting serum uric acid level was an independent predictor of all-cause mortality, but probably not an independent predictor of cardiovascular mortality in patients with angiographically proven coronary artery disease."}
{"id": "20031768", "title": "Prognostic values of C-reactive protein levels on clinical outcome after implantation of sirolimus-eluting stents in patients on hemodialysis.", "content": "Prognostic values of C-reactive protein levels on clinical outcome after implantation of sirolimus-eluting stents in patients on hemodialysis. Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) using drug-eluting stents significantly reduces the risk of restenosis in the general population. However, in patients on hemodialysis, adverse cardiac events are frequently seen even if treated with drug-eluting stents. Recent studies suggest that C-reactive protein (CRP) reflects vascular wall inflammation and can predict adverse cardiac events. We evaluated possible prognostic values of CRP on outcomes in patients on hemodialysis undergoing PCI with drug-eluting stents. A total of 167 patients undergoing PCI with sirolimus-eluting stents for stable angina (322 lesions) were enrolled. They were divided into tertiles according to serum CRP levels. We analyzed the incidence of major adverse cardiovascular events including cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, and target lesion revascularization after PCI as well as quantitative coronary angiographic data. The mean follow-up was 31 months (SD, 14). Major adverse cardiac events occurred in 11 patients (19.6%) of the lowest tertile, in 22 patients (39.3%) of the middle tertile, and in 28 patients (50.9%) of the highest tertile during follow-up period (P=0.0009). There was a progressive increase in neointimal growth after sirolimus-eluting stent implantation during follow-up because preprocedural CRP levels were higher, despite similar angiographic data just after PCI. Angiographic restenosis at 6 to 8 months after PCI was seen in 10.6% in the lowest tertile, 17.9% in the middle tertile, and 32.0% in the highest tertile (P=0.0007). Increased preprocedural serum CRP levels would predict higher major adverse cardiac events and restenosis rates after sirolimus-eluting stents implantation in patients on hemodialysis."}
{"id": "20031733", "title": "The adverse long-term impact of renal impairment in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention in the drug-eluting stent era.", "content": "The adverse long-term impact of renal impairment in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention in the drug-eluting stent era. An observational study determining the long-term impact of chronic kidney disease (CKD) on patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention at a tertiary cardiac referral center. CKD is associated with poor in-hospital outcomes after percutaneous coronary intervention, but its effect beyond 1 year, particularly in the drug-eluting stent (DES) era, has not been reported. Baseline creatinine was available for 11,953 patients entered into a prospective registry (April 2000 to September 2007). Patients were stratified: those with or without at least moderate CKD (creatinine clearance, <60 mL/min). Follow-up data were obtained through linkage to a provincial registry. Kaplan-Meier analysis was performed. Cox multiple-regression analysis identified independent predictors of late mortality and major adverse cardiac events (MACE) and examined the association between DES use and late outcomes in the presence or absence of CKD. CKD was present in 3070 patients (25.7%). In-hospital mortality and MACE were significantly increased in CKD (3.34% versus 0.44%, P<0.001 and 5.73% versus 2.2%, P<0.001). Survival and MACE-free survival at 7 years were reduced (64.5+/-1.4% versus 89.4+/-0.5%, P<0.001; 44.0+/-1.4% versus 63.4+/-0.8%, P<0.001). CKD was an independent predictor of late mortality and MACE (hazard ratio [HR]: 2.18, CI: 1.90 to 2.49, P<0.0001; HR: 1.37, CI: 1.25 to 1.49, P<0.0001). DES use was associated with a significant reduction in both (HR: 0.71, CI: 0.60 to 0.83, P<0.0001; HR: 0.70, CI: 0.63 to 0.78, P<0.0001). In patients with CKD, DES use was associated with reduced revascularization (HR: 0.68, CI: 0.53 to 0.88, P=0.004) and reduced MACE (HR: 0.81, CI: 0.69 to 0.95, P=0.011) but not reduced mortality (HR: 0.85, CI: 0.69 to 1.05, P=0.1). In a large registry of \"all comers\" for percutaneous coronary intervention, CKD was an independent predictor of adverse late outcomes. DES use may be associated with improved long-term outcomes in this high-risk cohort, but further prospective studies are required."}
{"id": "20024639", "title": "Troponins and high-sensitivity troponins as markers of necrosis in CAD and heart failure.", "content": "Troponins and high-sensitivity troponins as markers of necrosis in CAD and heart failure. For years, cardiac troponins (cTn) have been regarded as the preferred biomarkers for the diagnosis of myocardial infarction and for the risk stratification of patients with acute coronary syndromes, as well as for the selection of patients who need an early invasive strategy, and for the guidance of adjunctive pharmacological therapy. In addition, measurement of cTn has been found useful for detection of myocardial necrosis in conditions unrelated to myocardial ischemia including acute pulmonary embolism, myocarditis, heart failure, sepsis, and end-stage renal disease. In these conditions, an unfavorable prognosis is unequivocally associated with detectable concentrations of cTn.A major limitation of most currently available cTn assays is the lack of adequate precision, i.e., to measure cTn concentrations at the 99th percentile value with a coefficient of variation < 10%. As a consequence, many manufacturers have developed more sensitive cTn assays that now comply with precision criteria required by the Joint European Society of Cardiology/ American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association/World Heart Federation Task Force for the Redefinition of Acute Myocardial Infarction.Using assays with higher analytic sensitivity more patients will be seen in clinical practice with the high-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (TnThs) above the 99th percentile discriminator. The causes of these elevations may be due to acute, subacute and chronic cardiac disease such as heart failure or cardiomyopathies."}
{"id": "20014205", "title": "Single-photon emission computed tomography myocardial perfusion imaging in the diagnosis of left main disease.", "content": "Single-photon emission computed tomography myocardial perfusion imaging in the diagnosis of left main disease. Left main disease (LMD), defined as > or = 50% lesion stenosis, occurs in 3% to 5% of patients undergoing catheterization. Limited data on the value of single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging for diagnosis of LMD exists. This study sought to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of SPECT imaging in the diagnosis of LMD. A total of 74 consecutive patients with LMD, identified from our catheterization lab database (January 2003-December 2007) with gated exercise (15 patients) or adenosine (59 patients), thallium 201, or Tc-99m SPECT imaging within 6 months of index angiography were included. Group 1 (Gp 1) included 33 patients with isolated LMD. Group 2 (Gp 2) consisted of 41 patients with LMD and 1-vessel disease (6); LMD and 2-vessel disease (24); and LMD and 3-vessel disease (11). Reversible perfusion defects (PD) were absent in 6 (18%) of Gp 1 and 8 (20%) of Gp 2 patients. Among Gp 1 patients, PD in 1-vessel, 2-vessel, 3-vessel distribution were seen in 20 (61%), 5 (15%), and 2 (6%) patients respectively. In comparison, PD in 1-vessel, 2-vessel, 3-vessel distribution were observed in 20 (49%), 12 (29%), and 1 (2%) of Gp 2 patients respectively. Left main (LM) pattern was noted in 6 patients (Gp 1: 2, Gp 2: 4). Transient ischemic dilatation (TID) was encountered in 34 patients (Gp 1: 17, Gp 2: 17) and in 4 patients with normal perfusion scans. These data represent the largest analysis of patients with \"isolated\" LMD. Approximately 19% of patients with LMD have no reversible PD on SPECT. While LM pattern is rare, 1-vessel distribution PD and TID represent the most frequent SPECT abnormalities."}
{"id": "20008688", "title": "Annual progression of coronary calcification in trials of preventive therapies: a systematic review.", "content": "Annual progression of coronary calcification in trials of preventive therapies: a systematic review. Coronary artery calcification (CAC) measured by computed tomography is radiographic confirmation of atherosclerosis, predicts cardiovascular events, and has been evaluated as a surrogate measure in randomized trials. We performed a literature search for prospective randomized trials in which CAC was measured at baseline and at 1 year or more of follow-up. We computed the weighted mean annualized rate of CAC progression for a variety of therapies tested in these trials. Ten trials (n = 2612) met our criteria and were included. Electron-beam, double-helix, and multislice computed tomography were used in 6, 2, and 2 trials, respectively. Agatston (8 trials) and volumetric (2 trials) methods were used for CAC evaluation. In 5 trials in subjects with cardiovascular disease (CVD) (n = 2135; age, ~64 years; ~39% women; follow-up, ~26 months), therapies included statins (n = 1370), placebo (n = 564), and antihypertensives (n = 201). In 5 trials in subjects with chronic kidney disease (n = 477; age, ~55 years; ~34% women; follow-up, ~14 months), interventions included low-phosphorus diet (n = 29), sevelamer hydrochloride (n = 229), and calcium-based phosphate binders (n = 219). The mean (SD) weighted annualized CAC increase overall and in patients with CVD and chronic kidney disease was 17.2% (6.7%), 16.9% (5.2%), and 18.4 (11.1%), respectively (P < .001). The rate among those assigned blinded placebo was 14.6% (1.0%) (2 trials). There was no consistent or reproducible treatment effect of any therapy on this outcome measured at 1 year. The 1-year change in CAC does not appear to be a suitable surrogate end point for treatment trials in patients with CVD or chronic kidney disease."}
{"id": "20006800", "title": "Impact of comorbidities on decision-making in chronic critical limb ischemia.", "content": "Impact of comorbidities on decision-making in chronic critical limb ischemia. Given both the high-risk nature of the critical limb ischemia (CLI) patient population, as well as the variety of available treatment options, the ability to use preprocedure variables to predict a given outcome has become increasingly important. The three main advantages associated with accurate risk stratification include: (1) improved clinical decision-making based on realistic patient and physician expectations, (2) ability to benchmark individual practitioners and institutions by comparing their outcomes with expected outcomes specific to the actual patients being treated, and (3) creation of objective performance goals for the evaluation of new treatment modalities in specific patient populations. Patients with CLI have multiple comorbidities that can impact greatly on the outcomes of attempted revascularization. The PREVENT III CLI Risk Score was developed as a tool to estimate amputation-free survival at 1 year in patients undergoing vein bypass surgery for limb salvage, and has now been validated using data from >3,000 cases. The score incorporates five baseline clinical variables-dialysis, tissue loss, age, hematocrit, and coronary artery disease-and assigns patients into three distinct risk groups. Patients in the high-risk subgroup (8.2% of total number of patients evaluated) experienced <50% amputation-free survival at 1 year. This tool may be valuable in assisting both the surgeon and patient faced with treatment decisions in CLI."}
{"id": "19965546", "title": "Longitudinal relationships among coronary artery calcification, serum phosphorus, and kidney function.", "content": "Longitudinal relationships among coronary artery calcification, serum phosphorus, and kidney function. Coronary artery calcification (CAC) is common in advanced chronic kidney disease (CKD), yet its onset and time course are uncertain. The study objective was to assess longitudinal relationships among CAC, kidney function, and traditional and putative cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors. This is a prospective cohort analysis from the Spokane Heart Study, a long-term observational study of community-dwelling adults who were assessed every 2 yr for CAC (electron-beam computed tomography), CVD risk factors, and laboratory testing. Estimated GFR (eGFR) was determined by the reexpressed Modification of Diet in Renal Disease equation. CAC was present in 28% (245 of 883) at baseline. After 6 yr, new-onset CAC developed in 33% (122 of 371); severity increased from a median CAC score of 38 to 152 in those with baseline CAC. Neither eGFR (101 +/- 34 versus 104 +/- 31 ml/min per 1.73 m(2), respectively) nor serum phosphorus (3.25 +/- 0.49 versus 3.29 +/- 0.48 mg/dl, respectively) differed by CAC presence or absence at baseline; however, multivariate models (generalized estimating equations for incidence and prevalence) revealed that independent predictors of CAC over time were greater baseline CAC scores, higher serum phosphorus levels, lower eGFR levels, and traditional CVD risk factors. Each 1-mg/dl increase in phosphorus imparted odds ratios for CAC of 1.61 (incidence) and 1.54 (prevalence), risks comparable to traditional CVD risk factors. CAC becomes more frequent and severe over time. Higher levels of serum phosphorus and reduced kidney function independently predicted CAC."}
{"id": "19944392", "title": "Preventing acute decrease in renal function induced by coronary angiography (PRECORD): a prospective randomized trial.", "content": "Preventing acute decrease in renal function induced by coronary angiography (PRECORD): a prospective randomized trial. Infusion of saline attenuates the decrease in renal function induced by radiographic contrast agents among patients with chronic renal insufficiency. The Preventing Renal alteration in Coronary Disease (PRECORD) trial was a randomized trial to assess the effect on renal function of saline infusion during and after coronary angiography in 201 patients without severe chronic renal insufficiency (serum creatinine<140micromol/L). All patients received standard oral hydration: 2000mL of tap water within the 24 hours after coronary angiography. Patients were randomized before the procedure to intravenous hydration (1000mL of 0.9% saline infusion) or no additional hydration. The infusion was started in the catheterization laboratory and continued for 24 hours. The primary endpoint was the change in calculated creatinine clearance between baseline and 24 hours after coronary angiography. The same ionic low osmolar radiographic contrast agent (ioxaglate) was used in all patients. Both groups had similar baseline characteristics, including age, serum creatinine, volume of contrast and proportion of patients undergoing ad hoc coronary angioplasty. The overall decrease in serum creatinine clearance 24 hours after the procedure was -3.44 (0.68)mL/min. The change in serum creatinine clearance 24 hours after the procedure was -2.81 (1.07)mL/min in the infusion group vs -4.09 (0.91)mL/min in the control group (p=0.38). Renal function is altered only slightly 24 hours after coronary angiography with standard oral hydration alone and is not affected by saline infusion started at the beginning of coronary angiography, even in patients with mild-to-moderate renal dysfunction."}
{"id": "19944316", "title": "Plasma granzyme B as a predicting factor of coronary artery disease--clinical significance in patients with chronic renal failure.", "content": "Plasma granzyme B as a predicting factor of coronary artery disease--clinical significance in patients with chronic renal failure. To elucidate the role of granzyme B in coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). We hypothesized that granzyme B plays an important role in the formation of coronary artery lesions in patients with CKD. We studied 141 patients (116 men and 25 women; mean age, 64.2\u00b19.6 years) and 16 control subjects. Diagnosis of CAD was confirmed by selective coronary angiography. CKD was defined as a sustained decrease in the estimated glomerular filtration (eGFR) rate less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m(2) over 3 months. We assigned patients to three groups: CAD without CKD (CAD group, n=46), CKD without CAD (CKD group, n=18), and CAD with CKD (CAD/CKD group, n=77). Plasma granzyme B was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Factors contributing to the severity of CAD were analyzed by multiple regression analysis in patients with CAD. Plasma levels of high-sensitivity CRP (hs-CRP) and granzyme B in the CAD/CKD group were significantly higher than in other groups. A significant positive correlation was observed between plasma hs-CRP and granzyme B levels. A significant negative correlation was observed between eGFR and granzyme B levels. Multiple regression analysis revealed that granzyme B and hs-CRP levels were independent predicting variables of the number of stenoses in major coronary arteries. These results indicate that granzyme B might be a novel risk factor for the formation of coronary atherosclerosis by inducing apoptosis of vascular tissues in patients with CKD."}
{"id": "19944310", "title": "Cystatin C: a better marker to detect coronary artery sclerosis.", "content": "Cystatin C: a better marker to detect coronary artery sclerosis. Nowadays, early detection and treatment can often keep chronic kidney disease patients from getting worse and prevent the occurrence of cardiovascular disease. Cystatin C (Cys-C) is a new marker for renal dysfunction. This study investigated whether Cys-C played an important role for screening coronary artery disease. The consecutive 88 outpatients (51 males and 37 females), who were suspected of having effort angina pectoris or asymptomatic ischemic heart disease, were enrolled. Serum Cys-C, which was obtained within 3 months before coronary angiography, was assessed with the presence or absence of coronary arteriosclerosis, the number of culprit arteries, and blood biochemical parameters. Mean serum Cys-C was 0.82+/-0.29 mg/l. Significant differences in the estimated creatinine clearance (p=0.036), hemoglobin A1c (p=0.01), left ventricular ejection fraction (p=0.01), creatinine (p=0.007), Cys-C (p=0.006), and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (p=0.001) were observed between the patients with or without coronary arteriosclerosis. Serum Cys-C was significantly greater in the multi-vessel disease (MVD) group than the 0 vessel disease (0VD) group (p<0.001). HDL cholesterol was significantly lower in the MVD group than the 0VD and single-vessel disease groups (p=0.002 and p=0.005, respectively). The results of this study suggest Cys-C might be one of the risk factors for coronary arteriosclerosis in the patients with suspected ischemic heart disease without any history of coronary artery disease. Cys-C was a useful marker to detect coronary artery disease and the level of Cys-C could reflect the severity of coronary arteriosclerosis."}
{"id": "19926042", "title": "A randomized comparison of transradial versus transfemoral approach for coronary angiography and angioplasty.", "content": "A randomized comparison of transradial versus transfemoral approach for coronary angiography and angioplasty. The aim of the study was to evaluate the safety, feasibility, and procedural variables by the transradial approach compared with the transfemoral access in a standard population of patients undergoing coronary catheterization. Coronary catheterization is usually performed via the transfemoral approach. Transradial access may offer some advantages in comparison with transfemoral access especially under conditions of aggressive anticoagulation and antiplatelet treatment. Between July 2006 and January 2008, a total of 1,024 patients undergoing coronary catheterization were randomly assigned to the transradial or transfemoral approach. Patients with an abnormal Allen's test, history of coronary artery bypass surgery, simultaneous right heart catheterization, chronic renal insufficiency, or known difficulties with the radial or femoral access were excluded. Successful catheterization was achieved in 494 of 512 patients (96.5%) in the transradial and in 511 of 512 patients (99.8%) in the transfemoral group (p < 0.0001). Median procedural duration (37.0 min, interquartile range [IQR] 19.6 to 49.1 min vs. 40.2 min, IQR 24.3 to 50.8 min; p = 0.046) and median dose area product (38.2 Gycm(2), IQR 20.4 to 48.5 Gycm(2) vs. 41.9 Gycm(2), IQR 22.6 to 52.2 Gycm(2); p = 0.034) were significantly lower in the transfemoral group compared with the transradial access group. A median amount of contrast agent was similar among both groups. Vascular access site complications were higher in the transfemoral group (3.71%) than in the transradial group (0.58%; p = 0.0008) The findings of the present study show that transradial coronary angiography and angioplasty are safe, feasible, and effective with similar results to those of the transfemoral approach. However, procedural duration and radiation exposure are higher using the transradial access. In contrast to the transfemoral route, the rate of major vascular complications was negligible using the transradial approach."}
{"id": "19925289", "title": "Plasma ghrelin levels are associated with coronary microvascular and endothelial dysfunction in peritoneal dialysis patients.", "content": "Plasma ghrelin levels are associated with coronary microvascular and endothelial dysfunction in peritoneal dialysis patients. Cardiovascular (CV) disease is the main cause of death in peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients, and endothelial dysfunction (ED) is an early sign of vascular pathology. Ghrelin, a gastric peptide with CV actions, has been shown to inhibit proatherogenic changes in experimental models. However, another peptide hormone, leptin, may mediate deleterious effects on the CV system. The aim of this study is to evaluate the relationship between plasma ghrelin and leptin levels, and their association with coronary microvascular and endothelial functions in PD patients. Twenty-four (14 females and 10 males; mean age 44 +/- 12 yr) nondiabetic PD patients, between 18 and 70 years of age, were enrolled. In addition to demographic, clinical, and laboratory parameters, plasma concentrations of ghrelin and leptin were evaluated. Endothelial functions of the coronary arteries were determined by coronary flow reserve (CFR) measurement using transthoracic Doppler echocardiography (TTDE). A CFR value of < 2 was used as an evidence for ED. When the study group was divided according to CFR measurements as CFR < 2 and >or= 2, there were no significant differences considering age, gender, etiology of renal disease, body mass index (BMI), duration of dialysis, PD modality, PD solution type, history of peritonitis, mean arterial pressure, ejection fraction, and biochemical parameters between the two subgroups. Plasma ghrelin levels (129.4 +/- 82.1 pg/mL) in patients with CFR >or= 2 were significantly higher than those in patients with CFR< 2 (63.3 +/- 35.8 pg/mL) (p = 0.03). However, no significant differences in plasma leptin levels were found between these groups [31.39 +/- 37.81 ng/mL vs. 63.95 +/- 72.83 ng/mL (p = 0.28)]. No correlation existed between plasma ghrelin levels and age, BMI, duration of dialysis, mean arterial pressure, ejection fraction, plasma leptin levels, and biochemical parameters. Decreased plasma ghrelin levels may contribute to the development of atherosclerosis in PD patients by causing ED."}
{"id": "19920040", "title": "Incremental prognostic value of myocardial perfusion imaging in patients referred to stress single-photon emission computed tomography with renal dysfunction.", "content": "Incremental prognostic value of myocardial perfusion imaging in patients referred to stress single-photon emission computed tomography with renal dysfunction. Coronary artery disease is the main cause of mortality and morbidity in patients with impaired renal function. The aim of this study was to evaluate the prognostic implications of single-photon emission computed tomography myocardial perfusion imaging (SPECT-MPI) in patients with impaired renal function. We included 7348 consecutive patients (mean age, 64+/-13 years; 51% men) referred for SPECT-MPI between March 2002 and October 2006. Renal function was estimated using the estimated glomerular filtration rate formula. Patients were followed up for the incidence of all-cause mortality. Patients with decreased glomerular filtration rate were more often older, with higher prevalence of conventional risk factors (P<0.001). After a median follow-up of 2.6 years (25th to 75th percentiles, 1.5 to 3.7), 693 (9.4%) patients died. The risk of death increased with worsening kidney function. At each stage of impaired renal function, patients with abnormal SPECT-MPI had increased hazard of adverse events (P<0.0001). Using Cox proportional hazards analysis, the magnitude of total perfusion deficit and ischemia on MPI were associated with worse outcome after adjusting for confounding variables including glomerular filtration rate and ejection fraction. SPECT-MPI adds modest incremental prognostic information to identify patients at higher relative risk of death across a wide spectrum of renal function."}
{"id": "19917785", "title": "Intraoperative continuous venovenous hemofiltration during coronary surgery.", "content": "Intraoperative continuous venovenous hemofiltration during coronary surgery. Postoperative continuous venovenous hemofiltration decreases acute renal failure in patients with moderate renal dysfunction undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting, but it prolongs intensive care unit stay. We developed a simple method to connect a hemofiltration machine to the cardiopulmonary bypass system. To evaluate the benefit of intraoperative hemofiltration, 124 consecutive patients (mean age, 67 +/- 6 years) with moderate renal dysfunction were studied. Surgery was preformed between January 2005 and May 2007. On-pump coronary artery bypass with hemofiltration was carried out in 40 patients (group A), 44 had on-pump coronary artery bypass without hemofiltration (group B), and 40 had off-pump coronary artery bypass (group C). Postoperative acute renal failure was defined as either renal failure requiring dialysis or >or=50% decline from the baseline glomerular filtration rate but not requiring dialysis. The 3 groups had similar demographic data and preoperative renal function. After adjusting for covariates and propensity scores, multivariate analysis showed that intraoperative hemofiltration and off-pump surgery protected postoperative renal function. Independent risk factors for postoperative renal dysfunction were age >70 years, left ventricular ejection fraction <35%, and the preoperative glomerular filtration rate."}
{"id": "19886337", "title": "Assessing cardiovascular disease in the dialysis patient.", "content": "Assessing cardiovascular disease in the dialysis patient. Cardiac causes account for nearly half of all deaths in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Coronary artery disease (CAD) is present in 38% - 40% of patients starting dialysis. Both traditional and chronic kidney disease-related cardiovascular risk factors contribute to this high prevalence rate. In patients with ESRD, CAD--particularly acute myocardial infarction--is underdiagnosed. Dobutamine stress echocardiography and, to a lesser extent, stress myocardial perfusion imaging have proved useful in screening for CAD in such patients. Coronary artery calcium scoring is less useful. Acute myocardial infarction is associated with high short- and long-term mortality in dialysis patients. Cardiac troponin I appears to be more specific than cardiac troponin T or CK-MB in the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction."}
{"id": "19886334", "title": "Utility of echocardiography in the evaluation of coronary artery disease in patients with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Utility of echocardiography in the evaluation of coronary artery disease in patients with end-stage renal disease. Patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) are at increased risk of cardiovascular events. Echocardiography is an integral part of the evaluation of coronary artery disease. Chronic kidney disease has a predictable and unique effect on the myocardium and the epicardial circulation that may be detected by echocardiography. In particular dobutamine stress echocardiography has proved to be an invaluable tool in the detection of cardiovascular disease in patients with CKD. Here, we review the usefulness of echocardiography in the detection and evaluation of coronary artery disease in patients with CKD."}
{"id": "19876414", "title": "Antibody-labeled liposomes for CT imaging of atherosclerotic plaques: in vitro investigation of an anti-ICAM antibody-labeled liposome containing iohexol for molecular imaging of atherosclerotic plaques via computed tomography.", "content": "Antibody-labeled liposomes for CT imaging of atherosclerotic plaques: in vitro investigation of an anti-ICAM antibody-labeled liposome containing iohexol for molecular imaging of atherosclerotic plaques via computed tomography. We evaluated the specific binding of anti-intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) conjugated liposomes (immunoliposomes, or ILs) to activated human coronary artery endothelial cells (HCAEC) with the purpose of designing a computed tomographic imaging agent for early detection of atherosclerotic plaques. Covalent attachment of anti-ICAM-1 monoclonal antibodies to pre-formed liposomes stabilized with polyethylene glycol yielded ILs, with a coupling efficiency of the ICAM-1 to the liposomes of 10% to 24%. The anti-ICAM-1-labeled ILs had an average diameter of 136 nm as determined by dynamic light-scattering and cryogenic electron microscopy. The ILs' encapsulation of 5-[N-acetyl-(2,3-dihydroxypropyl)-amino)-N, N'-bis(2,3-dihydroxypropyl)-2,4,6-triiodo-benzene-1,3-dicarboxamide (iohexol) was determined to be 18% to 19% by a dialysis technique coupled with ultraviolet detection of free iohexol. This encapsulation corresponded to 30 to 38 mg iodine per mL IL solution, and the ILs exhibited 91% to 98.5% iohexol retention at room temperature and under physiologic conditions. The specific binding of the ILs to cultured, activated HCAEC was measured using flow cytometry, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, and fluorescence microscopy. The immunosorbent assays demonstrated the specificity of binding of anti-ICAM-1 to ICAM-1 compared with control studies using nonspecific immunoglobulin G-labeled ILs. Flow cytometry and fluorescence microscopy experiments demonstrated the expression of ICAM-1 on the surface of activated HCAEC. Therefore, our iohexol-filled ILs demonstrated potential for implementation in computed tomographic angiography to noninvasively detect atherosclerotic plaques that are prone to rupture."}
{"id": "19875565", "title": "Should we treat prehypertension in diabetes? What are the cons?", "content": "Should we treat prehypertension in diabetes? What are the cons?"}
{"id": "19853704", "title": "Nephrotoxicity of iodixanol versus iopamidol in patients with chronic kidney disease and diabetes mellitus undergoing coronary angiographic procedures.", "content": "Nephrotoxicity of iodixanol versus iopamidol in patients with chronic kidney disease and diabetes mellitus undergoing coronary angiographic procedures. The choice of radiographic contrast media for use in patients at increased risk of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) is of ongoing interest. The current study is a prospective, multicenter, randomized, double-blind design comparing the renal effects of the non-ionic, iso-osmolal agent, iodixanol, versus the non-ionic, low-osmolal agent, iopamidol, in 526 subjects with impaired baseline renal function (chronic kidney disease) and diabetes mellitus undergoing diagnostic and/or therapeutic coronary angiographic procedures. The co-primary end points were the peak increase in serum creatinine (SCr) and the incidence of CIN (increase > or =0.5 mg/dL) in SCr from baseline within 3 days of receiving contrast media. In 418 evaluable subjects with complete postcontrast media SCr data, the median peak increase in SCr in the iodixanol arm was 0.10 mg/dL, whereas in the iopamidol arm, the median peak increase was 0.09 mg/dL (P = .13). The overall CIN incidence was 10.5% (11.2% % in the iodixanol arm and 9.8% in the iopamidol arm, P = .7). The volume of contrast media, volume of saline administered, frequency of coronary interventional procedures, and severity of baseline kidney disease and of diabetes mellitus were similar between treatments. In the present study, the overall rate of CIN in patients with chronic kidney disease and DM undergoing coronary angiographic procedures was 10.5%. There was no significant difference between iodixanol and iopamidol in either peak increase in SCr or risk of CIN."}
{"id": "19852148", "title": "Valvular calcification and its relationship to atherosclerosis in chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Valvular calcification and its relationship to atherosclerosis in chronic kidney disease. Cardiovascular calcification is a common complication in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). The study aim was to identify the characteristics and risk factors of valvular calcification, and its relationship to atherosclerosis, in CKD. In this cross-sectional study, a total of 135 patients with CKD (mean age 52 +/- 11 years) included 58 pre-dialysis patients, 36 dialysis patients, and 41 renal transplant recipients. A control group of 58 subjects was also examined. The characteristics of valvular calcification were assessed using transthoracic echocardiography. The combined prevalences of mitral or aortic valve calcification were 31% in pre-dialysis patients, 50% in dialysis patients, 29% in renal transplant recipients, and 12% in controls (p = 0.001). The prevalences of mitral annular calcification were 17%, 31%, 27% and 2%, respectively (p = 0.001). In multivariate analysis, the risk factors for valvular calcification in CKD were age, duration of dialysis treatment and interleukin-6 level. Mitral annular calcification proved to be five-fold more common in diabetic patients than among non-diabetics. A close association between valvular calcification and patients with or without increased carotid intima-media thickness (44% versus 15%, p < 0.001), carotid plaque (77% versus 49%, p = 0.002), calcified carotid plaque (65% versus 26%, p = 0.001), coronary artery disease (40% versus 15%, p = 0.003) and peripheral arterial disease (46% versus 9%, p < 0.001) was found. Valvular calcification is common in CKD, and is closely associated with findings of intimal arterial disease. The presence of inflammation and the duration of dialysis treatment contribute to this complication. Diabetes is also a prominent risk factor for mitral annular calcification in CKD."}
{"id": "19838465", "title": "Subclinical coronary artery disease in patients with type 1 Diabetes Mellitus undergoing hemodialysis.", "content": "Subclinical coronary artery disease in patients with type 1 Diabetes Mellitus undergoing hemodialysis. In patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus, atherosclerosis occurs earlier in life and coronary artery disease (CAD) constitutes the major cause of death. Evaluate the prevalence and anatomic characteristics of coronary artery disease (CAD) in type 1 diabetic patients with chronic renal failure undergoing hemodialysis. This is a descriptive study of 20 patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus undergoing hemodialysis without known CAD. CAD was assessed by quantitative coronary angiography (QCA) and intravascular ultrasound (IVUS). QCA was performed in all lesions >30%, visually. All proximal 18-mm segments of the coronary arteries were analyzed by IVUS. All other coronary segments with stenosis >30% were also analyzed. Angiography detected 29 lesions >30% in 15 patients (75%). Eleven (55%) of the lesions were >50% and 10 (50%) >70%. Thirteen patients had all 3 major arteries interrogated by IVUS. Atherosclerosis was present in all patients and in all 51 proximal 18-mm segments analyzed. The mean vessel diameter of these segments was significantly larger at the IVUS than at the QCA, for all vessels. IVUS images of 25 (86.2%) of the 29 lesions >30% were obtained. Fibrotic plaques were common (48%) and 60% had intermediate vessel remodeling. CAD was present in all vessels of all type 1 diabetic patients undergoing hemodialysis. These findings are in agreement with other autopsy, angiography and IVUS studies. Additionally, they indicate the need for additional epidemiological and imaging studies to better understand and treat such a complex and serious clinical condition affecting young people."}
{"id": "19833903", "title": "Effect of elective coronary angiography on glomerular filtration rate in patients with advanced chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Effect of elective coronary angiography on glomerular filtration rate in patients with advanced chronic kidney disease. Preemptive transplantation is ideal for patients with advanced chronic kidney disease (CKD). The practice has been to perform coronary angiography (CA) on all patients aged >50, all diabetics, and all patients with cardiac symptoms or disease with a view to revascularization before transplantation. Historically patients have delayed CA until established on renal replacement therapy due to concerns of precipitating the need for chronic dialysis. The objectives of this study were to establish the risk of contrast nephropathy in patients with advanced CKD who undergo screening CA, and to determine whether or not preemptive transplantation is achievable. This retrospective analysis included 482 patients with stage IV/V CKD seen in West London predialysis clinics from 2004 to 2007. Seventy-six of 482 (15.8%) patients considered as potential transplant recipients met the authors' criteria for coronary angiography. Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) GFR measurements were recorded for the 12 mo preceding and 12 mo following CA unless a defined endpoint was reached (transplantation, dialysis, or death). Mean MDRD GFR at CA was 12.51 +/- 3.51 ml/min. The trend was not significantly different 6 mo pre- and postangiography. Cumulative dialysis-free survival was 89.1% 6 mo postangiography. Twenty-three of 76 (30.3%) patients had flow-limiting coronary artery disease. Twenty-five of 76 (32.9%) patients underwent transplantation with 22 of 25 (88.0%) transplants being performed preemptively. The data suggest CA screening does not accelerate the decline in renal function for patients with advanced CKD, facilitating a safe preemptive transplant program."}
{"id": "19809994", "title": "Asymmetric dimethylarginine, vascular calcifications and parathyroid hormone serum levels in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Asymmetric dimethylarginine, vascular calcifications and parathyroid hormone serum levels in hemodialysis patients. Asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA)is an endogenous amino acid similar to l-arginine and able to inhibit the enzyme endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS). It is a factor of impaired nitric oxide (NO) synthesis. Serum levels of ADMA in chronic kidney disease (CKD) increase due to defective inactivation and excretion. High ADMA levels are associated with endothelial dysfunction and cardiovascular damage. A linkage between ADMA levels and vascular calcifications of CKD can therefore be hypothesized. This study explores also a possible relation between ADMA and parathyroid hormone (PTH) serum levels, which are known to be linked to increased rates of cardiovascular death. The study was carried out in 79 patients on hemodialysis (HD), mean age 59.25 +/- 12 years. In all patients, serum ADMA, PTH, Ca, P, bone alkaline phosphatase (BALP), cholesterol and albumin were measured. In addition, the patients were subjected to multislice computed tomography for heart calcification evaluation. Correlation analysis of ADMA showed a significant relation with total and coronary calcium volumes, HD vintage, body mass index (BMI), cholesterol, serum albumin, PTH, natural logarithm of PTH (LnPTH) and BALP. Multiple regression analysis selected HD vintage, albumin and PTH as predictive variables for coronary calcium volume, while ADMA was excluded. With LnPTH as dependent variable, ADMA, serum calcium and BMI were predictive variables with R2 of 0.37. ADMA as dependent variable was also predicted by PTH, HD vintage, albumin and BMI. Despite the results of bivariate analysis showing a linkage between ADMA and cardiac and coronary calcifications, regression analysis showed only a spurious association. The strong positive correlation between ADMA and LnPTH, validated by the regression analysis, may suggesta link between ADMA and PTH-derived vascular damage. ADMA levels could be influenced by the severity of hyperparathyroidism and contribute to cardiovascular death linked to PTH of hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "19792845", "title": "Non-surgical periodontal therapy lowers serum inflammatory markers: a pilot study.", "content": "Non-surgical periodontal therapy lowers serum inflammatory markers: a pilot study. Evidence suggests an association between periodontal disease and coronary heart disease (CHD). C-reactive protein (CRP), fibrinogen, and white blood cell (WBC) counts are markers of inflammation, and their systemic levels have been associated with CHD risk. This pilot study investigated the effect of non-surgical periodontal therapy on systemic levels of CRP, fibrinogen, and WBC counts in subjects with CHD or no CHD (NCHD). Twenty-seven angiographically defined patients with CHD and 18 subjects with NCHD aged >or=40 years were recruited for the study. Periodontal disease was measured through the clinical parameters bleeding on probing (BOP) and probing depth (PD). All subjects received non-surgical periodontal therapy that included oral hygiene instructions and subgingival scaling and root planing. Systemic levels of inflammatory markers (CRP, fibrinogen, and WBC counts) were measured prior to and 1 month after periodontal therapy. Seventeen subjects with CHD and 11 subjects with NCHD completed the study. Subjects with CHD or NCHD experienced significant reductions in BOP (59% and 34%, respectively; P <0.05) and PD (41% and 35%, respectively; P <0.05), with non-significant intergroup differences (P >0.05). In all subjects, CRP, fibrinogen, and WBC counts were reduced significantly (21% to 40%) after periodontal therapy (P <0.05). Periodontal treatment resulted in significant decreases in BOP and PD and lowered serum inflammatory markers in patients with CHD or NCHD. This may result in a decreased risk for CHD in the treated patients. These findings will allow pursuit of a large-scale randomized intervention trial in this population."}
{"id": "19791588", "title": "[Transluminal balloon angioplasty in treatment of lower limb critical ischaemia].", "content": "[Transluminal balloon angioplasty in treatment of lower limb critical ischaemia]. To evaluate efficiency of transluminal balloon angioplasty (TLBAP) in treatment of lower limb critical ischaemia (LLCI). Over the period from November 2004 to April 2008, we performed a total of 89 TLBAPs in eighty-two patients presenting with LLCI. The patients' age averagely amounted to 67.8 +/- 9.8 years. Fifty (61%) patients had an ischaemic ulcer on the foot, seventeen (20.7%) had gangrene, and fifteen (18.3%) patients suffered from ischaemic pain at rest. Forty-five (54.9%) patients suffered from diabetes mellitus, including thirty-three (40.2%) subjects with insulin dependent DM. Sixty (73.2%) patients were diagnosed as having coronary heart disease (CHD), sixty-five (79.3%) had arterial hypertension, twenty-five (30.5%) - cerebrovascular disease, and thirteen (15.9%) - chronic renal insufficiency. Six (7.3%) patients were on chronic haemodialysis. The distribution of the patients by the level of the lesion were as follows: iliac 4 (3.6%), femoropopliteal 55 (49.5%), crural artery 52 (46.8%) Type-C and type-D lesions (TASC) were encountered in 89.2% of cases. Occlusions were observed in 82% of all lesions of the crural artery. 42.2% of the patients were treated by means of subintimal angioplasty. Stenting was used in fourteen (7.3%) cases. The angiographic and clinical success of the procedure was achieved in seventy-five (91.5%) patients. No LLCI was observed either after one or three years in 79.4 and 52.9% of the patients, respectively."}
{"id": "19787616", "title": "Massive spontaneous choroidal hemorrhage in a patient with chronic renal failure and coronary artery disease treated with Plavix.", "content": "Massive spontaneous choroidal hemorrhage in a patient with chronic renal failure and coronary artery disease treated with Plavix. To report a case of massive spontaneous choroidal hemorrhage in a patient with chronic renal failure and coronary artery disease treated with clopidogrel bisulfate (Plavix). Case report. A 75-year-old man presented with pain and loss of vision in the left eye for 1 week. His medical history was remarkable for systemic hypertension, chronic renal failure, and artery coronary disease. For 6 months, he had been taking 75 mg/day of Plavix after coronary angioplasty. Ocular examination revealed the patient to be in angle closure. Ultrasonography and computed tomography scan revealed a massive choroidal hemorrhage pushing the iris-lens diaphragm forward. Pain and intraocular pressure were treated successfully with evacuative sclerotomies, but the final exitus after 6 months was bulbar phthisis. Massive spontaneous choroidal hemorrhage is an extremely rare event that usually has been described in older patients (65-87 years old) receiving anticoagulants or thrombolytic agents. Systemic hypertension, generalized atherosclerosis, and age-related macular degeneration are additional risk factors. In the present case, massive choroidal hemorrhage was associated with use of clopidogrel bisulfate (Plavix) in a patient with chronic renal failure. Our report indicates that Plavix should be administered with caution in patients with chronic renal failure owing to the risk of serious choroidal bleeding. Chronic renal failure should be also included in the list of risk factors for massive spontaneous choroidal hemorrhage. Evacuative sclerotomies may have value in the relief of pain and elevated intraocular pressure but has not been shown to be beneficial in visual and anatomic outcomes."}
{"id": "19786239", "title": "Infrapopliteal balloon angioplasty for the treatment of chronic occlusive disease.", "content": "Infrapopliteal balloon angioplasty for the treatment of chronic occlusive disease. There is little documentation of the effectiveness of percutaneous balloon angioplasty (PTA) of infrapopliteal vessels for the treatment of chronic lower extremity ischemia. This study reviewed our recent experience with infrapopliteal PTA in a large series of patients to determine its effectiveness as a treatment modality. All patients undergoing primary infrapopliteal PTA from March 2002 to June 2006 were included. Primary study end points were primary patency, assisted patency, limb salvage, and patient survival assessed by Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis. Factors predictive of PTA failure and patient longevity were evaluated by multivariate methods. There were 155 PTAs undertaken in 144 patients (70% men; mean age, 74 years), with critical limb ischemia (86%), diabetes (66%), and renal insufficiency (45%). Infrapopliteal lesions were classified as TransAtlantic Inter-Society Consensus A (7%), B (18%), C (39%), and D (35%). PTA was confined to the infrapopliteal segment in 40 (26%), and 115 (74%) underwent multilevel treatment. Five patients (3%) received stents. Technical success was 95%. The 30-day mortality was 2%, and major morbidity was 3%. The mean follow-up was 22 months (range, 0-54 months). The 40-month actuarial primary patency was 62% (standard error, 5%), with assisted patency (infrapopliteal re-PTA, 25 [16%]) of 90%. Interval conversion to bypass surgery occurred in seven (5%). Nonhealing ulcers occurred in 118 patients (76%), of which 76 (64%) healed during follow-up. Of the 42 unhealed ulcers, 15 (13%) required major amputations for a 40-month limb salvage of 86.2%. Multivariate predictors that were negative for primary patency included 0/1 vessel runoff (P = .01), critical limb ischemia (P = .002), and dialysis (P = .03). Negative predictors of limb salvage included dialysis (P = .007) and failure to improve runoff to the foot (P = .006). At 40-months, patient survival was 54%, with negative predictors including severe pulmonary disease (P = .01), coronary artery disease (P = .04), and renal insufficiency (P < .001). Infrapopliteal angioplasty can be performed safely with favorable results in patients with limited longevity. Primary patency is related to disease extent. Secondary interventions may be necessary to maintain clinical success. These data indicate that PTA should be considered as initial therapy for infrapopliteal occlusive disease in patients with lower extremity ischemia."}
{"id": "19776568", "title": "Serum uric acid for risk stratification of patients with coronary artery disease.", "content": "Serum uric acid for risk stratification of patients with coronary artery disease. In patients with coronary artery disease (CAD), elevated serum uric acid (SUA) levels may predict worse cardiovascular outcomes. It is known that SUA levels are influenced by renal function. We aimed to assess the predictive value of SUA while taking into account patients' renal function. The primary end point (PEP) risk, including fatal or nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI) or sudden death, was assessed by SUA quintiles before and after adjustment for the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) in 2,796 nondiabetic CAD patients enrolled in the Bezafibrate Infarction Prevention study. The PEP risk increased from the lowest (11.8%) to highest SUA quintile (18.0%), p < 0.005, respectively. After adjustment for age, sex, smoking, prior MI, metabolic syndrome variables, NYHA classes II-IV, heart rate and treatment with bezafibrate, diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers and antiplatelets, the highest SUA quintile exhibited the highest PEP risk [hazard ratio (HR): 1.47 (95% CI: 1.06-2.04)]. Patients in the highest - compared with those in the lowest - quintiles continued to demonstrate an increased PEP risk [HR: 1.46 (95% CI: 1.04-2.06)], even after additional adjustment for the eGFR. In nondiabetic patients with CAD, elevated SUA levels are associated with an increased risk of cardiac events, independent of renal function."}
{"id": "19775319", "title": "Evolution of coronary artery calcifications following kidney transplantation: relationship with osteoprotegerin levels.", "content": "Evolution of coronary artery calcifications following kidney transplantation: relationship with osteoprotegerin levels. We prospectively assessed the evolution of coronary artery calcification (CAC) and osteoprotegerin (OPG) levels after renal transplantation (RT). Eighty-three recipients were followed-up prospectively during 1 year. Blood was collected before (baseline) and after RT for determination of mineral metabolism parameters including OPG. CAC was measured by multidetector computed tomography at transplantation (baseline) and 1 year later. Progression of CAC was defined as a difference between the follow-up square-root transformed volume (SRV) and the baseline SRV >or= 2.5. By multivariate analysis, baseline OPG level, age and low LDL levels were significantly associated with baseline CAC. RT was accompanied by mineral metabolism improvement with a decrease of OPG from 955 [395-5652] to 527 [217-1818] pg/mL and parathyroid hormone from 94 [1-550] to 62 [16-410] pg/mL. Thirty-one percent of patients did not exhibit CAC at baseline. CAC diminished in 14.5%, stabilized in 59.2% and progressed in 26.3% of patients. Baseline CAC was associated with progression (OR 2.92 [1.02-8.36]). No significant association was found between OPG and CAC progression despite a higher baseline OPG level in progressors (1046 [456-3285]) vs. non-progressors (899 [396-5952] pg/mL). CAC at baseline, but not 1 year after RT, is independently associated with baseline OPG; posttransplant CAC progression is predicted by baseline CAC score."}
{"id": "19766757", "title": "Efficacy of single-bolus administration of sodium bicarbonate to prevent contrast-induced nephropathy in patients with mild renal insufficiency undergoing an elective coronary procedure.", "content": "Efficacy of single-bolus administration of sodium bicarbonate to prevent contrast-induced nephropathy in patients with mild renal insufficiency undergoing an elective coronary procedure. We sought to clarify whether a single-bolus intravenous administration of sodium bicarbonate in addition to hydration with sodium chloride prevents contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN). One hundred forty-four patients with mild renal insufficiency (serum creatinine >1.1 to <2.0 mg/dl) undergoing an elective coronary procedure were randomly assigned to the following 2 groups: standard hydration with sodium chloride plus single-bolus intravenous administration of sodium bicarbonate (20 mEq) immediately before contrast exposure (group A, n = 72) and standard hydration alone (group B, n = 72). The primary end point was development of CIN, defined as an increase >25% or >0.5 mg/dl in serum creatinine within 3 days after the procedure. Incidence of the primary end point was lower in group A than in group B (1.4% vs 12.5%, p = 0.017). Incidence of adverse clinical events (acute pulmonary edema, acute renal failure requiring dialysis, and death within 7 days of procedure) did not differ between the 2 groups (0% vs 1.4%). In conclusion, single-bolus intravenous administration of sodium bicarbonate in addition to standard hydration can more effectively prevent CIN than standard hydration alone in patients with mild renal insufficiency undergoing an elective coronary procedure."}
{"id": "19765448", "title": "Effect of renal transplantation on coronary artery calcification in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Effect of renal transplantation on coronary artery calcification in hemodialysis patients. Vascular calcification is a strong predictor of cardiovascular and all-cause mortality. Coronary artery calcification is more frequent, more extensive, and progresses more rapidly among subjects with chronic kidney disease (CKD) than in the general population. It is also considered to be a marker of coronary heart disease, the main cause of increased morbidity and mortality among patients either on maintenance hemodialysis or after transplantation. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of renal transplantation on the calcium scores of coronary arteries among hemodialysis patients. The study included 31 patients (17 males and 14 females) of age range 19 to 56 years (mean, 38.08 +/- 13.49 years) who had been hemodialyzed 3 times a week for 6 to 49 months (mean, 20 +/- 15.72 months) prior to renal transplantation. Homocysteine, intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH), calcium, phosphate, and indices of lipid metabolism such as total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL), low-density lipoprotein (LDL), and triglycerides were measured before and at 6 months after transplantation. To evaluate coronary artery calcification, all patients underwent multidetector coronary computed tomography (MDCT) using the Agatston technique for calcium scoring (CS) and color Doppler ultrasound for IMT before and at 6 months after the procedure. The prevalence of coronary artery calcifications among dialysis patients was 96% with a total CS ranging from 0 to 198. It affected more than 2 vessels in >50% of subjects with higher calcium scores in the left anterior descending artery (LAD). Mean total CS decreased significantly from pre- (39.82 +/- 63.05) to postoperation (24.34 +/- 39.55; P < .001). CS decreased from pre- to postprocedure in the left main artery (7.4 +/- 13.03 to 4.3 +/- 8.54; P < .01) and in LAD (15.76 +/- 23.53 to 10.23 +/- 15.81; P < .01 and in the circumflex (7.8 +/- 14.98 to 5.1 +/- 9.57; P < .001) and in the right coronary artery (9.2 +/- 17.18 to 4.7 +/- 8.18; P < .01). The CS before the procedure correlated significantly with age (r = .39; P < .005), P (r = .33; P < .05), Ca x P product (r = .39; P < .05), iPTH (r = .43; P < .001), and IMT (r = .56; P < .0001). There was a linear, meaningful correlation between CS and iPTH and Ca x P product reduction after renal transplantation. Renal transplantation significantly reduced coronary artery calcification among dialysis patients. It linearly correlated with a decrease in iPTH and Ca x P product at an early period after renal transplantation."}
{"id": "19764492", "title": "[Off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery for the ischemic cardiomyopathy patient with moderate mitral regurgitation and stenosis of bilateral vertebral arteries].", "content": "[Off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery for the ischemic cardiomyopathy patient with moderate mitral regurgitation and stenosis of bilateral vertebral arteries]. We report a 71-year-old man who had severe coronary and cerebral vascular disease with moderate mitral regurgitation (MR). Left ventricular reconstruction and mitral valve surgery were considered for poor left ventricular function and dilatation with MR. However, low blood pressure during cardiac arrest was risk for stroke due to severe stenosis of bilateral vertebral arteries. The myocardial viability of the anterior wall and inferior wall was confirmed by thallium-201 rest-redistribution single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Therefore, off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (OPCAB) was selected for the patient. Only three Lima sutures were used for keeping the optimal heart position. Coronary anastomoses were done in sequence right gastroepiploic artery (RGEA)-#4 posterior descending (PD), left internal thoracic artery (LITA)-#9-#14 (sequential), RITA-#8 left anterior descending (LAD). No neurological complication occurred postoperatively. Left ventricular function and MR gradually improved. Final ejection fraction (EF) is 51% and MR is trivial. This case demonstrated improvement of MR by only revascularization according to preoperative viability assessment."}
{"id": "19736474", "title": "C- Reactive protein, cardiac troponin T and low albumin are predictors of mortality in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "C- Reactive protein, cardiac troponin T and low albumin are predictors of mortality in hemodialysis patients. Overall and cardiovascular mortality are significantly higher in hemodialysis patients with elevated C-reactive protein (CRP). The aim of study was to determine whether CRP, low albumin and troponin are markers of overall and cardiovascular mortality in hemodialysis patients. 138 stable hemodialysis patients were divided into 2 groups n= 66 patients with coronary disease equivalent (known coronary or peripheral vascular disease or diabetes mellitus) and n= 72 patients without it. The two groups were then stratified by biomarkers [cardiac troponin T and albumin and highly sensitive CRP (hs-CRP)] and followed for 30 months. The primary outcome was all causes mortality. Patients with coronary disease equivalents had 3.5 fold greater annual mortality compared to controls (24%% vs 6.9%, P value = 0.005). Elevated troponin T had a further increase in the risk for death while hs-CRP and low albumin were not associated with risk of death In conclusion, circulating cardiac troponin-T was associated with poor prognosis especially in hemodialysis patients with coronary risk factors."}
{"id": "19736163", "title": "Rotational atherectomy followed by drug-eluting stent implantation in calcified coronary lesions.", "content": "Rotational atherectomy followed by drug-eluting stent implantation in calcified coronary lesions. Little information is available on the outcome after rotational atherectomy (RA) followed by drug-eluting stent (DES) implantation in calcified coronary lesions. The aim of this study was to evaluate the outcome of patients with severe lesion calcification undergoing RA followed by implantation of DES. Ninety-five patients with 96 de novo severely calcified lesions were included. Twenty-nine patients (30.5%) had diabetes mellitus and seven patients (7.4%) had chronic renal failure. The total stent length per lesion was 48.4+/-24.9 mm. Procedural success rate was 95.8%. The incidence of cumulative major adverse cardiac events, defined as death, myocardial infarction (MI) and target vessel revascularisation (TVR), was 15.8% at the mean follow-up period of 14.7 months (range 6.0-57.7). Death occurred in four patients (4.2%). Non Q-wave MI occurred in 3 patients (3.2%) and Q-wave MI occurred in two patients (2.1%). The rate of target lesion revascularisation (TLR) was 9.5%. The rate of TVR was 11.6%. Two definite (2.1%) and 2 possible (2.1%) stent thromboses were observed. RA followed by DES implantation in severely calcified coronary lesions appears to be feasible including high rate of procedural success and low-incidence of TLR considering this complex lesion subset."}
{"id": "19736160", "title": "Predictors of angiographic restenosis after drug eluting stents in the coronary arteries: contemporary practice in real world patients.", "content": "Predictors of angiographic restenosis after drug eluting stents in the coronary arteries: contemporary practice in real world patients. Drug eluting stents (DES) have been used routinely in a wide variety of clinical situations. The impact of DES on reducing restenosis has not been uniform across complex subsets and limited data is available examining predictors of restenosis in unselected population. We investigated predictors of angiographic restenosis in an unselected population. The study population consisted of 4,143 lesions and angiographic follow-up was available for 3,020 (73%) lesions in 1,885 patients. The intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) was used in 95% of the patients during the procedure. Angiographic restenosis was seen in 339 (11.2%) lesions and target lesion revascularisation was performed in 290 (9.6%) lesions. The patient population included large numbers of renal failure patients on haemodialysis, ISR, and Type C lesions with routine use of intravascular ultrasound. We identified diabetes mellitus, renal failure, Type C lesions, calcified lesion, tortuous lesion, ISR, long lesion, small baseline diameter and final vessel diameter as predictors of restenosis. On multivariate analysis diabetes (OR 1.45, 95% CI 1.07-1.97, p= 0.01), renal failure on haemodialysis (OR 2.02, 95% CI 1.37-3.27, p=0.001), ISR (OR 3.56, 95% CI 2.16-5.89, P<0.001), lesion length (OR 1.02, CI 1.01-1.03.P<0.001), reference vessel diameter (OR 0.50, 95% CI 0.31-0.80, p=0.005) and post-intervention IVUS lumen area (p<0.001) were independent predictors of angiographic restenosis. Female gender (OR 0.61, 95% CI 0.410.91, p=0.015) was found to have a negative correlation for ISR. We did not find any significant difference in restenosis between the usage of sirolimus and paclitaxel eluting stents. DES usage was associated with overall low in-stent restenosis and we have identified several clinical, angiographic, and IVUS predictors of angiographic restenosis in unselected patients with complex anatomy."}
{"id": "19732282", "title": "Favorable long-term survival in patients undergoing multivessel-PCI compared to predicted prognosis of CABG estimated by EuroSCORE: procedural and clinical determinants of long-term outcome.", "content": "Favorable long-term survival in patients undergoing multivessel-PCI compared to predicted prognosis of CABG estimated by EuroSCORE: procedural and clinical determinants of long-term outcome. Treatment of patients with multivessel coronary artery disease (CAD) has been an ongoing focus of recent clinical studies, questioning the ideal treatment. Randomized trials comparing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) have so far only included a minority of screened patients. Therefore, we analyzed data from 679 consecutive \"all-comer\" patients, who underwent PCI in at least two main vessels. Expected in-hospital mortality for CABG was calculated using the EuroSCORE and compared to the observed mortality rate during in-hospital as well as long-term follow-up. The patients were suffering from 2.5 +/- 0.6 diseased vessels, and 2.8 +/- 1.0 lesions were stented (32% of patients received at least one drug-eluting stent [DES]; 20% of lesions were treated with DES). Forty-seven percent of patients were treated for acute coronary syndrome (ACS) (N = 176 ST-elevation myocardial infarction [STEMI]; N = 140 non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction [NSTEMI]). The EuroSCORE was significantly higher in ACS patients compared to stable patients (logistic: STEMI 16.3 +/- 17.2; NSTEMI 13.6 +/- 13.0; stable CAD 3.9 +/- 4.2). The observed in-hospital mortality (STEMI 13.0%; NSTEMI 2.9%; stable CAD 1.7%, P < 0.001) was far lower than the estimated 30-day mortality. Cox regression analysis identified an elevated logistic EuroSCORE (HR per quartile 2.7, P = 0.003), severely reduced left ventricular ejection fraction (HR 2.7, P < 0.001), elevated C-reactive protein (HR 1.8, P = 0.012), and chronic renal failure (HR 2.8, P = 0.001) as independent predictors of long-term mortality. The EuroSCORE, which is routinely used to estimate the perioperative risk of patients undergoing CABG, also predicts short- and long-term prognosis of patients undergoing MV-PCI. The observed mortality of patients undergoing MV-PCI seems to be much lower than the estimated mortality of CABG."}
{"id": "19713331", "title": "Current practice and outcomes of off-pump multivessel coronary artery bypass.", "content": "Current practice and outcomes of off-pump multivessel coronary artery bypass. Outcomes of off-pump multivessel coronary artery bypass were compared with those of the on-pump procedure. From July 2001 to June 2006, 3,637 patients with multivessel coronary disease underwent off-pump coronary artery bypass, and 3,586 patients had on-pump coronary artery bypass in our center. The rates of operative mortality, permanent stroke, renal failure and perioperative myocardial infarction were significantly lower in the off-pump group, and these patients required fewer blood transfusions, shorter durations of ventilatory support, and shorter hospital stays. However, the patients who underwent on-pump coronary artery bypass were considered more high-risk and tended to have more complex procedures."}
{"id": "19712254", "title": "Review article: Coronary artery stenoses: detection and revascularization in renal disease.", "content": "Review article: Coronary artery stenoses: detection and revascularization in renal disease. Cardiovascular events are markedly elevated in those with all degrees of renal impairment compared to the general population. There are well established guidelines in the general population for the management of coronary artery disease, however, similar guidelines have not been established in the renal population. This review examines the current published work on the detection of coronary artery stenoses in addition to summarizing the outcomes of revascularization in patients with kidney disease. Testing for coronary artery disease in the renal population most commonly occurs in dialysis patients as part of their assessment for renal transplantation. While a positive myocardial stress test for the detection of significant coronary artery stenoses is associated with an increased risk of cardiac events, there is no clear information currently showing that cardiovascular testing itself reduces the rate of adverse cardiac events after transplantation. Revascularization of coronary artery stenoses is associated with higher morbidity and mortality in all groups with kidney disease than in the general population, with the exception of renal transplant recipients where the mortality is likely to be similar to that of the general population. There appears to be a benefit in coronary artery bypass surgery compared to percutaneous intervention in those on dialysis and after renal transplant. Currently, there is little data to support coronary artery intervention prior to transplantation in those with asymptomatic coronary artery disease."}
{"id": "19692998", "title": "Incidence and progression of coronary calcification in chronic kidney disease: the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis.", "content": "Incidence and progression of coronary calcification in chronic kidney disease: the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis. We studied the incidence and progression of coronary artery calcification in people with early chronic kidney disease. We used a cohort of 562 adult patients with chronic kidney disease who had an estimated glomerular filtration rate of <60 ml/min/1.73 m(2), in a community-based study of people without clinical cardiovascular disease, the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis. The majority had stage 3 disease. Coronary artery calcification was measured at baseline and again approximately 1.6 or 3.2 years later. The prevalence of coronary artery calcification at baseline was 66%, and its adjusted prevalence was 24% lower in African Americans as compared to Caucasians. The incidence of coronary artery calcification was 6.1% per year in women and 14.8% in men. Coronary artery calcification progressed in approximately 17% of subjects per year across all subgroups, and diabetes was associated with a 65% greater adjusted risk of progression. Male gender and diabetes were the only factors associated with adjusted coronary artery calcification incidence and progression, respectively. Our study shows that coronary artery calcification is common in people with stage 3 disease, progresses rapidly, and may contribute to cardiovascular risk."}
{"id": "19681840", "title": "Association among serum fetuin-A level, coronary artery calcification, and bone mineral densitometry in maintenance hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Association among serum fetuin-A level, coronary artery calcification, and bone mineral densitometry in maintenance hemodialysis patients. Patients with end-stage renal disease have a very high prevalence and extent of arterial calcification. A number of studies suggest that similar pathophysiologic mechanisms are responsible for development and progression of calcification of atherosclerotic plaque and bone formation. Fetuin-A is a potent calcification inhibitor and is expressed in bone, with not-yet well-defined functions. The aim of this study was to investigate the relation between bone mineral densitometry parameters, coronary artery calcification, and serum fetuin-A levels. In a cross-sectional design, we included 72 maintenance hemodialysis (HD) patients and 30 age- and gender-matched healthy controls. Serum fetuin-A levels were studied both in maintenance HD patients and healthy controls. Maintenance HD patients had radius, hip, and lumbar spine bone mineral density (BMD) assessed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry and coronary artery calcification score (CACS) measured by electron-beam computed tomography. The associations between site-specific BMD parameters, CACS, and serum fetuin-A levels were studied in maintenance HD patients. CACS, mass, and volume of plaques in coronary arteries were significantly higher in patients with a T-score below -2.5 than above in the proximal region of the radius, neck and trochanter of the femur, and the lumbar spine. Mean serum fetuin-A concentration was 0.636 +/- 0.118 g/L in maintenance HD patients and it was less than healthy controls (0.829 +/- 0.100 g/L, P < 0.0001). CACS, mass, and volume of plaques in coronary arteries correlated significantly with the serum fetuin-A levels. Moreover, significant positive correlations were shown between the serum fetuin-A levels, BMD values, and T-scores of proximal radius, neck, and trochanter of the femur, but not with the lumbar spine. The present study demonstrates an association between serum fetuin-A levels, coronary artery calcification, and bone mineral densities--except for the lumbar spine, in maintenance HD patients. However, the results should be interpreted with caution because of the cross-sectional design of the study."}
{"id": "19676147", "title": "Plasma osteoprotegerin is an independent risk factor for mortality and an early biomarker of coronary vascular calcification in chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Plasma osteoprotegerin is an independent risk factor for mortality and an early biomarker of coronary vascular calcification in chronic kidney disease. Cardiovascular disease is the major cause of morbidity and mortality in chronic kidney disease (CKD) and early biomarkers are required which can predict disease and death in such patients. The aim of our study was to investigate if osteoprotegerin (OPG) could be a predictor of coronary artery calcification (CAC) and mortality in CKD. A total of 77 outpatients (32 with pre-dialysis CKD and 45 undergoing hemodialysis) were followed-up during 2 years. Measurements of CAC were performed using Siemens Multidetector CT software and calcium scores were measured according to the Agatston method. OPG was an independent predictor of the Agatston score for CAC and correlated with the degree of CAC in pre-dialysis patients. A two-sample t-test characterized survivors as having a better glomerular filtration rate, lower Agatston scores, and lower serum levels of OPG. Kaplan-Meier survival curves separated survivors from non-survivors at plasma OPG cut-off levels of <3.1 ng/mL. A multivariable logistic regression analysis showed that OPG was an independent predictor of mortality from all causes in CKD patients. OPG predicted mortality in CKD patients and could be a valuable biomarker in early detection of CAC in these patients."}
{"id": "19670713", "title": "[Heart valve calcification in patients with chronic kidney disease].", "content": "[Heart valve calcification in patients with chronic kidney disease]. The aim of the study was to identify factors related to heart valve calcification (HVC) and effect of HVC on intracardiac hemodynamics in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). 377 CKD patients of the control group and 132 ones treated by hemodialysis (HD) were examined using echocardiography, cardiomonitoring, measurement of the carotid intima-media thickness and mineral bone density, X-ray imaging of calcified abdominal aorta. HVC was diagnosed in 38.9 and 27.3% of the CKD patients on hemodialysis and without it respectively. In both groups, patients with HVC were older than HVC-free ones, more of them had coronary heart disease, cardiac insufficiency, aortic calcinosis, and biochemically identifiable inflammation. In the absence of hemodialysis, patients with HVC had thicker intima-media compex, lower glomerular filtration rate, higher arterial pressure, and increased occurrence of diabetes mellitus. In HVC patients receiving hemodialysis, its duration was longer, blood PTH and calcium levels higher, forearm MOC lower. HVC associated with stenosis of mitral and aortic valves, aortic regurgitation, enlarged left and right atrium, thickened left and right ventricular wall. Multifactor analysis showed that HVC in patients receiving hemodialysis was related to the age, disbalance of phosporus and sodium, and duration of hemodialysis; in its absence, it was related to intima-media thickness and diabetes mellitus. Thus, in patients of the latter group, HVC was in the first place associated with atherosclerosis aggravated by a decrease of glomerular filtration rate and with the presence of diabetes. In patients receiving hemodialysis, HVC correlated with phosporus/sodium disbalance and atherosclerosis. The study revealed negative effect of HVC on intracardiac hemodynamics and for the first time demonstrated decreased MOC in patients with HYC."}
{"id": "19667039", "title": "Progression of cardiac dysfunction in patients with atherosclerotic renovascular disease.", "content": "Progression of cardiac dysfunction in patients with atherosclerotic renovascular disease. Patients with atherosclerotic renovascular disease (ARVD) are at increased risk of heart disease because of the association with hypertension, coronary artery disease, cardiac failure and chronic kidney disease (CKD). A previous echocardiographic cross-sectional study showed that only 5% of patients with ARVD had normal cardiac structure and function at baseline. In this longitudinal study of the same patient cohort the progression of cardiac dysfunction and factors which predict declining cardiac function in patients with ARVD were delineated. Seventy-nine patients were available for baseline analysis, but 16 withdrew from follow-up during the study. Forty-three patients (27M and 16F, age at study entry [mean +/- SD] 69.7 +/- 8.0 years) who were managed conservatively and 8 (age 69.8 +/- 5.7) who were managed with renal revascularization underwent echocardiography and 24 h ambulatory blood pressure investigations at baseline and 12 months thereafter. The two data sets were interrogated to determine changes in blood pressure and cardiac status (morphological and functional); baseline factors which predicted such changes were ascertained. Twelve patients underwent baseline investigation but did not complete follow-up because of death (nine patients) or requirement of dialysis (three patients). Conservatively managed patients: At 12 months eGFR, (38.6 +/- 18.3 vs 35.0 +/- 18.5 ml/min; P = 0.001) had fallen whilst proteinuria had increased (0.3 +/- 0.4 vs 0.6 +/- 0.8 g/24 h; P = 0.001). Despite no increase in the number of blood pressure medications there was a fall in blood pressure between baseline and follow-up investigations (140.0 +/- 16.5/75.3 +/- 11.8, MAP 98.6 +/- 12.3 mmHg vs 135.7 +/- 16.1/69.6 +/- 9.1, MAP 92.5 +/- 10.2 mmHg; P < 0.001 for diastolic blood pressure and MAP). At 12 months, there was an increase in the number of patients with LVH (72.9% vs 81.4%). There were increases in left ventricular dimensions [left ventricular end diastolic diameter (5.1 +/- 0.8 vs 5.5 +/- 0.8 cm; P = 0.009), and left ventricular end diastolic volume (140.9 +/- 39.5 vs 163.3 +/- 61.0 ml; P = 0.01)]. There was no significant relationship of these changes in cardiac parameters to anatomical severity of renal artery disease but patients with severe renal dysfunction at baseline had an increase in left ventricular dilatation at follow-up. Linear regression analysis revealed an association between elevated time-averaged PTH and LV dilatation [beta-coefficient and 95% confidence intervals, 0.18 (0.04, 0.32); P = 0.01]. Revascularization: No significant changes in any biochemical or echocardiographic parameters were seen between baseline and 1 year investigations in this small sub-group. Patients with ARVD exhibit a high prevalence of LVH at diagnosis and progressive left ventricular dilatation over the first year after diagnosis. This dilatation is associated with severe renal impairment at baseline and not associated with anatomical severity of renal artery disease."}
{"id": "19644822", "title": "[Diabetes worsens the clinical manifestations and prognosis of concurrent cardiovascular and kidney disease].", "content": "[Diabetes worsens the clinical manifestations and prognosis of concurrent cardiovascular and kidney disease]. Numerous studies have shown a marked increase in the incidence of diabetes mellitus worldwide. Diabetes mellitus is currently considered equivalent to coronary artery disease in terms of prognostic risk stratification, and its high prevalence makes this clinical condition the first cause of end-stage renal disease requiring chronic hemodialysis or kidney transplant. Even if chronic kidney disease remains the ''Cinderella of the cardiovascular profile'', the presence of microalbuminuria is closely related to a high risk of development of coronary artery disease. The same risk factors that impair heart function are also harmful to the kidney, and the common pathophysiological features of the two systems are at the origin of a new subspecialty, cardionephrology. A crucial task of cardiologists and nephrologists is the early identification of high risk patients with concurrent cardiovascular and kidney disease. The utilization of simple screening methods such as assessment of microalbuminuria and glomerular filtration rate by family doctors may help in establishing prevention strategies directed towards cardiovascular risk and progression of kidney disease. In conclusion, early stratification of cardiovascular risk, coupled with primary prevention strategies aimed at the general population, is warranted to obtain a significant reduction of kidney and cardiovascular disease and of the need for chronic hemodialysis treatment. This strategy is safe and cost-effective in comparison with the costs of chronic dialysis of patients affected by chronic kidney disease."}
{"id": "19632085", "title": "Tibial angioplasty for limb salvage in high-risk patients and cost analysis.", "content": "Tibial angioplasty for limb salvage in high-risk patients and cost analysis. We examined the efficacy and cost of tibial angioplasty in patients with critical limb ischemia (CLI) at high operative risk. A retrospective analysis of all consecutive patients who underwent tibial angioplasty with critical ischemia Rutherford class 4 and 5 from January 2001 to April 2007 was performed. Demographic information, presentation, and angiographic characteristics of the lesions were analyzed. The primary end point was freedom from major amputation. Secondary end points were overall survival and recurrence. Cost comparison was performed between the endovascular group and a matched group of high-risk patients submitted to femoral tibial bypass in the same period. Forty-five patients, with mean age of 69.6 years and a 2.5:1 (male:female) ratio, had 49 limbs treated. The mean follow-up was 7.7 months (range 1-61.5). Eighty percent of the patients were Rutherford class 5. Incidence rates were as follows: diabetes 90%, chronic renal failure 73%, end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on hemodialysis 45%, and coronary disease 69%. Single vessel run-off to the foot was present in 57% of patients and complete occlusion of all tibial vessels in 12%. Only the tibial vessels were angioplastied in 55% of patients. Angiographic success rate was 84%. Thirty-day mortality was 2% and major complications occurred in 6.1%. A poor angiographic result was a statistically significant predictor (p = 0.009) of symptomatic recurrence (43%) (worsening of preexisting symptoms and/or signs or new ones). Cardiac disease was the major cause of mortality beyond 30 days (12.5%). Freedom from major amputation in the entire group was 75.5%, with no difference between tibial and diffuse infrainguinal angioplasty (p = 0.61). Recurrence, especially early recurrence, was a significant predictor of amputation (p = 0.04 and p = 0.0008, respectively). There was a trend toward presence of ESRD and recurrence (p = 0.06). Both average hospital cost ($2,910.60 vs. $17,703.50) and length-of-stay (LOS) (<1 vs. 9 days) were significantly reduced in the angioplasty group (p < 0.0001). Tibial angioplasty has acceptable rates of limb salvage in patients with CLI considered to be at high risk for surgery, despite high recurrence rates. The presence of diabetes or ESRD did not reduce the rate of success in this series, although ESRD seemed to predict recurrence. The procedure has low morbidity and mortality with lower cost and LOS compared with open revascularization. Aggressive angioplasty should be an option to patients who otherwise would face primary amputation."}
{"id": "19625469", "title": "Is the aortic valve pathology type different for early and late mortality in concomitant aortic valve replacement and coronary artery bypass surgery?", "content": "Is the aortic valve pathology type different for early and late mortality in concomitant aortic valve replacement and coronary artery bypass surgery? We assessed the effects of aortic valve pathology type on the long-term outcomes of patients who underwent concomitant aortic valve replacement (AVR) and coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) surgery. We retrospectively reviewed 150 patients who underwent AVR-CABG at our institution between January 1997 and December 2006. We divided patients into aortic stenosis (AS), aortic regurgitation (AR), and mixed-type groups consisting of 98 (65.3%), 20 (13.3%) and 32 (21.3%) patients, respectively. The AS group had more female patients, a higher mean angina class, older mean patient age, increased history of previous myocardial infarction (MI), and smaller valve size compared to other groups. No significant differences were observed among groups in the operative mortality for five or ten-year survival rates. Significant early mortality risk factors included cross-clamp and cardiopulmonary bypass (CBP) time, number of blood transfusion units, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP), inotropic drugs, and pacemaker use. Significant late mortality risk factors included intensive care unit (ICU) stay, IABP, stroke, and dialysis. The aortic valve pathology type in patients undergoing concomitant AVR-CABG does not adversely affect survival."}
{"id": "19607702", "title": "Mitral paravalvular abscess with left ventriculo-atrial fistula in a patient on dialysis.", "content": "Mitral paravalvular abscess with left ventriculo-atrial fistula in a patient on dialysis. Infective endocarditis in hemodialysis patients is challenging but is becoming more common recently. A 64-year-old man with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis presented with infective endocarditis of mitral valve and coronary artery disease after commencing training for home hemodialysis. During a course of antibiotic treatment the patient developed left ventriculo-atrial fistula due to mitral paravalvular abscess. Abscess debridement followed by reconstruction of the mitral annulus with fresh autologous pericardial patch and mitral valve replacement using a mechanical prosthesis with concomitant coronary artery bypass grafting was performed successfully. Timely diagnosis, proper antibiotic treatment and early surgical intervention including aggressive debridement should improve the outcome of this high-risk disease."}
{"id": "19602775", "title": "Relationship between renal function, aortic stiffness and left ventricular function in patients with coronary artery disease.", "content": "Relationship between renal function, aortic stiffness and left ventricular function in patients with coronary artery disease. There are plausible reasons to hypothesize that increased aortic stiffness and left ventricular (LV) dysfunction may occur in early renal insufficiency. The correlation of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) with the augmentation index (AI) of ascending aortic pressure and indices of LV systolic and diastolic function (ejection fraction, LV pressure relaxation time constant, LV end-diastolic pressure and mitral inflow (E/A) and annular velocities (S' and E')) was examined in 359 consecutive patients undergoing cardiac catheterization for coronary artery disease (CAD). When patients were stratified according to GFR of 60, 75 and 90 ml x min(-1) x 1.73 m(-2), there was a progressive increase in AI and decreases in E/A and E' with decreasing GFR. There were no linear trends in other indices of systolic or diastolic function across GFR groups. After adjustment for potential confounders, reduced GFR was associated with increased AI, but not with decreased E/A or E'. Early renal impairment may be partly associated with increased aortic stiffness, but not with LV systolic or diastolic function in CAD patients."}
{"id": "19601862", "title": "Arterial accelerated aging in dialysis patients: the clinical impact of vascular calcification.", "content": "Arterial accelerated aging in dialysis patients: the clinical impact of vascular calcification. Chronic Kidney Disease Mineral and Bone Disorder (CKD-MBD) is a systemic disorder of mineral and bone metabolism that occurs in Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD). In addition to abnormalities in serum calcium (Ca) and phosphate (P) profile, CKD-MBD is characterized by abnormalities of bone turnover, mineralization, volume and growth as well as vascular calcification (VC). Indeed, the co-localization of bone markers such as Osteopontin, Alkaline Phosphatase and Osteocalcin along with osteoblast-like cells in the contest of the arterial wall of uremic patients, indicate that VC is an active biological process with peculiar analogies with bone mineralization. Thus, VC represents a plausible link between Ca and P derangements and the increased mortality associated with CKD-MBD. The process of VC starts in early stages of CKD and patients with CKD-3, -4 and -5 not undergoing haemodialysis may present a significant burden of calcification in the coronaries. Considering that presence and extent of VC in CKD portend poor prognosis, many efforts have been made to shed light on this complicated phenomenon to prevent VC deposition and progression. Indeed, careful control of calcium load, serum P and parathyroid hormone along with the use of calcium-free P binders and vitamin D analogs represent our current armamentarium to improve quality of life and reduce mortality in CKD. We herein summarize the current understanding and evidence supporting strategies available for VC treatment."}
{"id": "19580724", "title": "Risk stratification by adenosine stress cardiac magnetic resonance in patients with coronary artery stenoses of intermediate angiographic severity.", "content": "Risk stratification by adenosine stress cardiac magnetic resonance in patients with coronary artery stenoses of intermediate angiographic severity. The purpose of this study was to determine the role of adenosine stress cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) for risk stratification in patients with coronary artery stenoses of intermediate angiographic severity. Coronary angiography only provides a morphological description of coronary lesions. As the patient's prognosis is closely related to the functional significance of angiographically detected coronary lesions, a functional assessment is desirable in patients with coronary artery stenoses of intermediate severity. Myocardial perfusion measurements at rest and adenosine stress were performed on 81 patients (75.6% male, mean age 64.2 years) with stable angina pectoris (AP) and coronary artery stenoses of intermediate angiographic severity (50% to 75%). Regardless of the CMR result, all patients were treated conservatively with an intensified medical treatment, and a follow-up was performed after 18 +/- 8 months and 30 +/- 8 months. The primary end point was defined as a major adverse cardiac event (MACE): all-cause death, stroke, acute coronary syndrome; the secondary end point was defined as target vessel revascularization. Furthermore, AP and dyspnea were evaluated. After the follow-up period of 30 +/- 8 months, 9 patients with perfusion deficit (PD) suffered from MACE, whereas no MACE occurred among the 36 patients without PD (p = 0.014). Among patients who had MACE, the number of ischemic segments (2.3 +/- 1.6 vs. 1.4 +/- 1.6, p = 0.0025) was significantly higher, whereas the number of delayed enhancement segments did not differ (1.4 +/- 1.6 vs. 1.6 +/- 2.3, p = 0.4). Target vessel revascularization was required in 38% of patients with PD and 6% of patients without PD (p = 0.005). In addition, the percentage of freedom from AP and dyspnea at the follow-up after 18 +/- 8 months was significantly lower among patients without perfusion deficit (69.4% vs. 15.6%; p = 0.0001). After a follow-up period of 30 +/- 8 months, the rate of AP (11.1% vs. 8.3%, p = 0.33) as well as the percentage of patients free of symptoms was similar in both groups (77.8% vs. 88.9%, p = 0.82). Adenosine stress CMR may help to identify patients at risk who benefit from intensified medical treatment and close follow-up."}
{"id": "19575083", "title": "Echocardiographic assessment of left atrial size in patients with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Echocardiographic assessment of left atrial size in patients with end-stage renal disease. Cardiac disease is the most common cause of death in patients with end-stage renal disease. It is assumed that the high rate of cardiovascular mortality is related to accelerated atherosclerosis. Patients with chronic renal insufficiency have an increased prevalence of coronary artery disease, silent myocardial ischaemia, complex ventricular arrhythmias, atrial fibrillation, left ventricular hypertrophy, annular mitral and aortic valve calcification, and enlargement of the left atrium, than patients with normal renal function. It is also well known that haemodialysis is associated with cardiovascular structural changes and rapid fluctuations in electrolyte levels. In this study, we sought to estimate left atrial size by means of echocardiography and to determine any correlations between different echocardiographic measurements in patients with end-stage renal disease. We analysed data from 123 patients who were on regular haemodialysis, by means of traditional transthoracic echocardiographic examination. The usual statistical parameters, correlations and the Student's t-test were performed, with levels of significance of p < 0.01 and p < 0.05. The most presented age group was 60 to 69 years old, with a predomination of females (56.1%). We found dilated left atrium in 26.02% of the study patients and a high statistical correlation between different methods of measurement and calculated volumes of the left atrium. Evaluation of left atrial size should be determined by several different measurements, and left atrial enlargement should be seen as a risk factor for advancing disease."}
{"id": "19574342", "title": "A cut-off value of plasma osteoprotegerin level may predict the presence of coronary artery calcifications in chronic kidney disease patients.", "content": "A cut-off value of plasma osteoprotegerin level may predict the presence of coronary artery calcifications in chronic kidney disease patients. Expression of bone proteins resulting from transdifferentiation of vascular smooth muscle cells into osteoblasts suggests that vascular calcifications are a bioactive process. Osteoprotegerin (OPG) could play a key role in bone-vascular calcification imbalance and could be a marker of vascular calcification extent and progression. The purpose of this study was to evaluate relationships between vascular risk biomarkers (including classic risk factors and OPG) and coronary artery calcification (CAC) extent in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients and to establish within the markers the appropriate cut-off value to predict CAC. A total of 133 non-dialyzed CKD patients at various stages of kidney disease [75 males/58 females, median age: 69.9 (27.4-94.6)] were enrolled, excluding extrarenal replacement therapy patients. All underwent chest multidetector computed tomography for CAC scoring. Blood samples were collected for measurement of vascular risk markers (kidney disease, inflammation, nutrition, calcium phosphate and OPG). A potential relationship between CAC and these biological markers was investigated, and a receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve was designed thereafter to identify a cut-off value of involved markers that best predicted the presence of CAC. After adjustment for age, diabetes, smoking and gender, among biological markers, only low-estimated glomerular filtration rate using Modification of Diet in Renal Disease [OR = 3.63 (1.10-12.02)], high FEPO(4) [OR = 3.99 (1.17-13.6)] and high OPG levels [OR = 8.54 (2.14-34.11)] were associated with the presence of CAC. A protective effect of 1.25(OH)(2) vitamin D [OR = 0.20 (0.05-0.79)] and LDL cholesterol [OR = 0.27 (0.08-0.94)] on CAC was also observed. ROC curve analysis showed that the OPG best cut-off value predicting CAC was 757.7 pg/mL. These results suggest that a CAC increase is strongly associated with a plasma OPG increase in CKD patients. The values of OPG >757.7 pg/mL allow us to predict the presence of CAC in these patients."}
{"id": "19570886", "title": "Percutaneous dilation of the radial artery in nonmaturing autogenous radial-cephalic fistulas for haemodialysis.", "content": "Percutaneous dilation of the radial artery in nonmaturing autogenous radial-cephalic fistulas for haemodialysis. Delayed maturation of radial-cephalic fistulas can be due to lesions of the radial artery that are amenable to percutaneous dilation. Over a period of 7 years, 74 consecutive patients underwent angiography of an immature fistula that showed either stenosis or an insufficient enlargement of the radial artery that was treated by percutaneous dilation. Success, complications and secondary interventions were recorded according to consensus definitions. Patency following angioplasty was estimated with the Kaplan-Meier technique. The mean patient age was 70 years, 44% were women, 69% had diabetes, 23% were smokers, 76% had hypertension, 64% had coronary disease and 46% had peripheral artery occlusive disease. Concomitant venous stenosis was diagnosed in 53% of patients. Arterial stenosis was >5 cm long in 53 cases. Technical success was achieved in 73/74 cases following angioplasty. All but two fistulas were then successfully used for dialysis. Dilation-induced rupture occurred in 13 cases (17%) but required only two stent placements. Five cases (7%) of hand ischaemia within 1 month of dilation were treated successfully by ligation of the distal artery. Primary patency rates at 12 and 24 months were significantly better for pure arterial lesions, with 65% and 61% compared to 42% and 35% in cases of concomitant venous stenosis (P < 0.04). The secondary patency rates were 96% and 94% at 1 and 2 years, respectively. Dilation of the radial artery yields higher patency rates than for veins. Surgeons might therefore be less demanding about the initial quality of the radial artery prior to creation of radial-cephalic fistulas."}
{"id": "19546529", "title": "Lack of association between small dense low-density lipoprotein levels and coronary artery disease in chronic hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Lack of association between small dense low-density lipoprotein levels and coronary artery disease in chronic hemodialysis patients. Small, dense low-density lipoprotein (sd-LDL) is a newly recognized risk factor for coronary artery disease (CAD) in the general population. This study was performed to evaluate the relationship between sd-LDL, and CAD and cardiovascular risk factors such as other lipid profiles and hemostatic factors, in patients with chronic hemodialysis (CHD). Thallium single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was performed to evaluate for CAD in 126 CHD patients. Coronary angiography was performed in patients with positive thallium SPECT. CHD patients were classified into CAD and non-CAD group. LDL subfractions, other lipid profiles, and hemostatic factors were measured. The proportion of sd-LDL, and mean LDL size did not differ between CHD patients and healthy controls. Twenty-eight CHD patients had CAD by thallium SPECT and coronary angiography. The proportion of sd-LDL and mean LDL size did not differ between CAD and non-CAD patients. Age, diabetes mellitus presentation and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) levels were significantly higher, and prealbumin and apolipoprotein A1 levels were significantly lower, in the CAD group (p < 0.05). The proportion of sd-LDL was positively correlated with triglyceride levels (p < 0.001), apolipoprotein B (p < 0.05) and fibrinogen (p < 0.05). This study showed that sd-LDL is not increased in CHD patients and is not associated with CAD in such patients."}
{"id": "19542379", "title": "Cardiac MRI for detection of unrecognized myocardial infarction in patients with end-stage renal disease: comparison with ECG and scintigraphy.", "content": "Cardiac MRI for detection of unrecognized myocardial infarction in patients with end-stage renal disease: comparison with ECG and scintigraphy. The purposes of this study were to use the myocardial delayed enhancement technique of cardiac MRI to investigate the frequency of unrecognized myocardial infarction (MI) in patients with end-stage renal disease, to compare the findings with those of ECG and SPECT, and to examine factors that may influence the utility of these methods in the detection of MI. We prospectively performed cardiac MRI, ECG, and SPECT to detect unrecognized MI in 72 patients with end-stage renal disease at high risk of coronary artery disease but without a clinical history of MI. Fifty-six patients (78%) were men (mean age, 56.2 +/- 9.4 years) and 16 (22%) were women (mean age, 55.8 +/- 11.4). The mean left ventricular mass index was 103.4 +/- 27.3 g/m(2), and the mean ejection fraction was 60.6% +/- 15.5%. Myocardial delayed enhancement imaging depicted unrecognized MI in 18 patients (25%). ECG findings were abnormal in five patients (7%), and SPECT findings were abnormal in 19 patients (26%). ECG findings were false-negative in 14 cases and false-positive in one case. The accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of ECG were 79.2%, 22.2%, and 98.1% (p = 0.002). SPECT findings were false-negative in six cases and false-positive in seven cases. The accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity of SPECT were 81.9%, 66.7%, and 87.0% (not significant). During a period of 4.9-77.9 months, 19 cardiac deaths were documented, but no statistical significance was found in survival analysis. Cardiac MRI with myocardial delayed enhancement can depict unrecognized MI in patients with end-stage renal disease. ECG and SPECT had low sensitivity in detection of MI. Infarct size and left ventricular mass can influence the utility of these methods in the detection of MI."}
{"id": "19539072", "title": "Impact of the definition utilized on the rate of contrast-induced nephropathy in percutaneous coronary intervention.", "content": "Impact of the definition utilized on the rate of contrast-induced nephropathy in percutaneous coronary intervention. Several definitions have been used to assess rates of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Whether the definition influences observed rates of CIN is unclear. The Oxilan Registry was the first-ever prospective analysis of the efficacy and safety of ioxilan (low-osmolar and low-viscosity contrast medium), including rates of CIN assessed by multiple definitions, in PCI. From July 2006 to June 2007, consecutive patients undergoing PCI using ioxilan were enrolled. Serum creatinine (SCr) and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) were assessed at baseline and 3 to 5 days after PCI. CIN was defined as SCr increase >or=0.5 mg/dl, eGFR decrease >or=25%, SCr increase >or=25%, or the composite. Of 400 patients (age 62 +/- 11 years), 19% were women, 37% were diabetic, 22% were anemic, and 8% had a history of congestive heart failure. Baseline SCr was 1.12 +/- 0.3 mg/dl and 24% had an eGFR <60 ml/min. CIN rates were 3.3% (SCr increase >or=0.5 mg/dl), 7.6% (eGFR decrease >or=25%), 10.2% (SCr increase >or=25%), and 10.5% (composite). Hospitalization was prolonged in 3.4% of patients with CIN and none required dialysis. There were no deaths or severe allergic reactions. Non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction and repeat revascularization each occurred in 0.8%. In conclusion, in this unselected population undergoing PCI, CIN ranged in frequency from 3.3% to 10.5% depending on the definition used and was not associated with in-hospital mortality or substantial morbidity, such as dialysis. The wide variation in CIN and its lack of association with adverse outcomes underscore the need for a standardized, clinically relevant definition."}
{"id": "19538490", "title": "Extent and severity of coronary disease and mortality in patients with end-stage renal failure evaluated for renal transplantation.", "content": "Extent and severity of coronary disease and mortality in patients with end-stage renal failure evaluated for renal transplantation. The purpose of this study is to explore the relationship between coronary artery disease (CAD), transplantation status and subsequent mortality in end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients undergoing evaluation for renal transplantation. Two hundred fifty-three ESRD patients at high risk for CAD underwent coronary angiography as part of a renal transplant evaluation. The cohort was divided into three groups: Group 1 (n = 127) had no vessels with >or=50% stenosis, Group 2 (n = 56) had one vessel with >or=50% stenosis and Group 3 (n = 70) had two or more vessels with >or=50% stenosis. Long-term survival was determined; median follow-up was 3.3 years. The baseline characteristics were similar except for older age and higher proportion of diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia and peripheral vascular disease in Groups 2 and 3 patients as compared to Group 1. Survival was worse in Group 3 compared to Group 1 (p < 0.0001). Each of the three subgroups had better survival with renal transplantation than those who did not undergo transplantation (p < 0.0001). Although the degree of CAD is related to subsequent mortality, transplantation is associated with better survival regardless of the extent and severity of CAD. Thus, the presence of CAD should not exclude ESRD patients from consideration for this therapy."}
{"id": "19516174", "title": "Left ventricular hypertrophy versus chronic kidney disease as predictors of cardiovascular events in hypertension: a Greek 6-year-follow-up study.", "content": "Left ventricular hypertrophy versus chronic kidney disease as predictors of cardiovascular events in hypertension: a Greek 6-year-follow-up study. We assessed the comparative prognostic role of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) and chronic kidney disease (CKD) for major cardiovascular events in a prospective observational study in Greek essential hypertensive patients. We followed up 1652 hypertensive patients (mean age 54.3 years, 696 male patients, office blood pressure 147/93 mmHg) free of cardiovascular disease for a mean period of 6 years. CKD and echocardiographically detected LVH were evaluated at baseline along with five major traditional risk factors [age > 65 years, sex, current smoking, diabetes mellitus and dyslipidemia (low density lipoprotein > 160 mg/dl)]. End points of interest were the incidence of coronary artery disease, stroke, all-cause mortality and their composite. At the end of follow-up, coronary artery disease was the most prevalent (5.2%), followed by stroke (5%) and total mortality (3.1%). The presence of both LVH and CKD is associated with a 2.5-fold increase in coronary artery disease (P = 0.034), four-fold in stroke (P = 0.002) and 3.2-fold in the composite (P < 0.001), whereas the presence of LVH alone was associated with a 2.5-fold higher risk for stroke (P = 0.009) and 1.7-fold for the composite (P = 0.018). By multivariate Cox regression analysis, LVH (hazard ratio = 1.53, P = 0.036) and CKD (hazard ratio = 1.66, P = 0.039) turned out to be independent prognosticators of the composite end point, whereas age more than 65 years (hazard ratio = 4.59, P < 0.001) and the presence of LVH (hazard ratio = 2.01, P = 0.043) were the only predictors of stroke. In hypertensive patients free of cardiovascular disease, CKD and LVH are both independent prognosticators of the composite end point of all-cause death and cardiovascular morbidity, whereas LVH but not CKD is a major predictor for stroke."}
{"id": "19513010", "title": "Clinical outcomes of dialysis patients after implantation of DES: meta analysis and systematic review of literature.", "content": "Clinical outcomes of dialysis patients after implantation of DES: meta analysis and systematic review of literature. Studies on percutaneous transluminal cardiac angioplasty (PTCA) in patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD) on hemodialysis have suggested high rates of procedural complications and restenosis. Bare metal stent percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has significantly reduced restenosis and subsequent target lesion revascularization in these patients, although not to the level of non dialysis controls. The introduction of drug-eluting stents (DES) has dramatically reduced restenosis rates compared with bare metal stents (BMS) in patients with various clinical and angiographic characteristics, however their impact on patients with ESRD on dialysis is unclear due to consistent exclusion of this population from major trials. The purpose of this study was therefore to compare the outcomes of PCI with DES and BMS when used for ESRD patients on dialysis, by meta analytical techniques. Comparative studies published between January 2002 and January 2009 of DES vs. BMS in ESRD patients on dialysis were identified using an electronic search and reviewed using a random effects model. The primary endpoints of our study were the hard endpoints of mortality, myocardial infarction (MI) and target lesion revascularization (TLR). A secondary endpoint of our analysis was late luminal loss. In hospital mortality and MI were also assessed. Heterogeneity was assessed using Cochrane Q and I(2) statistics. Five reports comprising 641 patients (279 DES, and 362 BMS) were included in the analysis. All the studies were non-randomized comparisons between DES and BMS. The length of follow-up was in the range between 9 and 12 months. In hospital clinical outcomes were similar between the two groups. At follow-up there was a trend towards lower TLR (OR 0.50, CI 0.27-0.93, P=0.011 I(2)=48%) and decreased late luminal loss (WMD -0.34, CI -0.58 -0.10 P=0.09, I(2)=58%) in patients undergoing PCI with implantation of DES. There was no difference in the rates of all cause mortality (OR 0.66, CI 0.40-1.08, P=0.070 I(2)= 0%), and MI (OR 1.35, CI 0.52-3.52, P=0.53, I(2)%) between the two groups. In ESRD patients on dialysis undergoing PCI, DES are safe and reduce repeat revascularizations. The limited number of patients and limited quality of primary studies included, however need careful interpretation of our results. Further well designed, large randomized controlled trials are required to establish the strategy of management in ESRD patients undergoing PCI."}
{"id": "19497507", "title": "Comparative results of open lower extremity revascularization in nonagenarians.", "content": "Comparative results of open lower extremity revascularization in nonagenarians. The average lifespan in the United States continues to lengthen. We have observed a similar trend in our patients, with an increased number of nonagenarians presenting for evaluation of vascular disease. This study evaluated outcomes of lower extremity revascularization in patients aged >or=90 years. The vascular registry at Albany Medical College was retrospectively reviewed for all lower extremity bypasses performed between 1996 and 2006. We evaluated patient demographics, indications, procedure, patency rates, and complications. Patients were divided into groups based on age >or=90 years (>or=90 group) and <90 years (<90 group). Variables were evaluated by chi(2) analysis. Outcomes were prepared using life-table methods and compared with log-rank analysis. During the last 10 years, 5443 lower extremity bypasses were performed on patients aged <90 years and 150 on patients aged >or=90 years. The <90 group had significantly more men (61.4% vs 29.3%) and was obviously younger, at 68 years (range 7-89 years) vs 92 years (range, 90-101 years). The <90 group had more comorbidities in terms of diabetes, active tobacco use, and hypercholesterolemia. No significant difference was noted in coronary artery disease or chronic renal insufficiency between the groups. Critical limb ischemia as an indication was significantly higher in the >or=90 group (149 [99%] vs 4472 [82%]; P < .0.5). Strikingly, the primary patency was significantly higher in the >or=90 group at 4 years (77% vs 62%; P < .05). Complication and amputation rates did not differ between the groups. Perioperative (15% vs 3%; P < .05) and 1-year (45% vs 11%; P < .05) mortality rates were significantly higher in the >or=90 group. Lower extremity bypass for nonagenarians offers acceptable patency and limb salvage but at a significantly higher mortality rate."}
{"id": "19494798", "title": "Comparison of the prognostic value of dipyridamole and dobutamine myocardial perfusion scintigraphy in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Comparison of the prognostic value of dipyridamole and dobutamine myocardial perfusion scintigraphy in hemodialysis patients. Screening for coronary artery disease (CAD) in hemodialysis patients is hampered by contraindications and/or limitations of the available techniques in this population. Myocardial perfusion scintigraphy (MPS) using dipyridamole has been considered inaccurate due to abnormally high basal levels of adenosine in uremia that could blunt the vasodilatory response. Since dobutamine may be more reliable, we directly compared the two in patients on hemodialysis. We performed MPS at rest and after separate dipyridamole or dobutamine stress in 121 chronic hemodialysis patients. More numerous, larger, and more intense reversible lesions were induced with dobutamine than with dipyridamole, mainly in the anteroseptal segments. Reversibility with dipyridamole but not dobutamine MPS was independently and strongly related with mortality associated with CAD and with fatal and non-fatal CAD. We hypothesize that the chronotropic action of dobutamine induced alterations of wall motion, leading to spurious perfusion defects, not unlike artifacts seen with left bundle branch block. Our study shows that even though dobutamine induced more pronounced myocardial ischemia than dipyridamole in chronic hemodialysis patients, dipyridamole MPS more accurately identifies patients at high risk for subsequent cardiac death or non-fatal CAD than dobutamine."}
{"id": "19469885", "title": "Long-term effects of magnesium carbonate on coronary artery calcification and bone mineral density in hemodialysis patients: a pilot study.", "content": "Long-term effects of magnesium carbonate on coronary artery calcification and bone mineral density in hemodialysis patients: a pilot study. Observational data suggest that elevated magnesium levels in dialysis patients may prevent vascular calcification and in vitro magnesium can prevent hydroxyapatite crystal growth. However, the effects of magnesium on vascular calcification and bone mineral density have not been studied prospectively. Seven chronic hemodialysis patients participated in this open label, prospective pilot study to evaluate the effects of a magnesium-based phosphate binder on coronary artery calcification (CAC) scores and vertebral bone mineral density (V-BMD) in patients with baseline CAC scores >30. Magnesium carbonate/calcium carbonate (elemental Mg: 86 mg/elemental Ca 100 mg) was administered as the principal phosphate binder for a period of 18 months and changes in CAC and V-BMD were measured at baseline, 6, 12, and 18 months. Serum magnesium levels averaged 2.2+/-0.4 mEq/L (range: 1.3-3.9 mEq/L). Phosphorus levels (4.5+/-0.6 mg/dL) were well controlled throughout the 18 months study. Electron beam computed tomography results demonstrated a small not statically significant increase in absolute CAC scores, no significant change in median percent change, and a small none significant change in V-BMD. Magnesium may have a favorable effect on CAC. The long-term effect on bone mineral density remains unclear. Larger studies are needed to confirm these findings."}
{"id": "19463464", "title": "Ionic low-osmolar versus nonionic iso-osmolar contrast media to obviate worsening nephropathy after angioplasty in chronic renal failure patients: the ICON (Ionic versus non-ionic Contrast to Obviate worsening Nephropathy after angioplasty in chronic renal failure patients) study.", "content": "Ionic low-osmolar versus nonionic iso-osmolar contrast media to obviate worsening nephropathy after angioplasty in chronic renal failure patients: the ICON (Ionic versus non-ionic Contrast to Obviate worsening Nephropathy after angioplasty in chronic renal failure patients) study. This randomized, prospective, double-blind, multicenter study compared nephrotoxicity of the nonionic iso-osmolar contrast media (CM) iodixanol versus the ionic low-osmolar CM ioxaglate in patients with chronic renal insufficiency undergoing coronary angiography. The properties of iodinated CM might contribute to the incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN). Patients with renal impairment undergoing coronary angiography were randomly assigned to iodixanol (n = 72) or ioxaglate (n = 74). Baseline characteristics were well-matched between the 2 groups. The predicted risk score for CIN was similar in the iodixanol and in the ioxaglate groups (11.9 +/- 4.1 vs. 11.8 +/- 4.1), as was the use of N-acetylcysteine (70% vs. 73%). The primary end point of the study, median peak increase of serum creatinine from day 0 through day 3 after angiography, did not differ between the iodixanol (0.09 mg/dl; interquartile range 0.00 to 0.30 mg/dl) and the ioxaglate (0.15 mg/dl; interquartile range 0.00 to 0.40 mg/dl; p = 0.07) groups. The percentages of patients with a peak increase of serum creatinine >or=0.5 mg/dl (15.9% in iodixanol vs. 18.2% in ioxaglate), >or=1.0 mg/dl (1.4% vs. 4.5%), and >or=25% or >or=0.5 mg/dl (15.9% vs. 24.2%, respectively) also did not differ significantly between the 2 groups. In high-risk patients undergoing coronary angiographic procedures, use of the nonionic iso-osmolar CM iodixanol does not reduce renal deterioration in patients with renal impairment, compared with the ionic low-osmolar CM ioxaglate. Given that the study was underpowered to compare nephrotoxicity of the 2 groups under the active medical protection of CIN, a larger randomized study is warranted that will enroll patients with higher risks of CIN under a strict control of hydration regimens and adjunctive medications."}
{"id": "19463396", "title": "In-hospital and 1-year outcomes among percutaneous coronary intervention patients with chronic kidney disease in the era of drug-eluting stents: a report from the EVENT (Evaluation of Drug Eluting Stents and Ischemic Events) registry.", "content": "In-hospital and 1-year outcomes among percutaneous coronary intervention patients with chronic kidney disease in the era of drug-eluting stents: a report from the EVENT (Evaluation of Drug Eluting Stents and Ischemic Events) registry. This study sought to evaluate ischemic and bleeding outcomes in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with drug-eluting stents (DES). Previous studies have shown that CKD is associated with poor outcomes after PCI. However, these studies were largely conducted before the introduction of DES and aggressive antithrombotic therapy or were performed in the setting of randomized trials. With data from a contemporary registry, we evaluated the influence of CKD on major cardiovascular events and bleeding complications in unselected \"real-world\" patients undergoing PCI. Data from 4,791 patients enrolled in the EVENT (Evaluation of Drug Eluting Stents and Ischemic Events) Registry between July 2004 and September 2005 were analyzed. Patients were stratified into 4 groups: creatinine clearance (CrCl) >75, 50 to 75, 30 to 49 and <30 ml/min. During the index hospital stay, there was a step-wise increase in bleeding complications with decreasing CrCl (3.3%, 5.0%, 8.8%, and 14.3%; p < 0.0001 for trend). Lower CrCl was also associated with more frequent death or myocardial infarction (MI) during the initial hospital stay (p = 0.001) and at 1 year (p < 0.001). These findings were confirmed in multivariate analyses that adjusted for baseline differences in demographic, clinical, and angiographic factors. Use of guideline-recommended medications at 1 year, including aspirin, clopidogrel, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, and statins, also decreased with declining renal function. Renal function is an independent and powerful predictor of bleeding and ischemic complications in the era of DES and contemporary antithrombotic therapy in patients undergoing PCI. The low use of guideline-recommended drugs among patients with CKD undergoing PCI might contribute to these adverse outcomes and warrants further evaluation."}
{"id": "19440064", "title": "Primary coronary microvascular dysfunction and poor coronary collaterals predict post-percutaneous coronary intervention cardiac necrosis.", "content": "Primary coronary microvascular dysfunction and poor coronary collaterals predict post-percutaneous coronary intervention cardiac necrosis. An elevation in cardiac troponin-I (cTnI) after elective percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is because of cardiac necrosis and has prognostic implications. Primary microvascular dysfunction, evident before PCI, and paucity of coronary collaterals at baseline may influence cTnI. We selected 22 patients awaiting elective PCI for a single-vessel, type-A coronary stenosis, with normal left ventricular function and a normal preprocedure cTnI. Intracoronary pressure and Doppler flow were measured during coronary balloon occlusion to derive microvascular resistance: Rp=[Pd(occl)-Pv]/APVoccl and collateral resistance: Rcoll=[Pa-Pd(occl)]/APVoccl, at each stage of PCI, where Pa is mean aortic pressure, Pv is central venous pressure, Pd(occl) is mean distal pressure, Rp is coronary microvascular resistance, Rcoll is coronary collateral resistance, and APVoccl is average peak velocity during coronary balloon occlusion. The resistance indices were compared with postprocedural cTnI levels measured at 24 h. There was a relationship between baseline Rp before PCI and elevated plasma cTnI levels at 24 h. Mean (SEM) Rp (mmHg/cm/s) increased for each cTnI tertile: T1 (mean cTnI 0.04 ng/ml): 1.3 (0.3), T2 (mean cTnI 0.13 ng/ml): 3.1 (0.4), and T3 (mean cTnI 2.5 ng/ml): 4.6 (0.7) (P=0.002). Baseline Rcoll (mmHg/cm/s) was similarly related to cTnI result and mean values showed an increasing trend: T1: 11.1 (1.9), T2: 14.5 (2.3), and T3: 19.5 (3.4) (P=0.12). Serial coronary balloon occlusions did not significantly alter Rp (P=0.82) or recruit coronary collaterals (P=0.69). Primary coronary microvascular dysfunction and poor collaterals at baseline are associated with post-PCI necrosis."}
{"id": "19436645", "title": "Vascular calcifications as a marker of increased cardiovascular risk: a meta-analysis.", "content": "Vascular calcifications as a marker of increased cardiovascular risk: a meta-analysis. Several imaging techniques may reveal calcification of the arterial wall or cardiac valves. Many studies indicate that the risk for cardiovascular disease is increased when calcification is present. Recent meta-analyses on coronary calcification and cardiovascular risk may be confounded by indication. Therefore, this meta-analysis was performed with extensive subgroup analysis to assess the overall cardiovascular risk of finding calcification in any arterial wall or cardiac valve when using different imaging techniques. A meta-analysis of prospective studies reporting calcifications and cardiovascular end-points was performed. Thirty articles were selected. The overall odds ratios (95% confidence interval [CI]) for calcifications versus no calcifications in 218,080 subjects after a mean follow-up of 10.1 years amounted to 4.62 (CI 2.24 to 9.53) for all cause mortality, 3.94 (CI 2.39 to 6.50) for cardiovascular mortality, 3.74 (CI 2.56 to 5.45) for coronary events, 2.21 (CI 1.81 to 2.69) for stroke, and 3.41 (CI 2.71 to 4.30) for any cardiovascular event. Heterogeneity was largely explained by length of follow up and sort of imaging technique. Subgroup analysis of patients with end stage renal disease revealed a much higher odds ratio for any event of 6.22 (CI 2.73 to 14.14). The presence of calcification in any arterial wall is associated with a 3-4-fold higher risk for mortality and cardiovascular events. Interpretation of the pooled estimates has to be done with caution because of heterogeneity across studies."}
{"id": "19427449", "title": "Relation of aortic valve and coronary artery calcium in patients with chronic kidney disease to the stage and etiology of the renal disease.", "content": "Relation of aortic valve and coronary artery calcium in patients with chronic kidney disease to the stage and etiology of the renal disease. Patients with chronic renal failure have increased cardiac calcium loads. Previous studies have investigated the prevalence and quantitative extent of aortic valve calcium (AVC) and coronary artery calcium (CAC) in patients with various stages of chronic kidney disease (CKD). However, the impact of preexisting atherosclerosis on the calcification burden has not been clarified. Therefore, this study was conducted to examine the effect of CKD stage as well as the primary cause of renal failure (atherosclerotic vs nonatherosclerotic) on AVC and CAC. Twenty-two, 13, and 28 patients with stage 3, 4, and 5 CKD, respectively, were included, of whom 24 had atherosclerotic CKD. Patients underwent electron-beam computed tomography to assess AVC and CAC. AVC was present in 27% of patients with stage 3 CKD, in 38% of patients with stage 4 CKD, and in 43% of patients with stage 5 CKD. CAC was present in 77% of patients with stage 3 CKD, in 54% of patients with stage 4 CKD, and in 64% of patients with stage 5 CKD. There was no correlation between CKD stage and the quantitative extent of AVC and CAC. AVC was more frequent (58% vs 23%, p <0.01) and more extensive (median score 43 [range 0 to 494] vs 0 [range 0 to 8], p <0.01) in patients with CKD caused by atherosclerotic renal disease than in patients with nonatherosclerotic causes of CKD. CAC was more frequent (83% vs 56%, p <0.05) and more extensive (median score 437 [range 61 to 1,565] vs 31 [range 0 to 155], p <0.001) in patients with atherosclerotic causes of CKD than in patients with CKD caused by nonatherosclerotic renal disease. In conclusion, the prevalence as well as the severity of AVC and CAC did not vary between patients with stage 3, 4, and 5 CKD. Cardiac calcification, both AVC and CAC, were more frequent and more severe in patients with atherosclerotic causes of renal failure. These results suggest that cardiac calcium is related to atherosclerotic burden rather than to the severity of CKD."}
{"id": "19416771", "title": "Long-term results of combined heart and kidney transplantation: a French multicenter study.", "content": "Long-term results of combined heart and kidney transplantation: a French multicenter study. Outcomes in recipients who have undergone combined heart and kidney transplantation have mainly been addressed in small, single-center studies. We studied long-term results of combined heart and kidney transplantation in a large multicenter cohort. Between 1984 and 2007, 67 consecutive patients (61 men and 6 women) from 3 French centers underwent combined heart and kidney transplantation. At transplantation, 38 (57%) were receiving dialysis. All patients received immediate triple immunosuppression therapy (anti-calcineurin, steroids, azathioprine, or mycophenolate). Overall actuarial survival rates were 62.0%, 60.3%, 53.3%, and 46.5% at 1, 3, 5, and 10 years, respectively. These rates were similar to those observed in 2981 isolated heart recipients at the 3 participating centers during the same period (respectively, 71.0%, 65.2%, 60.1%, and 47.2%, p = 0.6). Survival tended to improve during the last decade (1996 to 2007) and reached 71.1%, 67.5%, and 60% at 1, 3, and 5 years. Cardiac allograft rejection requiring treatment occurred in 12 (17.9%). Coronary artery vasculopathy developed in 3 (9.3%). Kidney allograft rejection occurred in 9 (13.4%). Kidney graft survival was 95.9% at 1, 3, 5, and 10 years. Long-term survival rates in a large cohort of combined heart and kidney recipients are similar to those of isolated heart recipients in France. The rates of acute heart and kidney rejection and angiographic coronary artery vasculopathy were low in this patient population."}
{"id": "19410683", "title": "Clinical insights from the Treating to New Targets trial.", "content": "Clinical insights from the Treating to New Targets trial. The Treating to New Targets (TNT) trial enrolled 10,001 patients with coronary disease to treatment with atorvastatin, 80 or 10 mg/d, and observed them for a median of 4.9 years. Mean low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels were 77 mg/dL in the 80-mg group and 101 mg/dL in the 10-mg group. The primary end point, a composite of cardiovascular death, myocardial infraction, resuscitated cardiac arrest, and stroke, occurred in 10.9% of patients in the 10-mg and 8.7% of patients in the 80-mg group (P = .0002). In large subgroups of patients in TNT, specifically those with diabetes, the metabolic syndrome, chronic kidney disease, or previous coronary bypass (CABG) surgery, the risk of an event was significantly higher than in patients without these features. The absolute risk reduction in the 80-mg group was greater in each of these subgroups than in other TNT patients. The rates of stroke and hospitalization for heart failure were significantly lower in the more aggressively treated patients. A total of 18,696 patients have taken 80 mg of atorvastatin in clinical trials, usually for 4 to 5 years, with an excellent safety record. Pharmacoeconomic studies indicate that treatment with the 80-mg dose instead of the 10-mg dose almost costs neutral in US TNT-like patients (additional cost $181 for 5 years). In summary, wider use of the 80-mg dose of atorvastatin in patients with stable coronary disease is safe, cost-effective, and provides an incremental reduction in coronary events."}
{"id": "19401123", "title": "Additional diagnostic value of systolic dysfunction induced by dipyridamole stress cardiac magnetic resonance used in detecting coronary artery disease.", "content": "Additional diagnostic value of systolic dysfunction induced by dipyridamole stress cardiac magnetic resonance used in detecting coronary artery disease. Dipyridamole stress perfusion cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) is used to detect coronary artery disease (CAD). However, few data are available on the diagnostic value of the systolic dysfunction induced by dipyridamole. This study investigated whether the induction of systolic dysfunction supplements the diagnostic information provided by perfusion imaging in the detection of CAD. Overall, 166 patients underwent dipyridamole CMR and quantitative coronary angiography, with CAD being defined as a stenosis > or =70%. Systolic dysfunction at rest, systolic dysfunction with dipyridamole, induced systolic dysfunction, and stress first-pass perfussion deficit (PD) and delayed enhancement were quantified. In the multivariate analysis, PD (hazard ratio [HR]=1.6; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.33-1.91;P< .0001) and induced systolic dysfunction (OR=1.8; 95% CI, 1.18-2.28; P< .007) were independently associated with CAD and had a sensitivity and specificity of 92% and 62% and 43% and 96%, respectively. Patients were categorized as having no ischemia (Group 1), PD but no induced systolic dysfunction (Group 2), or induced systolic dysfunction irrespective of PD (Group 3). In Group 3, the prevalence of CAD was higher than in Group 1 or 2 (96% vs. 22% and 79%, respectively; P=.001) and the risk of CAD was two-fold higher than in Group 2 (OR=2.34; 95% CI, 1.07-5.13; P=.034). Compared with Group 2, more hypoperfused segments were observed in Group 3 (6.2+/-2.6 vs. 7.4+/-3.4; P=.044), and more diseased vessels (1.4+/-1.0 vs. 1.8+/-0.9; P=.036). Adding induced systolic dysfunction to perfusion and clinical data improved the multivariate model's C-statistic for predicting CAD (0.81 vs. 0.87; P=.02). Combining induced systolic dysfunction with perfusion imaging increases the diagnostic accuracy of detecting CAD and enables patients with severe ischemia and a high probability of CAD to be identified."}
{"id": "19399567", "title": "Chronic kidney disease, SPECT, and coronary angiography: \"head of gold and feet of clay?\".", "content": "Chronic kidney disease, SPECT, and coronary angiography: \"head of gold and feet of clay?\"."}
{"id": "19395951", "title": "Evidence for a lower target blood pressure for people with heart disease.", "content": "Evidence for a lower target blood pressure for people with heart disease. The review assesses the evidence for the benefit of lower blood pressure (BP) targets in hypertension management. The current consensus target for the treatment of hypertension is a BP of below 140/90 mmHg for all patients, and a BP of below 130/80 mmHg for those with diabetes or chronic kidney disease. Recently added to the list of conditions warranting the lower BP target are coronary artery disease and coronary artery disease equivalents (stroke, carotid disease, aortic aneurysm, and peripheral vascular disease), as well as those individuals with a Framingham Risk Score of at least 10%. One theoretical issue with lower BP targets may be the existence of a J-shaped curve of BP versus cardiovascular event rate, implying a greater risk, especially of myocardial ischemia, of lowering diastolic BP, which is also the filling pressure of the coronary arteries, below the lower limit of coronary autoregulation. The evidence that this is not a compelling concern is provided by animal studies, clinical trials with both surrogate and hard endpoints, and epidemiologic data. There is at present no proof that more aggressive treatment is harmful and much indirect evidence that it may be beneficial, although the clinical trials that specifically address this question are still in progress."}
{"id": "19394801", "title": "Comparative evaluation of epidemiology and outcomes of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) USA300 infections causing community- and healthcare-associated infections.", "content": "Comparative evaluation of epidemiology and outcomes of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) USA300 infections causing community- and healthcare-associated infections. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) USA300 clone is commonly found in the community and is being increasingly reported in the healthcare setting. A retrospective analysis was conducted to compare the epidemiology and outcomes between community-associated (CA) and healthcare-associated (HA) USA300 MRSA infections. The study enrolled 160 subjects with USA300 MRSA infections (47.5% CA-MRSA and 52.5% HA-MRSA). Failure in the HA group was higher (38.1%) compared with the CA group (23.7%) (P=0.05). Predictors of failure included male gender, age, presence of any co-morbidity, coronary artery disease, chronic kidney disease, history of MRSA, previous admission, fluoroquinolone exposure, HA infection and osteomyelitis (P<or=0.05). Independent predictors of failure were osteomyelitis, history of MRSA, male gender and pneumonia. Recurrent disease was found in 32.6% of cases. Overall, USA300 MRSA most commonly causes infection of the skin and skin structure, however, 20% of subjects can experience more invasive disease with infection of the bloodstream, lung or bone. Failure rates are higher in subjects with healthcare risk factors or if the infection was acquired in the hospital, with these subjects experiencing more invasive infections such as bacteraemia, pneumonia or osteomyelitis."}
{"id": "19394736", "title": "Clinical and angiographic outcomes following percutaneous coronary intervention with sirolimus-eluting stents versus bare-metal stents in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Clinical and angiographic outcomes following percutaneous coronary intervention with sirolimus-eluting stents versus bare-metal stents in hemodialysis patients. Percutaneous coronary intervention for hemodialysis patients has been hampered by the high rate of adverse cardiac events. Our aim was to investigate whether sirolimus-eluting stents (SESs) improve clinical outcomes of hemodialysis patients compared with bare-metal stents (BMSs). Retrospective study. 123 consecutive patients on hemodialysis therapy treated with either an SES or BMS. There were 56 patients with 68 lesions treated with SESs between August 2004 and April 2006 (SES group) and 67 patients with 71 lesions treated with BMSs 4 years before approval of SESs in Japan (BMS group). SES and BMS implantation for hemodialysis patients with coronary artery disease. Follow-up angiography was performed at 6 to 8 months and clinical follow-up was obtained at 9 months after the procedure. Late lumen loss and major adverse cardiac events, including all-cause death, myocardial infarction, and target-lesion revascularization, were investigated. Clinical follow-up was obtained in all patients. Angiographic follow-up was obtained in 50 patients (89.3%) in the SES group and 50 patients (74.6%) in the BMS group. The SES group had more complex lesions than the BMS group. Quantitative angiographic analysis showed a significant difference for in-stent late lumen loss (SES, 0.62 +/- 0.75 mm; BMS, 1.07 +/- 0.75 mm; P = 0.003). Of angiographic restenosis lesions analyzed, a focal restenotic pattern was observed more frequently in the SES group than the BMS group (SES, 87.5%; BMS, 23.8%; P < 0.001). The rate of major adverse cardiac events was significantly lower in the SES group (n = 14; 25.0%) than the BMS group (n = 26; 38.9%; log-rank P = 0.02). Retrospective study design, small sample size, and a single-center study. Clinical and angiographic data in the present study suggest that SESs are more effective than BMSs in hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "19390157", "title": "Is C-reactive protein a predictor of perioperative events before coronary artery bypass?", "content": "Is C-reactive protein a predictor of perioperative events before coronary artery bypass?"}
{"id": "19387250", "title": "The diagnostic and prognostic value of tissue Doppler imaging during dobutamine stress echocardiography in end-stage renal disease.", "content": "The diagnostic and prognostic value of tissue Doppler imaging during dobutamine stress echocardiography in end-stage renal disease. To determine whether a quantitative measurement of peak systolic velocity (PSV) during dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) detects severe coronary artery disease (CAD) and predicts mortality in patients with end-stage renal disease. One hundred and forty renal transplant candidates had DSE and coronary angiography. DSE analysis was performed using conventional visual wall motion assessment, longitudinal PSV, and combining the two modalities. Failure of PSV to rise by more than 50% predicted an ischemic response. Significant CAD was defined as luminal stenosis greater than 70%. The number of positive DSE studies according to conventional, PSV, and combined criteria was 41 (30%), 42 (31%), and 46 (34%) respectively. Forty patients (29%) had significant CAD at angiography. The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values for conventional DSE analysis were 84, 91, 86, and 90% respectively. The same values for PSV analysis were 86, 92, 86, and 91%, respectively. The same values for the combination of visual and PSV analysis were 88, 94, 87, and 92% respectively. The differences between the three methods were not statistically significant. Sensitivity for single-vessel CAD (P=0.05) and circumflex artery disease (P=0.05) diagnosis was higher with PSV compared with conventional DSE analysis. Failure of PSV to rise by more than 50% during DSE was associated with significantly increased mortality (P=0.001). A quantitative interpretation of DSE, based on the percentage rise of PSV during stress, accurately detects CAD and predicts prognosis in end-stage renal disease."}
{"id": "19384844", "title": "How long is the warranty period for nil or low coronary artery calcium in patients new to hemodialysis?", "content": "How long is the warranty period for nil or low coronary artery calcium in patients new to hemodialysis? Coronary artery calcification (CAC) is common in patients with advanced chronic kidney disease on dialysis. A sizeable proportion of patients has no or minimal CAC at the inception of dialysis, but it is unclear how long they remain free of it. For the purpose of this study, 36 incident hemodialysis patients were submitted to sequential chest computed tomography to quantify CAC at baseline, 6, 12, 18 and 30 months. Among them, 15 had absent or minimal CAC score (CACS 0 to 30) and 21 had a CACS>30 at baseline. Overall, the median baseline CACS was 129 (interquartile range [IQR]=0-709) and it increased to 364 (IQR=8.3-1683) at study completion (182% increase). Among the 15 patients with minimal CACS, only 3 progressed and the median CACS increase was 20, as opposed to 15 of 21 patients with a baseline CACS>30 whose median progression was 431 (p<0.02). The 18 patients who had CACS progression were older (68.5 vs. 57.3 years, p=0.0081) and exhibited a poorer control of mineral metabolism (phosphorus 5.2 vs. 4.9 mg/ dL, p=0.048; corrected calcium x phosphorus product [CaxP] 49.3 vs. 46.2 mg2/dL2, p=0.001) than the patients without progression. On multivariable analysis, independent predictors of progression were baseline CACS (p=0.038) and time-averaged Cax;P (p=0.077). These data suggest that absent or low CAC at baseline is associated with minimal progression even up to 30 months. Careful management of mineral metabolism appears to be one of the main factors that limit progression of CAC."}
{"id": "19379873", "title": "Long-term outcome of coronary artery bypass grafting in patients with left ventricular dysfunction.", "content": "Long-term outcome of coronary artery bypass grafting in patients with left ventricular dysfunction. Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is a well-accepted therapeutic strategy for patients with multivessel coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction. The aim of the study was to evaluate long-term results after CABG in patients with preoperative left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of 0.35 or less. Data from 302 consecutive patients (mean age, 62 +/- 8.7 years) with LVEF of 0.35 or less who had undergone CABG were analyzed. Epinephrine and enoximone with or without norepinephrine were used to increase cardiac index. Intra-aortic balloon pump or left ventricular assist devices, or both, were used in case of postoperative low output syndrome. Complete revascularization was achieved in 298 of 302 patients (98.7%); internal thoracic artery was used in 294 (97.4%). Operative mortality was 5.3%; independent predictors of operative mortality were emergency CABG (p = 0.005), history of ventricular arrhythmias (p = 0.007), and previous anterior myocardial infarction (p = 0.05). At follow-up, all-cause mortality was 30.8%, and 10-year survival was 63% +/- 4%; independent predictors of late all-cause mortality were history of ventricular arrhythmias (p < 0.0001), chronic renal dysfunction (p = 0.0004), and diabetes mellitus (p = 0.04). Cardiac death was 20.4%, and 10-year freedom from cardiac death was 73% +/- 3.3%; independent predictors of cardiac death were history of ventricular arrhythmias (p = 0.004), chronic renal dysfunction (p = 0.03), and more than one previous anterior myocardial infarction (p = 0.004). At 80 +/- 44 months of follow-up, echocardiography showed significant LVEF improvement (0.43 +/- 0.09 versus 0.28 +/- 0.06, p < 0.0001). Ten-year freedom from myocardial infarction was 87% +/- 3%. Excellent long-term results after CABG can be expected for patients with LVEF of 0.35 or less. Complete revascularization and internal thoracic artery grafting are associated with high freedom from myocardial infarction. Careful treatment of arrhythmias, diabetes, and renal dysfunction is necessary to improve long-term survival."}
{"id": "19369689", "title": "Increased basal myocardial perfusion in patients with chronic kidney disease without symptomatic coronary artery disease.", "content": "Increased basal myocardial perfusion in patients with chronic kidney disease without symptomatic coronary artery disease. Even minor renal dysfunction is a powerful cardiovascular risk factor. The abnormalities in coronary and peripheral artery function in different stages of chronic kidney disease (CKD) remain poorly understood. Our aim was to test by a positron emission tomography (PET)-based method whether microvascular dysfunction, an early marker of coronary dysfunction, exists already in early stages of CKD. Myocardial blood flow was measured at baseline and during dipyridamole-induced hyperaemia by PET. Peripheral artery endothelial function was examined by measuring flow-mediated dilatation (FMD) of the brachial artery at rest and during reactive hyperaemia. Twenty-two patients with moderate to severe kidney failure and 10 healthy controls were investigated. Diabetic patients were excluded. Baseline characteristics were similar between the groups with the exception of antihypertensive medication in all CKD patients. The basal myocardial perfusion was statistically significantly higher in CKD patients than observed values in similarly aged controls. There was a statistically significant negative correlation between the baseline myocardial perfusion and the estimated glomerular filtration rate. Coronary flow reserve was comparable to healthy controls in all patients. FMD was significantly reduced in all patients with CKD regardless of the stage of kidney failure. Coronary flow reserve was normal although baseline myocardial blood flow was increased in all CKD patients as compared to healthy controls. Peripheral endothelial dysfunction was detected in all patients. Our findings suggest that coronary perfusion and peripheral vascular function are disturbed by different mechanisms in patients with CKD."}
{"id": "19362317", "title": "Effects of slow coronary artery flow on P-wave dispersion and atrial electromechanical coupling.", "content": "Effects of slow coronary artery flow on P-wave dispersion and atrial electromechanical coupling. Slow coronary flow (SCF) is characterized by angiographically normal coronary arteries with delayed opacification of the distal vasculature. The purpose of this study was to evaluate atrial electromechanical couplings and P-wave dispersion (Pd) reflecting intraatrial and interatrial conduction delays in SCF patients and the relationship between these parameters and Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) frame count. Thirty-four patients with SCF and 40 controls were enrolled. From 12-lead surface electrocardiograms, Pd was calculated. Atrial electromechanical coupling (PA), intraatrial, and interatrial electromechanical delay were measured with tissue Doppler imaging. Maximum P-wave duration (Pmax) and Pd were higher in SCF patients than those of controls (109.2 +/- 9.3 vs 92.3 +/- 13.5 milliseconds; P < .0001 and 50.4 +/- 9.4 vs 34.4 +/- 8.9 milliseconds; P < .0001). Atrial electromechanical coupling at the left lateral mitral annulus (lateral PA), septal mitral annulus (septal PA), and right ventricular tricuspid annulus (RV PA) were significantly higher in SCF patients than controls (68.1 +/- 8.1 vs 52.6 +/- 7.3 milliseconds; P < .0001; 49.3 +/- 9.8 vs 38.2 +/- 5.3 milliseconds; P < .0001; 47.5 +/- 9.0 vs 37.6 +/- 4.6 milliseconds, P < .0001, respectively). Interatrial electromechanical delay (lateral PA - RV PA) was significantly longer in SCF patients (20.6 +/- 9.1 vs 15.0 +/- 6.0 milliseconds; P = .0002). A positive correlation was detected between circumflex coronary artery TIMI frame count and interatrial electromechanical delay (r = 0.45; P < .01). Prolongation of interatrial electromechanical delay, Pmax, and Pd suggest that SCF might contribute to development of adverse functional and electrophysiologic atrial characteristics in these patients."}
{"id": "19349293", "title": "Influence of interleukin-6 G-174C gene polymorphism on coronary artery disease, cardiovascular complications and mortality in dialysis patients.", "content": "Influence of interleukin-6 G-174C gene polymorphism on coronary artery disease, cardiovascular complications and mortality in dialysis patients. Inflammation is a well recognized central component of atherosclerotic processes in chronic kidney disease. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels are a strong determinant of cardiovascular mortality in dialysis patients. We evaluated the impact of IL-6 gene G-174C polymorphism associated with modified IL-6 production on the development of coronary artery disease (CAD), cardiovascular events and mortality in chronic dialysis patients. We studied n = 463 patients on chronic dialysis with angiographically confirmed (n = 218) or excluded (n = 245) CAD followed up for 65 months after initiation of dialysis. Monitored were arterial hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, smoking, CRP and fibrinogen. IL-6 gene G-174C polymorphism was determined by PCR amplification. The CC genotype was associated with an impaired patient survival (p < 0.05) remaining an independent risk factor for death in multivariate analysis (HR for CC genotype: 3.58, CI: 1.41-9.07, p < 0.01). CC genotype carrying CAD patients suffered significant frequently cardiovascular events (revascularization, myocardial infarction, death) compared to GG/GC genotype carriers (85.2% vs. 66.5, p < 0.05). However, the IL-6 gene G-174C polymorphism was not related to the onset and development of CAD itself (ns) and the inflammation parameters CRP and fibrinogen did not differ between the genotypes under investigation (ns). Our results suggest that IL-6 gene G-174C polymorphism is associated with the incidence of cardiovascular events and mortality in chronic dialysis patients."}
{"id": "19339425", "title": "Kidney stones and the risk for chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Kidney stones and the risk for chronic kidney disease. Kidney stones lead to chronic kidney disease (CKD) in people with rare hereditary disorders (e.g., primary hyperoxaluria, cystinuria), but it is unknown whether kidney stones are an important risk factor for CKD in the general population. Among Olmsted County, MN, residents, all stone formers (n = 4774) whose condition was diagnosed in 1986 through 2003 were matched 1:3 to control subjects (n = 12,975). Cox proportional hazards models adjusted for age, gender, and comorbidities (hypertension, diabetes, obesity, dyslipidemia, gout, alcohol abuse, tobacco use, coronary artery disease, heart failure, cerebral infarct, and peripheral vascular disease) were used to assess the risk for incident CKD defined as a clinical diagnosis (diagnostic codes), ESRD or death with CKD, sustained (>90 d) elevated serum creatinine (>1.3 mg/dl in men, >1.1 mg/dl in women), or sustained estimated GFR <60 ml/min per 1.73 m(2). During a mean of 8.6 yr of follow-up, stone formers were at increased risk for a clinical diagnosis of CKD, but an increased risk for ESRD or death with CKD was NS. Among patients with follow-up serum creatinine levels, stone formers were at increased risk for a sustained elevated serum creatinine and a sustained reduced GFR. Kidney stones are a risk factor for CKD, and studies are warranted to assess screening and preventive measures for CKD in stone formers."}
{"id": "19339406", "title": "Pediatric myocardial stunning underscores the cardiac toxicity of conventional hemodialysis treatments.", "content": "Pediatric myocardial stunning underscores the cardiac toxicity of conventional hemodialysis treatments. In adults, hemodialysis (HD)-induced ischemia causes reversible myocardial dysfunction (myocardial stunning) that is progressive with raised attendant mortality. Children share an increased risk for death from a spectrum of uremia-related cardiovascular abnormalities but in the absence of significant classical atheromatous coronary artery disease; therefore, we elected to assess children who were on HD for the occurrence of myocardial stunning to investigate the relative importance of characteristic uremic cardiovascular abnormalities in the development of ischemic cardiac injury. We included all single-center long-term HD patients (n = 12; range 2 to 17 yr), excluding those with structural cardiac disease. Patients underwent conventional thrice-weekly HD for 4 h using high-flux membranes. We measured regional left ventricle wall motion using serial echocardiography (before HD, during HD, and 15 min after HD). Significant stunning was defined as a 20% reduction in regional wall motion (RRWM) in two or more segments and hyperkinesis as an either >20 or >50% increase in shortening fraction (SF). Eleven of 12 patients developed myocardial stunning with varying degrees of compensatory hyperkinesis in unaffected segments, maintaining left ventricular ejection fraction throughout HD. The mean segmental %SF([Overall]) and %SF([RRWM]) fell during HD (2.19 to 1.77 and 2.72 to 1.37, respectively). Intradialytic BP reduction was significantly associated with mean segmental %SF([RRWM]). Children who receive conventional HD experience myocardial stunning. These data, in combination with previous adult studies of intradialytic myocardial blood flow, suggest a characteristic cardiovascular phenotype in HD patients that predisposes to significant demand ischemia."}
{"id": "19327418", "title": "One-year outcomes from the TAXUS express stent versus cypher stent.", "content": "One-year outcomes from the TAXUS express stent versus cypher stent. We compared 1-year outcomes in patients treated with paclitaxel-eluting stents (PESs) or sirolimus-eluting stents (SESs) in \"real-world\" clinical practice. Clinical outcomes were evaluated in 1,558 consecutive, unselected, retrospectively collected patients treated with drug-eluting stents (DESs; PES = 816, SES = 742) at 19 United States centers. The primary end point was 1-year target vessel revascularization (TVR). The study included a prespecified diabetic cohort (PES = 289, SES = 247), for which efficacy comparisons between DESs were analyzed according to vessel diameter and presence of chronic kidney disease. Baseline demographic, angiographic, and procedural characteristics were similar between patients treated with PESs and those treated with SESs. At 1 year, there were no overall statistical differences in death, myocardial infarction, TVR, or stent thrombosis. In the diabetic cohort, however, the cumulative incidence of TVR was significantly lower for patients treated with PESs (3%) compared with SESs (9%, p <0.01), which persisted after adjustment for baseline differences (hazard ratio 0.29, 95% confidence interval 0.12 to 0.67). This decrease in TVR with PES was similar in insulin- and noninsulin-requiring diabetic patients. In multivariate analysis, independent predictors of TVR included diabetes, bifurcation stenting, and overlapping stents; in the diabetic cohort, treatment with SESs was also a multivariate predictor of TVR. In conclusion, in this observational, retrospective analysis of DES-treated patients, PESs and SESs demonstrated similar overall safety and efficacy, but PESs were associated with a significant decrease in 1-year TVR rates in diabetic patients."}
{"id": "19321942", "title": "Coronary calcium score in renal transplant recipients.", "content": "Coronary calcium score in renal transplant recipients. Coronary calcium score (CCS) is established as an index for the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD). The aim of this prospective study was to assess changes in CCS in patients 1 year after kidney transplantation (KTx). A total of 221 consecutive renal transplant recipients were enrolled in our prospective study (140 males/81 females). CCS was analyzed by spiral multidetector CT at baseline and 1 year after KTx. Bone mineral density (BMD) was measured in the lumbar spine (L-BMD) and femur (F-BMD). The mean CCS was 539 +/- 1,033 at baseline. 33% of the patients had a CCS of 0, and 33% of patients had a CCS of >401. A negative correlation was found between F-BMD and CCS, but no correlation was found between L-BMD and CCS. Using CCS, a positive correlation was found between total cholesterol and the age of patients, but no correlation of CCS was found with other biochemical markers of bone and lipid metabolism. One year after transplantation, the mean CCS was 703 +/- 1,253; in 75% of patients the CCS was the same and 25% had a higher CCS. A high risk of CHD was found in 33% of renal graft recipients. No improvement in CCS was found 1 year after KTx."}
{"id": "19308650", "title": "Comparison of dobutamine stress echocardiography, dobutamine SPECT, and adenosine SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging in patients with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Comparison of dobutamine stress echocardiography, dobutamine SPECT, and adenosine SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging in patients with end-stage renal disease. We sought to assess and compare the diagnostic accuracy and prognostic value of dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE), dobutamine SPECT, and adenosine SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). The optimal stress imaging modality for patients with ESRD has not yet been determined. Forty-nine patients with ESRD underwent DSE, dobutamine SPECT MPI, and adenosine SPECT MPI. The primary endpoint of the trial was concordance between stress tests with respect to the presence or absence of ischemia. Agreement on the presence or absence of ischemia between adenosine SPECT MPI and DSE was 69% (kappa = .25, P = NS). Agreement on the presence or absence of ischemia between adenosine and dobutamine SPECT MPI was 77% (kappa = .37, P = <.009). Summed stress scores for adenosine and dobutamine SPECT MPI studies were highly correlated (r = .9, P = <.0001). DSE and SPECT MPI results provided incremental prognostic information when added to clinical variables. There is moderate concordance between DSE and adenosine SPECT MPI in ESRD patients referred for stress testing. Interobserver agreement was higher for SPECT MPI compared to DSE. Based on these observations, the optimal approach for diagnosing severe coronary artery disease and assessing risk in patients with ESRD has yet to be determined, but appears to warrant further investigation."}
{"id": "19306514", "title": "Combining chronic kidney disease with 201thallium/123iodine beta methyliodophenyl pentadecanoic acid dual myocardial single-photon emission computed tomography findings is useful for the evaluation of cardiac event risk.", "content": "Combining chronic kidney disease with 201thallium/123iodine beta methyliodophenyl pentadecanoic acid dual myocardial single-photon emission computed tomography findings is useful for the evaluation of cardiac event risk. Chronic kidney disease is a noteworthy pathophysiology as a risk factor of cardiovascular disease. We investigated the usefulness of combining glomerular filtration rate and 201thallium(201TI)/123iodine-beta-methyliodophenyl pentadecanoic acid (123I-BMIPP) dual myocardial scintigraphic findings for predicting cardiac events. Seventy-five patients suspected of coronary artery disease underwent 201TI/123I-BMIPP dual myocardial scintigraphy. Clinical and nuclear variables were included in the multivariate analysis for predicting hard events (cardiac death and nonfatal myocardial infarction) and soft events (unstable angina, heart failure, and coronary revascularization). Glomerular filtration rate was estimated by the modification of diet in renal disease formula. Kaplan-Meier analysis was performed to investigate the incremental prognostic value of glomerular filtration rate. During the mean follow-up period of 425 days, eight patients had hard events and 20 patients had soft events. Multivariate analysis revealed that glomerular filtration rate and the sum of total defect score in 123I-BMIPP image were independent predictors of total cardiac events, whereas sex, diabetes, glomerular filtration rate, and the number of abnormal segments in 201TI image were those of hard events. Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed that greater risk stratification was achieved by adding a glomerular filtration rate of lesser than 60 ml/min/1.73 m2 to the sum of the total defect score > or = 5 in the 123I-BMIPP image. Greater risk stratification for hard events was also achieved by adding a glomerular filtration rate of lesser than 30 ml/min/1.73 m2 to the number of abnormal segments > or = 2 in 201TI image. Better risk stratification can be achieved by adding glomerular filtration rate to 201TI/123I-BMIPP dual myocardial scintigraphic findings."}
{"id": "19304128", "title": "Estimated glomerular filtration rate as a predictor of secondary outcomes in Japanese patients with coronary artery disease.", "content": "Estimated glomerular filtration rate as a predictor of secondary outcomes in Japanese patients with coronary artery disease. Coronary artery disease (CAD) is highly prevalent and strongly associated with adverse outcomes in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). Recent data demonstrate that estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) is more useful than serum creatinine as a predictor of outcomes. We investigated the clinical significance of eGFR-defined CKD in Japanese patients with CAD. In 702 consecutive patients with suspected CAD who underwent coronary angiography, CKD (eGFR <60 ml/min/1.73 m(2)) was present in 345 patients (49%). The eGFR value was lower in patients with multi-vessel coronary artery disease compared to patients with no significant stenosis (59+/-24 ml/min/1.73 m(2) vs 66+/-21 ml/min/1.73 m(2), p<0.01). During a follow-up period of 36 months, secondary events that included all-cause death and cardiovascular events requiring hospitalization occurred in 114 (16%) patients. Multivariate analysis using a Cox proportional hazards model showed that CKD [relative risk (RR) 1.707, 95%CI, 1.170-2.489; p=0.004] along with diabetes (RR, 1.684, 95%CI, 1.262-2.386; p=0.008) were independent predictors of secondary events. eGFR-defined CKD is an important predictor of secondary outcomes in Japanese patients with CAD. Anti-atherosclerotic therapies under eGFR monitoring to consider renoprotection would be an important strategy to improve long-term prognosis in Japanese CAD patients."}
{"id": "19289433", "title": "Stress/Rest Myocardial Perfusion Abnormalities by Gated SPECT: Still the Best Predictor of Cardiac Events in Stable Ischemic Heart Disease.", "content": "Stress/Rest Myocardial Perfusion Abnormalities by Gated SPECT: Still the Best Predictor of Cardiac Events in Stable Ischemic Heart Disease. The prognostic power of myocardial perfusion imaging in patients with ischemic heart disease (IHD) has been demonstrated since planar imaging. We aimed to investigate whether gated SPECT retains this value in current cardiology if compared with a complete diagnostic work-up and with more recent prognostic indicators. We selected from our database a cohort of 676 consecutive inpatients who underwent a complete diagnostic work-up that included gated SPECT and coronary arteriography for known or suspected IHD. Patients with acute myocardial infarction (MI), previous coronary artery bypass surgery, or overt hyperthyroidism and patients who were undergoing dialysis treatment were excluded. During follow-up (median, 37 mo), 24 patients died from cardiac causes and 19 experienced a nonfatal MI. The following were determined to be independent predictors of event-free survival (cardiac death and nonfatal MI) in the different phases of diagnostic work-up using Cox proportional hazards regression analysis: among clinical variables, a previous MI; among laboratory examinations, serum creatinine and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels; among electrocardiographic and echocardiographic variables, left ventricular ejection fraction; and among SPECT variables, summed rest score (SRS) and summed difference score (SDS). In addition, a score of coronary stenoses at angiography was an independent predictor. When the above predictors were tested together, SRS (P < 0.0001), SDS (P = 0.0108), and serum creatinine (P = 0.0186) and LDL and HDL cholesterol levels (P = 0.0222) were the final independent predictors of event-free survival. When gated SPECT was added to the clinical, laboratory, electrocardiographic, and echocardiographic variables, the prognostic stratification significantly improved (P < 0.05); when coronary arteriography was added to gated SPECT, prognostic stratification did not further improve (P > 0.25). If the information provided by gated SPECT was made available after clinical, laboratory, electrocardiographic, echocardiographic, and angiographic variables, the prognostic stratification still improved significantly (P < 0.05). In 492 of these patients with ascertained IHD, SRS and SDS were the final independent predictors of survival. Medical treatment and coronary revascularization did not affect the prognostic information of gated SPECT. Myocardial perfusion abnormalities at rest and after stress are still the best predictors of cardiac event-free survival in patients with known or suspected IHD, even when compared with an extensive diagnostic work-up."}
{"id": "19282606", "title": "Predictive value of C-reactive protein for major postoperative complications following off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery: prospective and observational trial.", "content": "Predictive value of C-reactive protein for major postoperative complications following off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery: prospective and observational trial. To prospectively investigate the predictive value of the preoperative C-reactive protein (CRP) concentration for major postoperative complications following off-pump coronary artery bypass (OPCAB) surgery. From January 2007 to December 2007, 185 consecutive patients scheduled for elective OPCAB surgery were allocated to a low-CRP group (n=137, CRP <0.3 mg/dl) and a high-CRP group (n=48, CRP > or = 0.3 mg/dl). The incidence of major postoperative complications, defined as postoperative myocardial infarction, and 5 major morbidity endpoints including permanent stroke, renal dysfunction, any cardiac surgery reoperation, ventilation for more than 48 h, and deep sternal wound infection were assessed and compared. Multivariate logistic regression was used to determine the predictors of major postoperative complications. Patients in the high-CRP group had a significantly higher overall incidence of major postoperative complications, particularly renal dysfunction. In the multivariate logistic regression model, adjusting all the significant univariate predictors, baseline CRP >0.3 mg/dl and preoperative chronic renal failure (CRF) remained as significant independent predictors of major postoperative complications. Elevated preoperative CRP level and/or preoperative CRF indicate increased risk of developing major postoperative complications, particularly acute postoperative renal dysfunction in patients undergoing OPCAB surgery."}
{"id": "19281735", "title": "Metabolic syndrome attenuates effect of chronic kidney disease on prevalence of coronary disease in men referred for stress imaging study.", "content": "Metabolic syndrome attenuates effect of chronic kidney disease on prevalence of coronary disease in men referred for stress imaging study. Metabolic syndrome (MS) and chronic kidney disease (CKD) are both strongly associated with coronary artery disease (CAD). Components of MS also cause CKD. The incremental effect of CKD on CAD prevalence in MS patients referred for stress imaging studies is unknown. From January to December 2005, consecutive subjects referred for a stress imaging study were prospectively enrolled. CAD was defined as fixed or reversible defects on nuclear imaging and as resting or stress-induced wall motion abnormalities on echocardiography. MS was defined using NCEP-ATP III criteria. CKD definition was based on calculated glomerular filtration rate. The independent effect of CKD on stress results was assessed using multiple variable logistic regression. Stepwise model selection was used for variable reduction, and areas under the receiver operating characteristic curves (ROC) were calculated. Of 1,122 patients enrolled (mean age 61.4 years, 97% male), 535 (47%) had MS. Among MS patients, 156/535 (29%) had CKD while 116/587 (19%) subjects without MS had CKD. Subjects with CKD were older (p < 0.001) in subjects with and without MS. The presence of CKD affected prevalence of CAD in the non-MS group only, almost doubling it (20% vs. 38%, p < 0.001). Further, using the ordered nature of the 5 CKD stages, worsening severity of CKD had greater prevalence of CAD, in non-MS subjects only (p < 0.001). MS attenuates the effect of CKD on CAD prevalence, regardless of CKD severity. CKD almost doubles the prevalence of CAD in non-MS subjects. CKD severity is associated with greater CAD burden in the non-MS group."}
{"id": "19268412", "title": "Angiopoietin 2 and cardiovascular disease in dialysis and kidney transplantation.", "content": "Angiopoietin 2 and cardiovascular disease in dialysis and kidney transplantation. Accelerated atherosclerosis in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) is still incompletely understood. Angiopoietin 1 (Ang-1) and Ang-2 are 55-kDa antagonistic nonredundant gatekeepers of endothelial activation and thus are potential important factors in accelerated atherosclerosis. We aimed to study: (1) angiopoietin levels in patients treated by means of dialysis and kidney transplantation, (2) the association of altered angiopoietin levels with atherosclerosis, and (3) changes in altered levels after renal transplantation. Cross-sectional and longitudinal observational study. 117 patients with CKD (61 hemodialysis [HD] patients, 24 peritoneal dialysis [PD] patients, and 32 renal transplant recipients) and 22 healthy controls. Treatment by means of HD or PD or renal transplantation versus healthy controls. Serum Ang-1 and Ang-2 levels and ratio and changes in levels before and 3 months after transplantation. Correlations of angiopoietin levels with the presence and severity of coronary heart disease and peripheral arterial disease. Ang-1 and Ang-2 were measured in sera by using an immunoradiometric sandwich assay and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, respectively. Coronary heart disease was scored by using coronary angiography, and peripheral arterial disease, by using ultrasonography. Ang-1 level was decreased in HD patients compared with controls (29.1 +/- 12 versus 45.3 +/- 11.5 ng/mL; P < 0.001). In contrast, Ang-2 level was increased (HD, 8.7 +/- 0.64; PD, 6.48 +/- 8.1 ng/mL versus controls, 0.88 +/- 0.43 ng/mL; P < 0.001). Ang levels in renal transplant recipients were not different from healthy controls. Longitudinally, individual Ang-2 levels decreased after kidney transplantation (P = 0.01). In addition, in patients with CKD, Ang-2 level correlated significantly with scores of coronary heart disease (r = 0.486; P < 0.001) and peripheral arterial disease (r = 0.648; P < 0.001). Cross-sectional study design. Circulating Ang-2 level was increased in patients treated with dialysis, although the mechanism is unknown. Kidney transplantation normalized circulating Ang-2 levels after 3 months. In addition, Ang-2 might be a mediator (and thus a marker) that accounts for accelerated atherosclerosis in dialysis patients."}
{"id": "19262454", "title": "Saphenous vein graft aneurysm after coronary artery bypass grafting.", "content": "Saphenous vein graft aneurysm after coronary artery bypass grafting. Saphenous vein graft (SVG) aneurysms are an unusual but potentially fatal complication after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). We report a case of multiple SVG aneurysms 23 years following CABG. Although the patient was on dialysis and had a poor left ventricular function, the aneurysms were successfully excised, and the ascending aorta was uneventfully replaced to be possible for percutaneous coronary intervention in the near future."}
{"id": "19258080", "title": "Management of moderate functional mitral regurgitation at the time of aortic valve replacement: is concomitant mitral valve repair necessary?", "content": "Management of moderate functional mitral regurgitation at the time of aortic valve replacement: is concomitant mitral valve repair necessary? The optimal management of moderate functional mitral regurgitation at the time of aortic valve replacement remains undefined. We retrospectively identified 686 consecutive patients undergoing aortic valve replacement between 1993 and 2006 with at least moderate (grade 2 or more) functional mitral regurgitation. Patients with structural valve abnormalities or significant coronary artery disease were excluded, leaving 190 in the study. Analyses for predictors of residual mitral regurgitation and survival were performed. The impact of mitral regurgitation on survival was further analyzed among 91 patients case matched for age, gender, and left ventricular ejection fraction to individuals without mitral regurgitation undergoing isolated aortic valve replacement. The mean age of the study group was 74 +/- 11years, 45% were male, and 78% had New York Heart Association III or IV Class classification. The mean preoperative ejection fraction was 48% +/- 17%. Operative mortality was 5% (n = 9). Follow-up echocardiographic data were available for 88% of patients at discharge and 57% of patients at midterm. Mitral regurgitation was improved at discharge in 76% of patients and at mid-term follow-up in 67% of patients. Independent predictors of improved mitral regurgitation were lesser degrees of preoperative tricuspid regurgitation or prebypass mitral regurgitation, absence of cerebrovascular disease, and lower left ventricular ejection fraction. Postoperatively, 89% of patients were New York Heart Association Class I or II Symptom; No reoperations for mitral regurgitation were performed. Survival was 68% at 5 years and 42% at 10 years. Independent predictors of late mortality were increasing age, diabetes, dialysis-dependent renal failure, and increased tricuspid regurgitation severity. The survival of 91 patients from this cohort did not differ from case-matched patients without mitral regurgitation undergoing aortic valve replacement (P = .33). Moderate functional mitral regurgitation improved in most patients after aortic valve replacement. Residual mitral regurgitation did not affect survival independently of left ventricular function."}
{"id": "19247187", "title": "Factors influencing clopidogrel efficacy in patients with stable coronary artery disease undergoing elective percutaneous coronary intervention: statin's advantage and the smoking \"paradox\".", "content": "Factors influencing clopidogrel efficacy in patients with stable coronary artery disease undergoing elective percutaneous coronary intervention: statin's advantage and the smoking \"paradox\". The aim was to identify factors that influence the efficacy of 600 mg of clopidogrel pretreatment in patients with stable coronary artery disease undergoing elective percutaneous coronary intervention. In a laboratory substudy of the PRAGUE-8 trial, the influences of nonmodifiable (age and sex) and modifiable (body mass index and tobacco smoke) factors, comorbidity (hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, and renal insufficiency) and cotherapy (statin, aspirin, and heparin), on the course of clopidogrel efficacy were investigated in 105 patients pretreated with clopidogrel >or=6 hours before coronary angiography +/- percutaneous coronary intervention. Flow cytometric analysis of the vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein phosphorylation state was used. Independent predictors that influenced clopidogrel action were identified using linear regression. There was no correlation between baseline platelet reactivity index (PRI) and severity of coronary atherosclerosis; mean index of platelet reactivity for a nonsignificant lesion was 72% +/- 5.98% and for a significant lesion 70.08% +/- 8.43%. The highest proportion of low responders was patients with diabetes (50% at 28 hours). Among tobacco smokers, the response to clopidogrel occurred quickly and 80% of smokers had effective inhibition of PRI, 12 hours after drug use. After adjustments, tobacco smoking was an independent predictor for the most robust drop of PRI 12 hours after clopidogrel (P = 0.027). The magnitude of total decrease of PRI at 28 hours was not significantly influenced by cigarette smoking (P = 0.12). Linear regression showed that patients on statin therapy had a better response to clopidogrel than those without statins-the mean decrease of PRI at 28 hours was significantly higher (P = 0.02) among these patients (40.0 vs. 27.6). In stable coronary artery disease, no correlation exists between baseline PRI and the severity and extent of coronary atherosclerosis. A high loading dose of clopidogrel does not satisfactorily suppress enhanced PRI in patients with diabetes. Cigarette smoking is independently associated with a prompt antiplatelet response to clopidogrel. Ongoing statin therapy is an independent determinant of more effective clopidogrel-mediated inhibition of platelet reactivity."}
{"id": "19241190", "title": "Coronary artery calcium distribution and interscan measurement variability in end-stage renal and coronary heart disease patients.", "content": "Coronary artery calcium distribution and interscan measurement variability in end-stage renal and coronary heart disease patients. Coronary heart disease patients and end-stage renal disease patients have been documented to have an increased amount of coronary artery calcifications (CAC). To evaluate the distribution of CAC and its influence on interscan variability of measurement in end-stage renal disease and coronary heart disease patients, proven to have calcifications. 69 patients having CAC, including 34 with coronary heart disease and 35 with end-stage renal disease, were scanned twice with multidetector-row computed tomography (MDCT). Amount of CAC was determined as the number of calcified lesions (CN), total calcium score (CS), calcium volume (CV), and calcium mass (CM). Distribution of CAC was evaluated on a per-patient basis as the median CS and CM of a single lesion. Density of the calcifications was calculated as the patient's CM divided by CV. The overall median CS was 457.2, and the median CM was 75.6 mg. There were no significant differences in the number of calcified lesions, CS, or CM between the two groups. Both CS and CM of a single lesion, as well as the mean calcium density were lower in renal disease patients (P<0.05) than in coronary heart disease subjects. The relative interscan variability of coronary calcium measurement was higher in the renal disease group (P<0.05). There was a negative correlation between the calcium concentration and the relative interscan variability. The results indicate that the coronary calcium distribution influences the measurement interscan reproducibility, and the distribution may differ between end-stage renal disease patients and coronary heart disease patients, reflecting the dissimilar nature of coronary calcifications in those groups."}
{"id": "19229116", "title": "Serum phosphate and left ventricular hypertrophy in young adults: the coronary artery risk development in young adults study.", "content": "Serum phosphate and left ventricular hypertrophy in young adults: the coronary artery risk development in young adults study. A relationship with vascular dysfunction in chronic kidney disease suggests a possible association of phosphate level with left ventricular hypertrophy development in people with normal kidney function. We aimed to determine whether such an association exists in community-dwelling young adults. This is a cohort study of participants in the ongoing, community-based, prospective Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults study (n = 4,055). Phosphate levels were measured at year 0, and left ventricular hypertrophy assessed by echocardiography at year 5. The mean age was 25.0 years. Mean values were: estimated glomerular filtration rate 118.5 ml/min/1.73 m(2); phosphate 3.7 mg/dl; left ventricular mass indexed to body surface area 80.5 g/m(2), and indexed to height(2.7) 35.2 g/m(2.7). Left ventricular hypertrophy was present in 4.5% of the population. As a continuous variable, the phosphate level was associated with left ventricular hypertrophy (odds ratio per standard deviation 1.27; 95% confidence interval 1.09-1.47; p = 0.0020). This association persisted after covariate adjustment (odds ratio per standard deviation 1.30; 95% confidence interval 1.10-1.54; p = 0.0018), and was most pronounced for fifth quintile phosphate levels (>4.0 mg/dl). Phosphate level may be a risk factor for left ventricular hypertrophy in community-dwelling young adults. As phosphate levels may be modifiable, the causality of this association can be addressed with controlled trials."}
{"id": "19218473", "title": "Optimal method of coronary revascularization in patients receiving dialysis: systematic review.", "content": "Optimal method of coronary revascularization in patients receiving dialysis: systematic review. Patients receiving dialysis have a high burden of cardiovascular disease. Some receive coronary artery revascularization but the optimal method is controversial. The authors reviewed any randomized controlled trial or cohort study of 10 or more patients receiving maintenance dialysis which compared coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) to percutaneous intervention (PCI) for revascularization of the coronary arteries. The primary outcomes were short-term (30 d or in-hospital) and long-term (at least 1 year) mortality. Seventeen studies were found. There were no randomized trials: all were retrospective cohort studies from years 1977 to 2002. There were some baseline differences between the groups receiving CABG compared with those receiving PCI, and most studies did not consider results adjusted for such characteristics. Given the variability among studies and their methodological limitations, few definitive conclusions about the optimal method of revascularization could be drawn. In an exploratory meta-analysis, short-term mortality was higher after CABG compared to PCI. A substantial number of patients died over a subsequent 1 to 5 yr, with no difference in mortality after CABG compared to PCI. Although decisions about the optimal method of coronary artery revascularization in dialysis patients are undertaken routinely, it was surprising to see how few data has been published in this regard. Additional research will help inform physician and patient decisions about coronary artery revascularization."}
{"id": "19218471", "title": "Pulse pressure and presence of coronary artery calcification.", "content": "Pulse pressure and presence of coronary artery calcification. Coronary calcification (CAC) is found in early stages of CKD. Pulse pressure (PP) predicts CAC in dialysis patients. This study evaluates the accuracy of PP in predicting CAC in patients not yet on dialysis (CKD patients). CKD patients (n = 388) underwent coronary calcium score (CAC score) and abdominal x-ray (n = 128) for estimating aorta calcification (AAC). Biochemistry and PP were measured every 3 and 6 months in patients with stage 4 to 5 and 2 to 3 CKD, respectively. The accuracy of PP and AAC was assessed by receiver operating characteristics analysis. PP correlated with CAC score in the whole cohort and in patients with stages 2 to 3 and stages 4 to 5 CKD. PP >60 mmHg predicted CAC score >0 (OR: 2.14; P < 0.001), > or =100 (OR: 2.92; P < 0.001), > or =400 (OR: 6.17; P < 0.001) after multivariable adjustment. Area under the curve (AUC) was 0.626 for CAC score >0, 0.676 for score >100, and 0.746 for score >400. PP >60 mmHg reduced the rate of event-free survival. AAC was found in 58% of patients and correlated with CAC score. AUC was 0.628 for CAC score >0, 0.652 for score >100, 0.831 for score >400. PP may identify CKD patients with subclinical CAC who need further evaluation. Accuracy of PP and AAC is nearly similar in predicting CAC. High PP indicates vessel wall alterations leading to adverse outcome."}
{"id": "19214027", "title": "Fibroblast growth factor 23: a possible cause of left ventricular hypertrophy in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Fibroblast growth factor 23: a possible cause of left ventricular hypertrophy in hemodialysis patients. Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is a common cardiovascular disorder and an independent risk factor for cardiovascular death in dialysis patients. Hyperphosphatemia is associated with LVH. Previous studies have shown that fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23), which has an important role in phosphate metabolism, is elevated in chronic hemodialysis patients. The aim of this study is to determine the association of FGF23 and LVH and the prognostic value of FGF23 in chronic hemodialysis patients. One hundred twenty-four end-stage renal disease patients were evaluated for LVH by echocardiography. Serum FGF23 levels were measured using a commercial enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kit. Patients with LVH were more likely to have poor urea clearance (Kt/V), higher systolic blood pressure, and comorbidity of diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease. LVH was also associated with higher levels of FGF23. Multivariate analysis indicated that FGF23 level, systolic blood pressure, and comorbidity of diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease remained correlated with LVH. This suggested that serum FGF23 level is independently associated with LVH in our hemodialysis patients. Cox analysis indicated no significant difference in risk of death for patients with elevated levels of FGF23. LVH has a high prevalence in hemodialysis patients, and FGF23 is independently associated with LVH but is not a predictor for short-term prognosis (2-year follow-up)."}
{"id": "19211668", "title": "Progression of coronary artery calcification in renal transplantation and the role of secondary hyperparathyroidism and inflammation.", "content": "Progression of coronary artery calcification in renal transplantation and the role of secondary hyperparathyroidism and inflammation. Transplantation should favorably affect coronary calcification (CAC) progression in dialysis; however, changes in CAC score in the individual patient are not reliably evaluated. The authors used special tables of reproducibility limits for each score level to study, by multislice computed tomography and biochemistries, the 2-year changes in CAC in 41 transplant patients (age 48 +/- 13 yr, 25 men, dialysis vintage 4.8 +/- 4.3 yr, underwent transplant 6.2 +/- 5.5 yr prior). Thirty balanced dialysis patients served as controls. In the study group, Agatston score was stable, and C-reactive protein decreased, whereas fetuin and osteoprotegerin increased. In the control group, Agatston score increased, parathyroid hormone and phosphate decreased, and inflammation markers were persistently twice as high as in the study group. With regard to individual changes, 12.2% transplant patients worsened, compared with 56.6% of patients in dialysis (P < 0.0001). Patients without calcification at entry showed slower progression in transplantation (8.3%) than in dialysis (44.4%; P < 0.034), and the difference was similar to that observed in cases with CAC (17.6% versus 61.9%; P < 0.007). Discriminant analysis indicated parathyroid hormone, the modality of therapy (dialysis or transplantation), and erythrocyte sedimentation rate as the variables most associated with worsening. Renal transplantation lowers but does not halt CAC progression. Inflammation and hyperparathyroidism are associated with progression in the populations studied."}
{"id": "19195507", "title": "Predictors of inpatient outcomes in hospitalized patients after left heart catheterization.", "content": "Predictors of inpatient outcomes in hospitalized patients after left heart catheterization. Clinical and laboratory factors predicting inpatient outcomes, specifically in-hospital mortality and length of stay (LOS), have not been defined for hospitalized patients specifically referred for left heart catheterization and coronary angiography (LHC). The objective of the study was to determine these outcomes and their predictors in hospitalized patients after LHC. Multivariate logistic regression models were used to identify risk factors for in-hospital mortality and Cox proportional hazards models were used to identify factors determining LOS in 9,420 consecutive patients hospitalized for LHC. Odds ratio for in-hospital mortality and hazard ratio for prolonged LOS were derived. The strongest predictors of mortality were advanced age, left ventricular (LV) end-diastolic pressure (EDP), LV ejection fraction (EF), systemic blood pressure, and renal insufficiency. Predictors of prolonged LOS were LVEDP, LVEF, 3-vessel coronary artery disease, and valvular disease. Clinical and laboratory characteristics of patients with an LVEF > or =50% were also compared with those of patients with an LVEF <50%. Predictors of mortality and LOS remained the same for patients with an LVEF <50%. For an LVEF > or =50%, LVEDP also determined LOS and chronic renal insufficiency provided predictive power to mortality and LOS in this subgroup. In conclusion, several readily attainable clinical and laboratory parameters predict inpatient mortality and LOS in hospitalized patients referred for LHC."}
{"id": "19194569", "title": "The association between kidney function, coronary artery disease, and clinical outcome in patients undergoing coronary angiography.", "content": "The association between kidney function, coronary artery disease, and clinical outcome in patients undergoing coronary angiography. To characterize the association between chronic kidney disease (CKD), mortality, severity of coronary artery disease (CAD), treatment modality of CAD, and type of coronary stents among patients undergoing coronary angiography (CAG), we retrospectively reviewed the electronic medical records of the patients who underwent CAG at Seoul National University Bundang Hospital in Korea between May 2003 and January 2006. CKD was staged using an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) from the creatinine value prior to CAG. There were 3,637 patients included. The presence of CAD was 48% in CKD stage 1, 61% in stage 2, 73% in stage 3, 87% in stage 4, and 81% in stage 5. Survival rate gradually diminished for patients with decreasing renal function. No significant differences in all-cause and cardiac mortality were observed by medical treatment, PCI or CABG, in CKD patients with an eGFR less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m(2). CKD patients with drug-eluting stents showed significantly lower all-cause mortality (5.4% vs. 13.3%) and incidence of myocardial infarction (1.7% vs. 10%) than those with bare metal stents. In conclusion, an eGFR is a strong independent prognostic marker among patients undergoing CAG and the severity of CAD increases progressively with worsening renal function."}
{"id": "19190822", "title": "Uncarboxylated matrix Gla protein (ucMGP) is associated with coronary artery calcification in haemodialysis patients.", "content": "Uncarboxylated matrix Gla protein (ucMGP) is associated with coronary artery calcification in haemodialysis patients. Matrix gamma-carboxyglutamate (Gla) protein (MGP) is a potent local inhibitor of cardiovascular calcification and accumulates at areas of calcification in its uncarboxylated form (ucMGP). We previously found significantly lower circulating ucMGP levels in patients with a high vascular calcification burden. Here we report on the potential of circulating ucMGP to serve as a biomarker for vascular calcification in haemodialysis (HD) patients. Circulating ucMGP levels were measured with an ELISA-based assay in 40 HD patients who underwent multi-slice computed tomography (MSCT) scanning to quantify the extent of coronary artery calcification (CAC). The mean ucMGP level in HD patients (193 +/- 65 nM) was significantly lower as compared to apparently healthy subjects of the same age (441 +/- 97 nM; p < 0.001) and patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) without CAC (560 +/- 140 nM; p < 0.001). Additionally, ucMGP levels correlated inversely with CAC scores (r = -0.41; p = 0.009), and this correlation persisted after adjustment for age, dialysis vintage and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP). Since circulating ucMGP levels are significantly and inversely correlated with the extent of CAC in HD patients, ucMGP may become a tool for identifying HD patients with a high probability of cardiovascular calcification."}
{"id": "19179987", "title": "Indications for coronary artery bypass grafting in 2009: what is left to surgery.", "content": "Indications for coronary artery bypass grafting in 2009: what is left to surgery. Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) remains the most common procedure performed by cardiac surgeons, yet it is clear that the landscape of coronary intervention is constantly changing as new technology is introduced and data from countless studies continues to be published. However, no single study will be able to clearly define the indications for surgical versus percutaneous revascularization in every clinical scenario given the complexity of this disease as well as that of the patients it afflicts. Moreover, the significant improvements in percutaneous therapy, medical therapy management, perioperative care and secondary prevention after revascularization have decreased the morbidity and mortality of coronary artery disease making comparison between therapies far more difficult. Based on the available literature to date, surgical revascularization (CABG) provides significant benefit in certain patient populations; particularly those with comorbid conditions (for example diabetes, left ventricular [LV] dysfunction) and with more severe disease (for example left main, three-vessel). The goal of this article is to outline the current for surgical revascularization (CABG) understanding that coronary artery disease will continue be an important cause of morbidity and mortality and further study and re-evaluation of these recommendations will likely be necessary as time goes on."}
{"id": "19176792", "title": "Bone-vascular axis in chronic kidney disease: a reality?", "content": "Bone-vascular axis in chronic kidney disease: a reality?"}
{"id": "19165557", "title": "Focal myocarditis mimicking myocardial infarction in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis.", "content": "Focal myocarditis mimicking myocardial infarction in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis. Cardiovascular features in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are common. However, RA associated with acute myocarditis is seldom described. Here, we report the case of a 58-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis and end stage renal disease who suffered chest tightness and diaphoresis during hemodialysis. The electrocardiogram showed ST elevations and the echocardiographic study revealed abnormalities of regional wall motion with moderate left ventricle dysfunction. Acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction was impressed according to clinical presentations and elevated cardiac enzymes. However, emergent coronary angiography revealed no significant coronary stenosis. Magnetic resonance imaging ultimately made the diagnosis of myocarditis. The patient improved gradually without immunosuppressive therapy. This case shows that conservative treatment is a feasible strategy for acute myocarditis in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis."}
{"id": "19164320", "title": "Aortic calcification predicts cardiovascular events and all-cause mortality in renal transplantation.", "content": "Aortic calcification predicts cardiovascular events and all-cause mortality in renal transplantation. Cardiovascular disease is a leading cause of death among renal transplant recipients. Aortic calcification is associated with increased mortality in dialysis subjects. The significance of aortic calcification among renal transplant recipients is unknown. Our objective was to prospectively examine the association of aortic calcification with cardiovascular events and all-cause mortality among asymptomatic incident renal transplant recipients. One hundred and twelve renal transplant recipients underwent electron beam computed tomography. Aortic calcification was scored by the Agatston method. The mean follow-up time was 5.1 years. Cardiovascular events (heart failure, coronary artery disease, peripheral arterial disease and stroke) and all-cause mortality were recorded. The cohort consisted of 62% Caucasians, 38% African Americans and 62% male gender. The mean age was 49.0 +/- 12.5 years. Thirty-four percent had aortic calcification. During follow-up, 12 cardiovascular events and 10 deaths were recorded. Subjects with aortic calcification had more cardiovascular events compared to those without aortic calcification (23.7 versus 4.1%, P = 0.001). Recipients with aortic calcification had higher mortality compared to those without aortic calcification but it did not reach statistical significance (15.8 versus 5.4%, P = 0.07). The univariate hazard ratio of aortic calcification score in a proportional hazard Cox model to assess event-free survival was 1.15 (1.04-1.27, P = 0.01). Diabetes and aortic calcification score were independently associated with survival. In addition to the predictors above, dialysis vintage was an independent predictor for combined future cardiovascular event and mortality. In conclusion, aortic calcification is prevalent among renal transplant recipients and is predictive of future cardiovascular events. Aortic calcification is easily identified by non-invasive testing, and should be considered when assessing cardiovascular risk in asymptomatic renal transplant recipients."}
{"id": "19161763", "title": "Prior inferior myocardial infarction has worse early outcomes in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting than prior anterior myocardial infarction.", "content": "Prior inferior myocardial infarction has worse early outcomes in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting than prior anterior myocardial infarction. It is generally considered that patients with prior myocardial infarction (PMI) have worse outcomes than those without PMI after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). However, any difference in outcomes of patients with anterior or inferior PMI undergoing CABG has never been determined. We retrospectively reviewed the records of 310 patients with anterior or inferior PMI who underwent isolated CABG between September 2004 and September 2008. Of these, 151 patients had anterior PMI (anterior group), and 159 patients had inferior PMI (inferior group). Preoperative and postoperative variables were compared between the groups. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was used to identify independent predictors of major postoperative complications including death. Patients of the inferior group were significantly older (68.3 +/- 9.2 vs 65.5 +/- 11.0; p = 0.015) and had more diseased vessels per patient (2.9 +/- 0.3 vs 2.8 +/- 0.5; p = 0.009) than the anterior group. A higher rate of mild or moderate mitral regurgitation was observed in the inferior group (18.2% vs 8.6%; p = 0.0209). The operative mortality was higher in the inferior group (5.0% vs 0%; p = 0.0073). Rates of respiratory failure (6.9% vs 0.7%; p = 0.0199) and requirement for hemodialysis (5.7% vs 0.7%; p = 0.0056) were higher in the inferior group. Multivariate analysis revealed inferior PMI (p = 0.0068) as the only independent predictor of major postoperative complications including death. The present study indicates that patients with inferior PMI have poorer outcomes after isolated CABG than those with anterior PMI."}
{"id": "19159995", "title": "Clinical utility of estimated glomerular filtration rate in patients undergoing gated SPECT.", "content": "Clinical utility of estimated glomerular filtration rate in patients undergoing gated SPECT. Chronic kidney disease is a major risk factor for coronary artery disease (CAD). The aim of the study was to examine the association between estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR), presence of CAD, and prognosis in patients with reversible perfusion defects at gated single-photon emission computed tomography (g-SPECT). Six hundred fifty-eight subjects who had undergone stress/rest g-SPECT for evaluation of myocardial ischemia were divided into two groups according to the presence of CAD, defined by a 70% diameter stenosis in at least one major vessel or principal side branch at coronary angiography. GFR was lower in patients with CAD and after adjusting for several clinical characteristics through multivariate logistic regression analysis, reduced (<60 mL/min/1.73 m(2)) GFR remained a significant predictor of CAD (HR 1.80, 95% CI 1.04 to 3.12, P = .036). In addition, reduced GFR was associated with a greater extent of myocardial ischemia, assessed through the summed difference score, as well as with an increase in both total and cardiac mortality. In patients with a positive g-SPECT scan, GFR is an accurate marker of CAD and is directly correlated to the extent of myocardial ischemia. Furthermore, reduced GFR had an adverse impact on survival in this particular population."}
{"id": "19159851", "title": "Frequency and predictors of renal artery stenosis in patients with coronary artery disease.", "content": "Frequency and predictors of renal artery stenosis in patients with coronary artery disease. Renal artery stenosis (RAS) remains underdiagnosed because of nonspecific clinical manifestations, including in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). To estimate the prevalence and identify predictors of RAS in patients with CAD undergoing coronary angiography. University-based medical centre. We enrolled 650 consecutive patients (mean age=67+/-10 years, 80% men) with confirmed CAD. All patients underwent selective renal arteriography in the same procedure. We estimated the prevalence of RAS, defined as a >50% lesion. Multiple variable analysis of factors associated with presence of RAS was carried out using a logistic regression model. Variables that emerged as predictors by single-variable analysis were included in the model, along with variables that were tentatively associated with RAS, based on a literature review. RAS was detected in 94 patients (14.5%, 95% CI: 11.8-17.2%), including 20 (3.1%) with bilateral lesions. By single-variable analysis and presence and number of coronary artery stenoses (P<.001), hypertension (P=.001), and creatinine clearance <90 ml/min (P<.001) were associated with an increased risk of RAS. By multiple variable analysis, male sex (P<.05), presence and number of coronary artery lesions (P<.01), hypertension (P=.001), and renal insufficiency (P<.001) predicted the presence of RAS. The main clinical predictors of RAS in patients with CAD were hypertension, renal insufficiency, and multivessel CAD. These observations might help defining a high-risk subgroup of patients in need of meticulous investigations of both CAD and RAS."}
{"id": "19159849", "title": "Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting improves in-hospital mortality in patients with dialysis-dependent renal failure.", "content": "Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting improves in-hospital mortality in patients with dialysis-dependent renal failure. Patients with chronic dialysis-dependent end-stage renal disease are increasingly referred for coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and their early outcome is less favorable. Off-pump CABG (OPCAB) has achieved encouraging results in high-risk patients. Therefore, we designed this retrospective study to test the hypothesis that OPCAB reduced surgical risks in dialysis patients. From January 2000 to December 2005, 294 dialysis-dependent patients received isolated CABG at the Washington Hospital Center. Among them, 168 underwent OPCAB (off-pump group), and 126, CABG with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) (on-pump group). The in-hospital outcomes were analyzed. The two groups were comparable in terms of preoperative characteristics. The Parsonnet's Bedside Score of the off-pump group was similar to that of the on-pump group (32.0 vs. 32.0, P=.57). The in-hospital mortality of the off-pump group was significantly lower than that of the on-pump group (5.4% vs. 11.9%, P=.04). Although the percentage of patients who received transfusions was similar, the on-pump group received more total transfusions. Logistic regression analysis revealed that use of CPB independently predicted in-hospital mortality [odds ratio (OR), 5.0; 95% confidence interval, 1.78-13.85; P<.01] and perioperative myocardial infarction (MI; OR, 5.1; 95% confidence interval, 1.18-22.40; P=.03). No significant difference in long-term survival at 4 years was absorbed between the two groups of hospital survivors. Our data suggest that OPCAB is a safe alternative to on-pump CABG in dialysis patients. Avoiding CPB resulted in less perioperative blood utilization, MI, and hospital mortality."}
{"id": "19158372", "title": "Low bone volume--a risk factor for coronary calcifications in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Low bone volume--a risk factor for coronary calcifications in hemodialysis patients. There is increasing evidence that altered bone metabolism is associated with cardiovascular calcifications in patients with stage 5 chronic kidney disease on hemodialysis (HD). This study was conducted to evaluate the association between bone volume, turnover, and coronary calcifications in HD patients. In a cross-sectional study, bone biopsies and multislice computed tomography were performed in 38 HD patients. Bone volume/total volume, activation frequency, and bone formation rate/bone surface were determined by histomorphometry and coronary calcifications were quantified by Agatston scores. Prevalence of low bone turnover was 50% and of low bone volume was 16%. Among the studied traditional cardiovascular risk factors, only age was found to be associated with coronary calcifications. Lower bone volume was a significant risk factor for coronary calcifications during early years of HD, whereas this effect was not observed in patients with dialysis duration >6 yr. Histomorphometric parameters of bone turnover were not associated with coronary calcifications. Low bone volume is associated with increased coronary calcifications in patients on HD."}
{"id": "19129856", "title": "Frequency of renal artery stenosis and variants of renal vascularization in hypertensive patients: analysis of 1550 angiographies in one centre.", "content": "Frequency of renal artery stenosis and variants of renal vascularization in hypertensive patients: analysis of 1550 angiographies in one centre. Renal artery stenosis (RAS) is an important cause of arterial hypertension and chronic kidney disease. The aims of our study were to assess the prevalence of RAS and to examine the frequency of variants of renal vasculature, that is, multiple and/or accessory renal arteries in hypertensive patients referred to renal angiography. We evaluated retrospectively 1554 arteriographies of hypertensive patients. Angiograms were evaluated to find RAS, significant RAS (>60% stenosis of the lumen), radiological signs of atherosclerosis, aneurysms of the renal arteries or aorta and variants of kidney vascularization. The frequency of RAS including occlusions was 15.1% (21.3% of them were significant and suitable for revascularization). Variants of renal arterial vascularization were found in 26.5% of patients (multiple renal arteries-11.2% and accessory renal arteries-15.3%). Significant RAS was found more frequently in patients older than 60 years-OR 4.76 (2.08-10.86). Coronary artery disease, history of myocardial infarction or stroke significantly increased the chance of RAS detection. The frequency of renal accessory arteries was lower in patients older than 60 years and in patients with the radiological signs of atherosclerosis. Results of this study indicate that haemodynamically important RAS is found more frequently in hypertensive patients older than 60 years. Symptomatic atherosclerotic disease found in the peripheral and/or coronary arteries and diabetes mellitus increases the chance of RAS detection. Decreased occurrence of renal accessory arteries was found in hypertensive patients with radiological signs of atherosclerosis."}
{"id": "19128934", "title": "Impact of chronic kidney disease on outcomes of superficial femoral artery endoluminal interventions.", "content": "Impact of chronic kidney disease on outcomes of superficial femoral artery endoluminal interventions. While aggressive endoluminal therapy for superficial femoral artery (SFA) occlusive disease is commonplace, the implications of chronic kidney disease (CKD) on long-term outcomes in this population are unclear. We examined the consequences of endovascular treatment of the SFA in patients with and without varying stages of CKD. A database of patients undergoing endovascular treatment of the SFA between 1986 and 2007 was queried, and two groups were defined: estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) <or=60 and >60 mL/min/1.73 cm(2). Intention-to-treat analysis was performed. Results were standardized to TransAtlantic Inter-Society Consensus (TASC-II) and Society for Vascular Surgery criteria. Kaplan-Meier analyses were performed to assess time-dependent outcomes. Factor analyses were performed using a Cox proportional hazard model for time-dependent variables. Data are presented as mean +/- standard deviation where appropriate. There were 525 limbs in 535 patients (68% male, average age 66 +/- 14 years) that underwent endovascular treatment for claudication or chronic critical limb ischemia (51%). Patients with eGFR <or=60 were older and had significantly more coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, diabetes mellitus, and hyperlipidemia. TASC-II lesion distribution was equivalent (37% for TASC-II C and D), but tibial runoff was significantly worse in the eGFR <or=60 group. In addition, there were more inflow and outflow interventions in the eGFR <or=60 group. In patients with claudication, there was no difference in patency or limb salvage between those with eGFR <or=60 and >60. In patients with critical limb ischemia, there was no difference in patency between those with eGFR <or=60 and >60. Limb salvage was worse in patients with eGFR <or=60 compared to eGFR >60. With respect to limb salvage, six factors were significantly associated with a reduction in rates: presence of tissue loss at presentation (relative risk [RR] = 6.45, p = 0.003), 0 or 1 vessel tibial runoff (RR = 2.56, p < 0.01), progression of distal disease noted in follow-up (RR = 4.62, p < 0.01), embolization at the initial intervention (RR = 2.70, p < 0.05), diabetes mellitus (RR = 3.71, p < 0.01), and a history of congestive heart disease (RR = 2.42, p < 0.01). Notable factors that were not significantly associated included lesion calcification (p = 0.64), TASC C or D lesion categorization (p = 0.99), acute occlusion at initial intervention (p = 0.40), and adjuvant stenting (p = 0.67). CKD does not impact the patency of SFA interventions. Limb salvage in patients with critical ischemia is significantly worse when the eGFR is <or=60 mL/min/1.73 cm(2)."}
{"id": "19115078", "title": "Relationship between carotid artery intima-media thickness and brachial artery flow-mediated dilation in peritoneal dialysis patients.", "content": "Relationship between carotid artery intima-media thickness and brachial artery flow-mediated dilation in peritoneal dialysis patients. Carotid artery intima-media thickness (CIMT) and brachial artery flow-mediated dilation percentage (FMD%) are two commonly used parameters for detecting subclinical atherosclerosis. However, studies investigating the relationship between CIMT and brachial artery FMD% in different populations have produced conflicting results. The aim of this study was to determine the relationship between CIMT and brachial artery FMD% in patients on peritoneal dialysis (PD) METHODS: Fifty-two PD patients without known cardiovascular disease and 30 age-gender matched controls were included in the study. Endothelial function was determined using ultrasonography (US) to measure the FMD of the brachial artery, and this parameter was expressed as the percentage change from the baseline diameter of the brachial artery (FMD%). We also measured CIMT by US and analysed the relationship between CIMT and brachial FMD%. The CIMT was significantly higher in patients than in the control group (0.84 +/- 0.08 vs. 0.75 +/- 0.06 mm, P < 0.01), whereas brachial artery FMD% was lower in patients than in the controls (8.2 +/- 5.0 vs. 11.7 +/- 5.5%, P < 0.01). There was no significant correlation between CIMT and FMD% (r = -0.004, P = 0.94). Although PD patients are known to be characterized by an impaired flow-mediated vasodilatation of brachial artery and increased in CIMT, we did not find a significant correlation between FMD% and CIMT in our PD patient cohort. One possible explanation for our results is that each method measures a different aspect and stage of atherosclerosis."}
{"id": "19112222", "title": "Microvascular and macrovascular complications in diabetic nephropathy patients referred to nephrology clinic.", "content": "Microvascular and macrovascular complications in diabetic nephropathy patients referred to nephrology clinic. To evaluate the diabetic complications and fate of diabetic nephropathy in Saudi population, we studied 184 diabetic nephropathy (DN) patients who were referred to nephrology clinic of King Khalid University Hospital, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia from January 2003-June 2006. The patients had mean age of 61.9 +/- 13.1 years, included 128 (69.6%) males, and were followed up for a mean period of 10.2 +/- 1.5 years. The mean duration of diabetes mellitus (DM) was 19.5 +/- 5.8 years, and duration of nephropathy was 7.7 +/- 3.3 years. Family history of DN was documented in 52 (28.2%) patients. At initial visit, the mean systolic blood pressure was 164 +/- 14.5 mmHg, the mean diastolic blood pressure was 97.9 +/- 10.4 mmHg. Thirty-seven (20%) patients had normal BMI, 88 (48%) were overweight, while 55 (30%) were obese. Mean creatinine clearance was 51.7 +/- 26.3 mL/min, 24 hrs urinary proteins 1.99 +/- 2.48 gm/day, HbA1C 9.2 +/- 1.8 %, triglyceride 2.1 +/- 1.3 mmol/L, and cholesterol 5.17 +/- 1.54 mmol/L. Diabetic complications included angiography proven coronary artery disease in 106 (57.6 %) patients, stroke in 21 (11.4%), myocardial infarction (MI) in 27(14.6%), angina in 87 (47.2 %), retinopathy in 82 (44.5%), Blindness in 3 (1.6%), peripheral vascular disease in 121 (65.7%), Neuropathy in 123 (66.8%), hypertension in178 (96.7%), diabetic foot in 25 (13.5%), Amputation in 10 (5.4%), and end-stage renal disease in 70 (38%). Total of 13 (7.05%) patients died in the hospital. Thirty-seven percent of patients developed > 6 concomitant complications. 28% developed 5, 17% developed 4, and the rest developed < 3. DN was relatively refractory to therapy and progressive; 123 (66.8%) patients doubled their serum creatinine in 3.59 +/- 2.88 years, 32 (17.3%) maintained stable renal function, 136 (73.6 %) deteriorated, and 12 (6.52%) improved. we conclude that the prevalence of diabetic complications is high among Saudi patients, and many had multiple complications. Baseline creatinine clearance and proteinuria, high systolic blood pressure, advanced age, and longer duration of diabetes were the most significant risk factors for developing complications."}
{"id": "19101228", "title": "Relation of serum fetuin-A levels to coronary artery calcium in African-American patients on chronic hemodialysis.", "content": "Relation of serum fetuin-A levels to coronary artery calcium in African-American patients on chronic hemodialysis. Vascular calcium deposition in end-stage renal disease occurs commonly, but its relation to cardiovascular risk factors and fetuin-A levels in African Americans is not known. Compliant African American patients who were undergoing hemodialysis (HD; n = 17) agreed to undergo 64-slice multidetector computed tomography for the assessment of coronary artery calcium score (CACS). The relation between traditional cardiovascular risk factors (i.e., age; gender; dialysis vintage; history of diabetes; means of the previous 3 years of weekly predialysis blood pressure values and hemoglobin levels; means of monthly values of calcium, phosphorus, alkaline phosphatase, uric acid; and albumin; and means of quarterly measurements of parathyroid hormone and lipids) and fetuin-A levels and CACS was explored using univariate analyses. Serum phosphorus levels over the previous 3 years were well controlled. The CACS range was 0 to 3,877 Agatston units (mean 996, median 196). Among the tested variables, only fetuin-A was significantly and inversely associated with CACS (standardized beta = -0.64, 95% confidence interval -18.09 to -3.62, p = 0.006). There was no association between age and fetuin-A level (standardized beta = -0.02, 95% confidence interval -0.10 to 0.23). In conclusion, African-American patients who were undergoing long-term hemodialysis and with good phosphorus control exhibited a strong inverse correlation between fetuin-A level and CACS that was independent of age."}
{"id": "19101102", "title": "[Endovascular aneurysm repair follow-up by unenhanced and contrast-enhanced duplex ultrasound].", "content": "[Endovascular aneurysm repair follow-up by unenhanced and contrast-enhanced duplex ultrasound]. Long-term surveillance is needed after endovascular aneurysm repair to monitor the aneurysm and search for persistent endoleaks. Our aim was to compare follow-up with duplex ultrasound, with and without a new contrast agent to track endoleaks, versus computed tomography angiography taken as the gold standard. Patients treated with endograft were included prospectively from December 2005 to July 2006. Aortic duplex ultrasound and computed tomography were used to measure maximal aneurysm diameter and detect endoleaks. Patients with a high risk of endoleaks had a contrast-enhanced ultrasound with Sonovue (Bracco, Milan, Italy). We compared echographic and tomographic diameter and studied the sensitivity of ultrasound endoleak diagnosis. Sixty-seven patients were included. There was a good correlation between maximum anteroposterior diameters (CCI=0.98) measured by ultrasound and tomography, as well as mean maximum cross section diameters (CCI=0.96). Compared to tomography, the sensitivity of ultrasound endoleaks diagnosis was 44% (kappa=0.58). Contrast injection improved this sensitivity significantly (p<0.001) (sensitivity=88%; kappa=0.72). These findings confirmed the performance of our ultrasound method for endograft surveillance. Contrast-enhanced ultrasound significantly improves the sensitivity of detection of endoleaks. We suggest alternating ultrasound and tomographic exams. A unique report chart for use nationwide would be useful for standardizing follow-up."}
{"id": "19059594", "title": "Subclinical impairment of coronary flow velocity reserve assessed by transthoracic echocardiography in young renal transplant recipients.", "content": "Subclinical impairment of coronary flow velocity reserve assessed by transthoracic echocardiography in young renal transplant recipients. In renal transplant recipients (RTR) an increased risk to develop cardiovascular injury is present. Transthoracic Doppler echocardiographic assessment of coronary flow velocity reserve (CFVR), a sensitive and minimally invasive technique, was recently employed to detect both macrovascular and microvascular coronary artery disease (CAD) in different clinical settings. The prevalence of coronary involvement in young adult RTR is still unknown. The aim of the study was to investigate the presence of early cardiovascular damage in asymptomatic young adult RTR. Transthoracic Doppler echocardiographic-derived CFVR and common carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) were assessed in 25 asymptomatic young adult RTR (mean age 25.7+/-7.0 years; range 17.3-43.9) without CAD and 25 healthy controls. CFVR was lower in young adult RTR compared to controls (2.8+/-0.6 vs. 3.5+/-0.8; P<0.001), meanwhile left ventricular wall motion and common carotid IMT were comparable in both groups. We found a negative correlation between CFVR and age (r=-0.50; P=0.018) and months on dialysis (r=-0.54; P<0.01). Young adult RTR showed a reduced CFVR reflecting an impaired coronary microcirculation, which is significantly related to the age and duration of dialysis; coronary microvascular damage is detectable in the absence of changes in common carotid IMT. Non-invasive evaluation of CFVR by transthoracic stress echocardiography could be a reliable method for identification of early coronary microvascular involvement in young adult RTR."}
{"id": "19054332", "title": "Coronary calcification and its association with mortality in haemodialysis patients.", "content": "Coronary calcification and its association with mortality in haemodialysis patients. Coronary artery calcification (CAC) has been associated with higher mortality in chronic renal disease. The purpose of this study was to assess coronary artery calcium score (CaCs) in haemodialysis patients and to correlate calcium scores with clinical parameters and mortality. A cross-sectional study was conducted in 59 haemodialysis patients. CaCs was assessed by multidetector-row computed tomography and stratified as: CaCs of less than 10 Agatston units (U), no calcification; CaCs of 10-400 U, mild-to-moderate; and CaCs of more than 400 U, severe calcification. The effects of age, haemodialysis duration and biochemical and inflammatory markers on CaCs logarithm were evaluated by multiple linear regression analysis. Cox regression analysis was used to measure the impact of CaCs of more than 400 on 2-year mortality. Coronary calcifications were detected in 64.5% of patients, and the median of CaCs was 31.7 U (0-589.7) with a range of 0-5790.0 U. Twenty-one (35.5%) patients had mild-to-moderate and 17 (29%) severe CaCs. Patients with severe CaCs were older and showed a higher prevalence of ischaemic heart disease and a higher body mass index (P=0.04). A trend towards higher C-reactive protein levels was found in patients with severe CaCs. Advanced age was the only variable that influenced CaCs logarithm independently. The effect of severe CaCs on 2-year mortality did not persist after adjustment for other covariates. Coronary calcification was highly prevalent in these uraemic patients on chronic haemodialysis. A correlation was evidenced between CaCs and advanced age, but severity of the CAC score did not have an impact on 2-year mortality of this cohort."}
{"id": "19011275", "title": "Prognostic utility of impedance cardiography measurements in elderly hemodialysis patients with coronary artery disease.", "content": "Prognostic utility of impedance cardiography measurements in elderly hemodialysis patients with coronary artery disease. We evaluated the utility of impedance cardiography (IC) in elderly hemodialysis (HD) patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). Seventy-five HD patients (30 with CAD) participated. IC cardiac output (ICCO), systemic vascular resistance and pulse pressure (PP) were calculated at baseline, and 30 and 180 days after study entry. ICCO was compared to echocardiography cardiac output (ECO). Relationships of IC measurements and cardiovascular mortality were assessed. Patients were followed up for 6 years after study entry or until death due to cardiovascular events. ICCO and ECO were strongly correlated (r = 0.94, p < 0.001). ICCO correlated inversely with PP (r = -0.61; p < 0.001). Thirty fatal cardiovascular events were recorded. Using the bayesian' information criterion, multivariate Cox regression models revealed that increased PP and New York Heart Association (NYHA) class as well as decreased diastolic blood pressure (DBP) were predictors of cardiovascular mortality. Having a DBP <60 mm Hg (adjusted for NYHA) yielded a hazard ratio of 2.8 (95% confidence interval = 1.2-6.7). IC accurately estimates the hemodynamic status in HD patients with CAD. Deterioration of cardiovascular performance expressed by decreased DBP values, adjusted for NYHA, may help to predict outcome."}
{"id": "18997458", "title": "Optimum second screening point for detection of coronary artery disease in hemodialysis patients without advanced coronary artery disease.", "content": "Optimum second screening point for detection of coronary artery disease in hemodialysis patients without advanced coronary artery disease. Screening for coronary artery disease (CAD) at the initiation of dialysis is a K/DOQI recommendation. However, it remains unclear when screening for CAD should be repeated in patients without significant disease at the time of starting dialysis. The objectives of this study were to determine: (1) the survival of hemodialysis (HD) patients without CAD at the initiation of dialysis, (2) the major predictors of CAD events, and (3) the best time to repeat screening for CAD after the initiation of HD. In order to assess the occurrence of de novo major adverse cardiac events (MACE) in HD patients without CAD, we prospectively followed patients who were normal according to screening tests for CAD performed at the initiation of HD. To detect CAD, 177 of 305 new HD patients underwent coronary angiography and/or pharmacologic stress thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography within 1 month after starting HD. Among these 177 patients, 100 did not have significant CAD and they were followed for a median of 24 months. Five MACE occurred during follow-up, but no events were observed within 1 year after starting HD. All 5 events occurred during the second year of HD (two events occurred immediately after the end of the first year). An increased level of C-reactive protein (CRP) was the only independent predictor of MACE (hazard ratio: 1.39; 95% CI: 1.03-1.78, p = 0.008) according to Cox regression analysis. The optimum cut-off value of CRP for predicting MACE was 3.5 mg/l. The MACE-free rate at 2 years (99 vs. 79%, p = 0.0008) was significantly higher in patients with a CRP level (3.5 mg/l than in those with a level <3.5 mg/l). One year after the initiation of HD could be the optimum time to repeat screening for CAD in patients without disease at the initiation of HD. If the serum CRP level is less than 3.5 mg/l, postponing repeat screening for CAD could be considered."}
{"id": "18987306", "title": "Serum phosphorus levels associate with coronary atherosclerosis in young adults.", "content": "Serum phosphorus levels associate with coronary atherosclerosis in young adults. Phosphorus levels correlate with atherosclerosis in both animal models and humans with advanced chronic kidney disease, but whether this relationship exists among individuals with normal kidney function is unknown. This study aimed to determine whether an association exists between phosphorus levels and coronary artery calcium levels in a community-based cohort of 3015 healthy young adults in the prospective Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults (CARDIA) study. Phosphorus levels were measured at baseline, and presence of coronary artery calcium was assessed by computed tomography 15 yr later. Mean age at study inception was 25.2 yr, and the mean levels of phosphorus and calcium were 3.6 and 9.5 mg/dl, respectively. Only 0.2% of participants had estimated GFR <60 ml/min per 1.73 m(2). Phosphorus levels were associated with coronary artery calcium in unadjusted models. In multivariate models, however, phosphorus levels were significantly associated with the category of coronary artery calcium level. In conclusion, higher serum phosphorus levels, even within the normal range, may be a risk factor for coronary artery atherosclerosis in healthy young adults."}
{"id": "18982357", "title": "Progression of coronary calcification in pediatric chronic kidney disease stage 5.", "content": "Progression of coronary calcification in pediatric chronic kidney disease stage 5. Coronary artery calcification (CAC) is common in adults with chronic kidney disease (CKD) and progresses with time. However, data are limited for younger patients. We have previously reported CAC in eight of 53 children with CKD. After 2 years, CAC evaluation was repeated in 48 patients. The median CAC score (CACS) increased from 101.3 (1473.6 +/- 1978.6, range 8.5-4332) to 1759.2 (2236.4 +/- 2463.3, range 0-5858) Agatston units (AU). When the individual changes in CACS were evaluated one by one, we showed a mild decrease in two patients on hemodialysis (HD) and in one transplant (Tx) recipient, a moderate increase in one patient on HD, one on peritoneal dialysis (PD) and one Tx recipient, and a large increase in one HD patient. Also, CAC disappeared in one HD patient. All patients with no calcification at baseline remained calcification-free at follow-up. To obtain the individual cumulative exposure, we calculated time-averaged mean values, using the laboratory values from the beginning of dialysis to the first and second multidetector spiral computed tomography (MDCT) scans (baseline and final values, respectively). Final CACS was positively related to final calcium-phosphorus (CaxP) product, while CAC progression was inversely associated with final serum albumin level. This report is the first study with the largest number and the youngest cohort to document the natural history of coronary calcification."}
{"id": "18978067", "title": "Spatial QRS-T angle in peritoneal dialysis patients: association with carotid artery atherosclerosis, coronary artery calcification and troponin T.", "content": "Spatial QRS-T angle in peritoneal dialysis patients: association with carotid artery atherosclerosis, coronary artery calcification and troponin T. Abnormal values of the spatial angle between the directions of ventricular depolarization and repolarization (QRS-T) predict potently arrhythmic events and mortality in various patients groups. The study was designed to estimate QRS-T in a group of peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients, and to assess the possible association between QRS-T and coronary artery calcification (CAC), atherosclerosis, and some biochemical measurements. The angular differences between the maximum spatial QRS and T vectors were reconstructed from ECGs in 57 selected PD patients and in 54 controls. In patients CAC score was performed by using multi-row computed tomography. Atherosclerotic disease was assessed by measuring carotid arteries' intima-media thickness (IMT) and plaque score (sum of the maximum thicknesses in mm of all plaques on both sides) by using an ultrasound scanner. QRS-T was higher in patients compared with controls (34.79% B111.97 and 14.95% B17.87 respectively; P < 0.001). Median CAC score equalled 104.5 Agatson units (Au) (range, 0-2478). IMT was 0.832% B10.208, and atherosclerotic plaques were detected in 82.5% of patients. The plaque score was 7.97% B14.49. QRS-T was higher in patients with CAC score >400 Au compared with patients with CAC score <400 Au (P = 0.011). The results of univariate linear regression analysis showed correlation between QRT-T and dialysis duration (r = 0.305, P = 0,020), LVMI (r = 0.311, P = 0.017), HDL (r = -0.361, P = 0.006), cTnT (r = 0.442, P < 0.001), plaque score (r = 0.403, P = 0.001) and CAC score (r = 0.451, P < 0.001). On multivariate analysis, CAC score, plaque score and troponine T were found to be independent predictors of QRS-T values. QRS-T is high in PD patients and is mainly associated with coronary artery calcium burden, atherosclerosis and troponin T elevation. The possible clinical importance of the higher QRS-T in PD patients remains to be confirmed in further studies."}
{"id": "18972115", "title": "Integrated assessment of coronary anatomy and myocardial perfusion using a retractable SPECT camera combined with 64-slice CT: initial experience.", "content": "Integrated assessment of coronary anatomy and myocardial perfusion using a retractable SPECT camera combined with 64-slice CT: initial experience. We evaluated a prototype SPECT system integrated with multidetector row CT (MDCT) for obtaining complementary information on coronary anatomy and hemodynamic lesion significance. Twenty-five consecutive patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease (CAD) underwent routine SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI). All patients also underwent repeat MPI with a mobile SPECT unit which could be attached to a 64-slice MDCT system. Coronary CT angiography (cCTA) was performed without repositioning the patient. Investigational MPI was compared with routine MPI for detection of myocardial perfusion defects (PD). Two observers diagnosed presence or absence of CAD based on MPI alone, cCTA alone, and based on combined MPI and cCTA with fused image display. In 22/24 patients investigative MPI corresponded with routine MPI (r = 0.80). Stenosis >or= 50% at cCTA was detected in 6/24 patients. Six out of 24 patients had PD at regular MPI. Three of these six patients had no significant stenosis at cCTA. Three out of 19 patients with normal MPI studies had significant stenosis at cCTA. Our initial experience indicates that the integration of SPECT MPI with cCTA is technically feasible and enables the comprehensive evaluation of coronary artery anatomy and myocardial perfusion with a single instrumental setup."}
{"id": "18945990", "title": "Outcomes of brachiocephalic fistulas, transposed brachiobasilic fistulas, and upper arm grafts.", "content": "Outcomes of brachiocephalic fistulas, transposed brachiobasilic fistulas, and upper arm grafts. An upper arm vascular access is often placed in patients with a failed forearm fistula or with vessels unsuitable for a forearm fistula. The aim of this study was to compare the outcomes of three upper arm access types: brachiocephalic fistulas, transposed brachiobasilic fistulas, and grafts. A prospective, computerized access database was queried retrospectively to identify the clinical outcomes of upper arm accesses placed in 678 patients at a large dialysis center, including 322 brachiocephalic fistulas, 67 brachiobasilic fistulas, and 289 grafts. Primary access failures were less common for brachiobasilic fistulas and grafts compared with brachiocephalic fistulas (18%, 15%, and 38%; hazard ratio of brachiocephalic fistulas versus brachiobasilic fistulas 2.76; 95% confidence interval 1.41 to 5.38; P < 0.003). For the subset of patients receiving a brachiocephalic fistula, a multiple variable logistic regression analysis including age, sex, race, diabetes, coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular disease, cerebrovascular disease, prior access, surgeon, arterial diameter, and venous diameter found that only vascular diameters predicted primary failure (P < 0.001). When primary failures were excluded, cumulative access survival was similar for brachiobasilic and brachiocephalic fistulas, but superior to that of grafts. Total access interventions per year were lower for brachiobasilic and brachiocephalic fistulas than for grafts (0.84, 0.82, and 1.87, respectively, P < 0.001). Transposed brachiobasilic fistulas may be preferred, due to (1) a lower primary failure rate (similar to grafts), and (2) a lower intervention rate (similar to brachiocephalic fistulas). However, this advantage must be balanced against the more complex surgery."}
{"id": "18818684", "title": "Location of acute coronary artery thromboses in patients with and without chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Location of acute coronary artery thromboses in patients with and without chronic kidney disease. Patients with chronic kidney disease have high rates of myocardial infarction and death following an initial attack. Proximal location of coronary atherosclerotic lesions has been linked to the risk of acute myocardial infarction and to infarction-associated mortality. To examine if the spatial distribution of lesions differs in patients with and without chronic kidney disease, we used quantitative coronary angiography to measure this in patients with acute coronary thromboses who were having angiography following acute myocardial infarction. Multivariable linear regression was used to adjust for differences in baseline characteristics. Among 82 patients with stage 3 or higher chronic kidney disease, 55.6% of lesions were located within 30 mm and 87.7% were within 50 mm of the coronary ostia. This compared to 34.7 and 71.8%, respectively, among 299 patients without significant kidney disease. Chronic kidney disease was independently and significantly associated with a 7.0 mm decrease in the distance from the coronary ostia to the problem lesion. Our study suggests that a causal link between a more proximal culprit lesion location in patients with chronic kidney disease and their high mortality rates after myocardial infarct is possible and may have important implications for interventions to prevent infarction."}
{"id": "18762474", "title": "Plasma B-type natriuretic peptide levels reflect the presence and severity of stable coronary artery disease in chronic haemodialysis patients.", "content": "Plasma B-type natriuretic peptide levels reflect the presence and severity of stable coronary artery disease in chronic haemodialysis patients. Coronary artery disease (CAD) is one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in haemodialysis (HD) patients. Although the plasma B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels may be a strong marker of long-term mortality in HD patients, what plasma BNP levels reflect is not well known in this setting. Therefore, we examined the relationship between plasma BNP levels and the presence and severity of stable CAD based on coronary angiography (CAG) in chronic HD patients. Plasma BNP levels were measured in 179 consecutive HD patients who were referred for CAG due to symptoms or objective signs of stable CAD. Left ventricular end-diastolic wall stress (LV EDWS) was also calculated as a crucial haemodynamic determinant of plasma BNP. Plasma BNP levels were significantly higher in patients with CAD than in those with non-CAD. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve for BNP to predict CAD was 0.837. Plasma BNP levels increased progressively with the extent of CAD [1-vessel disease (VD), 496 +/- 49 pg/ml; 2-VD, 932 +/- 119 pg/ml; 3-VD, 2073 +/- 317 pg/ml; P < 0.01]. LV EDWS was well correlated with plasma BNP levels (r = 0.61, P < 0.01), and a multivariable regression analysis that took into account EDWS demonstrated a significant association between the extent of CAD and BNP (P < 0.01). These results suggest that the presence and severity of stable CAD determine plasma BNP levels in chronic HD patients. Plasma BNP levels may be a useful marker in the management of HD patients."}
{"id": "18753739", "title": "Bone turnover, osteopenia and vascular calcifications in hemodialysis patients. A histomorphometric and multislice CT study.", "content": "Bone turnover, osteopenia and vascular calcifications in hemodialysis patients. A histomorphometric and multislice CT study. Several classical risk factors are at the base of vascular calcifications in hemodialysis patients. Among these, according to a general opinion, also bone turnover plays a role, which, however, requires a better definition. In addition, it has been suggested that there is a relationship between primary osteoporosis and vascular calcifications. This bone biopsy-based study on a hemodialysis patient cohort is a contribution to the evaluation of these alleged relations. This study has been carried out on a cohort of 32 patients on maintenance hemodialysis, who were subjected to transiliac bone biopsy for histomorphometric, histodynamic and bone aluminum deposit evaluation. The patients were also examined with multislice computerized tomography for quantitation of heart and coronary calcifications. The patients were affected by renal osteodystrophy with a wide range of bone formation rate values. A significant negative correlation was found between the rate of bone turnover and log-transformed cardiac calcification score (p < 0.003). There were also negative significant correlations between the cardiac and coronary calcification score log and trabecular number (p < 0.02 and p < 0.05, respectively), while the correlations were positive with trabecular separation (p < 0.03 and p < 0.05, respectively). However, multiregression analysis, forward method, selected only age, hemodialysis age and serum Ca as predictive variables of cardiac and coronary calcification score log, while the histomorphometric and histodynamic variables were excluded. In this study, in spite of the suggestive findings of the univariate statistical approach, a further multivariate analysis was indicative of a spurious association between calcification scores and both bone turnover and histomorphometric parameters of trabecular mass and connectivity. Bone turnover and trabecular mass do not appear to be prominently connected with the extent of cardiac and coronary calcifications in hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "18753738", "title": "Reversible acute kidney injury following contrast exposure and the risk of long-term mortality.", "content": "Reversible acute kidney injury following contrast exposure and the risk of long-term mortality. Contrast-induced acute kidney injury (AKI) is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality among hospitalized patients. However, data regarding the long-term prognostic implications of reversible AKI following contrast exposure are limited. We carried out a prospective 5-year follow-up study of 78 patients with chronic kidney disease who underwent coronary angiography, employing a uniform intravenous hydration protocol supplemented by either acetylcysteine (600 mg orally t.i.d.) or placebo. Contrast-induced AKI (defined as > or =0.5 mg/dl increase in serum creatinine, SCr, or >25% increase above baseline 48 h following contrast exposure) developed in 10 of the 78 patients (13%). All SCr changes were reversible, and were no longer evident 7 days following contrast exposure. At 5 years of follow-up, mortality rates were significantly higher among patients who developed reversible AKI (90%) as compared with those who did not (32%; p < 0.001). Accordingly, multivariable analysis demonstrated that reversible AKI was independently associated with a significant 2.7-fold increase (p = 0.001) in the risk of long-term mortality. Our findings indicate that short-term reductions in renal function following contrast exposure have important long-term prognostic implications in patients with chronic kidney disease. Careful follow-up of SCr levels following contrast exposure is warranted for long-term risk assessment in this population."}
{"id": "18621374", "title": "Intima-media thickness is a useful marker of the extent of coronary artery disease in patients with impaired renal function.", "content": "Intima-media thickness is a useful marker of the extent of coronary artery disease in patients with impaired renal function. The aim of the study was the assessment of intima-media thickness (IMT) in peripheral arteries (the carotid and the femoral artery) and its correlation with the extent of coronary artery disease (CAD). The second task was the analysis of the renal function's influence within IMT complex. 231 patients (men, mean age 52.8), who had undergone coronary angiography due to symptoms of CAD were enrolled. The ultrasound measurement of IMT in the common carotid artery (CCA), carotid bulb and common femoral artery (CFA) was performed. The relationship between IMT, renal function and the extent of CAD was evaluated. Significantly higher values of IMT in the peripheral arteries were observed in patients with CAD than in those without (CCA-0.91 vs 0.61 mm, carotid bulb-1.31 vs 0.67, CFA-1.38 vs 0.63 respectively, p<0.0001). The GFR values in the CAD patients significantly negatively correlated with IMT complex in CCA (p<0.001) and carotid bulb (p<0.05). Lower values of GFR in patients with three-vessel disease were observed than in those patients with one- or two-vessel disease (p<0.05). In multifactoral analysis (post-hoc NIR test) we found that glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is strongly determined by age (p<0.0001), BMI (p<0.0001), value of carotid intima-media thickness (p<0.001), value of IMT in the carotid bulb (p<0.02) and the treatment with ACE-I (p<0.05). In multifactoral analysis we did not find any statistical influence of lipid profile and glucose disturbances on GFR. Higher peripheral artery IMTs in patients with CAD than in those without and patients with three-vessel disease indicate that IMT may be used as an early marker of atherosclerosis and reflect the severity of CAD. A significant negative correlation between the value of a GFR and the IMT confirmed the usefulness of this noninvasive method for the estimation of preclinical stages of atherosclerotic changes' development in patients with impaired renal function."}
{"id": "18585801", "title": "Differential associations of renal function with coronary and peripheral atherosclerosis.", "content": "Differential associations of renal function with coronary and peripheral atherosclerosis. The aim of this study was to examine the impact of renal dysfunction on both coronary and peripheral atherosclerosis in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) without severe renal impairment. One hundred and eighty-seven consecutive patients referred for elective coronary angiography were enrolled. Mean IMT and the presence of plaques were measured in the carotid and femoral arteries prior to angiography as markers of subclinical peripheral atherosclerosis. The severity of CAD was evaluated by the Gensini score. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was estimated by the MDRD formula. Significant CAD (>50% stenosis) was identified in 139 patients. GFR independently correlated with the presence and severity of CAD with incremental value over that of IMT. Renal function was significantly but not independently correlated with carotid IMT in CAD patients. Femoral IMT and the presence of plaques did not show any significant correlations with GFR in patients with or without CAD. Renal function is an important predictor of the presence and severity of angiographic CAD in patients without severe renal impairment with incremental value over traditional risk factors for CAD and IMT. The contrasting weak or no associations of GFR with IMT and the presence of plaques suggest that renal dysfunction may exert differential effects on the development of coronary and peripheral atherosclerosis."}
{"id": "18550064", "title": "Evaluation of coronary microvascular function in patients with end-stage renal disease, and renal allograft recipients.", "content": "Evaluation of coronary microvascular function in patients with end-stage renal disease, and renal allograft recipients. Approximately half of all deaths in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) are due to cardiovascular diseases. Although renal transplant improves survival and quality of life in these patients, cardiovascular events significantly affect survival. We sought to evaluate coronary flow reserve (CFR), an indicator of coronary microvascular function, in patients with ESRD and in patients with a functioning kidney graft. Eighty-six patients (30 with ESRD, 30 with a functioning renal allograft, and 26 controls) free of coronary artery disease or diabetes mellitus were included. Transthoracic Doppler echocardiography was used to measure coronary peak flow velocities at baseline and after dipyridamole infusion. CFR was calculated as the ratio of hyperemic to baseline diastolic peak flow velocities and was compared among the groups. The mean age of the study population was 36.1+/-7.3 years. No between-group differences were found regarding age, sex, or prevalences of traditional coronary risk factors other than hypertension. Compared with the renal transplant and control groups, the ESRD group had significantly lower mean CFR values. On multivariate regression analysis, serum levels of creatinine, age, and diastolic dysfunction were independent predictors of CFR. CFR is impaired in patients with ESRD suggesting that coronary microvascular dysfunction, an early finding of atherosclerosis, is evident in these patients. Although associated with a decreased CFR compared with controls, renal transplant on the other hand seems to have a favorable effect on coronary microvascular function."}
{"id": "19323066", "title": "[Ischemia modified albumin--specific marker in cardiological diagnostics?].", "content": "[Ischemia modified albumin--specific marker in cardiological diagnostics?]. Ischemia modified albumin (IMA) is a new biological marker for early identification of chest pain and ruling out myocardial infarction among patients with acute syndromes submitting to emergency department. Recently IMA has been investigated in the light of other cardiac markers (cTnT, CK-MBmas, NT-proBNP) in various states of ischemia (acute coronary syndromes, after percutaneous coronary intervention, in coronary vasospasm). Ischemia modified albumin levels were elevated in these states what suggests myocardial ischemia. However decrease in IMA concentration after exercise-induced skeletal muscle ischemia still remains unclear. Increased IMA concentration in patients with acute ischemic stroke and exposed to trauma limits its ability for detection myocardial ischemia. Specificity of IMA measurement is limited also in patients with peripheral vascular disease, systemic sclerosis, diabetes, end stage renal disease, pulmonary embolism and other pathological states with accompanying oxidative stress."}
{"id": "19238868", "title": "Sirolimus-loaded polyurethane graft for hemodialysis access in sheep.", "content": "Sirolimus-loaded polyurethane graft for hemodialysis access in sheep. Intimal hyperplasia is the most common final pathway for hemoaccess occlusion in dialysis patients. Drug eluting stents have been shown to decrease intimal hyperplasia in coronary arteries and possibly in peripheral arteries. We evaluated the use of a sirolimus loaded polyurethane graft as prophylaxis in hemodialysis access. Grafts were loaded with sirolimus and elution curves were determined for the polyurethane material. The arteriovenous grafts were then placed in the neck of 20 sheep. A non-loaded graft was placed in the contralateral neck. Patency rates, ultrasound evaluation, angiography and histomorphometry were determined for each graft. At 30, 60 and 90 days the drug loaded graft had improved patency rates compared to the control, with a 25% improvement noted at 3 months. Life table analysis showed the drug loaded graft consistently better patency than the control (p=.136). The control graft had greater neointimal stenosis (14.5% vs. 9.17%) over the course of the study (p=.157). Although none of these findings was statistically significant in this pilot study, the sirolimus coated graft out-performed the control in every measured parameter at each time point evaluated. Further work to asses the validity of drug coated materials to prevent intimal hyperplasia in hemodialysis access is warranted."}
{"id": "19140853", "title": "Prognostic study of cardiac events in Japanese high risk hemodialysis patients using I-BMIPP-SPECT: B-SAFE study design.", "content": "Prognostic study of cardiac events in Japanese high risk hemodialysis patients using I-BMIPP-SPECT: B-SAFE study design. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in patients undergoing hemodialysis. Such patients frequently develop complications such as asymptomatic coronary artery disease (CAD). Accordingly, CAD must ideally be diagnosed at an early stage to improve prognosis. Although myocardial perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is valuable for diagnosing CAD, the stress test is not always applicable to patients on hemodialysis. Thus, we proposed a multicenter, prospective cohort study called \"B-SAFE\" to investigate the applicability of resting (123)I-labeled beta-methyl-iodophenylpentadecanoic acid ((123)I-BMIPP)-SPECT will be used to diagnose cardiac disease and evaluate the prognosis of hemodialysis patients by imaging myocardial fatty acid metabolism. B-SAFE began enrolling patients from June 2006 at 48 facilities. We performed (123)I-BMIPP-SPECT on 702 hemodialysis patients with risk factors for CAD until 30 November 2007 and plan to follow up for three years. The primary endpoints will be cardiac death and sudden death. This study should end in 2010."}
{"id": "19118735", "title": "Risk stratification in critical limb ischemia: derivation and validation of a model to predict amputation-free survival using multicenter surgical outcomes data.", "content": "Risk stratification in critical limb ischemia: derivation and validation of a model to predict amputation-free survival using multicenter surgical outcomes data. Patients with critical limb ischemia (CLI) are a heterogeneous population with respect to risk for mortality and limb loss, complicating clinical decision-making. Endovascular options, compared with bypass, offer a tradeoff between reduced procedural risk and inferior durability. Risk stratified data predictive of amputation-free survival (AFS) may improve clinical decision making and allow for better assessment of new technology in the CLI population. This was a retrospective analysis of prospectively collected data from patients who underwent infrainguinal vein bypass surgery for CLI. Two datasets were used: the PREVENT III randomized trial (n = 1404) and a multicenter registry (n = 716) from three distinct vascular centers (two academic, one community-based). The PREVENT III cohort was randomly assigned to a derivation set (n = 953) and to a validation set (n = 451). The primary endpoint was AFS. Predictors of AFS identified on univariate screen (inclusion threshold, P < .20) were included in a stepwise selection Cox model. The resulting five significant predictors were assigned an integer score to stratify patients into three risk groups. The prediction rule was internally validated in the PREVENT III validation set and externally validated in the multicenter cohort. The estimated 1-year AFS in the derivation, internal validation, and external validation sets were 76.3%, 72.5%, and 77.0%, respectively. In the derivation set, dialysis (hazard ratio [HR] 2.81, P < .0001), tissue loss (HR 2.22, P =.0004), age >or=75 (HR 1.64, P = .001), hematocrit <or=30 (HR 1.61, P = .012), and advanced CAD (HR 1.41, P = .021) were significant predictors for AFS in the multivariable model. An integer score, derived from the ss coefficients, was used to generate three risk categories (low <or= 3 [44.4% of cohort], medium 4-7 [46.7% of cohort], high >or=8 [8.8% of cohort]). Stratification of the patients, in each dataset, according to risk category yielded three significantly different Kaplan-Meier estimates for 1-year AFS (86%, 73%, and 45% for low, medium, and high risk groups, respectively). For a given risk category, the AFS estimate was consistent between the derivation and validation sets. Among patients selected to undergo surgical bypass for infrainguinal disease, this parsimonious risk stratification model reliably identified a category of CLI patients with a >50% chance of death or major amputation at 1 year. Calculation of a \"PIII risk score\" may be useful for surgical decision making and for clinical trial designs in the CLI population."}
{"id": "19114374", "title": "[Drug-eluting stent implantation for unprotected left main coronary artery disease: immediate and long-term outcomes].", "content": "[Drug-eluting stent implantation for unprotected left main coronary artery disease: immediate and long-term outcomes]. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of drug-eluting stent (DES) implantation in selective patients with left main coronary artery disease. From October 2002 to November 2007, 44 consecutive patients underwent percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) on left main coronary artery lesions, including 5 patients with concurrent left ventricular dysfunction (ejection fraction<40%), 2 with chronic respiratory dysfunction and 5 with chronic renal failure. The findings in coronary angiography, procedural success rate, severe complications and the follow-up results of the patients were analyzed. The immediate procedural success rate was 100% in these patients without any severe complications. No non-fatal acute myocardial infarction or emergency coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) was performed and death occurred in none of the cases during hospitalization. In the follow-up period for 14.2-/+9.3 (6-65) months after PCI, no subacute or late thromboses were found. One patient died from heart failure 4 months after PCI, and 6 patients (13.6%) experienced recurrent angina. Thirty-seven patients (84.1%) were free of any major cardiovascular events (MACE) after the procedure. A repeat coronary angiography was performed in 35 patients (79.5%) within 6 months after PCI, and 3 (8.6%) of them were confirmed to have restenosis, including 1 patient with distal bifurcation restenosis who were subsequently treated with CABG and two patients with side-branch ostium restenosis managed with cutting balloon dilation. Implantation of drug-eluting stents is safe and effective for management of left main coronary artery disease with good immediate and long-term outcomes."}
{"id": "19112833", "title": "[Genetic predisposition to systemic complications of arterial hypertension in maintenance haemodialysis patients].", "content": "[Genetic predisposition to systemic complications of arterial hypertension in maintenance haemodialysis patients]. Cardiovascular disease is the most common cause of a high morbidity and mortality in patients on renal replacement therapy and is responsible for about 50% of deaths. Hypertension is the main risk factor for cardiovascular events in the general population as well as in haemodialysed (HD) patients. The hypertension in HD patients is caused by excess extracellular fluid volume (ECV) on the other hand hypertension resistant to normalization of ECV may result from the accelerated activity of the systemic and local--vascular renin-angiotensin-aldosteron system (RAAS). RAAS genes are potential etiological candidates for cardiovascular damage. The aim of the study was to evaluate the prevalence of hypertension, left ventricular hypertrophy, hypertensive retinopathy in patients treated with haemodialysis and to evaluate the association between the polymorphism of RAAS genes: ACE I/D, AGT M235T AT1R A1166C, CYP112 (-344) and the systemic complications of arterial hypertension such as hypertensive retinopathy, left ventricular hypertrophy and also mortality in haemodialysis patients. The studied population consisted of 302 HD patients (175 men, 127 women) age 21-87, mean 56, at four dialysis units. Patients with cardiac defect, advanced coronary artery disease and atrial fibrillation were excluded from the study. 62 patients died during 3,5 years of observation. Methods consisted of tree times repeated blood pressure measurements before and post dialysis, echocardiography, direct opthalmoscopy (Keith-Wegener-Barker classification of hypertensive retinopathy) and DNA analysis--genotypes ACE I/D, AGT M235T AT1R A1166C, CYP11B2 T(-344)C were determined through PCR or PCR-RFLP method. Hypertension was present in 72%, LVH in 84% haemodialysed patients. Arterial pressure correlated with LVMI values and hypertension was connected with LVH. Insufficient control of blood pressure and LVH were connected with worse survival in HD patients. It seems that I/D polymorphism ACE gene and AC AT1 gene influence the development of hypertension and LVH in HD patients. The most dangerous in the development of hypertension and LVH was DD genotype ACE gene and CC AT1 gene. ACE I/D, AGT M/T, AT1 A/C, CYP11B2 T/C polymorphism appears to have no relation to the short-term prognosis in HD patients. The mortality did not differ among groups with different genotypes of ACE I/D, AGT M/T AT1 A/C, CYP11B2 T/C polymorphisms. Direct ophtalmoscopy seems to be an insufficient method in the estimation of the systemic complications of hypertension in haemodialysed patients."}
{"id": "19100414", "title": "Apelin, a novel adipocytokine, in relation to endothelial function and inflammation in kidney allograft recipients.", "content": "Apelin, a novel adipocytokine, in relation to endothelial function and inflammation in kidney allograft recipients. Apelin, a newly discovered adipocytokine produced by white adipose tissue, is also expressed in kidney and heart. It has been reported that apelin is related to echocardiographic features in hemodialyzed patients. Cardiovascular disease is a major contributor to the mortality and morbidity among patients with chronic renal failure as well as kidney allograft recipients. The aim of this study was to assess the association between apelin and coronary artery disease (CAD) among kidney allograft recipients. We investigated plasma apelin levels in 100 clinically stable, kidney allograft recipients with versus without CAD. We also assessed markers of endothelial cell injury-von Villebrand factor (vWF), thrombomodulin, intracellular adhesion molecule (ICAM), and CD146; markers of inflammation-high-sensitivity-reactive protein (hsCRP); other hemostatic parameters-tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) and its inhibitor (PAI-1); as well as other adipocytokines-adiponectin and resistin-using commercially available kits. Markers of endothelial dysfunction and inflammation were significantly elevated among patients with CAD levels, as well as with CAD or diabetes, compared with those without CAD. Apelin was significantly lower among patients with CAD, but higher in diabetic patients. Apelin content was similar in hypertensive versus normotensive kidney allograft recipients. We observed significant correlations between apelin and ICAM, resistin, adiponectin, calcium, phosphate, alanine and aspartate aminotransferase levels, with CAD or diabetes. Upon multiple regression analysis as well as CAD, adiponectin, and ICAM were predictors of apelin. Apelin was significantly reduced in kidney allograft recipients with CAD; its level was predicted by the presence of CAD, endothelial damage, or inflammation. Apelin and other adipocytokines may be associated with inflammation and its clinical consequences."}
{"id": "19088537", "title": "Right atrial intramural hematoma associated with aortic dissection.", "content": "Right atrial intramural hematoma associated with aortic dissection. A 75-year-old male presented with shortness of breath and abdominal pain; he had undergone coronary artery bypass graft surgery three months ago and had a history of coronary artery disease, hypertension, and end-stage renal disease. Transthoracic echocardiogram showed a right atrial mass. A computed axial tomography scan showed an atrial mass and type A aortic dissection. The patient sustained cardiorespiratory arrest and died. An autopsy showed an 8 cm atrial intramural hematoma originating from a dissecting aneurysm. This is the first case of right atrial intramural hematoma associated with aortic dissection exhibiting high mortality. Early diagnosis using multiple imaging modalities including magnetic resonance imaging and timely surgical intervention may improve survival. Intramural hematomas should be considered in patients presenting with right-sided cardiac lesions."}
{"id": "19080273", "title": "Prevalence and risk factors of atrial fibrillation in preterminal inpatients aged 60 years and over.", "content": "Prevalence and risk factors of atrial fibrillation in preterminal inpatients aged 60 years and over. Atrial fibrillation is a common arrhythmia and a major risk factor for ischaemic stroke. We investigated the prevalence of atrial fibrillation and its relation to age, gender and underlying heart disease in patients aged 60 years and over who died during hospitalization. Between 1955 and 2005, 1519 autopsies of in-hospital deaths in Beijing Hospital were performed. Among them, 540 cases met criteria of age > or = 60 years and full clinical history including electrocardiogram, echocardiogram, myocardial perfusion images and detailed cardiac pathology records from autopsy. Atrial fibrillation occurred in 193 of 540 patients and prevalence increased with age (10.5% in patients younger than 60 years, 39.6% (80-89 years) and 54.8% (> or = 90 years)) being higher in patients with underlying heart disease than without heart disease (P < 0.0001). Coronary artery disease (CAD), congestive heart failure, cardiac valve dysfunction and chronic renal failure were associated with a higher prevalence of atrial fibrillation (P < 0.001). CAD with anterior myocardial infarction or left anterior descending artery disease was also associated with an increased prevalence of atrial fibrillation (P < 0.05). Following autopsy, clinical misdiagnosis of CAD increased with age and missed clinical diagnosis of CAD decreased with age. Multivariate Logistic regression analysis revealed independent predictors of atrial fibrillation: age (OR = 1.335, 95% CI: 1.114 - 1.600, P < 0.0001), underlying heart disease (OR = 2.019, 95% CI: 1.244-3.278, P < 0.005), chronic heart failure (OR = 1.873, 95% CI: 1.272-2.757, P < 0.005), mitral regurgitation (OR = 2.163, 95% CI: 1.093-4.278, P < 0.05) and mitral stenosis (OR = 33.575, 95% CI: 2.852-395.357, P < 0.05). A high prevalence of atrial fibrillation was found in Chinese patients > or = 60 years who died in hospital, especially when associated with underlying heart disease. The independent risk factors of atrial fibrillation were age, underlying heart disease, congestive heart failure and mitral valve dysfunction. High clinical misdiagnosis and missed diagnosis of CAD were associated with age."}
{"id": "19069454", "title": "[Urogenital pathology in patients with chronic obstructive lung disease and ischemic heart disease].", "content": "[Urogenital pathology in patients with chronic obstructive lung disease and ischemic heart disease]. The objective of this study was to elucidate the incidence and clinical features of renal dysfunction and urogenital system disorders in 956 patients with chronic obstructive lung disease (COLD) and/or coronary heart disease (CHD). COLD was diagnosed in 346 patients (group 1), COLD and CHD in 402 (group 2), CHD in 211 (group 3). The methods included X-ray studies (survey and excretory urography), functional diagnostics (ECG, Doppler cardiography, assessment of external respiration, abdominal, renal, and bladder ultrasound, measurements of residual urine, transrectal and transabdominal examination of prostate). The glomerular filtration rate was estimated using Cockcrofft-Gault and MDRD formulas and Rerberg- Tareev method, renal hemodynamics by duplex scanning of renal arteries. Inflammatory urogenital diseases were most frequently diagnosed in group 2 (chronic cystitis 83.8%, chronic pyelonephritis 73.9%). Diabetic nephropathy common in this group (25.4%) was related to the high prevalence of diabetes mellitus in these patients (37.8%) compared with 26.3 and 29.9% in groups 1 and 3 respectively. Ischemic renal disease occurred in every tenth patient of group 2 or much more frequently than in groups 1 and 3. This suggests additive COLD and CHD effect on the atherosclerotic process. The combination of these diseases was responsible for a large fraction of patients with chronic renal insufficiency in group 2 (45%). It is concluded that concomitant urogenital pathology in patients with COLD results in mutual aggravation of the clinical course of the two diseases and requires additional examination and obligatory medicamentous correction."}
{"id": "19064014", "title": "Impact of \"nuisance\" bleeding on clopidogrel compliance in patients undergoing intracoronary drug-eluting stent implantation.", "content": "Impact of \"nuisance\" bleeding on clopidogrel compliance in patients undergoing intracoronary drug-eluting stent implantation. Premature cessation of clopidogrel is a strong risk factor for drug-eluting stent thrombosis in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. The impact that superficial or \"nuisance\" bleeding may have on clopidogrel compliance has not been described. The study population consisted of 2,360 unselected patients undergoing successful drug-eluting stent implantation. Nuisance bleeding, defined as easy bruising, bleeding from small cuts, petechia, and ecchymosis, was assessed during routine clinical follow-up. Internal and alarming bleeding was recorded. Cessation of clopidogrel as a consequence of such bleeding was then assessed. Study population characteristics were 66.1% men, mean age 64.5 +/- 11.8 years, diabetes mellitus in 31.1%, smoking in 18.5%, systemic hypertension in 81.8%, dyslipidemia in 87.9%, history of coronary artery disease in 49.1%, chronic renal insufficiency in 8.7%, and acute myocardial infarction in 10.8%. A total of 837 patients reported bleeding events (incidence 32.4%) of which 85.7% were nuisance, 13.6% were internal, and 0.7% were alarming. Rate of clopidogrel discontinuation as a result of bleeding in the nuisance bleeding group was 11.1%. In conclusion, superficial or nuisance bleeding is common in patients taking dual antiplatelet therapy after percutaneous coronary intervention. Overall, 11.1% of patients with nuisance bleeding discontinued clopidogrel. Greater education and follow-up in this patient subset may lead to improved compliance with clopidogrel therapy."}
{"id": "19049703", "title": "Is treatment with N-acetylcysteine to prevent contrast-induced nephropathy when using bicarbonate hydration out of date?", "content": "Is treatment with N-acetylcysteine to prevent contrast-induced nephropathy when using bicarbonate hydration out of date? Chronic renal failure (CRF) is a major risk factor for contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) and could be prevented by bicarbonate hydration. The effect of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) in preventing CIN in patients treated by bicarbonate hydration has never been investigated. Patients admitted for cardiac angiography from January 2002 to November 2004, with stable CRF (glomerular filtration rate (GFR) < 56 ml/min, Cockcroft-Gault formula) were included in a prospective, randomized, double-blind study comparing the efficacy of oral NAC + bicarbonate hydration vs oral placebo + bicarbonate hydration to prevent CIN. NAC 1,200 mg twice daily or placebo was given on Day -1 and Day 0 (Day 0 = cardiac angiography). A 1.4% bicarbonate solution (1 ml/ kg/h) was administered 12 hours before and after cardiac angiography. The overall CIN incidence on Day 2 was defined by one or more of the following criteria: increase in serum creatinine > 44.2 micromol/l, increase in serum creatinine > 25% or decrease in GFR > 5 ml/ min. Between NAC group (n = 28) and placebo group (n = 32) there was no difference in baseline demographics (age, sex ratio, weight, arterial hypertension, diabetes), in Day 0 characteristics (serum creatinine, GFR, hematocrit, protidemia) and in Day 0 cardiac angiography procedure (diagnostic or interventional, number of stents, type and volume of contrast media infused). The overall incidence of CIN in the NAC and placebo groups was 7.1 vs 9.3% (p = 1), respectively, and the rates of the observed criteria a, b, and c were 0 vs 6.3% (p = 0.49), 3.5 vs 6.3% (p = 1), and 7.1 vs 9.3% (p = 1). In CRF patients undergoing cardiac angiography, the use of bicarbonate hydration is associated with a very low incidence of CIN. In these conditions, on the basis of our results, we cannot draw any meaningful conclusion on the effect of NAC on the prevention of CIN."}
{"id": "19048834", "title": "[Renal dysfunction and mitral regurgitation in patients with chronic heart failure].", "content": "[Renal dysfunction and mitral regurgitation in patients with chronic heart failure]. The objective of this study was to elucidate the relationship between mitral regurgitation (MR) and the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in patients with chronic heart failure (CHF). A total of 340 patients with CHF (200 men and 140 women, mean age 58.0 +/- 12.9 years) were included in the study. Arterial hypertension (AH) was the cause of CHF in 44 (13%) patients, coronary heart disease in 112 (33%) patients, and combination of the two disorders in 184 (54%) patients. CHF of functional classes I and II was diagnosed in 112 (33%) and 177 (53%) patients respectively, CHF of functional classes III and IV in 34 (10%) and 17 (5%) patients. GFR was calculated using the MDRD formula. The left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) was 56.9 +/- 10.5%. Systolic dysfunction occurred in 90 (26%) patients and mitral regurgitation in 221 (65%). GFR varied from 19.2 to 149.7 (mean 68.8 +/- 2.9) ml/min/1.73 m2. CRF was below 60 ml/min/1.73 m2 in 114 (34%) patients. There was significant positive correlation between the occurrence of MR and the functional class of CHF (r = 0.35; p < 0.001) while GFR was inversely related to MR (r = -0.43; p < 0.001). Multifactor regression analysis demonstrated that manifestation of MR was associated with the decreased functional activity of the kidneys regardless of the patients\" age. It is concluded that changes in the structure of the echo signal from the mitral valve in patients with CHF due to coronary heart disease and/or arterial hypertension are most common in patients with GFR below 60 ml/min/1.73 m2. The degree of MR manifestation is closely associated with the impaired functional activity of the kidneys."}
{"id": "19047585", "title": "Predictive value of myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography and the impact of renal function on cardiac death.", "content": "Predictive value of myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography and the impact of renal function on cardiac death. Patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) have worse cardiovascular outcomes than those without CKD. The prognostic utility of myocardial perfusion single-photon emission CT (MPS) in patients with varying degrees of renal dysfunction and the impact of CKD on cardiac death prediction in patients undergoing MPS have not been investigated. We followed up 1652 consecutive patients who underwent stress MPS (32% exercise, 95% gated) for cardiac death for a mean of 2.15+/-0.8 years. MPS defects were defined with a summed stress score (normal summed stress score <4, abnormal summed stress score>or=4). Ischemia was defined as a summed stress score >or=4 plus a summed difference score >or=2, and scar was defined as a summed difference score <2 plus a summed stress score >or=4. Renal function was calculated with the Modified Diet in Renal Disease equation. CKD (estimated glomerular filtration rate <60 mL . min(-1) . 1.73 m(-2)) was present in 36%. Cardiac death increased with worsening levels of perfusion defects across the entire spectrum of renal function. Presence of ischemia was independently predictive of cardiac death, all-cause mortality, and nonfatal myocardial infarction. Patients with normal MPS and CKD had higher unadjusted cardiac death event rates than those with no CKD and normal MPS (2.7% versus 0.8%, P=0.001). Multivariate Cox proportional hazards models revealed that both perfusion defects (hazard ratio 1.90, 95% CI 1.47 to 2.46) and CKD (hazard ratio 1.96, 95% CI 1.29 to 2.95) were independent predictors of cardiac death after accounting for risk factors, left ventricular dysfunction, pharmacological stress, and symptom status. Both MPS and CKD had incremental power for cardiac death prediction over baseline risk factors and left ventricular dysfunction (global chi(2) 207.5 versus 169.3, P<0.0001). MPS provides effective risk stratification across the entire spectrum of renal function. Renal dysfunction is also an important independent predictor of cardiac death in patients undergoing MPS. Renal function and MPS have additive value in risk stratisfying patients with suspected coronary artery disease. Patients with CKD appear to have a relatively less benign prognosis than those without CKD, even in the presence of a normal scan."}
{"id": "19044173", "title": "Load-independent parameters of diastolic and systolic function by speckle tracking and tissue doppler in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Load-independent parameters of diastolic and systolic function by speckle tracking and tissue doppler in hemodialysis patients. Assessment of diastolic function using conventional Doppler techniques is limited by their significant dependence on volume load status. Whether new echocardiographic methods are load-independent in evaluating left ventricular systolic and diastolic function remains controversial. The aim of this study was to identify load-independent echocardiographic parameters for systolic and diastolic function in end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients undergoing hemodialysis (HD) and to evaluate agreement between the new methods. We studied 20 clinically stable patients with ESRD on HD for >4 months (mean age 51+/-12 years, 14 men, four with coronary disease). All had a transthoracic echocardiogram immediately before and after HD. Cardiac chamber volumes, left ventricular ejection fraction, and transmitral Doppler flow (E/A ratio) were determined according to American Society of Echocardiography guidelines. Pulsed tissue Doppler imaging (TDI) was used to record septal and lateral mitral annular velocities. Longitudinal systolic (Sm), early diastolic (Em) and late diastolic (Am) myocardial velocities and strain were determined by color TDI and also by speckle tracking imaging (STI), using apical views. The ratio between the rapid filling wave E and mitral early diastolic filling velocity (E/Em) and the Am/Em ratio were calculated, using spectral Doppler, pulsed TDI, color TDI, and STI. Mean ultrafiltration volume was 2800+/-820 ml (range 1200-4200 ml). Left atrial (LA) and left ventricular (LV) end-diastolic volumes and transmitral pulsed Doppler flow decreased significantly after HD. Early diastolic myocardial velocities also decreased significantly, regardless of the evaluation method. Filling pressure ratios were high and remained unchanged after HD. LV ejection fraction was >44% in all patients and did not change after HD. Systolic myocardial velocities, by any method, and global and longitudinal strain were also similar before and after HD. Large acute changes in volume load were associated with significant variations in early diastolic myocardial longitudinal velocities, thus demonstrating the dependence of Em on volume load. By contrast, E/Em ratios appeared to be load-independent, as were systolic function parameters. Pulsed TDI, color TDI, and STI yielded similar results for the assessment of diastolic and systolic myocardial parameters."}
{"id": "19040561", "title": "Coronary flow reserve dysfunction in hemodialysis and kidney transplant patients.", "content": "Coronary flow reserve dysfunction in hemodialysis and kidney transplant patients. The assessment of coronary flow reserve (CFR) by trans-thoracic echocardiography has recently been introduced into clinical studies. Impairment of coronary microvascular functions and decreased CFR detected by trans-thoracic Doppler harmonic echocardiography (TTDE) has recently been reported in hemodialysis (HD) patients, but there is no comparative study between HD patients and renal transplant recipients. The aim of our study was to evaluate coronary microvascular circulation in chronic HD patients and renal transplant recipients. Forty-eight chronic HD patients, 27 renal transplant patients and 39 normotensive healthy controls were studied for the assessment of CFR by TTDE. The carotid artery intima media thickness (IMT) and areas of focal plaque formation were also evaluated in all subjects. CFR values were significantly lower in both the HD and renal transplant groups than in the control group (p = 0.00). CFR values (1.57 +/- 0.32 vs. 1.89 +/- 0.50, p = 0.01) were also significantly lower in the HD group than in the renal transplant group. In 43 of 48 (89.6%) HD patients, CFR was <2.0; however, in 16 of 27 (59.3%) renal transplant recipients it was <2.0 (p = 0.00). When the HD and renal transplant groups were divided into two subgroups, according to CFR measurements (CFR < 2 and > or =2), no significant differences were found with respect to coronary risk factors and left ventricular echocardiographic measurements. The IMT of the control group (0.586 +/- 0.163 mm) was significantly lower than the HD (0.799 +/- 0.218 mm) and renal transplant groups (0.681 +/- 0.148 mm; p = 0.00). The IMT of the HD patients (0.799 +/- 0.218 mm) was significantly higher than the renal transplant recipients (0.681 +/- 0.148 mm; p = 0.01). Renal transplant and HD patients had lower CFR values detected by TTDE, which may be regarded as an early finding of an affected cardiovascular system. CFR is more impaired in HD patients than renal transplant recipients. Uremia-associated microvascular disease may be responsible for CFR impairment in HD patients."}
{"id": "19026795", "title": "Influence of preoperative renal dysfunction on one-year bypass graft patency and two-year outcomes in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery.", "content": "Influence of preoperative renal dysfunction on one-year bypass graft patency and two-year outcomes in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery. Limited information exists on the impact of preoperative renal dysfunction on internal thoracic artery and saphenous vein graft failure and 2-year clinical outcomes in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery. We studied the impact of preoperative renal dysfunction (creatinine clearance < 60 mL/min) on 1-year internal thoracic artery and saphenous vein graft failure (defined as > or = 75% angiographic stenosis) and 2-year clinical events (death; death or myocardial infarction; and death, myocardial infarction, or revascularization) in 3014 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery enrolled in the Project of Ex-vivo Vein Graft Engineering via Transfection-IV study. Of 2973 patients (98.6%) with preoperative measurement of renal function, 440 (14.8%) had renal dysfunction. Most baseline comorbidities were higher in these patients. Two-year clinical events were higher in patients with preoperative renal dysfunction (adjusted death, myocardial infarction, or revascularization, hazard ratio 1.21, 95% confidence interval 0.97-1.50; adjusted death or myocardial infarction, hazard ratio 1.35, 95% confidence interval 1.05-1.74; adjusted death, hazard ratio 1.47, 95% confidence interval 0.98-2.21). However, saphenous vein graft (odds ratio 1.02, 95% confidence interval 0.79-1.33) and internal thoracic artery (odds ratio 0.76, 95% confidence interval 0.40-1.44) failure were similar in the 2 groups. Although the risk of adverse clinical events is higher in patients with preoperative renal dysfunction, that of internal thoracic artery and saphenous vein graft failure is not. This suggests that factors other than graft failure account for the worse clinical outcomes in this high-risk cohort. Further studies are needed to identify other mechanisms of these worse outcomes so that appropriate measures can be developed to improve long-term outcomes in patients with renal dysfunction undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery."}
{"id": "19026294", "title": "Role of myocardial perfusion imaging in patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing coronary angiography.", "content": "Role of myocardial perfusion imaging in patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing coronary angiography. Patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) are at high risk of cardiovascular events. This study examined the prognostic power of stress myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) in 150 patients with ESRD (mean age 53 +/- 9 years; 30% women; 66% with diabetes mellitus) being evaluated for renal transplantation with known coronary anatomy using angiography. Baseline data in addition to perfusion and angiographic parameters were compared between survivors and nonsurvivors. All-cause mortality was defined as the outcome measure. An abnormal MPI result was present in 85% of patients, 30% had left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (EF) < or =40%, and 40% had multivessel coronary artery disease using angiography. At a mean follow-up of 3.4 +/- 1.5 years, 53 patients died (35%). LVEF < or =40%, LV dilatation (LV end-diastolic volume >90 ml), and diabetes mellitus were associated with higher mortality (all p <0.05). Both total perfusion defect size and mean number of narrowed coronary arteries using angiography were significantly higher in those who died (p <0.05). In a multivariate model, abnormal MPI results (low LVEF or abnormal perfusion) and diabetes alone were independent predictors of death, whereas number of narrowed arteries using coronary angiography was not. Thus, MPI was a strong predictor of all-cause mortality in patients with ESRD. In conclusion, abnormal MPI results independently predicted worse survival and provided more powerful prognostic data than coronary angiography."}
{"id": "19024194", "title": "Predictors of positive thallium 201 single photon emission computed tomography in patients of end stage renal disease.", "content": "Predictors of positive thallium 201 single photon emission computed tomography in patients of end stage renal disease. To study coronary artery disease (CAD) risk factors predicting positive thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) indicating underlying CAD among patients of end stage renal disease. PLACE AND DESIGN: This cross-sectional (analytical) study was done at Department of Cardiology, Punjab Institute of Cardiology, from April 2004 to Dec 2007. One hundred consecutive patients with ESRD undergoing thallium SPECT as a routine screening test before renal transplant were studied. Dipyridamole thallium SPECT was performed in patients who were unable to exercise. Thallium SPECT was positive in 47 (47%) cases. There were significant differences in age, underlying diabetic nephropathy and total cholesterol levels among patients positive and negative on thallium SPECT. Among the risk factors age and underlying diabetic nephropathy were significantly associated (p < 0.05) with a positive thallium SPECT in patients with ESRD. Positive thallium SPECT indicating underlying CAD was observed in a significant number of patients with ESRD awaiting renal transplant. Presence of advanced age and underlying diabetic nephropathy predict a positive thallium SPECT in this population."}
{"id": "19021282", "title": "A prospective, double-blind, randomized, controlled trial on the efficacy and cardiorenal safety of iodixanol vs. iopromide in patients with chronic kidney disease undergoing coronary angiography with or without percutaneous coronary intervention.", "content": "A prospective, double-blind, randomized, controlled trial on the efficacy and cardiorenal safety of iodixanol vs. iopromide in patients with chronic kidney disease undergoing coronary angiography with or without percutaneous coronary intervention. This study was undertaken to compare the renal safety as well as cardiovascular (CV) effects and diagnostic image quality of iso-osmolar iodixanol vs. low-osmolar iopromide in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) undergoing coronary interventions. With the growing number of contrast-enhanced procedures being performed for coronary artery disease management, the safety and efficacy of iodinated contrast media (CM) have come under increased scrutiny. : Patients with CKD (CrCl < or =60 mL/min) were randomized to iodixanol (n = 106) or iopromide (n = 102). The primary endpoint was incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN), defined as an increase in serum creatinine (SCr) > or =25% or 0.5 mg/dL within 72 hr of CM administration. Secondary endpoints were mean SCr increase, a composite of CV events in-hospital and 30 days postdischarge, and diagnostic image quality. : CIN incidence was significantly lower with iodixanol than iopromide (5.7% vs. 16.7%; P = 0.011). Baseline SCr (OR 2.21, 95% CI: 1.25-3.47; P = 0.031), iopromide use (OR 2.56, 95% CI: 1.18-5.76; P = 0.024), and CM volume (OR 2.01, 95% CI: 1.01-3.21; P = 0.038) were identified as independent risk factors for CIN. Cardiovascular events were reduced with iodixanol (1.9% vs. 8.8%; P = 0.025); diagnostic image quality was similar for both CM (P = 0.353). : Consistent with several previous trials comparing iso-osmolar iodixanol and low-osmolar comparator CM, iodixanol was associated with a lower incidence of CIN and fewer CV events than iopromide."}
{"id": "19016467", "title": "Impact of diabetes and acute coronary syndrome on survival in patients treated with drug-eluting stents.", "content": "Impact of diabetes and acute coronary syndrome on survival in patients treated with drug-eluting stents. Diabetics who undergo percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) are at increased risk for death, myocardial infarction, repeat revascularization, and stent thrombosis. Our retrospective study includes 887 consecutive patients who underwent PCI with drug-eluting stents (DES) at UCLA Medical Center. The cohort was divided into four groups: group 1, no diabetes and no acute coronary syndrome (ACS); group 2, no diabetes and ACS; group 3, diabetes and no ACS; group 4, diabetes and ACS. Survival at 1 year was the lowest in diabetics who presented with ACS (90% in diabetics with ACS, 95% in diabetics without ACS, 95% in non-diabetics with ACS, and 96% in the non-diabetics without ACS, P = 0.03). At 1 year, age, diabetes, chronic renal insufficiency, ejection fraction, and myocardial infarction were identified as independent predictors for mortality. In the DES era, diabetics who undergo PCI for ACS continue to have an excess risk of death and major adverse cardiac events at 1 year."}
{"id": "19016154", "title": "Atherosclerosis in hemodialysis patients--the role of microinflammation.", "content": "Atherosclerosis in hemodialysis patients--the role of microinflammation. Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the most frequent cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with end-stage renal disease, and the risk for coronary heart disease is higher among the hemodialysis (HD) patients than in the general population. This excess risk for coronary heart disease is not entirely explained by traditional risk factors for CVDs. The aim of the study was to determine possible correlations between asymptomatic atherosclerosis and inflammatory markers (high sensitivity CRP [hsCRP], interleukin 6 [IL-6], tumor necrosis factor-alpha [TNF-alpha], interleukin 2 receptor [IL-2R], and selective adhesion molecules ICAM-1 and VCAM-1) in HD patients. In our study, 95 HD patients, 56 (59%) male and 39 (41%) female, were included. The mean age was 60 +/- 13 years, ranging from 22-81 years. Using B-mode ultrasonography (US), we measured intima-media thickness (IMT) and plaque occurrence (markers of asymptomatic atherosclerosis) in carotid arteries in these patients. In the 1-4 weeks after US examination, we took blood samples from patients to determine serum concentrations of inflammatory markers. The mean IMT value was 0.83 +/- 0.21 mm, ranging from 0.5 to 2 mm. The plaques were found in 63 (84%) of HD patients. Correlations between IMT values and serum concentrations of IL-2R (r = 0.269; p < 0.022) and VCAM-1 (r = 0.290; p < 0.014) were found. Multiple linear regression analysis showed relationship between IMT values and IL-2R (p = 0.049). No relationship between inflammatory markers and plaques was found. The results indicate that atherosclerosis in HD patients correlates with some nontraditional risk factors--the markers of inflammation."}
{"id": "19005289", "title": "All-cause mortality after drug-eluting stent implantation in African-Americans.", "content": "All-cause mortality after drug-eluting stent implantation in African-Americans. Recent studies have questioned the safety of drug-eluting stents because of a higher incidence of late stent thrombosis, raising the possibility that drug-eluting stents may be associated with an increased mortality. The effect of drug-eluting stents on mortality in African-Americans is unknown. We evaluated 628 African-American patients (354 patients treated with drug-eluting stents and 274 patients treated with bare metal stents) between January 2003 and August 2005, using data from our bolus-only platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor database. The primary end point was all-cause mortality obtained using social security death index. After a mean follow-up of 3+/-0.9 years, the mortality rate in the bare metal stents group was 12.8% compared with 7.1% in the drug-eluting stents group [adjusted P value=0.19; hazard ratio (HR) for bare metal stents group compared with drug-eluting stents group for death=1.4; 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.8-2.4]. In a subgroup analysis, patients presenting with acute coronary syndrome had a higher mortality when treated with bare metal stents compared with drug-eluting stents (17.1 vs. 6.3%, P=0.022; HR=2.2; 95% CI: 1.1-4.4). Patients with chronic kidney disease (all patients with creatinine >1.5 mg/dl) also had a higher mortality with bare metal stents compared with drug-eluting stents (36.7 vs. 20.4%, P=0.044; HR=2.3; 95% CI: 1.02-5.2). Drug-eluting stents seem to be safe in African-Americans and may improve survival in certain subgroups such as patients with acute coronary syndromes and chronic kidney disease."}
{"id": "18987758", "title": "Predictors for contrast media-induced nephropathy and long-term survival: prospectively assessed data from the randomized controlled Dialysis-Versus-Diuresis (DVD) trial.", "content": "Predictors for contrast media-induced nephropathy and long-term survival: prospectively assessed data from the randomized controlled Dialysis-Versus-Diuresis (DVD) trial. Among the numerous studies concerning contrast media-induced nephropathy (CIN), there was no prospective trial that provided data on the long-term outcomes. To prospectively assess predictors of CIN and long-term outcomes of affected patients. Four hundred twelve consecutive patients with serum creatinine levels of 115 micromol/L to 309 micromol/L (1.3 mg/dL to 3.5 mg/dL) undergoing elective coronary angiography were included. Patients were randomly assigned to periprocedural hydration alone, hydration plus one-time hemodialysis or hydration plus N-acetylcysteine. Multivariate logistic regression identified the following as predictors of CIN within 72 h (equivalent to an increase in creatinine 44.2 micromol/L [0.5 mg/dL] or more) : prophylactic postprocedural hemodialysis (OR 2.86, 95% CI 1.07 to 7.69), use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (OR 6.16, 95% CI 2.01 to 18.93), baseline glomerular filtration rate (OR 0.94, 95% CI 0.90 to 0.98) and the amount of contrast media given (OR 1.01, 95% CI 1.00 to 1.01). With regard to long-term outcome (mean follow-up 649 days), multivariate Cox regression models found elevated creatinine levels at 30 days (hazard rate ratio [HRR] 5.48, 95% CI 2.85 to 10.53), but not CIN within 72 h (HRR 1.12, 95% CI 0.63 to 2.02), to be associated with increased mortality. In addition, independent predictors for death during follow-up included left ventricular ejection fraction lower than 35% (HRR 4.01, 95% CI 2.22 to 7.26), serum phosphate (HRR 1.64, 95% CI 1.10 to 2.43) and hemoglobin (HRR 0.80, 95% CI 0.67 to 0.96). From the present prospective trial, performance of postprocedural hemodialysis, use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, reduced baseline glomerular filtration rate and amount of contrast media were independent predictors of CIN within 72 h after catheterization. Assessing renal function after 30 days, rather than within 72 h, seemed to be more predictive for patients' long-term survival."}
{"id": "18984459", "title": "Clinical utility of myocardial fatty acid imaging in patients with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Clinical utility of myocardial fatty acid imaging in patients with end-stage renal disease. The prevalence of coronary artery disease (CAD) appears to be much higher in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) undergoing dialysis than in a non-ESRD population. Cardiac death due to myocardial ischemia significantly contributes to the high mortality rate of ESRD patients. However, the method for screening for CAD in ESRD patients has not been established, because the frequency of silent myocardial ischemia is high and examinations requiring stress are often difficult to perform among this population. Myocardial fatty acid imaging may be a new modality to detect myocardial ischemia and identify the group at high risk for cardiac death among ESRD patients without adding any stress."}
{"id": "18984450", "title": "Prognostic predictors and outcomes in patients with abnormal myocardial perfusion imaging and angiographically insignificant coronary artery disease.", "content": "Prognostic predictors and outcomes in patients with abnormal myocardial perfusion imaging and angiographically insignificant coronary artery disease. Abnormal stress myocardial perfusion imaging studies (SMPI) with angiographically insignificant coronary artery disease (ICAD) have often been labeled \"false positive\" scans. We evaluated the prognostic predictors and outcomes in an unselected patient population having abnormal SMPI and ICAD (study group) over a 24 month period of follow-up. Retrospective study of consecutive patients who had SMPI and subsequent coronary angiography showing ICAD within 6 months of index scan with matched control group with normal scans. Major Adverse Cardiac Events (MACE) were defined as the first occurrence of death or myocardial infarction (MI). Patients were followed up to 24 months from the time of their SMPI to identify the development of MACE. One hundred and twenty five patients formed the study group and one hundred and thirty six patients formed the control group. Over a two-year follow up, approximately 13% of the study group had MACE as compared to 4.2% in the control group (P = .022). Abnormal SMPI, EF < 40% and chronic kidney disease (GFR < 60 ml/min) were independent predictors of MACE in the study group. In multivariate analysis for MACE prediction, chronic kidney disease remained the sole independent predictor regardless of size or severity of perfusion abnormalities (P = <.001). Patients with abnormal SMPI and ICAD have a 13% event rate of MACE over a two-year follow up. CKD seems a very important marker of a higher risk subgroup amongst such patients."}
{"id": "18981625", "title": "Is chronic kidney disease associated with coronary artery stenosis or calcification as assessed by multi-detector row computed tomography?", "content": "Is chronic kidney disease associated with coronary artery stenosis or calcification as assessed by multi-detector row computed tomography? The coronary artery calcification (CAC) score as determined by multi-detector row computed tomography (MDCT) is known to predict coronary artery disease (CAD). Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is also known to be a risk factor for CAD. Little is known about the relationship between CKD and the severity of coronary artery stenosis or CAC as determined by MDCT, a non-invasive method for screening. The subjects included 313 consecutive patients who underwent MDCT angiography. We quantified the number of significantly stenosed vessels in coronary vessel disease (VD) and CAC score using MDCT and measured body mass index (BMI), waist circumference and blood pressure. We also analyzed plasma levels of lipid profile, hemoglobin A1c, uric acid, and creatinine. Furthermore, we calculated the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), and defined CKD as GFR <60 mL/min/1.73 m(2). eGFR levels in the 3-VD group were significantly lower than those in patients without stenosed vessels. In the two classifications that were based on the CAC score [low (L, 0-444) and high (H, >or=445)] in our previous report, the H group was significantly associated with age, number of VD, incidence of hypertension and CKD. Multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed that the high CAC score group was significantly correlated with age (p=0.0023), CKD (p=0.0109) and number of VD (p=0.0470). CKD may contribute to the severity of CAD associated with the progression of CAC. Therefore, therapeutic intervention for CKD, in addition to the improvement of conventional risk factors, is needed to prevent CAD when MDCT is performed."}
{"id": "18971545", "title": "Is it time to treat prehypertension?", "content": "Is it time to treat prehypertension? Prehypertension, defined as blood pressure between 120-139/80-89 mmHg, is a major public health concern. The condition is very prevalent (30% of the adult population), is often associated with other cardiovascular risk factors and independently increases the risk of hypertension and subsequent cardiovascular events. The mechanism of elevated risk for cardiovascular events associated with prehypertension is presumed to be the same as that of hypertension. In the general population, prehypertension can be lowered by lifestyle modifications, but often not reliably. The Seventh Report of the Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure (JNC-7) recommendation for prehypertension management with optimal weight control (largely through diet and exercise) remains the mainstay, except for individuals with diabetes, chronic kidney disease, and perhaps known coronary artery disease, because of the shot-term cost considerations and unproven long-term prognosis. The recently published Trial of Preventing Hypertension (TROPHY) is the first study of pharmacologic intervention among those with prehypertension. Results from this trial demonstrated that angiotensin receptor blockade (ARB) retards age-related blood pressure increases in prehypertensive patients. In this review, we discuss the options for pharmacologic intervention of prehypertension, with a focus on the TROPHY trial results."}
{"id": "18955835", "title": "Renal Insufficiency Following Radiocontrast Exposure Trial (REINFORCE): a randomized comparison of sodium bicarbonate versus sodium chloride hydration for the prevention of contrast-induced nephropathy.", "content": "Renal Insufficiency Following Radiocontrast Exposure Trial (REINFORCE): a randomized comparison of sodium bicarbonate versus sodium chloride hydration for the prevention of contrast-induced nephropathy. For the prevention of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) after coronary angiography, hydration by 0.9% sodium chloride solution and N-acetylcysteine is currently recommended. However, it is unclear whether volume supplementation with sodium bicarbonate is better than with sodium chloride when used in conjunction with nonionic, low-osmolar iopamidol. The aim of this study was to analyze and compare the effects of sodium bicarbonate and sodium chloride on renal function in 145 patients exposed to nonionic iso-osmolar contrast medium iodixanol in a randomized study. Renal Insufficiency Following Radiocontrast Exposure is a prospective, randomized, single-center, double-blinded trial of 145 patients (age 72.6+/-6.7 years) with elevated baseline serum creatinine levels (mean 132.6+/-29.3 micromol/l). Eligible patients were randomized to either a 154 mEq/l infusion of sodium bicarbonate (n=71, group I) or sodium chloride 0.9% solution (n=74, group II). The primary endpoint was serum creatinine elevation beyond 25% or 44 micromol/l on the first or second day following exposure to the contrast medium. Serum creatinine, serum cystatin C, plasma viscosity, urinary enzymes alanine aminopeptidase and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase, and alpha1-microglobulin were measured at baseline and on days 1 and 2 after contrast medium administration. An overall proportion of five CIN (3.4%) was observed with equal distribution among the groups (4.2% in sodium bicarbonate group vs. 2.7% in sodium chloride group; P=0.614). Parameters of renal function demonstrated no differences between the two hydration regimens on day 1 after angiography; even on day 2 most parameters were similar in groups I and II. Renal Insufficiency Following Radiocontrast Exposure demonstrates a homogeneously low rate of CIN after exposure to nonionic, iso-osmolar iodixanol regardless of the use of either bicarbonate sodium or sodium chloride solution for volume supplementation. Low-toxicity contrast media and any hydration may offset potential antioxidant effects of sodium bicarbonate."}
{"id": "18949725", "title": "Heart rate as independent prognostic factor for mortality in normotensive hemodialysed patients.", "content": "Heart rate as independent prognostic factor for mortality in normotensive hemodialysed patients. Several epidemiological studies have reported heart rate (HR) as a predictor of cardiovascular and noncardiovascular mortality in the general population. Aim of the present study was to investigate a possible relation between increased HR and mortality in normotensive end-stage renal disease (ERSD) patients. Between 1997 and 2001 we recruited 407 normotensive ESRD patients (mean age 56.6 +/- 3.3 years) without coronary artery disease, left ventricular systolic dysfunction or on antiarrhythmic therapy. Baseline electrocardiography (ECG) at rest, 48-hour ambulatory Holter ECG monitoring and standard echocardiography were performed. After a mean follow-up of 46 months (range 12-60 months), cardiovascular and sudden death were considered as end points. Echocardiogram showed a normal left ventricular ejection fraction (>55%) in 370 patients (91%) and left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) in 290 patients (71.2%). Mean HR by 48-hour Holter ECG was 81 +/- 10.6 bpm. During the follow-up, all-cause mortality rate was 12% (49 patients); 40 patients died from cardiac cause (9.8%) of which 20 patients (4.9%) by sudden death. By univariate analysis, age, diabetes, ECG-LVH with signs of left ventricular strain, and increased mean HR by 48-hour Holter ECG were all significantly related to global, cardiovascular and sudden death. ROC curve analysis identified optimal cutoff points for HR >85 bpm and age >65 years associated with increased cardiovascular risk (p<0.001). By Cox regression analysis, only age >65 years (p<0.0001) and mean HR >85 bpm (p<0.0001) were independent predictors of cardiovascular events. In normotensive ERSD patients, increased mean HR detected by 48-hour Holter ECG is an independent determinant of global and cardiovascular mortality."}
{"id": "18946896", "title": "Nephrotoxicity of iodixanol versus ioversol in patients with chronic kidney disease: the Visipaque Angiography/Interventions with Laboratory Outcomes in Renal Insufficiency (VALOR) Trial.", "content": "Nephrotoxicity of iodixanol versus ioversol in patients with chronic kidney disease: the Visipaque Angiography/Interventions with Laboratory Outcomes in Renal Insufficiency (VALOR) Trial. Iso-osmolar contrast medium iodixanol has been reported to be less nephrotoxic than selected low-osmolar contrast media (LOCM) in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients with diabetes mellitus. This study compared the nephrotoxicity of iodixanol and the LOCM ioversol in CKD patients undergoing coronary angiography. This is a prospective double-blind trial in 337 patients with stable CKD who were randomly assigned to receive the iso-osmolar contrast medium iodixanol or the LOCM ioversol. The co-primary end points were the mean peak percentage change (MPPC) in baseline serum creatinine and the incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy (rise of > 0.5 mg/dL in baseline serum creatinine within 72 hours postcontrast) for the 2 contrast media in the 72-hour period after contrast administration. Prespecified analyses included stratification on diabetic state and the use of N-acetylcysteine. In the 299 patients with complete post-contrast media creatinine data, the incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy was 21.8% in the iodixanol subjects and 23.8% in the ioversol subjects (P = .78). For all patients, the MPPC was 14.7% with iodixanol and 20.0% with ioversol (P = .06), whereas in the subset of diabetic patients, this value was significantly lower in the iodixanol (12.9%) compared with the ioversol subjects (22.4%, P = .01). Overall, the nephrotoxicity associated with iodixanol was not significantly different from that observed with ioversol in CKD patients undergoing coronary angiography, although in diabetic patients, MPPC was significantly lower in the iodixanol group."}
{"id": "18854671", "title": "High body mass index is not associated with coronary artery disease in angina patients with chronic kidney disease: a coronary angiography study.", "content": "High body mass index is not associated with coronary artery disease in angina patients with chronic kidney disease: a coronary angiography study. High body mass index (BMI) is an established risk factor for coronary artery disease (CAD) in the general population. This relationship is less clear in CAD patients with different stages of chronic kidney disease (CKD) because many complications of CKD can cause malnutrition and low BMI. We studied the association of BMI and angiography-confirmed CAD in CKD patients. Thousand one hundred thirty-three patients admitted for coronary angiography was stratified by CKD classification. Demographic, clinical, hemodynamic, and angiographic findings were assessed. CKD patients (n = 980) were divided into angiographic CAD and non-CAD groups to compare traditional CAD risk factors. Patients with angiography-confirmed CAD (n = 496) were further analyzed for the association between BMI and CAD risk at different stages of CKD patients. Mean BMI was 27.4 +/- 4.1, 27.7 +/- 4.0, 25.9 +/- 3.5, 24.2 +/- 3.8, 23.2 +/- 3.0 and 23.8 +/- 4.2 kg/m for normal renal function, stage I, II, III, IV, and V CKD patients, respectively. Male, old age, presence of CKD, diabetes, hypertension, smoking, and higher cholesterol had significant association with angiographic CAD in the CKD sub-cohort. Obesity was not related to CAD in the CKD sub-cohort. Using WHO category for obesity, mild CKD patients were more likely to be overweight (62.8%) and obese (72%); meanwhile, most moderate and severe CKD patients were not obese (P < 0.05). Only 17.6% and 18.8% of moderate and severe CKD patients were obese (P < 0.05), by Taiwan classification. High BMI was not associated with angiographic CAD in CKD patients with angina."}
{"id": "18847461", "title": "Upper abdominal body shape is the risk factor for postoperative pancreatic fistula after splenectomy for advanced gastric cancer: a retrospective study.", "content": "Upper abdominal body shape is the risk factor for postoperative pancreatic fistula after splenectomy for advanced gastric cancer: a retrospective study. Postoperative pancreas fistula (POPF) is a major complication after total gastrectomy with splenectomy. We retrospectively studied the effects of upper abdominal shape on the development of POPF after gastrectomy. Fifty patients who underwent total gastrectomy with splenectomy were studied. The maximum vertical distance measured by computed tomography (CT) between the anterior abdominal skin and the back skin (U-APD) and the maximum horizontal distance of a plane at a right angle to U-APD (U-TD) were measured at the umbilicus. The distance between the anterior abdominal skin and the root of the celiac artery (CAD) and the distance of a horizontal plane at a right angle to CAD (CATD) were measured at the root of the celiac artery. The CA depth ratio (CAD/CATD) was calculated. POPF occurred in 7 patients (14.0%) and was associated with a higher BMI, longer CAD, and higher CA depth ratio. However, CATD, U-APD, and U-TD did not differ significantly between patients with and those without POPF. Logistic-regression analysis revealed that a high BMI (>or=25) and a high CA depth ratio (>or=0.370) independently predicted the occurrence of POPF (odds ratio = 19.007, p = 0.002; odds ratio = 13.656, p = 0.038, respectively). Surgical procedures such as total gastrectomy with splenectomy should be very carefully executed in obese patients or patients with a deep abdominal cavity to decrease the risk of postoperative pancreatic fistula. BMI and body shape can predict the risk of POPF simply by CT."}
{"id": "18847418", "title": "[Clinical advances in vascular calcification].", "content": "[Clinical advances in vascular calcification]. The articles providing answers to the questions on vascular calcification of most interest from a clinical point of view were selected. 1. How is it measured?: Studies showing the clinical utility of different tools to quantify it were analyzed. 2. What does it measure?: Both in dialysis patients and the general population, vascular calcification and arterial stiffness are prognostic factors for morbidity and mortality. Other markers such as fetuin-A are associated with mortality in patients on hemodialysis but not in patients in early stages of chronic kidney disease. 3. What causes it?: In two selected studies, it was demonstrated again that low bone turnover and diabetes cause cardiovascular disease and vascular calcification, respectively. 4. How is it treated?: There is still no clinical evidence of regression of vascular calcification. However, a prospective study in new hemodialysis patients showed that sevelamer compared to calcium compounds slows the progression of vascular calcification and confers greater survival. A study comparing both compounds in chronic hemodialysis patients showed that sevelamer only had a benefit on survival in patients older than 65 years. It remains to be demonstrated whether the good experimental results of paricalcitol and cinacalcet are confirmed in prospective clinical studies."}
{"id": "18810699", "title": "Outcome of off-pump coronary artery bypass in renal dialysis patients.", "content": "Outcome of off-pump coronary artery bypass in renal dialysis patients. Renal dialysis patients are a subgroup at major operative risk when undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). Even though CABG without cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) has decreased the surgical risk and provided good short-term results, the long-term survival seems uncertain. We report here on the long-term outcome of CABG without CPB in renal dialysis patients. From 1998 to 2002, 44 renal dialysis patients underwent elective CABG without CPB, including 17 minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass (MIDCAB) and 27 off-pump CABG (OPCAB) procedures. There were 5 one-vessel, 12 two-vessel and 27 multi-vessel coronary artery disease patients, who mainly had left internal thoracic artery (LITA) to left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) grafting with an additional saphenous vein graft to non-LAD coronaries. All 44 patients were followed up for 44.4 +/- 31.2 months. Three (6.8 %) surgical deaths within 30 days occurred and 25 late mortalities happened over a period of 2 - 79 months. The 5-year cumulative rate of total survival is 38.2 % and the freedom from cardiac death is 70.9 %. Using hazard analysis, old age (> 60 years) and incomplete coronary revascularization was found to significantly affect the total survival. CABG without CPB provided an acceptable surgical mortality and morbidity. The high incidence of non-cardiac death associated with dialysis complications had an adverse impact on the overall outcome. The LITA bypass operation method combined with intensive care for dialysis complications would hopefully fulfill the goal to improve the short- and long-term results in this subgroup."}
{"id": "18805157", "title": "Influence of diabetes mellitus on long-term survival in systematic off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery.", "content": "Influence of diabetes mellitus on long-term survival in systematic off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery. Diabetic patients generally present a more diffuse and calcified coronary artery disease than nondiabetic patients that can affect long-term outcome especially if an off-pump coronary artery bybass graft (OPCABG) technique is used. The aim of this study was to compare long-term results of OPCABG surgery for diabetic and nondiabetic patients. This is a retrospective analysis of prospectively gathered data over a 10-year period of 1,000 consecutive and systematic OPCABG patients operated on between September 1996 and April 2004. Average follow-up period was 66 +/- 28 months and was 97% complete. Overall survival as well as occurrence of major adverse cardiac events in diabetic and nondiabetic patients were specifically studied. In all, 278 diabetic patients and 722 nondiabetic patients were treated. There was no difference in 30-day mortality between the two groups (p = 0.70). Diabetic patients had more postoperative acute renal insufficiency (p = 0.01) and infections (sepsis; p = 0.002), and deep sternal infections (p = 0.04) Ten-year survival (p = 0.006) and survival free of major adverse cardiac events (p = 0.02) was decreased in the diabetic group. Age (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.06), peripheral vascular disease (HR = 1.72), carotid disease (HR = 1.53), congestive heart failure (HR = 1.51), incomplete revascularization (HR = 2.37), chronic renal insufficiency (HR = 1.93), left ventricular ejection fraction (HR = 0.13), and a lesser use of multiple internal thoracic artery grafts (HR = 0.67), but not diabetes mellitus (p = 0.13) were significant determinants of long-term mortality. Similarly, peripheral vascular disease (HR = 1.92), chronic renal insufficiency (HR = 2.36), emergent operation (HR = 1.71), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (HR = 1.76), previous percutaneous coronary intervention (HR = 1.66), left ventricular ejection fraction (HR = 0.26), ischemic mitral regurgitation (HR = 1.83), and a lesser use of multiple internal thoracic artery grafts (HR = 0.72) were determinants of decreased survival free of major adverse cardiac events but not diabetes (p = 0.2). Breaking down the major adverse cardiac events, diabetes was found an independent predictive factor of recurrent myocardial infarction (HR = 1.85) and a borderline cause of readmission for congestive heart failure (p = 0.06). Need for new revascularization was comparable for both population (p = 0.37). In our series of OPCABG surgery patients, diabetic patients had a comparative operative mortality and perioperative myocardial infarction rate as nondiabetic patients. However, they had an increased prevalence of postoperative acute renal insufficiency and infections. They also had a worse outcome than nondiabetic patients, but that was mainly due to a higher prevalence of preoperative comorbidities and a lesser use of multiple internal thoracic artery grafts. However, diabetes itself was a potential risk factor for long-term occurrence of myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure."}
{"id": "18805100", "title": "Association between serum uric acid and perioperative and late cardiovascular outcome in patients with suspected or definite coronary artery disease undergoing elective vascular surgery.", "content": "Association between serum uric acid and perioperative and late cardiovascular outcome in patients with suspected or definite coronary artery disease undergoing elective vascular surgery. The role of uric acid as an independent marker of cardiovascular risk is unclear. Therefore, our aim was to assess the independent contribution of preoperative serum uric acid levels to the risk of 30-day and late mortality and major adverse cardiac event (MACE) in patients scheduled for open vascular surgery. In total, 936 patients (76% male, age 68 +/- 11 years) were enrolled. Hyperuricemia was defined as serum uric acid >0.42 mmol/l for men and >0.36 mmol/l for women, as defined by large epidemiological studies. Outcome measures were 30-day and late mortality and MACE (cardiac death or myocardial infarction). Multivariable logistic and Cox regression analysis were used, adjusting for age, gender, and all cardiac risk factors. Data are presented as odds ratios or hazard ratios, with 95% confidence intervals. Hyperuricemia was present in 299 patients (32%). The presence of hyperuricemia was associated with heart failure, chronic kidney disease, and the use of diuretics. Perioperatively, 46 patients (5%) died and 61 patients (7%) experienced a MACE. Mean follow-up was 3.7 years (range: 0 to 17 years). During follow-up, 282 patients (30%) died and 170 patients (18%) experienced a MACE. After adjustment for all clinical risk factors, the presence of hyperuricemia was not significantly associated with an increased risk of 30-day mortality or MACE, odds ratios of 1.5 (0.8 to 2.8) and 1.7 (0.9 to 3.0), respectively. However, the presence of hyperuricemia was associated with an increased risk of late mortality and MACE, with hazard ratios of 1.4 (1.1 to 1.7) and 1.7 (1.3 to 2.3), respectively. In conclusion, the presence of preoperative hyperuricemia in vascular patients is a significant predictor of late mortality and MACE."}
{"id": "18799966", "title": "Advantages of myocardial revascularization after admission for critical limb ischemia in diabetic patients with coronary artery disease: data of a cohort of 564 consecutive patients.", "content": "Advantages of myocardial revascularization after admission for critical limb ischemia in diabetic patients with coronary artery disease: data of a cohort of 564 consecutive patients. To evaluate the survival benefit from myocardial revascularization in diabetic patients with critical limb ischemia and coronary artery disease (CAD) in a consecutive series of 564 diabetic patients hospitalized from 1999 to 2003 and followed up until December 2005. Three hundred and thirteen patients had a history of CAD, 60 of them (19.2%) with previous myocardial revascularization. Sixty-one patients with an ejection fraction of 40% or less underwent subsequent myocardial revascularization. Five hundred and fifty-seven patients (98.8%) were followed up until December 2005, including 310 of the 313 patients with a history of CAD. One hundred and ten patients died because of CAD, 25 of the 251 patients without a history of CAD and 85 of the 313 patients with a history of CAD. Specifically, 74 (86.9%) of these 85 deaths occurred in the 192 patients without previous myocardial revascularization, nine (10.7%) in the 60 patients with previous myocardial revascularization, and two (2.4%) in the 61 patients in whom myocardial revascularization was performed after hospital admission for critical limb ischemia. The Cox model showed significant hazard ratio for mortality associated with age [hazard ratio 1.06 for 1 year, P = 0.003, confidence interval (CI) 1.02-1.09], history of CAD (hazard ratio 2.16, P < 0.001, CI 1.53-3.06), dialysis (hazard ratio 3.52, P < 0.001, CI 2.08-5.97), and impaired ejection fraction (hazard ratio 1.08 for one point percentage, P < 0.001, CI 1.05-1.09). Myocardial revascularization appeared to have a protective role: hazard ratio 0.29, P < 0.001, CI 0.33-0.93. Paying attention to CAD in diabetic patients during their hospitalization for critical limb ischemia is useful for a subsequent myocardial revascularization, and it may increase survival in these patients."}
{"id": "18768415", "title": "Sodium bicarbonate vs sodium chloride for the prevention of contrast medium-induced nephropathy in patients undergoing coronary angiography: a randomized trial.", "content": "Sodium bicarbonate vs sodium chloride for the prevention of contrast medium-induced nephropathy in patients undergoing coronary angiography: a randomized trial. Sodium bicarbonate has been suggested as a possible strategy for prevention of contrast medium-induced nephropathy, a common cause of renal failure associated with prolonged hospitalization, increased health care costs, and substantial morbidity and mortality. To determine if sodium bicarbonate is superior to sodium chloride for preventing contrast medium-induced nephropathy in patients with moderate to severe chronic kidney dysfunction who are undergoing coronary angiography. Randomized, controlled, single-blind study conducted between January 2, 2006, and January 31, 2007, and enrolling 353 patients with stable renal disease who were undergoing coronary angiography at a single US center. Included patients were 18 years or older and had an estimated glomerular filtration rate of 60 mL/min per 1.73 m(2) or less and 1 or more of diabetes mellitus, history of congestive heart failure, hypertension, or age older than 75 years. Patients were randomized to receive either sodium chloride (n = 178) or sodium bicarbonate (n = 175) administered at the same rate (3 mL/kg for 1 hour before coronary angiography, decreased to 1.5 mL/kg per hour during the procedure and for 4 hours after the completion of the procedure). The primary end point was a 25% or greater decrease in the estimated glomerular filtration rate on days 1 through 4 after contrast exposure. Median patient age was 71 (interquartile range, 65-76) years, and 45% had diabetes mellitus. The groups were well matched for baseline characteristics. The primary end point was met in 13.3% of the sodium bicarbonate group and 14.6% of the sodium chloride group (relative risk, 0.94; 95% confidence interval, 0.55-1.60; P = .82). In patients randomized to receive sodium bicarbonate vs sodium chloride, the rates of death, dialysis, myocardial infarction, and cerebrovascular events did not differ significantly at 30 days (1.7% vs 1.7%, 0.6% vs 1.1%, 0.6% vs 0%, and 0% vs 2.2%, respectively) or at 30 days to 6 months (0.6% vs 2.3%, 0.6% vs 1.1%, 0.6% vs 2.3%, and 0.6% vs 1.7%, respectively) (P > .10 for all). The results of this study do not suggest that hydration with sodium bicarbonate is superior to hydration with sodium chloride for the prevention of contrast medium-induced nephropathy in patients with moderate to severe chronic kidney disease who are undergoing coronary angiography. clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00312117."}
{"id": "18762703", "title": "Clinical presentation and prognostic factors of patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction following emergent revascularization for left main coronary artery obstruction.", "content": "Clinical presentation and prognostic factors of patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction following emergent revascularization for left main coronary artery obstruction. Acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) caused by left main coronary artery (LMCA) obstruction is uncommon. Although the link between this catastrophic disease and very high mortality is well recognized, even after undergoing emergent revascularization, the systemic risk stratification and long-term outcome are currently unclear. The clinical presentation, parameter-related in-hospital death and long-term outcomes of these patients with acute LMCA obstruction undergoing emergency revascularization were carefully reviewed. From January 2000 through December 2007, 1,588 patients were diagnosed to have STEMI and received emergent cardiac catheterization. The 38 (2.4%) of these 1,588 patients were enrolled into the present study due to LMCA obstruction. The analytical results identified the 30-day mortality rate as 42.1% (16/38). Multivariate analysis demonstrated that renal insufficiency was independently predictive of in-hospital mortality (odds ratio (OR): 5.642; p = 0.029), whereas successful revascularization was independently predictive of freedom from in-hospital mortality (OR: 0.174; p = 0.044). The cut-off value of a Parsonnet score > 20 was strongly associated with 30-day mortality (p = 0.002). Even undergoing emergency revascularization for patients with acute LMCA obstruction, the in-hospital mortality remains very high. Additionally, the worse clinical outcome was observed in those with renal insufficiency and Parsonnet score of > 20."}
{"id": "18729173", "title": "Transient and persistent renal dysfunction are predictors of survival after percutaneous coronary intervention: insights from the Dartmouth Dynamic Registry.", "content": "Transient and persistent renal dysfunction are predictors of survival after percutaneous coronary intervention: insights from the Dartmouth Dynamic Registry. We sought to determine if transient and persistent elevations in creatinine following percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) resulted in poor survival. Limited survival data exist that defines the natural survival history of transient and persistent renal dysfunction following interventional PCI cases. Data were collected prospectively on 7,856 consecutive patients undergoing PCI from January 1, 2000 to July 31, 2006. Ninety-three patients were excluded due to pre-PCI dialysis. Patients were stratified into three categories of renal dysfunction: no renal dysfunction from baseline (<0.5 mg/dL increase in creatinine within 48 hr of the procedure), transient renal dysfunction (> or =0.5 mg/dL increase in creatinine within 48 hr with return to normal within 2 weeks), and persistent renal dysfunction (> or =0.5 mg/dL increase in creatinine without returning to normal within 2 weeks of the procedure). Mortality was determined by comparing with the Social Security Death Master File. Median survival was 3.2 years (mean 3.4). Renal dysfunction occurred in 250 patients (0.5 mg/dL increase in creatinine). Survival was significantly different between patients at 1, 3.2, and 7.5 years (P-value < 0.001): no renal dysfunction (95%, 88%, 75%), with transient (61%, 42%, 0%), and with persistent (58%, 44%, 36%) renal dysfunction. Patients with transient or persistent renal dysfunction had a twofold-threefold increased risk of 7.5-year mortality compared with patients with no renal dysfunction. Both transient and persistent postprocedural renal dysfunction are prognostically significant for mortality during extended follow-up. Renal dysfunction should be closely monitored before and after PCI."}
{"id": "18721508", "title": "Impact of optimal medical therapy and revascularization on outcome of patients with chronic kidney disease and on dialysis who presented with acute coronary syndrome.", "content": "Impact of optimal medical therapy and revascularization on outcome of patients with chronic kidney disease and on dialysis who presented with acute coronary syndrome. Coronary artery disease is the main cause of death in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). The poor prognosis associated with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) in these patients has been related to therapeutic nihilism. This study included 2,357 patients with ACS who had percutaneous coronary intervention. According to their creatinine clearance and medical history, they were divided into 3 groups: dialysis (n = 73); CKD (n= 293); and control (n= 1,991). Rates of cardiovascular events were recorded during a 1-year follow-up period. Patients in all groups received similar contemporary therapy for ACS, including percutaneous coronary intervention and optimal medial therapy. On admission, patients with CKD and patients on dialysis more often presented with cardiogenic shock (p = 0.05 and 0.02, respectively). A graded increase in the rate of major adverse cardiovascular events at 1 year was observed with decreasing renal function (control 13%, CKD 22.9%, dialysis 45.2%, p <0.001 for all comparisons). In multivariate analysis, patients with CKD and on dialysis were significantly associated with 1-year major adverse cardiac events with adjusted hazard ratios of, respectively, 1.5 (95% confidence interval 1.1 to 2.1; p = 0.009) and 2.7 (95% confidence interval 1.7 to 4.1; p <0.001). In conclusion, despite optimal contemporary medical therapy and revascularization, the prognosis of patients with CKD and, in particular, of patients undergoing dialysis, remains poor."}
{"id": "18716364", "title": "Serum osteoprotegerin as a screening tool for coronary artery calcification score in diabetic pre-dialysis patients.", "content": "Serum osteoprotegerin as a screening tool for coronary artery calcification score in diabetic pre-dialysis patients. Although cardiovascular disease is a principal cause of death in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), it is often asymptomatic in diabetic patients. The coronary artery calcification score (CACS) measured by multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) is useful for screening ischemic heart disease in the general population. We investigated which clinical parameters predict high CACS in predialysis diabetic nephropathy (DN). Participants were 85 patients with DN. Nobody had any history of coronary angioplasty or coronary bypass surgery. We measured blood counts, blood chemistry, bone alkaline phosphatase, intact-PTH, interleukin-6, osteoprotegerin (OPG), hemoglobin A1c, 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) and fetuin-A. CACS and bone mineral density (BMD) were measured by a single 16-slice MDCT and DEXA, respectively. The median value of CACS equaled 256 Agatston units (range 0-4494 units). Stepwise increase in CACS with CKD stage progression was observed (p<0.01 for trend). Simple regression analyses showed that Log (CACS+1) was positively correlated with age, systolic blood pressure, phosphorus and OPG. In addition, it was negatively correlated with nutritional parameters, such as body mass index, albumin, total-cholesterol and 25(OH)D. Fetuin-A and BMD had no impact on CACS. Multiple regression analyses showed that low albumin and high OPG were associated with high CACS. The sensitivity of OPG for detecting CACS>200 was 80%, when the cut-off value was 1.2 ng/mL. In conclusion, CACS increased with CKD stage progression in predialysis DN patients. Serum OPG was positively associated with high CACS and can be a useful screening tool for severe coronary calcification, whereas no association between fetuin-A and CACS was found."}
{"id": "18716049", "title": "Aldose reductase genotypes and cardiorenal complications: an 8-year prospective analysis of 1,074 type 2 diabetic patients.", "content": "Aldose reductase genotypes and cardiorenal complications: an 8-year prospective analysis of 1,074 type 2 diabetic patients. We report the independent risk association of type 2 diabetic nephropathy with the z-2 allele of the 5'-(CA)(n) microsatellite and C-106T promoter polymorphisms of the aldose reductase gene (ALR2) using a case-control design. In this expanded cohort, we examined their predictive roles on new onset of cardiorenal complications using a prospective design. In this 8-year prospective cohort of 1,074 type 2 diabetic patients (59% male, median age 61 years; disease duration 7 years) with an observation period of 8,592 person-years, none had clinical evidence of coronary heart disease (CHD) or chronic kidney disease at recruitment. The renal end point was defined as new onset of estimated glomerular filtration rate <60 ml/min per 1.72 m(2) or hospitalizations with dialysis or death due to renal disease, and CHD was defined as hospitalizations with myocardial infarction, ischemic heart disease, or related deaths. After controlling for baseline risk factors and use of medications, we found that the ALR2 z-2 allele of (CA)(n) microsatellite carriers had increased risk of renal (hazard ratio 1.53 [95% CI 1.14-2.05], P = 0.005) or combined cardiorenal (1.31 [1.01-1.72], P = 0.047) end points. Carriers of the ALR2 C-106T polymorphism also had increased risk of renal (1.54 [1.15-2.07], P = 0.004) and cardiorenal (1.49 [1.14-1.95], P = 0.004) end points. Compared with noncarriers, patients with two risk-conferring genotypes had a twofold increased risk of renal (2.41 [1.57-3.70], P < 0.001) and cardiorenal (1.94 [1.29-2.91], P = 0.002) end points. In Chinese type 2 diabetic patients, genetic polymorphisms of ALR2 independently predicted new onset of renal and cardiorenal end points, with the latter being largely mediated through renal disease."}
{"id": "18702961", "title": "Sodium bicarbonate versus saline for the prevention of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients with renal dysfunction undergoing coronary angiography or intervention.", "content": "Sodium bicarbonate versus saline for the prevention of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients with renal dysfunction undergoing coronary angiography or intervention. The purpose of this study was to compare the efficacy of sodium bicarbonate versus isotonic saline in addition to N-acetylcysteine (NAC) to prevent contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) in a larger population of patients with renal dysfunction undergoing coronary angiography or intervention. Contrast-induced nephropathy accounts for more than 10% of hospital-acquired renal failure. Recent studies suggest that hydration with sodium bicarbonate is more protective than isotonic saline in the prevention of CIN. The prospective, single center study included 502 patients with estimated creatinine clearance <60 ml/min, randomized to receive infusion of either saline or sodium bicarbonate before and after iso-osmolar contrast medium administration. All patients received oral NAC 600 mg twice a day. Contrast-induced nephropathy was defined as an absolute increase of serum creatinine > or =0.5 mg/dl measured within 5 days. Contrast-induced nephropathy occurred in 54 patients (10.8%); 25 (10%) were treated with sodium bicarbonate and 29 (11.5%) with saline (p = 0.60). In patients with CIN, the mean increase in creatinine was not significantly different in the 2 study groups (0.9 +/- 0.6 mg/dl vs. 0.7 +/- 0.2 mg/dl, respectively; p = 0.15). Only 2 patients needed temporary hemofiltration. Hydration with sodium bicarbonate plus NAC before contrast medium exposure is not more effective than hydration with isotonic saline plus NAC for prophylaxis of CIN in patients with moderate-to-severe renal dysfunction. (Sodium Bicarbonate Versus Saline for the Prevention of Contrast-Induced Nephropathy; NCT00606827)."}
{"id": "18697395", "title": "Fulminating influenza pneumonia in the elderly: a case demonstration.", "content": "Fulminating influenza pneumonia in the elderly: a case demonstration. An 82-year-old male Bangkokian with hypertension, diabetes mellitus, end-stage renal disease, and coronary artery disease for many years, was hospitalized due to deterioration of a 3-day influenza-like-illness with one-day chest oppression and respiratory failure. At the emergency room, oxygen saturation was 79% on room air Chest X-ray revealed bilateral diffuse pulmonary infiltrates. He was intubated and hemodialysis was initiated. Emergency coronary angiography revealed patent coronary artery. Sputum gram stain revealed numerous leukocytes with no bacteria. On day three of hospitalization, empiric treatment with oseltamivir and clarithromycin was administered Seventy-two hours later his clinical condition began to improve and fever subsided 7 days later Rapid test of tracheal secretion with immunofluorescence assay was positive for moderate amount of influenza A virus. Viral isolation yielded influenza A virus subtype H1N1. Review of in-patient records at this hospital using ICD-10 codes as J10 and J11 during 1995-2005, discovered 32 cases with claim diagnosis of influenza. However this is the first case with proven influenza pneumonia that was given empiric oseltamivir. Rapid deterioration of influenza-like illness due to human influenza virus in the elderly and pathogenesis of pulmonary in this case are discussed to alert physicians to recognize this dreadful illness and treat it in timely fashion."}
{"id": "18678302", "title": "Indexes of kidney function and coronary artery and abdominal aortic calcium (from the Framingham Offspring Study).", "content": "Indexes of kidney function and coronary artery and abdominal aortic calcium (from the Framingham Offspring Study). It is uncertain whether moderate chronic kidney disease (CKD) or measures of kidney function are associated with subclinical atherosclerosis as represented by coronary artery calcium (CAC) or abdominal aortic calcium (AAC). We used logistic and linear regression analyses to relate CKD (glomerular filtration rate <60 ml/min/1.73 m(2)), cystatin C (cysC), and microalbuminuria (MA) with CAC and AAC obtained using multidetector computed tomography in Framingham Heart Study Offspring participants (mean age 59 years, 55.3% women). Increased CAC and AAC were defined as > or =90th percentile age- and gender-specific cutpoints based on a healthy referent sample. Major cardiovascular disease risk factors were accounted for in multivariable models. Of 1,179 participants, 1,174 had AAC measurements and 1,147 had CAC measurements, 6.3% had CKD, and 8.3% had MA. CKD was not associated with CAC (multivariable-adjusted odds ratio [OR] for CKD 1.18, 95% confidence interval 0.59 to 2.36, p = 0.63) or AAC (multivariable-adjusted OR for CKD 1.11, 95% confidence interval 0.61 to 2.04, p = 0.73). CysC was associated with CAC in age- and gender-adjusted but not in multivariable models (age- and gender-adjusted OR for log cysC per SD increment and CAC 1.19, 95% confidence interval 1.01 to 1.41, p = 0.04; multivariable-adjusted OR 1.14, 95% confidence interval 0.95 to 1.38, p = 0.15). MA was not associated with CAC (OR 0.81, 95% confidence interval 0.41 to 1.61, p = 0.54). Neither cysC nor MA was significantly associated with AAC in age- and gender- or multivariable-adjusted models. In conclusion, CKD, cysC, and MA are not associated with CAC or AAC when accounting for cardiovascular disease risk factors."}
{"id": "18676300", "title": "[The determination of the factors impacting on in-hospital mortality in patients with acute heart failure in a tertiary referral center].", "content": "[The determination of the factors impacting on in-hospital mortality in patients with acute heart failure in a tertiary referral center]. Despite impressive advances in therapeutics in the last years, acute heart failure (AHF) remains a major cause of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Patients hospitalized because of heart failure (HF), irrespective of left ventricular systolic function, represent a high-risk population with limited short-term prognosis. A substantial component of HF-related mortality occurs during a hospital stay. In this study, we aimed to determine the factors impacting on in-hospital mortality in patients with AHF. During a 15-month period (December 2005-March 2007), 85 consecutive patients with (mean age: 64+/-8 years, male: 54%) an episode of AHF were included in this study. The effect of demographic, clinical, electrocardiographic, and echocardiographic characteristics, laboratory findings on in-hospital mortality were evaluated retrospectively. Of 85 patients 24.7% of patients had new-onset HF. Coronary artery disease (61%) was the most common underlying disease. The 44.7% of patients had hypertension, 37.6% had diabetes mellitus, 21% had chronic renal failure and 16.4% had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Left ventricular ejection fraction was 35+/-7%. In-hospital mortality rate was found as 11.7% (10 patients). The major cause of mortality was the progression of HF to cardiogenic shock in 60% of deaths. In comparison with surviving patients in terms of the clinical, demographic, electrocardiographic, and laboratory characteristics and left and right ventricular functions, patients died during hospitalization had higher blood urea nitrogen (45+/-20 mg/dl vs. 36+/-12 mg/dl, p=0.04), higher creatinine level (2.2+/-0.8 mg/dl vs. 1.1+/-0.5 mg/dl, p=0.001), and wider QRS duration (130+/-13 ms vs. 116+/-18 ms, p=0.04) whereas they had lower plasma sodium level (128+/-5 mmol/l vs. 135+/-9 mmol/l, p=0.02) and systolic blood pressure (p=0.01). Logistic regression analysis revealed that plasma creatinine level (OR 1.5, 95% CI 1.2 to 2.1, p=0.01), blood urea nitrogen (OR 2.1, 95% CI 1.8 to 3.1, p=0.001), plasma sodium level (OR 1.3, 95% CI 1.1 to 1.7, p=0.02), and systolic blood pressure (OR 2.2, 95% CI 1.9 to 2.8, p=0.01) were the independent predictors of in-hospital mortality. In-hospital mortality increases in patients who had lower systolic blood pressure, lower plasma sodium level, and renal dysfunction on admission."}
{"id": "18651552", "title": "High-dose calcitriol therapy and progression of cardiac vascular calcifications.", "content": "High-dose calcitriol therapy and progression of cardiac vascular calcifications. Dialysis patients show a very high prevalence of cardiovascular complications, affected as they are with abnormal and accelerated vascular calcifications and, eventually, calcium and phosphorous metabolism disorders. Multislice computed tomography (MSCT) provides a reproducible, high-resolution imaging of calcium contained in cardiac arteries, measured by Agatston score. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the influence of high-dose and low-dose calcitriol therapy on the progression of cardiac vascular calcifications in dialyzed patients. We enrolled 36 dialyzed patients in a prospective study, including an interventional period of 12 months and a follow-up period of 12 months. Eighteen protocol patients received intravenous pulses of high-doses calcitriol at the end of dialytic treatment and sevelamer hydrochloride therapy. Control patients received low-dose calcitriol and sevelamer hydrochloride as well. Two MSCT scans were performed: 1 at the start of the study and 1 at the end of follow-up, and Agatston score was calculated at both examinations. At first examination, protocol patients showed almost the same level of cardiac vascular calcification as control patients. At the second MSCT, statistically significantly higher values of Agatston score were recorded for all patients. Indeed, patients who showed higher baseline values developed worse calcifications as recorded at the end of follow-up, both in the protocol and control group. Our data show that baseline level is strongly predictive of vascular calcification progression, and, moreover, there is no association between calcitriol administered doses and the progression of cardiac vascular calcification."}
{"id": "18638601", "title": "Incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients with chronic renal insufficiency undergoing multidetector computed tomographic angiography treated with preventive measures.", "content": "Incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients with chronic renal insufficiency undergoing multidetector computed tomographic angiography treated with preventive measures. Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) is associated with adverse outcomes. Strategies for its prevention have been evaluated for patients undergoing invasive coronary and peripheral angiography, including treatment with N-acetylcysteine, sodium bicarbonate, and use of iso-osmolar nonionic contrast. Recently, multidetector computed tomographic angiography (MDCTA) of the coronary and peripheral arteries has been introduced as an accurate method for assessing vascular stenosis and has been widely adopted for assessment of outpatients with suspected coronary artery disease or peripheral arterial disease. To date, the incidence of CIN in outpatients with chronic renal insufficiency (CRI) treated with CIN-preventive strategies undergoing MDCTA remains unknown. Thus, we evaluated the incidence of CIN in outpatients with CRI (creatinine 1.5 to 2.5 mg/dl) undergoing MDCTA using CIN-preventive measures; 400 patients with CRI (78.5% men, mean age 76 years, 41% with diabetes) underwent MDCTA with iodixanol for detection of coronary artery disease or peripheral arterial disease (mean contrast volume 101 cc). CIN was defined as a nonallergic creatinine increase of >0.5 mg/dl. Creatinine levels were obtained before and 3 to 5 days after MDCTA; the average creatinine levels were 1.80 mg/dl and 1.75 mg/dl, respectively (p = NS), with an average change of -0.03 mg/dl. In the study cohort, only 7 patients (1.75%) experienced a creatinine increase >0.5 mg/dl, satisfying the definition of CIN. In conclusion, multivariate analysis, diabetes was the only predictor for CIN (odds ratio 5.9, 95% confidence interval 1.0 to 33.3, p = 0.045). No patient required hemodialysis. In conclusion, in patients with CRI undergoing MDCTA and receiving CIN-preventive measures, the incidence of CIN is low."}
{"id": "18638584", "title": "Effectiveness of anemia and chronic kidney disease as predictors for presence and severity of coronary artery disease in patients undergoing stress myocardial perfusion study.", "content": "Effectiveness of anemia and chronic kidney disease as predictors for presence and severity of coronary artery disease in patients undergoing stress myocardial perfusion study. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) and anemia portend a higher risk of cardiac events and mortality. We sought to ascertain whether coronary artery disease (CAD) by myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography is more common in patients with CKD (glomerular filtration rate < or =60 ml/min/1.73 kg/m(2)) and/or anemia (hemoglobin level < or =13 g/L) and the impact of different degrees of CKD. One thousand five hundred eighty patients (mean age 65 +/- 10 years) underwent gated myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography and clinical evaluation. Patients were divided into 4 groups (group 1, no anemia/no CKD, n = 800; group 2, anemia/no CKD, n = 195; group 3, CKD/no anemia, n = 332; group 4, anemia/CKD, n = 253). Multivariate logistic regression analysis was undertaken to examine the association of these diagnoses with abnormal myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomogram. Compared with patients with neither diagnosis, an abnormal scan was more common in those with anemia or CKD. Patients with anemia and CKD exhibited more severe CAD (mean summed stress score 6.8 vs 4.7, p <0.01). Established high-risk findings were more prevalent in patients with anemia and/or CKD, including a summed stress score > or =8, transient ischemic dilation, or a left ventricular ejection fraction < or =40% (group 1 28%, group 2 38%, group 3 38%, group 4 48%, all p values <0.01). Patients with moderate CKD demonstrated an increased risk of an abnormal scan (odds ratio 2.66, p <0.0001). After adjustment in multivariate analysis, anemia and CKD each remained predictors for an abnormal scan. The association was stronger in those with the 2 conditions (odds ratio for high-risk scan 1.89, p = 0.0002). In conclusion, in patients with suspected CAD, anemia and CKD are predictors of myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomographic markers for worsened outcomes. The relation was independent of other risk factors, supporting the inclusion of anemia and CKD in global risk assessment for patients with suspected CAD."}
{"id": "18622658", "title": "Effect of medical or surgical admission on outcome of patients with gallstone pancreatitis and common bile duct stones.", "content": "Effect of medical or surgical admission on outcome of patients with gallstone pancreatitis and common bile duct stones. Management of uncomplicated common bile duct stone (CBDS) and gallstone pancreatitis (GP) presumably varies based on whether a patient is admitted to medicine or surgery. This study evaluates the impact of admitting team on outcome and cost. Three hundred seventy patients admitted to the Massachusetts General Hospital for CBDS or GP were retrospectively analyzed for demographics, insurance status, procedures, complications, length of stay, readmission, and cost. A multivariable analysis was conducted for outcome and cost measures. Patients admitted to a surgical service were younger than those admitted to a medical service. Gender, race, tobacco use, and the presence of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and chronic renal insufficiency were not significantly different between groups. Patients admitted to a medical service had a higher incidence of coronary artery disease and diabetes. Despite lower readmission rates for surgical patients, there was no difference in total hospital days between groups. Though total cost of an initial surgical admission was greater than a medical admission, total cost attributable to the index admission diminished over time and ultimately was not significant in follow-up. Despite variations in uncomplicated management of CBDS and GP, there is no difference, in long-term follow-up, in the total number of hospital days or cost for the management of CBDS or GP based on admitting team practices."}
{"id": "18607165", "title": "Increased peripheral circulating inflammatory cells and plasma inflammatory markers in patients with variant angina.", "content": "Increased peripheral circulating inflammatory cells and plasma inflammatory markers in patients with variant angina. Emerging data suggest that inflammation may play an important role in the pathogenesis of coronary artery disease. However, the relation of inflammatory status to coronary vasospasm has been less investigated in patients with variant angina (VA). The aim of this study, therefore, was to determine peripheral circulating white blood cells as well as monocyte cells and plasma C-reactive protein (CRP) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels in patients with VA, and to compare patients with VA, stable coronary artery disease, and controls with angiographically normal coronary arteries. Thirty-three consecutive patients with documented VA, 26 with stable coronary artery disease, and 22 normal controls (with angiographically normal coronary arteries) were involved in this study. The peripheral blood was taken, and white blood cells and monocyte cells were counted. The plasma concentrations of CRP and IL-6 were also evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The data showed that white blood cell counts and monocyte cell counts were significantly higher in patients of the VA group than in the other two groups (white blood cell counts: 7340+/-1893/mm vs. 6187+/-1748/mm vs. 5244+/-1532/mm, P<0.05, respectively; monocyte cell counts: 510+/-213/mm vs. 425+/-209/mm vs. 383+/-192/mm, P<0.05, respectively). Similarly, levels of plasma CRP and IL-6 were also significantly higher in patients of the VA group than in patients with stable coronary artery disease (CRP: 0.42+/-0.21 mg/l vs. 0.27+/-0.14 mg/l; IL-6: 10.4+/-1.0 pg/dl vs. 6.2+/-0.7 pg/dl, P<0.01, respectively), and patients with normal controls (CRP: 0.42+/-0.21 mg/l vs. 0.17+/-0.10 mg/l; IL-6: 10.4+/-1.0 pd/dl vs. 3.0+/-0.7 pg/dl, P<0.01, respectively). The multivariate analysis showed that CRP was the independent variable most strongly associated with VA. Taken together, these findings suggested that more chronic, severe inflammation might be involved in the pathogenesis of VA, manifested by increased counts of circulating inflammatory cells and elevated plasma levels of CRP and IL-6."}
{"id": "18604123", "title": "Effect of preload reduction by haemodialysis on doppler indices of diastolic function in patients with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Effect of preload reduction by haemodialysis on doppler indices of diastolic function in patients with end-stage renal disease. To assess the influence of preload reduction by haemodialysis on Doppler echocardiographic indices of cardiac diastolic function. Parameters of left ventricular diastolic function were measured in patients with end-stage renal disease before and after a single session of haemodialysis. Patients with valvular heart disease, coronary artery disease, cardiomyopathies, pericardial disease and those not in sinus rhythm were excluded from the study. Seventeen subjects (12 males and 5 females, mean age 48 +/- 16 years) were studied. Over the duration of 3.7 +/- 0.6 hours of haemodialysis, 2.6 +/- 1.3 litres of ultrafiltrate was removed. The comparison of pre and post haemodialysis peak mitral E and A velocities showed a decrease in E velocity (p < 0.01) whereas the change in A velocity was not significant. The E/A ratio decreased significantly (p < 0.05).The decrease in E velocity correlated well with the amount of ultrafiltrate (r = 0.653, p < 0.01). There was a significant increase in isovolumetric relaxation time (p< 0.05) whereas deceleration time did not change (p =0.3). Ultrafiltration during haemodialysis causes a rapid reduction in preload. It results in decreased early left ventricular diastolic filling without a change in the atrial phase of filling, hence causing a decrease in calculated E/A ratio."}
{"id": "18589097", "title": "Technetium myocardial perfusion scanning in prerenal transplant evaluation in the United kingdom.", "content": "Technetium myocardial perfusion scanning in prerenal transplant evaluation in the United kingdom. Because death with a functioning graft remains one of the most important causes of long-term renal transplant failure, cardiac risk stratification and screening for coronary artery disease are essential components of pretransplant assessment. Pretransplant screening for occult coronary artery disease in a subset of these patients may improve outcome. The UK follows the European Best practice guideline 1.5.5 E. Although echocardiography, thallium myocardial perfusion scanning (MPS), dobutamine stress echocardiography, and coronary angiography have been suggested as means of cardiovascular assessment, the best means of assessment remains undetermined. Therefore, we investigated the role of 99m technetium sestamibi myocardial perfusion scanning as an assessment tool for identifying those patients with end-stage renal failure at high risk of cardiovascular death after renal transplantation. Retrospectively, we studied 126 patients that had a MPS as part of their pretransplant assessment. Overall unadjusted survival was 65% at 3 years. Twelve deaths resulted from cardiovascular causes. A reversible defect on MPS was associated with a fatal cardiac event and all-cause mortality. The unadjusted hazard ratio of cardiac event with reversible defect on MPS was 3.1 (95% confidence interval, 1.1 to 18.2) and hazard ratio of death with reversible defect on MPS was 1.92 (95% confidence interval, 1.1 to 4.4). Thus, MPS may be a useful tool in cardiac risk stratification and in selecting patients with a favorable outcome after renal transplantation. Our patients with a reversible defect in particular have increased cardiac mortality. This group may benefit from coronary angiography."}
{"id": "18580056", "title": "Application of myocardial contrast echocardiography for the perfusion assessment in patients with end-stage renal failure--comparison with coronary angiography.", "content": "Application of myocardial contrast echocardiography for the perfusion assessment in patients with end-stage renal failure--comparison with coronary angiography. 39 end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients undergoing elective coronary angiography (CA) were studied. Myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) for the perfusion assessment was done prior to CA. The left ventricle was divided into three regions supplied by left anterior descending (LAD) circumflex (Cx) and right coronary artery (RCA). Comparison between MCE and CA was performed on two levels: presence of any perfusion defect by any significant coronary artery stenosis (CAS) in a particular patient, any perfusion defect-by-vessel analysis. Significant coronary artery disease was revealed on CA in 18 (46%) patients. 28 (72%) of the patients had perfusion defects on MCE. The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values (PPV, NPV) of MCE for the presence of any significant CAS in a given patient were 94, 76, 77 and 94% respectively. The best agreement between the presence of the perfusion defect on MCE and CAS was found for RCA: sensitivity 89%, specificity 87%, PPV 67%, NPV 96%, the worst for LAD: 71, 71, 53 and 91% respectively. Our preliminary results indicate that MCE is of a good accuracy for ruling out the presence of a significant CAS in patients with ESRD. Diagnostic performance of MCE seems to be different in respect of analyzed region of the left ventricle."}
{"id": "18580053", "title": "Clinical implications of subclinical hypothyroidism in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis patients.", "content": "Clinical implications of subclinical hypothyroidism in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis patients. Despite the high prevalence of subclinical hypothyroidism in patients with chronic kidney disease, little is known about the clinical features and implications of this disorder in end-stage renal disease patients. This study aimed to investigate the clinical implications of subclinical hypothyroidism in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients. This is a cross-sectional study with 51 stable patients who were maintained on CAPD for more than 3 months. A thyroid function test with blood sampling and echocardiography were conducted. Subclinical hypothyroidism was defined as a thyrotropin (TSH) level over 5 mIU/l and normal free T(4). Of the 51 patients, subclinical hypothyroidism was detected in 14 (27.5%). Among those with subclinical hypothyroidism, only 4 (28.6%) patients had autoimmune thyroiditis. Patients with subclinical hypothyroidism had lower left ventricular ejection fractions (LVEF; 61.5 vs. 70.0%, p = 0.002) and lower fractional shortening at endocardial levels (endoFS; 33.9 vs. 40.0%, p = 0.009) compared to those with normal TSH levels. In addition, logTSH was inversely associated with LVEF (r = -0.361, p = 0.009) and endoFS (r = -0.320, p = 0.022). In a multivariate linear regression, adjusted for age, diabetes, previous coronary artery disease and logCRP (C-reactive protein), logTSH was an independent correlate with LVEF (beta = -0.388, p < 0.001). This study suggests that subclinical hypothyroidism is common and might be implicated in cardiac dysfunction in CAPD patients."}
{"id": "18573564", "title": "Coronary artery calcification, arterial stiffness and renal insufficiency associate with serum levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha in Japanese type 2 diabetic patients.", "content": "Coronary artery calcification, arterial stiffness and renal insufficiency associate with serum levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha in Japanese type 2 diabetic patients. Although the kidneys are the major source of proinflammatory cytokines, association of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) with severity of atherosclerosis or kidney function in diabetic patients is unclear. Two hundred type 2 diabetic patients and 30 age-matched nondiabetic subjects consecutively admitted to our hospital were enrolled. The Agatston coronary artery calcium score (CACS), a quantitative marker of coronary atherosclerosis, was obtained using multidetector-row computed tomography. Arterial stiffness was assessed by brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity (baPWV). Diabetic patients had higher log(CACS+1) (p=0.0089), baPWV (p=0.0293), frequency of elevated urinary albumin excretion (UAE) (p<0.0001) and TNF-alpha (p=0.0029) and similar estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) compared to nondiabetic subjects. When diabetic patients were grouped into four subgroups with or without elevated UAE and renal insufficiency (UAE of >/=30 or <30mg/24h and eGFR of <60 or >/=60ml/min per 1.73m(2)), patients with micro- and macroalbuminuric renal insufficiency showed the highest log(CACS+1) (p<0.0001), baPWV (p=0.0068) and TNF-alpha (p<0.0001) of these groups. Log(CACS+1) (p=0.0008) and baPWV (p=0.0006) positively and eGFR (p<0.0001) negatively correlated with TNF-alpha in diabetic patients. We find that coronary artery calcification, arterial stiffness, and renal insufficiency associate with circulating levels of TNF-alpha in type 2 diabetic patients."}
{"id": "18573389", "title": "Long-term survival after cardiac surgery is predicted by estimated glomerular filtration rate.", "content": "Long-term survival after cardiac surgery is predicted by estimated glomerular filtration rate. Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) before coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery is a key risk factor of in-hospital mortality. However, in patients with normal renal function before CABG, acute kidney injury develops after the procedure, making postoperative renal function assessment necessary for evaluation. Postoperative eGFR and its association with long-term survival have not been well studied. We studied 13,593 consecutive CABG patients in northern New England from 2001 to 2006. Patients with preoperative dialysis were excluded. Data were linked to the Social Security Association Death Master File to assess long-term survival. Kaplan-Meier and log-rank techniques were used. Patients were stratified by established categories of postoperative eGFR (90 or greater, 60 to 89, 30 to 59, 15 to 29, and less than 15 mL x min(-1) x 1.73 m(-2)). Median follow-up was 2.8 years (mean, 2.7; range, 0 to 5.5). Patients with moderate to severe acute kidney injury (less than 60) after CABG had significantly worse survival than patients with little or no acute kidney injury (90 or greater). Patients having moderate to severe acute kidney injury after CABG surgery had worse 5-year survival compared with patients who had normal or near-normal renal function."}
{"id": "18572117", "title": "Normal thoracic aorta diameter on cardiac computed tomography in healthy asymptomatic adults: impact of age and gender.", "content": "Normal thoracic aorta diameter on cardiac computed tomography in healthy asymptomatic adults: impact of age and gender. To establish the normal criterion of ascending aortic diameter (AAOD) measured by 64 multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) and electron beam computed tomography (EBT) based on gender and age. A total of 1442 consecutive subjects who were referred for evaluation of possible coronary artery disease underwent coronary computed tomographic (CT) angiography (CTA) and coronary artery calcium scanning (CACS) (55 + 11 years, 65% male) without known coronary heart disease, hypertension, chronic pulmonary and renal disease, diabetes, and severe aortic calcification. The AAOD aortic diameter, descending aortic diameter (DAOD), pulmonary artery (PAD), and chest anteroposterior diameter (CAPD), posterior border of the sternal bone to the anterior border of the spine, were measured at the slice level of mid-right pulmonary artery using end systolic trigger imaging. The volume of four chambers, ejection fraction of left ventricle, and cardiac output were measured in 56% of the patients. Patients' demographic information, age, gender, weight, height, and body surface area were recorded. The mean value and age-specific and gender-adjusted upper normal limits (mean +/- 2 standard deviation) were calculated. The linear correlation analysis was done between AAOD and all parameters. The reproducibility, wall thickness, and difference between end-systole and end-diastole were calculated. AAOD has significant linear association with age, gender, DAOD, and pulmonary artery diameter (P < .05). There is no significant correlation between AAOD and body surface area, four-chamber volume, left ventricular ejection fraction, cardiac output, and CAPD. The mean intraluminal AAOD was 31.1 +/- 3.9 and 33.6 +/- 4.1 mm in females and males, respectively. The upper normal limits (mean +/- 2 standard deviations) of intraluminal AAOD, were 35.6, 38.3, and 40 mm for females and 37.8, 40.5, and 42.6 mm for males in age groups 20-40, 41-60, and older than 60 years, respectively. Intraluminal aortic diameters should parallel echocardiography and invasive angiography. Traditional cross-sectional imaging (with CT and magnetic resonance imaging) includes the vessel wall. The mean total AAOD was 33.5 and 36.0 mm in females and males, respectively. The upper normal limits (mean +/- 2 standard deviations) of intraluminal AAOD were 38.0, 40.7 and 42.4 mm for females and 40.2, 42.9, and 45.0 mm for males in age group 20 to 40, 41 to 60, and older than 60 years, respectively. The inter- and intraobserver, scanner, and repeated measurement variabilities were low (r value >0.91, P < .001, coefficient variation <3.2%). AAOD was 1.7 mm smaller in end-diastole than end-systole (P < .001). The AAOD increases with age and male gender. Gender-specific and age-adjusted normal values for aortic diameters are necessary to differentiate pathologic atherosclerotic changes in the ascending aorta. Use of intraluminal or total aortic diameter values depends on the comparison study employed."}
{"id": "18569907", "title": "Cardiac findings in asymptomatic chronic hemodialysis patients with persistently elevated cardiac troponin I levels.", "content": "Cardiac findings in asymptomatic chronic hemodialysis patients with persistently elevated cardiac troponin I levels. The prevalence and significance of higher than normal cardiac troponin I (cTnI) levels in asymptomatic chronic hemodialysis (HD) patients remains a source of discussion. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the prevalence of higher than normal cTnI levels in asymptomatic HD patients, as determined by the last generation of immunoassay, and to perform further cardiological investigations in those patients with persistently elevated cTnI levels. All chronic HD patients in our center who had exhibited no symptoms of coronary artery disease (CAD) during the previous four weeks were screened. cTnI levels were determined before dialysis in all patients using the last generation AccuTnI assay (UniCel DxI 800, Beckman Coulter). The cTnI levels of those patients with elevated cTnI at the screening evaluation were then measured monthly for six months. We were thus able to identify a group of patients with persistently elevated cTnI levels (> 3 consecutive months) who subsequently underwent cardiac echography and dipyridamole-exercise (D-E) thallium testing. If stress myocardial ischemia was detected, a coronary angiography was then performed. Fifty patients (32 males) were included: mean age 62.8 +/- 13.6 years, 20 (40%) with a history of CAD, and 21 (42%) diabetic. At the initial screening, the mean cTnI concentration was 0.05 +/- 0.06 microg/L and the cTnI levels were higher than normal (> 0.09 microg/L) in six patients (12%). In the follow-up, the cTnI normalized immediately in two patients but remained persistently elevated (range, 0.10-0.48 microg/L) in four (8%). These four patients (all males, one diabetic) had a mean age of 70.2 +/- 6.6 years, and all had heart failure with a history of severe CAD with previous myocardial infarction (n = 4), coronary stenting (n = 3), and/or bypass (n = 2). D-E thallium imaging showed reversible myocardial ischemia in all. The stress ischemia involved one to four cardiac segments and was slight to moderate in three patients and severe in the diabetic patient. A coronary angiogram was performed in all patients, and showed lesions of variable severity: severe three-vessel CAD with severe systolic dysfunction in two patients (including the diabetic), and non-critical/peripheral coronary stenosis in the other two. Among the asymptomatic HD patients in our center, we identified four (8%) with persistently elevated cTnI levels, as determined using the last generation AccuTnI assay. All of them had a history of severe CAD with heart failure and exhibited reversible myocardial ischemia upon D-E thallium imaging; coronary angiography revealed coronary lesions of variable severity. Overall, our data indicate that persistent low-grade cTnI elevation occurs in HD patients having longstanding severe cardiac disease, but, from our data, it is difficult to reach a conclusion as to the best clinical approach for this group of patients."}
{"id": "18562597", "title": "Coronary artery calcification, ADMA, and insulin resistance in CKD patients.", "content": "Coronary artery calcification, ADMA, and insulin resistance in CKD patients. It is known that coronary artery calcification (CAC) develops in chronic kidney disease (CKD) before initiation of renal replacement therapy, and factors associated with CKD mineral and bone disorders (CKD-MBDs) are involved. However, little information is available about any association between plasma levels of asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), insulin resistance, and CAC. A total of 111 CKD patients (79 men, 32 women; glomerular filtration rate [GFR] median, 33.7 ml/min per 1.73 m(2)), free of cardiovascular disease, were consecutively recruited along with 30 age-matched healthy subjects. Coronary artery calcification scores (CACS) were measured by multidetector-row CT according to Agatston score. In CKD patients, CACS was distributed widely from 0 to 2901, while in age-matched, healthy control subjects (n = 30), CACS showed a range from 0 to 307. GFR had a significant negative correlation with CACS. Plasma ADMA levels were negatively correlated with GFR and positively correlated with CACS. When CACS was divided into quartiles (<50, n = 56; 50 to 300, n = 24; 300 to 600, n = 14; >600, n = 17), the patients with CACS >600 had significantly higher values of HOMA-IR, plasma ADMA levels, and fibrinogen along with serum levels of phosphorus, compared with those in patients having CACS <50. Multivariate regression analysis determined HOMA-IR as an independent contributing factor to CACS. CAC becomes more prevalent and severe with a decline in GFR, and plasma ADMA levels and insulin resistance, independent of factors associated with CKD-MBD, are correlated with CAC."}
{"id": "18562059", "title": "Prevalence and associations of coronary artery calcification in patients with stages 3 to 5 CKD without cardiovascular disease.", "content": "Prevalence and associations of coronary artery calcification in patients with stages 3 to 5 CKD without cardiovascular disease. Patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) have a high prevalence of coronary artery calcification, suggesting that CKD itself is a risk factor for its occurrence. Existing studies are confounded by the inclusion of patients who may not have CKD by means of diagnostic criteria and by failing to account for existing cardiovascular disease. Cross-sectional study. 119 patients with CKD stages 3 to 5 (excluding dialysis) without known cardiovascular disease receiving care at a single center in Kingston, Ontario, Canada. Glomerular filtration rate was estimated (eGFR) by using the 4-variable Modification of Diet in Renal Disease Study equation. Traditional and nontraditional coronary artery calcification risk factors were defined a priori. Coronary artery calcification was measured by means of multislice computed tomographic scan. Mean and median coronary artery calcification scores were 566.5 +/- 1,108 and 111 (interquartile range, 2 to 631.5), respectively. A total of 32.8% of patients showed little calcification (score, 0 to 10). Calcification correlated with age (r = 0.44; P < 0.001), body mass index (r = 0.28; P = 0.002), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol level (r = -0.23; P = 0.01), diabetes mellitus (r = 0.23; P = 0.01), and cardiovascular risk score (r = 0.35; P < 0.001). By means of multivariable linear regression controlling for eGFR and diabetes mellitus, age (beta = 0.05; 95% confidence interval, 0.03 to 0.06; P < 0.001), body mass index (beta = 0.04; 95% confidence interval, 0.02 to 0.07; P = 0.001), and serum calcium level (beta = 0.9; 95% confidence interval, 0.15 to 1.6; P = 0.02), were risk factors for coronary artery calcification. Inadequate sample size and uncontrolled confounding are possible limitations, but are unlikely to have changed the main study findings. In this study, traditional cardiovascular disease risk factors and serum calcium level were associated with coronary artery calcification. No association was shown with eGFR. Studies exploring protective mechanisms against coronary artery calcification are needed."}
{"id": "18560241", "title": "Assessment of coronary stenosis by a 16-slice MDCT scanner in asymptomatic diabetic patients starting dialysis therapy.", "content": "Assessment of coronary stenosis by a 16-slice MDCT scanner in asymptomatic diabetic patients starting dialysis therapy. The accuracy for the detection of coronary stenosis by multidetector row computed tomography (MDCT) has been getting more recognition. However, the usefulness of MDCT in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) has not been confirmed. Weanalyzed 19 consecutive patients with asymptomatic diabetic CKD who underwent both MDCT and coronary angiography (CAG) at the initiation of dialysis. The definition of stenosis in this study was lesions with > or =50% stenosis by CAG. CAG revealed stenosis in 35 of 76 branches in 19 patients. Vessel diameter could not be evaluated by MDCT in 11 (14%) major vessels because of motion artifacts, pericardial effusion, pleural effusion, and severe calcification. Almost all of such lesions were located in the right coronary (4/11; 36%) or left circumflex (5/11; 45%) artery. The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values of MDCT for a diagnosis of stenosis in the 65 evaluable major vessels were 86, 81, 78, and 88%, respectively. The severity of vessel calcification was increased in a stepwise manner with increments in the proportion of major vessels with > or =50% stenosis (p = 0.004 for trend). MDCT seemed to be an effective non-invasive method of screening patients with diabetic CKD for CAD."}
{"id": "18538099", "title": "Vascular complications of the lower extremities in diabetic patients on peritoneal dialysis.", "content": "Vascular complications of the lower extremities in diabetic patients on peritoneal dialysis. Diabetic patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) are at high risk for developing foot complications and few have studied this complication in the diabetic patients treated with peritoneal dialysis (PD). The purpose of this study was to examine peripheral vascular disease (PVD) in diabetic patients with ESRD, who are being treated with PD, and to identify those factors that may contribute to its development. We reviewed retrospectively the charts of 71 diabetic patients who started PD between January 1999 and January 2006, inclusive, and recorded their demographic data, their treatment regimens, their complications and the results of biochemical investigation(s) at the beginning and throughout their follow-up period. All patients were under the care of a chiropodist who examined them at regular intervals and more often when needed. We divided the patients into two groups with respect to the presence of complications in the lower extremities, such as ulcers, open wounds, osteomyelitis, necrotizing or gangrenous lesions, and amputations, intermittent claudication and/or the presence on an imaging examination of changes in the leg vessels consistent with vascular disease. 33 of the 71 patients had some type of a foot lesion. There were 8 amputations in the course of 176 patient-years (2 double amputations), or 1 amputation per 30 PD patient-years. Those patients with foot complications were treated more frequently with CCPD (p<0.05), more often had peripheral neuropathy (p<0.002), as well as coronary artery disease (p<0.044). They had lower serum albumin (p<0.005), significantly higher serum phosphorus (p<0.047) and they received higher doses of erythropoietin (p<0.042). There was no statistically significant difference between the groups regarding sex, age at initiation of PD, type of diabetes, use of insulin, levels of HbA(1c), body mass index (BMI), presence of retinopathy, cerebral vascular disease, hyperlipidemia, smoking, rate of transplantation, rate of drop-out from PD, time-averaged Kt/V, creatinine clearance, serum calcium, Ca x P and intact PTH. In a multiple logistics regression model, only peripheral neuropathy and hypoalbuminemia were independently associated with the development of lower-extremity complications (p<0.0066 and p <0.026, respectively). One-, two- and three-year cumulative survival of the whole group was 91.5%, 78.8% and 69%, respectively. Patients with foot lesions had a lower survival than those without. Interestingly though, those patients, who had had an amputation, survived as long as those patients, who did not have foot complications at all. In conclusion, compared to reports in the literature, our diabetic patients on PD had a lower rate of foot complications and amputation probably because of early intervention by our chiropodist. This fact stresses the need for constant and expert monitoring of the condition of the diabetic patient's feet, especially in those with low serum albumin and peripheral neuropathy."}
{"id": "18528325", "title": "Myocardial fatty acid imaging identifies a group of hemodialysis patients at high risk for cardiac death after coronary revascularization.", "content": "Myocardial fatty acid imaging identifies a group of hemodialysis patients at high risk for cardiac death after coronary revascularization. We prospectively evaluated if impaired myocardial fatty acid metabolism is involved in cardiac death after revascularization by percutaneous coronary artery intervention in dialysis patients. A cohort of hemodialysis patients was assessed by dual single-photon emission computed tomography using the radioiodinated fatty acid analogue BMIPP and radiolabeled thallium chloride. Tomography was done within one month before the first coronary intervention and at the last follow-up angiography at which neither restenosis nor de novo lesions were detected. Radiolabel uptake on tomography images was graded in segments and calculated as summed BMIPP or thallium scores. Among the 90 hemodialysis patients in the study, 19 died of cardiac events. Multivariate Cox hazard analysis found a significant association of cardiac death with the BMIPP summed scores at the last follow-up angiography. Kaplan-Meier analysis showed the cardiac death-free survival rates at 3 years of follow-up were significantly higher in patients with lower BMIPP summed scores. These results suggest that myocardial fatty acid imaging may be a useful test to identify high risk groups of cardiac death in hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "18513419", "title": "Noninvasive assessment of coronary vasodilation using cardiovascular magnetic resonance in patients at high risk for coronary artery disease.", "content": "Noninvasive assessment of coronary vasodilation using cardiovascular magnetic resonance in patients at high risk for coronary artery disease. Impaired coronary vasodilation to both endothelial-dependent and endothelial-independent stimuli have been associated with atherosclerosis. Direct measurement of coronary vasodilation using x-ray angiography or intravascular ultrasound is invasive and, thus, not appropriate for asymptomatic patients or for serial follow-up. In this study, high-resolution coronary cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) was used to investigate the vasodilatory response to nitroglycerine (NTG) of asymptomatic patients at high risk for CAD. A total of 46 asymptomatic subjects were studied: 13 high-risk patients [8 with diabetes mellitus (DM), 5 with end stage renal disease (ESRD)] and 33 age-matched controls. Long-axis and cross-sectional coronary artery images were acquired pre- and 5 minutes post-sublingual NTG using a sub-mm-resolution multi-slice spiral coronary CMR sequence. Coronary cross sectional area (CSA) was measured on pre- and post-NTG images and % coronary vasodilation was calculated. Patients with DM and ESRD had impaired coronary vasodilation to NTG compared to age-matched controls (17.8 +/- 7.3% vs. 25.6 +/- 7.1%, p = 0.002). This remained significant for ESRD patients alone (14.8 +/- 7.7% vs. 25.6 +/- 7.1%; p = 0.003) and for DM patients alone (19.8 +/- 6.3% vs. 25.6 +/- 7.1%; p = 0.049), with a non-significant trend toward greater impairment in the ESRD vs. DM patients (14.8 +/- 7.7% vs. 19.8 +/- 6.3%; p = 0.23). Noninvasive coronary CMR demonstrates impairment of coronary vasodilation to NTG in high-risk patients with DM and ESRD. This may provide a functional indicator of subclinical atherosclerosis and warrants clinical follow up to determine prognostic significance."}
{"id": "18510627", "title": "Prognostic value of cardiovascular screening in potential renal transplant recipients: a single-center prospective observational study.", "content": "Prognostic value of cardiovascular screening in potential renal transplant recipients: a single-center prospective observational study. We assessed the outcome of pretransplant cardiac assessment in a single center. Three hundred patients with end-stage renal disease underwent electrocardiogram, Bruce exercise testing (ETT) and ventricular assessment by cardiac MRI. Patients with high index of suspicion of coronary artery disease (CAD) underwent coronary angiography and percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) if indicated. Two hundred and twenty-two patients were accepted onto the renal transplant waiting list; 80 patients were transplanted during the follow-up period and 60 died (7 following transplantation). Successful transplantation was associated with improved survival (mean survival 4.5 +/- 0.6 years vs. listed not transplanted 4.1 +/- 1.4 years vs. not listed 3.1 +/- 1.7 years; p < 0.001). Ninety-nine patients underwent coronary angiography; 65 had normal or low-grade CAD and 34 obstructive CAD. Seventeen patients (5.6%) were treated by PCI. There was no apparent survival difference between patients who underwent PCI or coronary artery bypass graft compared to those who underwent angiography without intervention or no angiography (p = 0.67). Factors associated with nonlisting for renal transplantation included burden of preexisting cardiovascular disease, poor exercise tolerance and severity of CAD. Pretransplant cardiovascular screening provides prognostic information and information that can be used to restrict access to transplantation. However, if the aim is to identify and treat CAD, the benefits are far from clear."}
{"id": "18490301", "title": "Prognostic value of left atrial size in chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Prognostic value of left atrial size in chronic kidney disease. Patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) have high cardiovascular risk. Although stress imaging provides accurate risk estimation in this population, it is unknown if combinatorial cardiac imaging adds incremental value. We performed transthoracic echocardiography and stress single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) to assess their value in predicting late cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality in 200 patients with creatinine clearance <60 mL/min without a history of coronary heart disease. During a median follow-up duration of 3.7 (3.5-4.0) years, there were 25 deaths because of CVD. Older age, abnormal SPECT, and increased indexed left atrial (LA) diameter were associated with CVD mortality on univariate analysis with P = 0.007, 0.01, and 0.004, respectively. In multivariable analysis, indexed LA diameter >24 mm/m(2) was independently predictive of CVD mortality [hazard ratio (HR) 2.75, confidence interval (CI) 1.14-6.59], but abnormal SPECT was not. Each mm/m(2) increase in indexed atrial diameter was associated with an HR 1.20 (95% CI 1.06-1.37). In patients with CKD, the indexed LA diameter predicts CVD mortality independent of an abnormal SPECT result. Consideration should be given to this simple measurement as a prognostic tool in this population."}
{"id": "18489931", "title": "Incidence, predictors, and outcomes of post-percutaneous coronary intervention nephropathy in patients with diabetes mellitus and normal baseline serum creatinine levels.", "content": "Incidence, predictors, and outcomes of post-percutaneous coronary intervention nephropathy in patients with diabetes mellitus and normal baseline serum creatinine levels. Diabetes mellitus is an independent predictor of nephropathy after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). The outcomes of patients with diabetes with normal baseline serum creatinine who undergo PCI remain underevaluated. The aim of the present study was to assess the incidence, outcomes, and correlates of post-PCI nephropathy in this subset. The study cohort consisted of 570 patients with diabetes with normal serum creatinine (< or =1.3 mg/dl) who underwent PCI from August 2004 to December 2006. Patients aged >75 years and those presenting with either acute myocardial infarctions or cardiogenic shock were excluded. Post-PCI nephropathy was defined as a > or =25% increase in baseline creatinine. The study end points were post-PCI nephropathy and major adverse cardiac events at 6 months. Logistic regression was performed to identify independent predictors. Post-PCI nephropathy occurred in 70 patients (incidence 12.3%). These patients were more likely to be women (55.7% vs 35.5%, p = 0.001) and to have histories of congestive heart failure (24.2% vs 14.7%, p = 0.048). Entry-site complications (hematoma, pseudoaneurysm) and the need for blood transfusion (16.7% vs 1.7%, p <0.001) were more common in this group. In-hospital mortality (8.6% vs 0.2%, p <0.001) and length of stay (4.51 +/- 5.2 vs 2.23 +/- 2.9 days, p <0.001) were significantly higher in the group with post-PCI nephropathy. No study patient required dialysis. At 6 months, major adverse cardiac events were markedly higher in patients with post-PCI nephropathy (21.4% vs 6.0%, p <0.001), driven by death and revascularization. Independent predictors of post-PCI nephropathy were lower body mass index and blood transfusion. Post-PCI nephropathy independently predicted major adverse cardiac events (hazard ratio 4.3, 95% confidence interval 2.1 to 8.6, p <0.001). In conclusion, post-PCI nephropathy occurred in 12.3% of patients with diabetes with normal baseline serum creatinine and carried a significant detrimental impact on prognosis. The requirement for blood transfusions was the strongest correlate identified."}
{"id": "18483462", "title": "Association of insulin resistance with de novo coronary stenosis after percutaneous coronary artery intervention in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Association of insulin resistance with de novo coronary stenosis after percutaneous coronary artery intervention in hemodialysis patients. De novo coronary atherosclerosis may be involved in the poor prognosis after percutaneous coronary artery intervention (PCI) in hemodialysis patients. We aimed to clarify the factors associated with de novocoronary lesion in this population. We enrolled 106 patients on hemodialysis (72 men, 34 women; mean age, 65.4 +/- 8.9 years), who had firstly received PCI with bare-metal stents for single coronary lesions and undergone follow-up coronary angiography (CAG) 6 months thereafter. Coronary lesion with stenosis of >50% diameter that was newly recognized at follow-up CAG was defined as de novo coronary stenosis. The values of biochemical parameters were determined as the means of several measurements between PCI and follow-up CAG. Follow-up CAG revealed de novo coronary stenosis in 40 (37.7%) of the 106 hemodialysis patients who had received PCI. Stepwise multiple logistic regression analysis showed that de novo coronary lesions were strongly associated with homeostasis model assessment insulin resistance index (HOMA-IR; 1 mM x [microU/ml]: odds ratio, 7.312; p =0.001). This significant association of HOMA-IR with de novo coronary stenosis was recognized in the diabetic and nondiabetic subgroups. Insulin resistance may be involved in the progression of nonculprit coronary atherosclerosis after PCI in hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "18450828", "title": "Coronary artery calcification scores in patients with chronic kidney disease prior to dialysis: reliability as a trial outcome measure.", "content": "Coronary artery calcification scores in patients with chronic kidney disease prior to dialysis: reliability as a trial outcome measure. Coronary artery calcification (CAC) is prevalent in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). Data on the reliability and validity of high-resolution computerized tomography (HRCT) in patients with CKD is lacking. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the inter- and intra-reviewer agreement and inter-scan reproducibility of CACS measurement with HRCT in a cohort of patients with CKD prior to dialysis, and to compare the change in CACS at 30 minutes to the change in CACS over 1 year. Thirty-three patients with CKD not yet on dialysis underwent an HRCT scan at baseline and 1 year to assess for CAC and CAC progression. Two radiologists independently reviewed films and each radiologist re-reviewed a randomly selected subset of films they had previously viewed, to assess for inter-reviewer and intra-reviewer reliability, respectively. Patients underwent a repeat scan within 30 min of the first baseline scan to assess for inter-scan reproducibility. At baseline, eight patients (24%) had no CAC. Of the 25 patients (76%) with CAC, 10 (40%) had severe calcification. Intra-reviewer agreement was 83%. Inter-reviewer agreement ranged between 77 and 94%. Six (27%) of the patients with >30 baseline CACS had >15% change in CACS following repositioning. Four of these patients had an increase in CACS with position change [18% (95% CI: 5-40%)]. Of the 21 patients who underwent a follow-up scan at 1 year, 7 (33%) demonstrated CACS progression. There is significant imprecision in HRCT-derived CACS in CKD patients. This suggests a need for standardization of methods of CACS measurement with HRCT."}
{"id": "18442713", "title": "Outcome of heart transplants 15 to 20 years ago: graft survival, post-transplant morbidity, and risk factors for mortality.", "content": "Outcome of heart transplants 15 to 20 years ago: graft survival, post-transplant morbidity, and risk factors for mortality. The study was conducted to determine the long-term outcome of patients who underwent heart transplantation 15 to 20 years ago, in the cyclosporine era, and identify risk factors for death. A retrospective analysis was done of 148 patients who had undergone heart transplantation between 1985 and 1991 at a single center. Operative technique and immunosuppressive treatment were comparable in all patients. Actuarial survival rates were 75% (n = 111), 58% (n = 86), and 42% (n = 62) at 5, 10, and 15 years, respectively. The mean follow-up period was 12.1 +/- 5.6 years for patients who survived more than 3 months after transplantation (n = 131). The major causes of death were malignancy (35.8%) and cardiac allograft vasculopathy (24.7%). No death related to acute rejection was reported after the first month of transplantation. Graft coronary artery disease was detected on angiography in 66 (50.3%), and 7 (5.3%) had retransplantation. Malignancies developed in 131 patients (48.1%), including skin cancers in 31 (23.6%), solid tumors in 26 (19.8%), and hematologic malignancies in 14 (10.6%). Severe renal function requiring dialysis or renal transplantation developed in 27 patients (20.6%). By multivariable analysis, the only pre-transplant risk factor found to affect long-term survival was a history of cigarette use (p < 0.0004). Long-term survival at 15 years after cardiac transplantation remains excellent in the cyclosporine era. Controlling acute allograft rejection can be achieved but seems to carry a high rate of cancers and renal dysfunction. History of cigarette use affects significantly long-term survival in our study."}
{"id": "18442534", "title": "Recurrent mitral regurgitation and risk factors for early and late mortality after mitral valve repair for functional ischemic mitral regurgitation.", "content": "Recurrent mitral regurgitation and risk factors for early and late mortality after mitral valve repair for functional ischemic mitral regurgitation. Mortality for patients with coronary artery disease and functional ischemic mitral regurgitation (IMR) remains high regardless of the treatment strategy. Data regarding risk factors, progression of MR, and cause of death in this subgroup are limited. A retrospective study was performed on 257 consecutive patients undergoing mitral valve repair exclusively for IMR from 1996 to 2005. Potential preoperative and perioperative risk factors for death and postoperative echocardiographic data were recorded. Preoperative echocardiography demonstrated 3+ to 4+ MR in 98.4% (252 of 257). Concomitant coronary artery bypass grafting was performed in 80.9% (208 of 257). Operative mortality was 10.1% (26 of 257). Overall survival by Kaplan-Meier analysis was 68.3% at 3 years and 52.0% at 5 years. Factors associated with late mortality by multivariate analysis include advanced age (relative risk [RR], 1.037; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.016 to 1.059; p < or = 0.001), preoperative dialysis (RR, 3.504; 95% CI, 1.590 to 7.720; p = 0.008), and diabetes (RR, 2.047; 95% CI, 1.319 to 3.177; p = 0.001). Echocardiographic data at 20 +/- 25 months were available in 57% (147 of 257). Their survival by Kaplan-Meier analysis was 76.4% at 3 years and 65.1% at 5 years with 0 to 2+ MR postoperatively (n = 106) vs 61.3% and 35.8% with 3+ to 4+ MR (n = 41; p = 0.003). Cause of death was available in 72.3% (60 of 83) of late deaths, with 42.2% (35 of 83) attributed to cardiac causes and 30.1% (25 of 83) noncardiac. Mortality for IMR remains high despite surgical management and may be related to risk factors for progression of coronary artery disease. Despite repair, MR progresses in many patients and is associated with poor survival, although more detailed prospective data are needed to characterize this relationship."}
{"id": "18423809", "title": "A 1-year randomized trial of calcium acetate versus sevelamer on progression of coronary artery calcification in hemodialysis patients with comparable lipid control: the Calcium Acetate Renagel Evaluation-2 (CARE-2) study.", "content": "A 1-year randomized trial of calcium acetate versus sevelamer on progression of coronary artery calcification in hemodialysis patients with comparable lipid control: the Calcium Acetate Renagel Evaluation-2 (CARE-2) study. Previous clinical trials showed that progression of coronary artery calcification (CAC) may be slower in hemodialysis patients treated with sevelamer than those treated with calcium-based phosphate binders. Because sevelamer decreases low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels, we hypothesized that intensive lowering of LDL-C levels with atorvastatin in hemodialysis patients treated with calcium acetate would result in CAC progression rates similar to those in sevelamer-treated patients. Randomized, controlled, open-label, noninferiority trial with an upper bound for the noninferiority margin of 1.8. 203 prevalent hemodialysis patients at 26 dialysis centers with serum phosphorus levels greater than 5.5 mg/dL, LDL-C levels greater than 80 mg/dL, and baseline CAC scores of 30 to 7,000 units assessed by means of electron-beam computed tomography. 103 patients were randomly assigned to calcium acetate, and 100 patients to sevelamer for 12 months to achieve phosphorus levels of 3.5 to 5.5 mg/dL. Atorvastatin was added to achieve serum LDL-C levels less than 70 mg/dL in both groups. The primary end point was change in CAC score assessed by means of electron-beam computed tomography. After 12 months, mean serum LDL-C levels decreased to 68.8 +/- 22.0 mg/dL in the calcium-acetate group and 62.4 +/- 23.0 mg/dL in the sevelamer group (P = 0.3). Geometric mean increases in CAC scores were 35% in the calcium-acetate group and 39% in the sevelamer group, with a covariate-adjusted calcium acetate-sevelamer ratio of 0.994 (95% confidence interval, 0.851 to 1.161). Treatment assignment was not blinded. The 1.8 a priori margin is large, CAC is a surrogate outcome, duration of treatment was short, and dropout rate was high. With intensive lowering of LDL-C levels for 1 year, hemodialysis patients treated with either calcium acetate or sevelamer experienced similar progression of CAC."}
{"id": "18417740", "title": "Hypovitaminosis D in chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Hypovitaminosis D in chronic kidney disease. Recent studies show high prevalence of suboptimal 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels in chronic kidney disease patients. This study sought to test the hypothesis that the prevalence of 25-hydroxyvitamin D deficiency is significantly higher in chronic kidney disease patients and, in diabetic nephropathy, low serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D is associated with abnormal serum parathyroid hormone, bone mineral density, and coronary artery calcification. Study A used data from the Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. Study B was a post hoc analysis of an observational study of coronary artery calcification in non-dialysis-dependent diabetic nephropathy. In study A, the adjusted odds for 25-hydroxyvitamin D deficiency were 32% higher in chronic kidney disease patients. This higher prevalence of 25-hydroxyvitamin D deficiency, however, could not be explained by differences in total vitamin D intakes. The consequences of suboptimal 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels were analyzed in 146 patients with diabetic nephropathy. The significant, inverse relationship between serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D and parathyroid hormone levels was attenuated to a nonsignificant level on multivariate adjustment. There was a significant, inverse relationship between bone mineral density and coronary artery calcification scores; neither was independently associated with serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D. The serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels declined modestly in 72 patients studied after 12.4 +/- 0.4 mo. 25-Hydroxyvitamin D deficiency is more common in chronic kidney disease, but this higher prevalence is unlikely to be a result of lower vitamin D intakes. The consequences of suboptimal 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels remain to be definitively elucidated."}
{"id": "18403432", "title": "Cardiac troponin T predicts occult coronary artery stenosis in patients with chronic kidney disease at the start of renal replacement therapy.", "content": "Cardiac troponin T predicts occult coronary artery stenosis in patients with chronic kidney disease at the start of renal replacement therapy. The high prevalence of asymptomatic coronary artery stenosis (CAS) in chronic kidney disease (CKD) has emerged as an important predictor of outcome. However, diagnostic tools that can identify asymptomatic CAS have not yet been established. We investigated whether asymptomatic patients at the initiation of renal replacement therapy (RRT) could be screened using cardiac troponin T (cTnT) and atherosclerotic surrogate markers such as ankle-brachial blood pressure index (ABPI) and intima-media thickness (IMT). Among 142 patients who were about to start RRT, 60 who were asymptomatic underwent coronary evaluation by multi-slice computed tomography (MSCT) and/or coronary angiography (CAG). CAG diagnosed 35 patients (43.8%) as CAS positive and 27 of them had multi-vessel disease. Factors associated with CAS were smoking, elevated cTnT, low ABPI and high IMT. Moreover, the severity of CAS was associated with smoking, cTnT and ABPI. Stepwise logistic regression analyses revealed that cTnT was a powerful predictor of asymptomatic multi-vessel CAS. Receiver operating characteristic analysis documented the usefulness of cTnT as a screening tool with a cut-off point 0.05 ng/ml. The optimal screening tool for multi-vessel CAS was cTnT (sensitivity, 92.6%; 95% CI, 82.7-99.9; specificity, 63.6%; 95% CI, 47.2-80.0). We concluded that cTnT should be measured as part of a strategy for detecting asymptomatic CAS, especially multi-vessel disease in patients with CKD at the start of RRT."}
{"id": "18383049", "title": "Prognostic value of troponins in patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes and chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Prognostic value of troponins in patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes and chronic kidney disease. The prognostic value of cardiac troponins (cTn) in patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes (NSTE ACS) and chronic kidney disease (CKD) is debated. We tested the performance of cTnI and cTnT for risk stratification in patients with CKD and evaluated the prognostic significance of cTnI and cTnT elevations by their magnitude across the range of CKD severity. We examined correlations among cTn elevation, CKD, and in-hospital mortality in 31,586 high-risk patients with NSTE ACS included in the Can Rapid Risk Stratification of Unstable Angina Patients Suppress ADverse Outcomes with Early Implementation of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Guidelines initiative (CRUSADE). Cardiac tropinins I and T levels were categorized as ratios of each site's upper limit of normal (ULN) for myocardial necrosis: normal (cTn ratio < or =1 x ULN), mild (cTn ratio > 1-3 x ULN), and major (cTn ratio > 3 x ULN) elevation. Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) was calculated using the abbreviated Modification of Diet in Renal Disease equation. Stages of CKD were categorized as normal to mild (eGFR > 60 mL/min), moderate (eGFR 30-60 mL/min), or severe (eGFR < 30 mL/min). Mortality increased more steeply across CKD stages (2.0%-12.9%) than across cTn ratio categories (2.7%-5.4%). In normal or mild CKD, mortality was low regardless of cTn elevations. In moderate CKD, mortality increased incrementally with cTnI (3.3% versus 5.4% versus 7.4%) and cTnT (3.7% versus 5.3% versus 7.3%) elevation. Among severe CKD patients, only major cTn elevations further distinguished risk (cTnI: 10.1% versus 9.7% versus 14.6%; cTnT: 7.0% versus 5.7% versus 14.0%). In patients with CKD, cTnI and cTnT perform equally in differentiating short-term prognosis following NSTE ACS; however, the prognostic impact of cTn is dependent upon the degree of CKD severity."}
{"id": "18381881", "title": "Current status of off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery.", "content": "Current status of off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery. The expanding indications for angioplasty coupled with the successful short and mid-term results of randomized controlled trials of drug-eluting stents have already had an unquestionable impact on the practice of coronary revascularization operations. However, coronary artery bypass grafting remains a major mode of therapy for coronary artery disease. It is likely that surgery will continue to be preferred for more complex subsets and that surgeons will have to continue to maintain good results in patients with more complex problems. Concerns regarding morbidity associated with conventional surgical myocardial revascularization on cardiopulmonary bypass have led to a resurgence of interest in off-pump bypass surgery during the last decade, with the expectation that it would be safer if cardiopulmonary bypass could be avoided. This review summarizes the impact of off-pump bypass surgery in reducing the morbidity and mortality associated with conventional coronary artery bypass on cardiopulmonary bypass by evaluating the current best-available evidence from randomized controlled trials and meta-analyses comparing off-pump surgery with conventional bypass grafting."}
{"id": "18347440", "title": "Dialysis-induced hypotension is associated with impaired aortic elasticity in patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis.", "content": "Dialysis-induced hypotension is associated with impaired aortic elasticity in patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis. The pathogenesis of dialysis-induced hypotension (DIH) is multifactorial and may include increased aortic stiffness. This study was undertaken to determine aortic elastic properties in patients undergoing hemodialysis with and without DIH, and to assess the effects of DIH on mortality. Aortic stiffness and left ventricular functions were evaluated in 70 patients undergoing hemodialysis with (n=34) and without DIH (n=36). We also evaluated total mortality at 36 months. Patients with DIH in comparison with patients without DIH, had lower aortic strain (5.0+/-3.8 vs. 7.8+/-3.0%, P<0.005) and distensibility (2.3+/-1.9 vs. 3.2+/-1.7 cm2/dyn/10(3), P<0.01). In univariate analysis, age, aortic stiffness and left ventricular systolic dysfunction, and coronary artery disease were also found to be the main factors associated with DIH. On multivariate logistic regression analysis, aortic distensibility [odds ratio (OR): 0.61; 95% confidence interval (95% CI): 0.40-0.93; P=0.01] and the coronary artery disease (OR: 6.46; 95% CI: 1.62-25.73; P=0.009) remained as significant variables associated with DIH. During follow-up period, 12 out of 34 patients with DIH died compared with 4 out of 36 patients without DIH (log rank, P=0.02). Our data suggest that DIH is strongly associated with increased aortic stiffness and poor outcome. Larger long-term follow-up studies, however, investigating whether the DIH plays a surrogate or causative role on mortality in patients undergoing hemodialysis should be designed."}
{"id": "18329466", "title": "Risk factors for wound infection after off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting: should bilateral internal thoracic arteries be harvested in patients with diabetes?", "content": "Risk factors for wound infection after off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting: should bilateral internal thoracic arteries be harvested in patients with diabetes? Wound infection is a rare but life-threatening complication after coronary artery bypass grafting. Risk factors for wound infection after off-pump bypass grafting and the validity of using bilateral internal thoracic arteries harvested in a skeletonized fashion remain unclear, especially in patients with diabetes. The data of 1500 consecutive patients having off-pump bypass grafting were prospectively collected from our database based on EuroSCORE. This cohort represents 95% of all patients undergoing coronary bypass during that period and 77% of patients undergoing off-pump bypass grafting who received bilateral internal thoracic artery grafts. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed for patients with and without wound infection and in the diabetic subgroup. Ninety-eight patients had wound infections: 76, impaired wound healing; 7, superficial sternal wound infection; and 12, deep sternal wound infection. Patients with wound infections had a higher prevalence of female gender, atrial fibrillation, history of congestive heart failure, chronic renal failure, peripheral vascular disease, and diabetes. Patients with a wound infection more frequently had bilateral internal thoracic artery grafting, longer operation time, longer hospital stay, and a higher mortality rate. Blood transfusions were required in 43.9% of patients with wound infections and 28.1% of those without wound infections. On logistic regression analysis, female gender and history of congestive heart failure, chronic renal failure, and diabetes mellitus were independent risk factors for wound infection. In patients with diabetes, female gender, atherosclerosis obliterans, chronic renal failure, and use of bilateral internal thoracic artery grafts were independent risk factors for wound infection. Risk factors for wound infection after off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting are comparable with those previously reported for conventional bypass grafting. In patients with diabetes, the use of bilateral internal thoracic arteries, even when harvested in a skeletonized fashion, is a risk factor. Thus, appropriate precautions should be taken in patients with diabetes."}
{"id": "18328846", "title": "A comparison of contemporary definitions of contrast nephropathy in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention and a proposal for a novel nephropathy grading system.", "content": "A comparison of contemporary definitions of contrast nephropathy in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention and a proposal for a novel nephropathy grading system. Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has multiple definitions. We attempted to identify the optimal definition of CIN. In 985 patients undergoing PCI (derivation group), we assessed the prognostic significance of 4 commonly used contemporary definitions of CIN (increases in serum creatinine after PCI [deltaCr] >1.0 mg/dl, >0.5 mg/dl, and >25% after PCI; and the American College of Cardiology National Cardiovascular Data Registry definition) with respect to 6-month major adverse cardiovascular events (MACEs) and all-cause mortality (at 863 +/- 324 days). Incidence of CIN ranged widely (2.0% to 15%) depending on the definition used. Only 2 definitions (deltaCr >0.5 mg/dl, >25%) consistently correlated with study outcomes. Using these 2 definitions, we devised a new grading system (grade 0 deltaCr <or=25% and <or=0.5 mg/dl; grade 1 deltaCr >25% but <or=0.5 mg/dl; and grade 2 deltaCr >0.5 mg/dl). Nephropathy grades (0 vs 1 vs 2) showed significant correlation with 6-month MACEs (12.4 vs 19.4 vs 28.6%, p = 0.003) and all-cause mortality (10.2 vs 10.4 vs 40.9%, p <0.0001). In multivariate analyses, the grading system showed an independent association with MACEs and mortality. The prognostic value of nephropathy grades was prospectively confirmed in an independent validation group of 539 patients. In conclusion, of the 4 contemporary definitions of CIN, only deltaCr >25% and >0.5 mg/dl consistently predicted adverse events after PCI. By unifying these 2 definitions, we devised a novel nephropathy grading system that is predictive of 6-month MACEs and all-cause mortality after PCI."}
{"id": "18328840", "title": "Impact of renal insufficiency on angiographic, procedural, and in-hospital outcomes following percutaneous coronary intervention.", "content": "Impact of renal insufficiency on angiographic, procedural, and in-hospital outcomes following percutaneous coronary intervention. Patients with chronic renal insufficiency (RI) have higher in-hospital mortality and major adverse cardiac event (MACE) rates after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). The mechanisms of this adverse course are not well understood. It was hypothesized that this worse outcome may be caused by inadequate PCI results secondary to more complex coronary anatomy in patients with RI. Baseline, procedural, and outcome variables of all PCI cases at the University Health Network are entered prospectively in the PCI Registry. All PCI cases between April 1, 2000, and October 31, 2005, excluding patients in shock, who had preprocedural creatinine clearance (CrCl) measured were included in this study (n = 10,821 of 11,023 patients). Moderate RI (CrCl <60 ml/min) was evaluated as an independent predictor of procedural outcomes, death, and MACE (defined as death, myocardial infarction, abrupt closure, or coronary artery bypass grafting). Moderate RI (CrCl <60 ml/min) independently predicted the procedural outcomes of worse residual stenosis >20% (p = 0.03), number of undeliverable stents (p = 0.003), and smallest stent diameter (p <0.001). Worst residual stenosis >20% and any undeliverable stent were significantly associated with in-hospital MACEs (odds ratio [OR] 3.97, 95% confidence interval [CI] 3.0 to 5.3, p <0.001 and OR 1.89, 95% CI 1.2 to 2.9, p = 0.002) and mortality (OR 3.82, 95% CI 2.2 to 6.7, p <0.001 and OR 3.0, 95% CI 1.6 to 5.9, p = 0.002). These risks were independent of all other measured variables. In conclusion, moderate to severe RI was a strong predictor of worse procedural results during PCI, which, in turn, were independent predictors of in-hospital MACE and mortality and independent contributors to the higher risk of in-hospital adverse events observed after PCI in patients with RI."}
{"id": "18322158", "title": "Use of cardiac biomarkers in end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Use of cardiac biomarkers in end-stage renal disease. Mortality among patients with ESRD remains high because of an excessive cardiovascular risk related to a very high incidence of cardiac hypertrophy, cardiomyopathy, heart failure, and coronary artery disease. Identifying serum biomarkers that are useful in profiling cardiovascular risk and enabling stratification of early mortality and cardiovascular risk is an important goal in the treatment of these patients. This review examines current evidence pertaining to the role and utility of two emerging cardiac biomarkers, B-type natriuretic peptide and cardiac troponin T, in patients with ESRD. Together, these data demonstrate how these two cardiac biomarkers may play an adjunctive role to echocardiography in assessing cardiovascular risk and how they may aid in the clinical treatment of these patients."}
{"id": "18319217", "title": "Coronary artery disease in young women and men with long-standing insulin-dependent diabetes.", "content": "Coronary artery disease in young women and men with long-standing insulin-dependent diabetes. The prevalence and predictors of coronary artery disease were examined in people aged 40 years and younger with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Analysis was performed on those who presented between 1999 and 2003 for kidney and/or pancreas transplant at the University of Minnesota, as all patients who have diabetes mellitus are required to have perioperative cardiology evaluation. The mean age was 33.5 +/- 4.4 years for 88 subjects, all had insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, and 33% were dialysis dependent. Severe coronary artery disease was found in 18.2% of women and in 24.2% of men. Three-vessel coronary artery disease trended less in women (9.1%) compared with men (12.1%). Multivariate predictors for severe and 3-vessel coronary artery disease included prior coronary artery disease, hypertension duration, and ST-T wave changes on electrocardiogram. Coronary artery disease is twice as high as expected in young woman. Studies on early management for atherosclerosis are warranted in this high-risk population."}
{"id": "18313338", "title": "Prevalence and risk factors of PAD among patients with elevated ABI.", "content": "Prevalence and risk factors of PAD among patients with elevated ABI. To assess the prevalence and clinical significance of elevated ankle-brachial index (ABI) in patients referred to vascular consultation. Retrospective clinical study. In 1,762 patients referred with a suspicion of peripheral arterial disease (PAD), ABI and toe brachial index (TBI) were measured by photoplethysmography. ABI>/=1.3 was considered falsely elevated and TBI<0.60 was the diagnostic criterion for PAD. The prevalence of elevated ABI was 8.4% and that of PAD among these patients 62.2%. PAD was significantly more prevalent among subjects with severe symptoms (rest pain, ulcers or gangrene) than in those with intermittent claudication (83.8% and 45.3%, respectively, p<0.001). The risk of PAD diagnosis was ten-fold (OR 10.31, 95% CI 2.07-51.30) among those with chronic renal failure, five-fold among patients with a history of smoking (OR 5.63, 95% CI 1.22-26.00) and over three-fold (OR 3.44, 95% CI 1.46-8.12) among those with coronary heart disease. The specificities of elevated ABI threshold levels (1.3, 1.4 and 1.5) in identifying PAD were 86%, 94% and 96%, respectively, the sensitivities being 44%, 38% and 36%, respectively. The prevalence of elevated ABI in patients referred to vascular consultation is 8.4% and that of PAD among these 62.2%. PAD is significantly more probable among those with chronic renal failure, a history of smoking and coronary heart disease. Furthermore, the specificity of elevated ABI (>/=1.3) in recognizing PAD is good, whereas the sensitivity is only satisfactory."}
{"id": "18312161", "title": "Pharmacological control of secondary hyperparathyroidism in chronic hemodialysis patients: cinacalcet is coming to Japan.", "content": "Pharmacological control of secondary hyperparathyroidism in chronic hemodialysis patients: cinacalcet is coming to Japan. Secondary hyperparathyroidism has a significant impact on morbidity and mortality due to skeletal and extraskeletal manifestations. Cinacalcet, a newly developed calcimimetic, is reported to decrease parathyroidism, as well as serum levels of phosphorus (P) and calcium (Ca) and therefore Ca x P product. Available evidence has shown that cinacalcet decreases the rate of parathyroidectomy and bone fracture in hemodialysis patients, but the death rate remains the same. Although, it is not yet available in Japan, cinacalcet is expected to be available as a possible drug for patients undergoing hemodialysis due to secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with refractory hyperphosphatemia and hypercalcemia. Except for the high cost, cinacalcet will be a welcome therapeutic option for end-stage renal disease and probably also for pre-end-stage renal disease patients. Dietary phosphate restriction and adequate hemodialysis, however, are still the main strategy for the control of hyperphosphatemia and secondary hyperparathyroidism."}
{"id": "18294484", "title": "Prevention of radiocontrast medium-induced nephropathy using short-term high-dose simvastatin in patients with renal insufficiency undergoing coronary angiography (PROMISS) trial--a randomized controlled study.", "content": "Prevention of radiocontrast medium-induced nephropathy using short-term high-dose simvastatin in patients with renal insufficiency undergoing coronary angiography (PROMISS) trial--a randomized controlled study. Contrast media cause oxidative stress, which has been suggested as one possible mechanism responsible for contrast-induced nephropathy. Statins appear to have pleiotropic effects, including antioxidant properties. We investigated to determine whether simvastatin pretreatment reduces the risk of contrast-induced nephropathy in a high-risk population of patients with renal insufficiency undergoing coronary angiography. We conducted a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2-center trial, involving 247 consecutive patients with chronic renal insufficiency (calculated creatinine clearance < or = 60 mL/min and/or serum creatinine > or = 1.1 mg/dL) undergoing coronary angiography. Patients were randomized to simvastatin (n = 124; 160 mg total, 40 mg orally every 12 hours starting the evening before and ending the morning after the procedure) or placebo (n = 123). All patients received pre - and postprocedure hydration. The iso-osmolar contrast agent iodixanol was used for coronary angiography in all patients. There was no difference between simvastatin and placebo in mean peak increase in serum creatinine measured within 48 hours after coronary angiography, the primary study end point (0.002 +/- 0.164 vs 0.017 +/- 0.230 mg/mL respectively, P = .559). The incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy, a secondary end point defined as increase of either > or = 25% or > or = 0.5 mg/dL in serum creatinine, was 2.5% in simvastatin-treated patients (3/118) and 3.4% in placebo-treated patients (4/118), a nonsignificant difference (P = 1.00). There were also no differences between the 2 groups in length of hospital stay or 1- and 6-month clinical outcomes. Simvastatin pretreatment for short-term at high dose do not prevent renal function deterioration after administration of contrast medium in patients with baseline renal insufficiency undergoing coronary angiography."}
{"id": "18271843", "title": "Oral intake during hemodialysis: is there an association with intradialytic hypotension?", "content": "Oral intake during hemodialysis: is there an association with intradialytic hypotension? Oral intake (OI) of food and fluid has been associated with hypotension during hemodialysis (HD). Trials evaluating this relationship are small. The objective of this study was to quantify OI and to examine its association with hypotension during HD. This is a cross-sectional retrospective chart review study of 3 consecutive HD runs (dialysate iCa=1.25 mmol/L) in 126 stable HD patients (n=378). For each run, the calculation for OI=total ultrafiltration-(net weight loss+IV fluids given). Hypotension was defined as a systolic blood pressure of <100 mmHg at any point during the run. The mean age of the patients was 60.9 years, 38.2% were female, 30.2% had diabetes mellitus, and the majority were Caucasian. The mean (SD) OI was 0.27 (0.352) L/run, range -1.061 to 1.901 L/run, with a normal distribution. In bivariate analysis, there was no correlation of OI with systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, or mean blood pressure (BP), and the mean OI did not differ among runs with hypotension (n=78) compared with uncomplicated runs (p=0.93). Oral intake was not predictive of hypotension in a multiple logistic regression model controlling for vintage, age, sex, BP medications, coronary disease, dialysis day and shift, diabetes mellitus, s-Ca, Na and ultrafiltration profiles, and dialysis temperature, even when the analysis was restricted to runs where the patients reached the prescribed dry weight within 0.1 kg. The results of this study suggest that the mean OI during dialysis is just over 0.25 kg, with some patients consuming several kilograms. The clinical significance of OI is uncertain. We did not find an association between OI and hypotension. It is likely that this association was confounded by failure to achieve the prescribed dry weight in a proportion of patients with a high OI, as well as interventions implemented in response to hypotension in previous runs. For example, patients with previous episodes of low BP are advised to limit OI, are prescribed profiles, and so on. There may be other deleterious effects of high OI including hypertension and cardiac disease. The generalizability of the results of this largely Caucasian study population is a recognized limitation. Further prospective and blinded studies are needed to examine the association between OI and hypotension, the long-term clinical consequences of OI, and to define thresholds for recommended OI during dialysis."}
{"id": "18271835", "title": "Poor correlation between coronary artery calcification and obstructive coronary artery disease in an end-stage renal disease patient.", "content": "Poor correlation between coronary artery calcification and obstructive coronary artery disease in an end-stage renal disease patient. Vascular calcification is highly prevalent and often severe in patients with chronic kidney disease. Arterial calcification in patients with chronic kidney disease can result from the deposition of mineral along the intimal layer of arteries in conjunction with atheromatous plaques or from calcium deposition in the medial wall of arteries, also known as Monckeberg's sclerosis. Whether coronary artery calcium scores as measured by electron beam computed tomography correlate with occlusive atherosclerotic disease in the dialysis population is uncertain. Here we report a case of an asymptomatic patient with diabetes mellitus and end-stage renal disease undergoing maintenance hemodialysis, who was found to have extremely elevated coronary artery calcium scores on electron beam computed tomography, but varied degrees of atherosclerotic plaque in her coronary arteries on coronary angiography. This suggests that in addition to the calcification anticipated in a remodeled intima, a proportion of the calcification is also likely to be in the arterial media. Thus, this case demonstrates that even an extremely high coronary calcium score may not be a satisfactory surrogate marker for obstructive atherosclerosis in elderly diabetic dialysis patients."}
{"id": "18270131", "title": "Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting surgery in early stage myocardial infarction treatment.", "content": "Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting surgery in early stage myocardial infarction treatment. We evaluated the surgical results of off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (OPCAB) performed within the first 12 h of infarction in patients with acute myocardial infarction. From January 2005 to January 2007, emergency coronary artery bypass grafting without cardiopulmonary bypass was performed in 56 patients with acute coronary syndromes. The mean age was 62.9 (range, 51-86) years. All patients underwent OPCAB via sternotomy. An average of 2.5 +/- 1.1 grafts per patient were performed. The mortality rate was 7.1% (4 of 56 patients). One patient suffered from postoperative stroke (1.7%), and 3 (5.3%) needed hemofiltration for acute renal failure. Postsurgery elective coronary angiography (n = 21) showed no significant stenosis. These results indicate that emergency OPCAB can be applied to patients with acute myocardial infarction with low morbidity and mortality and excellent early results."}
{"id": "18261550", "title": "Coronary artery calcifications in hemodialysis patients and their correlation with the prevalence of erectile dysfunction.", "content": "Coronary artery calcifications in hemodialysis patients and their correlation with the prevalence of erectile dysfunction. Our aim in this study was to investigate the prevalence and correlation with coronary artery calcium scores (CACS) and erectile dysfunction (ED) among hemodialysis patients. Thirty-five male patients with chronic renal failure were selected to participate in this study. All patients underwent examinations for CACS using 16-channel multidetector computed tomography. The presence and severity of ED were determined by calculating the erectile function domain of the self-administered International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF). The patients' ages ranged from 22 to 78 with a mean of 51.6 years. The mean duration of hemodialysis was 75.7 months (range = 12 to 232). Twenty-six patients had a history of one or more systemic diseases. The prevalence of any level of ED was 82.9% for all hemodialysis patients, and severe ED, 40%. The CACS was significantly higher among patients with severe ED (P = .032). The IIEF-5 score was also shown to have a moderate negative correlation with the CACS (r = -.420, P = .012). Age, duration of hemodialysis, body mass index, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, coronary heart diseases, hyperlipidemia, thyroid disease, depression, tobacco consumption, and medication were not associated with the presence of ED (P > .05). ED is prevalent in hemodialysis patients. Although many possible factors contribute to ED, the severity of ED increases with greater CACS."}
{"id": "18235089", "title": "Association of mild to moderate kidney dysfunction and coronary calcification.", "content": "Association of mild to moderate kidney dysfunction and coronary calcification. Coronary artery calcification (CAC) is prevalent and predicts mortality among patients with ESRD, but whether less severe kidney dysfunction is associated with CAC is uncertain. To address this question, 6749 participants of the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis, who were middle-aged and without known cardiovascular disease, were evaluated. Renal function was categorized by cystatin C quartiles and estimated GFR (eGFR; < to >60 ml/min per 1.73 m(2)), and CAC was evaluated by computed tomography (CT). Fifty percent of participants had CAC, mean cystatin C was 0.90 mg/L, and 10% had eGFR <60 ml/min per 1.73 m(2). In unadjusted analysis, kidney dysfunction by either measure was strongly associated with CAC; however, the associations were lost after adjustment for age, gender, race, hypertension, and IL-6 (relative risk 1.04 [95% confidence interval 0.97 to 1.11] for the highest cystatin C quartile compared with the lowest, and relative risk 1.03 [95% confidence interval 0.98 to 1.08] for eGFR below compared with above 60 m/min per 1.73 m(2)). Similarly, neither higher cystatin C nor eGFR <60 was associated with severity of CAC. These results suggest that a higher burden of CAC is unlikely to explain the association between mild to moderate kidney dysfunction and cardiovascular mortality."}
{"id": "18234846", "title": "Decreased coronary flow reserve in haemodialysis patients.", "content": "Decreased coronary flow reserve in haemodialysis patients. Coronary flow reserve (CFR) reflects the functional capacity of microcirculation to adapt to blood demand during increased cardiac work. Forty-one patients who had already undergone coronary angiography were studied. They consisted of 21 haemodialysis patients with no significant left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) stenosis and 20 non-renal failure patients without LAD stenosis. We performed transthoracic Doppler recording of diastolic coronary flow velocity in the LAD at baseline and after maximal vasodilatation by adenosine triphosphate (ATP) infusion. CFR was defined as the ratio of hyperaemic to basal averaged peak flow velocity. Although the peak coronary velocities during hyperaemia were similar between the two groups, CFR was smaller in haemodialysis (HD) patients than in control subjects (1.96 +/- 04 versus 2.3 +/- 0.5, P = 0.001) due to the higher baseline peak coronary velocities in the former. The elevated baseline peak coronary velocity may be caused by cardiac hypertrophy and anaemia in HD patients."}
{"id": "18212695", "title": "Early mortality predictors in coronary artery bypass grafting patients required intra-aortic balloon pump in perioperative and postoperative periods.", "content": "Early mortality predictors in coronary artery bypass grafting patients required intra-aortic balloon pump in perioperative and postoperative periods. The intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) is commonly used for decreasing myocardial oxygen demand by systolic unloading in perioperative heart failure. The aim of this study was to determine perioperative prognostic factors for in-hospital mortality in coronary artery bypass grafting patients who received the intraaortic balloon pump. A total of 271 patients who underwent coronary artery bypass grafting and received intra-aortic balloon pump perioperatively between January 2002 and September 2006 were studied. The preoperative, operative and postoperative risk factors for early death were evaluated. Early mortality rate in the study population was 17.3%. From variables entered into multivariate logistic regression the following parameters were identified as prognostic factors for early death: left main disease, diabetes, postoperative renal failure and cardiac arrest (P<0.05). The minor and major intra-aortic balloon pump related complications were not significant in univariate and multivariate analysis and its rate was 3.6%. According to our study the mortality of IABP group is low compared to other studies, as well as IABP-associated complications. Also it revealed that there is no correlation between IABP-associated complications and early mortality."}
{"id": "18206630", "title": "Impact of lesion calcification on clinical and angiographic outcome after sirolimus-eluting stent implantation in real-world patients.", "content": "Impact of lesion calcification on clinical and angiographic outcome after sirolimus-eluting stent implantation in real-world patients. Previous studies have demonstrated similar efficacy of the drug-eluting stent (DES) in patients with and without calcified lesions. However, most of the randomized trials have excluded patients with severe calcified lesions. This study aimed to examine the impact of lesion calcium on clinical and angiographic outcome after sirolimus-eluting stent (SES) implantation in real-world patients. Consecutive 380 patients with 556 lesions treated with SES were enrolled. Lesions were divided into Calc lesions (moderate or sever calcification; 195 lesions) and non-Calc lesions (none or mild calcification; 361 lesions) according to the lesion calcium. Quantitative coronary angiography (QCA) parameters, binary restenosis rate (%restenosis), target lesion revascularization (TLR) rate, and major adverse cardiac events (MACE) during follow-up were compared between the two groups. All patients were contacted at 1, 6, and 12 months after the procedure. Lesion success rate was similar in the two groups. %Restenosis (9.2% vs. 3.6%; P<.05) and TLR (7.3% vs. 2.8%; P<.05) were significantly higher in Calc lesions. Stent thrombosis was observed in 0.7% of overall lesions with no difference between the two groups. The MACE rate in Calc patients (13.8%) was significantly higher than in non-Calc patients (6.1%). By multivariate analysis, hemodialysis (HD) and requirement of rotational atherectomy (RA) were predictive factors of TLR in the Calc lesions. Coronary lesions with calcification comprise a high-risk cohort and are associated with a higher TLR and binary restenosis rates in real-world patients treated with SES. Moreover, patients with calcified lesions and on HD are associated with higher MACE rate."}
{"id": "18205762", "title": "Severity of periodontal disease correlates to inflammatory systemic status and independently predicts the presence and angiographic extent of stable coronary artery disease.", "content": "Severity of periodontal disease correlates to inflammatory systemic status and independently predicts the presence and angiographic extent of stable coronary artery disease. Periodontal disease (PD) has been recognized as a risk factor for systemic diseases, but its involvement in the pathogenesis of coronary artery disease (CAD) remains debated. We sought to evaluate the potential relations between severity of the PD, inflammatory response and angiographic lesions extent in patients with stable CAD. A total of 131 subjects referred to our centre for coronary angiography were evaluated for presence and extension of CAD, then divided into two groups, one with presence of lesions (cases, n = 85) and other one with absence of lesions (controls, n = 46). Mean periodontal pocket depth (PPkD), high sensitivity C reactive protein (hs-CRP), serum amyloid A protein (SAA) and fibrinogen levels were measured in all patients. Cases and controls did not differ according to their baseline characteristics and prevalence of traditional cardiovascular risk factors. PPkD was greater in patients with CAD than in controls (2.24 +/- 1.28 mm vs 1.50 +/- 0.93 mm, P < 0.001 by Student's t-test). Systemic inflammatory response was more pronounced in cases than in controls, with higher values of hs-CRP, SAA and fibrinogen. Furthermore, PPkD values correlated with hs-CRP (r = 0.80, P < 0.001), SAA (r = 0.71, P < 0.001), fibrinogen levels (r = 0.72, P < 0.001) and the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association angiographic score (r = 0.68, P < 0.001) in cases. Multivariate analysis indicated a persistent independent correlation between PPkD and angiographic score after adjustment for inflammatory markers levels. In the present study, PD lesions predicted presence of CAD stenosis in patients with cardiovascular risk factors. PD severity was correlated to angiographic extent of coronary lesions, independent of systemic inflammatory status. Those results suggest that these patients might benefit from an intensive periodontal therapy to prevent CAD progression."}
{"id": "18191738", "title": "Prediction of cardiac death in hemodialysis patients by myocardial fatty acid imaging.", "content": "Prediction of cardiac death in hemodialysis patients by myocardial fatty acid imaging. The aim was to evaluate the potential of single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) to predict cardiac death in chronic hemodialysis patients using the iodinated fatty acid analogue iodine-123 123I-beta-methyl iodophenyl-pentadecanoic acid (BMIPP). We previously reported that BMIPP SPECT could detect asymptomatic coronary artery disease with high sensitivity in hemodialysis patients. We prospectively enrolled 375 asymptomatic hemodialysis patients who had undergone dual SPECT using 123I-BMIPP and 201thallium (Tl) chloride. Patients who had a clinical history of myocardial infarction and/or coronary revascularization were excluded from the study. Uptake on SPECT images was graded in 17 segments on a 5-point scale (0 normal, 4 absent) and assessed as summed BMIPP or Tl scores. During a 3.6 +/- 1.0-year follow-up, 57 patients who had undergone coronary revascularization within 60 days of SPECT were excluded from the analysis. Among the remaining 318 patients (male/female: 170/148; 64 +/- 12 years of age), 50 died of cardiac events (acute myocardial infarction 22, congestive heart failure 17, cardiac sudden death 11). Stepwise Cox hazard analysis associated cardiac death with age (> or =70 years) and with severely abnormal BMIPP SPECT images (BMIPP summed scores > or =12: hazard ratio 21.894; p < 0.0001). Kaplan-Meier analysis showed that the cardiac death-free survival rates at 3 years were 61% and 98% in patients with BMIPP summed scores of > or =12 and <12, respectively. Severely impaired myocardial fatty acid metabolism, which might mainly reflect repetitive myocardial ischemia, can identify a high-risk group of cardiac death among hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "18187495", "title": "Association between endothelial progenitor cell depletion in blood and mild-to-moderate renal insufficiency in stable angina.", "content": "Association between endothelial progenitor cell depletion in blood and mild-to-moderate renal insufficiency in stable angina. Low blood counts of CD34/kinase-insert domain receptor double-positive cells (CD34(+)/KDR(+) cells)-a leukocytes subpopulation enriched for bone marrow-derived endothelial progenitor cells (EPC)- predict adverse outcomes in coronary artery disease (CAD). The dependence of EPC numbers on the glomerular filtration rate (GFR), another prognostic factor, has not been reported in CAD yet. Our aim was to assess CD34(+)/KDR(+) cell counts versus GFR in stable angina. We studied 102 stable angina men with severe angiographic CAD and normal left-ventricular systolic function. CD34(+)/KDR(+) cells were enumerated by flow cytometry. With lowering GFR, CD34(+)/KDR(+) cell numbers (% of lymphocytes, median and interquartile range) decreased: 0.04 (0.03-0.06), 0.03 (0.02-0.05) and 0.02 (0.01-0.03)% for GFR >or=90, 60-89 and 30-59 ml/min/1.73 m(2), respectively (P < 0.001 for trend). CD34(+)/KDR(+) cell counts correlated with GFR (r = 0.25, P = 0.01), CAD extension score (r = -0.20, P = 0.04), soluble form of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (sVCAM-1) (r = -0.22, P = 0.03) and homocysteine (r = -0.20, P = 0.04) levels. A GFR <90 ml/min/1.73 m(2) was associated with insignificantly higher plasma erythropoietin concentrations (r = -0.22, P = 0.09 for trend) that correlated with haemoglobin levels (r = -0.33, P = 0.01, n = 59). The GFR-CD34(+)/KDR(+) cells relation was attenuated, yet maintained (beta = 0.19 +/- 0.09, P = 0.04) on adjustment for the remaining multivariate determinants of CD34(+)/KDR(+) cell numbers: sVCAM-1 (beta = -0.20 +/- 0.09, P = 0.03) and haemoglobin (beta = 0.18 +/- 0.09, P = 0.05). Mild-to-moderate renal dysfunction accompanying stable angina is associated with CD34(+)/KDR(+) cell depletion, which partially depends on concomitant endothelial dysfunction and a tendency to anaemia (despite insignificantly higher erythropoietin) irrespective of an angiographic CAD extent. This may exacerbate an imbalance between endothelial injury and EPC-mediated repair, thus contributing to high cardiovascular risk in CAD coexisting with renal insufficiency."}
{"id": "18187289", "title": "Major events in uremic patients: insight from parameters derived by flow propagation velocity.", "content": "Major events in uremic patients: insight from parameters derived by flow propagation velocity. The parameters derived by flow propagation velocity (FPV) of early-diastolic mitral inflow have been proved to be associated with cardiovascular risk. This study was undertaken to analyze the prognosis of uremic patients by FPV. A total of 100 uremic patients were enrolled. All patients underwent conventional echocardiographic examination and FPV measurement. Those examinations were performed before and after hemodialysis (within 30 minutes). Patients were followed for 4 years. Major events were recorded and defined as any-cause mortality and nonfatal cardiovascular events with hospitalization. Patients were separated into two groups according to a post-dialytic E/FPV of <1.5 or > or =1.5 (early-diastolic velocity of mitral inflow divided by FPV). Twenty-six major events were recorded, including 13 cases with mortality and 13 cases with nonfatal cardiovascular events. The patients with a post-dialytic E/FPV of > or =1.5 had a higher prevalence of underlying coronary arterial disease (30% vs. 17%), left ventricular systolic dysfunction (left ventricular ejection fraction: 46% +/- 10% vs. 52% +/- 8%), and a major event. By Cox regression analysis, a post-dialytic E/FPV of > or =1.5 (hazard ratio 2.358, 95% confidence interval 1.118-4.62, P = .008) was the strongest independent factor to predict the major events, after adjustment of other covariates. A post-dialytic E/FPV of > or =1.5 predicts higher adverse events in uremic patients."}
{"id": "18184879", "title": "Emerging biomarkers for evaluating cardiovascular risk in the chronic kidney disease patient: how do new pieces fit into the uremic puzzle?", "content": "Emerging biomarkers for evaluating cardiovascular risk in the chronic kidney disease patient: how do new pieces fit into the uremic puzzle? Premature cardiovascular disease (CVD), including stroke, peripheral vascular disease, sudden death, coronary artery disease, and congestive heart failure, is a notorious problem in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). Because the presence of CVD is independently associated with kidney function decline, it appears that the relationship between CKD and CVD is reciprocal or bidirectional, and that it is this association that leads to the vicious circle contributing to premature death. As randomized, placebo-controlled trials have so far been disappointing and unable to show a survival benefit of various treatment strategies, such a lipid-lowering, increased dialysis dose and normalization of hemoglobin, the risk factor profile seems to be different in CKD compared with the general population. Indeed, seemingly paradoxical associations between traditional risk factors and cardiovascular outcome in patients with advanced CKD have complicated our efforts to identify the real cardiovascular culprits. This review focuses on the many new pieces that need to be fit into the complicated puzzle of uremic vascular disease, including persistent inflammation, endothelial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and vascular ossification. Each of these is not only highly prevalent in CKD but also more strongly linked to CVD in these patients than in the general population. However, a causal relationship between these new markers and CVD in CKD patients remains to be established. Finally, two novel disciplines, proteomics and epigenetics, will be discussed, because these tools may be helpful in the understanding of the discussed vascular risk factors."}
{"id": "18178605", "title": "Costs and outcomes of acute kidney injury (AKI) following cardiac surgery.", "content": "Costs and outcomes of acute kidney injury (AKI) following cardiac surgery. Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a recognized complication of cardiac surgery; however, the variability in costs and outcomes reported are due, in part, to different criteria for diagnosing and classifying AKI. We determined costs, resource use and mortality rate of patients. We used the serum creatinine component of the RIFLE system to classify AKI. A retrospective cohort study was conducted from the electronic data repository at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center of patients who underwent cardiac surgery and had an elevation (>or=0.5 mg/dl) of serum creatinine postoperatively. Data were compared to age- and APACHE III-matched controls. Cost, mortality and resource use of AKI patients were determined postoperatively for each of the three RIFLE classes on the basis of changes in serum creatinine. Of the 3741 admissions, 258 (6.9%) had AKI and were classified as RIFLE-R 138 (3.7%), RIFLE-I 70 (1.9%) and RIFLE-F 50 (1.3%). Total and departmental level costs, length of stay (LOS) and requirement for renal replacement therapy (RRT) were higher in AKI patients compared to controls. Statistically significant differences in all costs, mortality rate and requirement for RRT were seen in the patients stratified into RIFLE-R, RIFLE-I and RIFLE-F. Even patients with the smallest change in serum creatinine, namely RIFLE-R, had a 2.2-fold greater mortality, a 1.6-fold increase in ICU LOS and 1.6-fold increase in total postoperative costs compared to controls. Costs, LOS and mortality are higher in postoperative cardiac surgery patients who develop AKI using RIFLE criteria, and these values increase as AKI severity worsens."}
{"id": "18178459", "title": "Reduced primary patency rate in diabetic patients after percutaneous intervention results from more frequent presentation with limb-threatening ischemia.", "content": "Reduced primary patency rate in diabetic patients after percutaneous intervention results from more frequent presentation with limb-threatening ischemia. Although patients with diabetes are at increased risk of amputation from peripheral vascular disease, excellent limb-salvage rates have been achieved with aggressive surgical revascularization. It is less clear whether patients with diabetes will fare as well as nondiabetics after undergoing percutaneous lower extremity revascularization, a modality which is becoming increasingly utilized for this disease process. This study aimed to assess differential outcomes in between diabetics and nondiabetics in lower extremity percutaneous interventions. We retrospectively studied 291 patients with respect to patient variables, complications, and outcomes for percutaneous interventions performed for peripheral occlusive disease between 2002 and 2005. Tibial vessel run-off was assessed by angiography. Patency (assessed arterial duplex) was expressed by Kaplan-Meier method and log-rank analysis. Mean follow-up was 11.6 months (range 1 to 56 months). A total of 385 interventions for peripheral occlusive disease with claudication (52.2%), rest pain (16.4%), or tissue loss (31.4%) were analyzed, including 336 primary interventions and 49 reinterventions (mean patient age 73.9 years, 50.8% male). Comorbidities included diabetes mellitus (57.2%), chronic renal insufficiency (18.4%), hemodialysis (3.8%), hypertension (81.9%), hypercholesterolemia (57%), coronary artery disease (58%), tobacco use (63.2%). Diabetics were significantly more likely to be female (55.3% vs 40.8%), and suffer from CRI (23.5% vs 12.0%), a history of myocardial infarction (36.5% vs 18.0%), and <three-vessel tibial outflow (83.5% vs 71.8%), compared with nondiabetics, although all other comorbidities and lesion characteristics were equivalent between these groups. Overall primary patency (+/- SE) at 6, 12, and 18 months was 85 +/- 2%, 63 +/- 3% and 56 +/- 4%, respectively. Patients with diabetes suffered reduced primary patency at 1 year compared with nondiabetics. For nondiabetics, primary patency was 88 +/- 2%, 71 +/- 4%, and 58 +/- 4% at 6, 12, and 18 months, while for diabetics it was 82 +/- 2%, 53 +/- 4%, and 49 +/- 4%, respectively (P = .05). Overall secondary patency at 6, 12, and 18 months was 88 +/- 2%, 76 +/- 3%, and 69 +/- 3%, and did not vary by diabetes status. One-year limb salvage rate was 88.3% for patients with limb-threatening ischemia, which was also similar between diabetics and nondiabetics. While univariate analysis revealed that female gender, <three-vessel tibial outflow, and a history of tobacco use were all predictive of reduced primary patency (P < .05), none of these factors significantly impacted secondary patency or limb-salvage rate. Furthermore, only limb-threatening ischemia remained a significant predictor of outcome on multivariate analysis, suggesting that the poorer primary patency in diabetics is related primarily to their propensity to present with limb-threatening disease compared with nondiabetics. Patients with diabetes demonstrate reduced primary patency rates after percutaneous treatment of lower extremity occlusive disease, most likely due to their advanced stage of disease at presentation. However, despite a higher reintervention rate, diabetics and others with risk factors predictive of reduced primary patency can attain equivalent short-term secondary patency and limb-salvage rates. Therefore, these patient characteristics should not be considered contraindications to endovascular therapy."}
{"id": "18174620", "title": "How long should the long-term outcomes be for drug-eluting stent recipients?", "content": "How long should the long-term outcomes be for drug-eluting stent recipients?"}
{"id": "18174269", "title": "Improved estimation of glomerular filtration rate by serum cystatin C in preventing contrast induced nephropathy by N-acetylcysteine or zinc--preliminary results.", "content": "Improved estimation of glomerular filtration rate by serum cystatin C in preventing contrast induced nephropathy by N-acetylcysteine or zinc--preliminary results. Prevention of contrast media (CM) induced nephropathy (CIN) by prophylaxis (e.g. N-acetylcysteine; NAC) is controversially discussed. Up to now, assessment of kidney function has been based on measurements of serum creatinine, although this biomarker has several limitations. We investigated NAC and zinc (Zn) for the prevention of CIN by monitoring creatinine and cystatin C. In a prospective, placebo-controlled, double blind trial, patients with moderately impaired kidney function receiving low-osmolar, non-ionic CM were randomly assigned to an oral treatment for 2 days with 1.2 g/day of NAC (n = 19), for 1 day with 60 mg/day of Zn (n = 18) or placebo (n = 17). All patients received peri-procedurally 1 ml/kg/h of 0.45% saline for 24 h. At baseline, prior to exposure of CM, 2 and 6 days after CM, creatinine and cystatin C were measured. There was no difference in the incidence of CIN, but a significant drop in creatinine (P < 0.05) was observed in all patients during volume expansion. Creatinine showed no increase after CM and it was normalized to the baseline values in all groups at the study end. In contrast, 2 days after CM there was a significant rise in cystatin C in the Zn (P = 0.012) and the placebo (P = 0.041) group, whereas NAC prevented this deterioration of kidney function. Cystatin C seems to reflect CM-induced changes in kidney function better than creatinine. NAC and Zn have no effect in preventing CIN by the standard definition, but based on cystatin C we can confirm a preventive effect of NAC. It appears mandatory to assess kidney function by cystatin C in CIN intervention trials, because relying on creatinine can be misleading."}
{"id": "18174044", "title": "Ultra-low contrast volumes reduce rates of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients with chronic kidney disease undergoing coronary angiography.", "content": "Ultra-low contrast volumes reduce rates of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients with chronic kidney disease undergoing coronary angiography."}
{"id": "18159100", "title": "Sirolimus-eluting stents vs bare metal stents for coronary intervention in Japanese patients with renal failure on hemodialysis.", "content": "Sirolimus-eluting stents vs bare metal stents for coronary intervention in Japanese patients with renal failure on hemodialysis. Accelerated atherosclerosis is a major risk for long-term survivors receiving hemodialysis (HD), with coronary events being the leading cause of mortality. A total of 88 consecutive patients on HD (121 lesions) who underwent percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with sirolimus-eluting stents (SES) were compared with 78 patients on HD (95 lesions) who received bare metal stents (BMS) in the preceding 1 year. The primary endpoint was angiographic restenosis defined as > or =50% diameter stenosis at 6-8 months follow-up after PCI. The angiographic restenosis rate at follow-up was 22.2% in the SES group and 24.4% in the BMS group. No difference was detected in the restenosis rate between the 2 groups (p=0.73). When including both HD and non-HD patients, the independent predictors for restenosis after SES implantation were treatment with HD (hazard ratio (HR) 3.12; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.23-7.95; p=0.016), incidence of hyperlipidemia (HR 3.93; 95%CI 1.12-13.7; p=0.032), coronary calcification (HR 2.78; 95%CI 1.12-6.91; p=0.027), and implantation of multi-stents (HR 4.14; 95%CI 1.70-10.1; p=0.0017). Even if treated with SES, patients with end-stage renal failure on HD are at high risk of restenosis after PCI."}
{"id": "18156458", "title": "Altered fibrin clot properties in patients on long-term haemodialysis: relation to cardiovascular mortality.", "content": "Altered fibrin clot properties in patients on long-term haemodialysis: relation to cardiovascular mortality. Haemodialysis patients are at an increased risk of cardiovascular (CV) morbidity and mortality. Both end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and thromboembolic coronary events have been shown to be associated with the formation of dense fibrin clots resistant to fibrinolysis. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of long-term haemodialysis on clot structure/function and analyse an influence of markers of inflammation, oxidative stress and lipoprotein(a). We sought also to investigate if clot features might be related to CV events and mortality in haemodialysis patients. Subjects and methods. In 33 patients (19 males, 14 females), aged 27 to 89 years, on long-term haemodialysis and 33 age- and sex-matched apparently healthy controls, we investigated fibrin clot properties and susceptibility to lysis using recombinant tissue plasminogen activator by using permeation and turbidity assays. Haemodialysis patients produced fibrin clots that had less porous structure (P < 0.0001) were less susceptible to fibrinolysis (P < 0.0001), began fibrin protofibril formation more quickly (P < 0.0001) and showed increased overall fibre thickness (P < 0.0001) compared with controls. Clot permeability and lysis time correlated with F2-isoprostanes (P < 0.01), Lp(a) (P < 0.0001) and fibrinogen (P < 0.01). None of the clot variables showed associations with the duration of haemodialysis treatment or the cause of ESRD. During a 36-month follow-up, 10 CV deaths were recorded. Mortality was associated with reduced clot permeability (P < 0.0001), prolonged lysis time (P < 0.0001), faster fibrin protofibril formation (P = 0.0004), thicker fibres (P < 0.0001) and increased fibrin clot mass (P < 0.0001). Unfavourably altered clot properties can be detected in haemodialysis patients and may be associated with increased CV mortality."}
{"id": "18154800", "title": "Cardiac surgery in patients on dialysis: decreased 30-day mortality, unchanged overall survival.", "content": "Cardiac surgery in patients on dialysis: decreased 30-day mortality, unchanged overall survival. The risk of cardiac surgery in dialysis-dependent patients is high, but little is known about the determinants of survival. We initiated a retrospective multicenter study to overcome this limitation. Nine centers provided data on 522 patients (70% male, aged 61 +/- 11 years) who had chronic dialysis-dependent renal failure. A 14-year period was covered. Most patients had coronary artery bypass grafting, either with (n = 103) or without (n = 326) valve surgery. Multivariable analysis of survival was explored using Cox models. The proportion of patients with diabetes mellitus increased significantly (from 17%, 1989 to 1993, to 32%, 2000 to 2003; p = 0.021) and was independently associated with 30-day mortality (odds ratio = 3.30, p = 0.001) The mean 30-day mortality was 12% (n = 60), but declined significantly during the study period (from 28%, 1989 to 1993, to 7%, 2000 to 2003; p = 0.003). The 5-year survival probability was 42% (95% confidence interval: 36% to 47%). Patients who had renal transplantation during follow-up (n = 17) had the best survival probability (hazard ratio [HR] = 0.14, p = 0.007). Sinus rhythm (HR = 0.48, p < 0.001) and use of internal thoracic artery grafts (HR = 0.67, p = 0.006) proved beneficial for long-term survival. Predictors of death during long-term follow-up were emergency surgery (HR = 2.25, p = 0.001), diabetes mellitus (HR = 1.46, p = 0.020), number of allogenic transfusions (HR = 1.03/unit, p = 0.015), and age (HR = 1.04/year, p < 0.001). In dialysis-dependent patients, cardiac surgery has become significantly safer in recent years, but the overall prognosis of the patients remains poor. The observed improvements in the perioperative survival do not necessarily translate into an improved long-term prognosis. Diabetes mellitus is an important independent risk factor for perioperative mortality and death during follow-up."}
{"id": "18086692", "title": "Early and mid-term results of off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting in patients with end stage renal disease: surgical outcomes after achievement of complete revascularization.", "content": "Early and mid-term results of off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting in patients with end stage renal disease: surgical outcomes after achievement of complete revascularization. End stage renal disease is a risk factor for mortality after coronary artery bypass grafting. We conducted a retrospective review of 37 consecutive dialysis-dependent patients who underwent off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting between April 2001 and July 2004. Complete revascularization was successfully performed in all patients. The mean number of anastomoses was 3.7, and early graft patency was 98.8%. Thirty-day mortality was 2.7%. In-hospital mortality was 8.1%. At a mean follow-up of 26 months, there were six late deaths including one cardiac death, and five cardiac events. Actuarial survival rate at one and three years was 88.8% and 77.0%, respectively. Cardiac event free rate at one and three years was 85.9% and 72.6%, respectively. Multivariate analysis revealed that preoperative left ventricular ejection fraction (P=0.003) and smoking history (P=0.026) were significant predictors for mid-term mortality, and co-existing peripheral vascular disease was a significant predictor for cardiac events (P=0.033). Early and mid-term outcomes after off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting in patients with end stage renal disease have acceptable mortality rate with excellent early graft patency, while low ejection fraction and smoking history were significant risk factors for mid-term survival, and co-existing peripheral vascular disease was a significant predictor for cardiac events."}
{"id": "18083761", "title": "Impact of different stages of chronic kidney disease on in-hospital costs in patients with coronary heart disease.", "content": "Impact of different stages of chronic kidney disease on in-hospital costs in patients with coronary heart disease. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is associated with markedly increased in-hospital morbidity and mortality. Its effect on in-hospital costs for the treatment of coronary heart disease (CHD) has not been assessed that, although it is of interest due to the exponential increase in its prevalence. Clinical and costing data were retrospectively assessed from 765 consecutive patients who suffered from CHD requiring percutaneous coronary interventions. Based on their estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), patients were classified in accordance with the National Kidney Foundation. Patient-level in-hospital costs for this single hospitalization were thoroughly calculated from precise in-house assessments for the national DRG database. In univariate analysis, the average total in-hospital costs increased with each stage of CKD [euro2926; euro3466; euro4208; euro9687 (stages 4 and 5 combined), P < 0.0001]. Treating patients with CKD stages 4 and 5 utilized markedly more resources than patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (euro4916), coronary three-vessel disease (euro4659), severely impaired left ventricular function (euro6072) or diabetes (euro4495). Multivariate analyses identified, even after adjustment for confounding comorbidities, that CKD was a significant and independent predictor of in-hospital costs; with each loss of 1 ml/min in the eGFR, the expenses for this hospitalization increased by euro18 (95% CI euro13-23). Although the absolute amount of costs may vary between different countries, this work showed, for the first time, that in all stages of CKD, there is a significant increase of in-hospital costs when treating patients with both CHD and CKD."}
{"id": "18079149", "title": "Kidney disease in cardiology.", "content": "Kidney disease in cardiology. Focusing on the convergence of cardiology and nephrology, this article marks the second year of NDT's section on Kidney Diseases beyond Nephrology. The clinical themes highlighted by the articles chosen for review include risk stratification and diagnosis of ischemic heart disease in severe chronic kidney disease and endstage renal disease patients, trials to reduce the risk of acute kidney injury (particularly contrast nephropathy) occurring with the invasive diagnosis and treatment of ischemic heart disease, and new data on the special clinical characteristics of dialysis patients with acute myocardial infarction. Finally, two clinical trials focusing on cardiovascular disease in severe kidney disease patients will be briefly highlighted."}
{"id": "18078907", "title": "The interscan variation of CT coronary artery calcification score: analysis of the Calcium Acetate Renagel Comparison (CARE)-2 study.", "content": "The interscan variation of CT coronary artery calcification score: analysis of the Calcium Acetate Renagel Comparison (CARE)-2 study. In the Calcium Acetate Renagel Evaluation (CARE)-2 study, the effects of calcium acetate plus atorvastatin (Lipitor) on the progression of coronary artery calcifications (CACs) are evaluated versus those of Renagel, monitored using dual electron beam tomography (EBT) scans (two scans at study initiation and two at follow up). The aim of this study is to estimate the interscan variation for the Agatston score and for the volume score determined in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in the CARE-2 study. CAC score and volume were measured at study initiation in 463 ESRD subjects (mean age: 59.4 +/- 12.5 years, 48.3% female). All patients underwent dual scanning using an EBT, as first scan of two needed to measure the progression of CAC when treated with sevelamer (Renagel) compared with calcium acetate with or without atorvastatin. All scans in all participants were completed by using an EBT system (GE Imatron, South San Francisco, CA). Interscan variability was defined by the following formula: abs (scan A - scan B) / (0.5 x scan A + 0.5 x scan B) x 100%, where A and B denote the first and second scan, respectively, of the dual scan procedure performed before treatment. We evaluated the reproducibility of the cutpoints commonly used for calcium scores clinically, namely 1-30, 31-100, 101-400, and >400. The CAC interscan variability was 11.8% using the Agatston score and 10.3% using the volume score. The reproducibility was then assessed using cutpoints 1-30, 31-100, 101-400, and >400. Agatston score variability for the four subgroups was 61.3%, 23%, 16.1%, and 8.2%, respectively (mean variability, 11.8%). Volume score variability was 60.0%, 14.4%, 14.6%, and 7.7%, respectively (mean variability, 10.3%). The correlation coefficient for scan A to scan B goes up significantly with increasing calcium scores and reaches 0.99 for scores greater than 400 (P < .0001). Interscan variability was sufficiently small for patients with calcium scores greater than 30. Our study thus demonstrates a sufficient reproducibility of the calcium score using EBT. This score allows for accurate serial assessment of these patients and for comparing different therapies."}
{"id": "18078906", "title": "Optimization of cardiac MSCT contrast injection protocols: dependency of the main bolus contrast density on test bolus parameters and patients' body weight.", "content": "Optimization of cardiac MSCT contrast injection protocols: dependency of the main bolus contrast density on test bolus parameters and patients' body weight. Our aim was to evaluate the correlation of test bolus (TB) curve parameters with main bolus (MB) contrast density for cardiac 16-slice computed tomography, and to correlate observed enhancement with patient body weight. Sixty patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease were included in a prospective double-blind study. Contrast material containing 300 mg iodine/mL (Iomeprol 300; Imeron 300, Bracco Imaging SpA, Milan, Italy) and 400 mg iodine/mL (Iomeprol 400; Imeron 400) was injected at a rate of 1 g of iodine/second. Contrast densities (Hounsfield units) of the MB were determined in the left cardiac system. The peak density (PD) of maximum attenuation and the area under the curve (AUC) of the TB curve were calculated for each patient. The dependency of MB contrast attenuation on these parameters and on patient body weight was evaluated. Positive correlations (r = 0.52 and r = 0.56, respectively; P < .0001) were obtained between the PD and AUC of the TB curve with the mean density of the MB. Stronger correlations (r = 0.63 and r = 0.64, respectively; P < .0001) between PD and AUC of the TB curve and MB attenuation were found when patient body weight was included in the analysis. Strong correlation of the PD and AUC of the TB curve with the mean density of the MB is observed when patient body weight is considered. Contrast injection protocols may be optimized, and variations of MB contrast density in the left ventricle and main coronary arteries reduced, by taking these TB parameters and the weight of the patient into account."}
{"id": "18046083", "title": "Chronic kidney disease is associated with angiographic coronary artery disease.", "content": "Chronic kidney disease is associated with angiographic coronary artery disease. Patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) have a dramatically increased risk for cardiovascular mortality. Few prior studies have examined the independent association of CKD with coronary anatomy. We evaluated the relationship between CKD and severe coronary artery disease (CAD) in 261 male veterans with nuclear perfusion imaging tests suggesting coronary ischemia. We used chart review and patient and provider interviews to collect demographics, clinical characteristics, and coronary anatomy results. We defined CKD as an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) < 60 ml/min/1.73 m2, based on the creatinine obtained prior to angiography. We defined significant coronary obstruction as at least one 70% or greater stenosis. We used logistic regression to determine whether CKD was independently associated with significant coronary obstruction. The likelihood of CAD increased monotonically with decreasing eGFR, from 51% among patients with eGFR or = 90 ml/min/1.73 m2 to 84% in those with eGFR < 30 ml/min/1.73 m2 (p = 0.0046). Patients with CKD were more likely than those without CKD to have at least one significant coronary obstruction (75.9 vs. 60.7%, p = 0.016). Patients with CKD also had more significant CAD, that is, were more likely to have three-vessel and/or left main disease than those without CKD (34.9 vs. 16.9%, p = 0.0035). In logistic regression analysis, controlling for demographics and comorbidity, CKD continued to be independently associated with the presence of significant CAD (p = 0.0071). CKD patients have a high prevalence of obstructive coronary disease, which may contribute to their high cardiovascular mortality."}
{"id": "18003765", "title": "Hemodialysis-induced cardiac dysfunction is associated with an acute reduction in global and segmental myocardial blood flow.", "content": "Hemodialysis-induced cardiac dysfunction is associated with an acute reduction in global and segmental myocardial blood flow. Hemodialysis is associated with hemodynamic instability, acute cardiac ischemia, and the development of regional wall motion abnormalities (RWMAs). This study used serial intradialytic H(2)(15)O positron emission tomography scanning to confirm that the development of dialysis-induced RWMAs was associated with reduction in myocardial blood flow (MBF). Four prevalent hemodialysis patients without angiographically significant coronary artery disease had measurements of MBF during standard hemodialysis and biofeedback dialysis. All patients underwent serial measurements of MBF using positron emission tomography. Concurrent echocardiography was used to assess left ventricular function and the development of RWMAs. Hemodynamic variables were measured using continuous pulse wave analysis. Mean prehemodialysis MBF was within the normal range. Global MBF was acutely reduced during hemodialysis. Segmental MBF was reduced to a significantly greater extent in areas that developed RWMAs compared with those that did not. Not all regions with reduced MBF were functionally affected, but a reduction in myocardial blood flow of >30% from baseline was significantly associated with the development of RWMAs. No significant differences in hemodynamic tolerability, RWMA development, or MBF between dialysis modalities were observed. Hemodialysis is associated with repetitive myocardial ischemia, which, in the absence of coronary artery disease, may be due to coronary microvascular dysfunction. Stress-induced segmental left ventricular dysfunction correlates with matched reduction in MBF. Functional poststress recovery is consistent with myocardial stunning induced by hemodialysis. This process may be important in the development of heart failure in long-term hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "17970775", "title": "Relation between plasma fibroblast growth factor-23, serum fetuin-A levels and coronary artery calcification evaluated by multislice computed tomography in patients with normal kidney function.", "content": "Relation between plasma fibroblast growth factor-23, serum fetuin-A levels and coronary artery calcification evaluated by multislice computed tomography in patients with normal kidney function. To examine the correlation of plasma fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-23 and serum fetuin A levels with the coronary artery calcification score (CACS) in patients with normal kidney function. Vascular calcification is an active process that may be aggravated by hyperphosphataemia and hypercalcaemia. FGF-23 and human fetuin-A have been associated with calcifying arteriosclerosis in renal failure. Plasma FGF-23 was identified as an independent factor negatively associated with peripheral vascular calcification. Fetuin-A acts as a systemic inhibitor of ectopic calcification in dialysis patients and can be correlated to the survival of these patients. Very few data exists on the role of FGF-23 and fetuin-A in coronary calcification of patients without impaired kidney function. Sixty-four patients, 21 females and 43 males, were subjected to 64-slice coronary computed tomography (CT) to evaluate coronary artery calcification (CAC). Plasma intact FGF-23 was determined by ELISA. Serum fetuin-A concentration were evaluated nephelometrically. Mean plasma FGF-23 level was 20.4 +/- 9.1 pg/ml and serum fetuin-A was 0.46 +/- 0.09 g/l. There was no correlation between FGF-23 (P = 0.777) and fetuin-A (P = 0.767) levels and the CACS. No correlation was found between the presence of noncalcified plaques and coronary artery stenosis (CAS) >or= 50%, and FGF-23 (P = 0.313 and P = 0.775) and fetuin-A levels (P = 0.601 and P = 0.659). Plasma intact FGF-23 and serum fetuin-A concentration do not correlate with the CACS, the grade of stenosis or presence of noncalcified plaques of the coronary arteries in patients with normal kidney function."}
{"id": "17934263", "title": "A long-term follow-up study of chest pain patients: effect of panic disorder on mortality, morbidity, and quality of life.", "content": "A long-term follow-up study of chest pain patients: effect of panic disorder on mortality, morbidity, and quality of life. The aim was to assess the association between panic disorder (PD) and the long-term outcome of chest pain patients with or without coronary artery disease (CAD). Patients (n = 199) consecutively referred to a cardiology outpatient clinic because of chest pain were reassessed after 9 years. At the initial examination 16% suffered from CAD and 38% from PD. Data were collected on mortality, cardiac events, cardiac risk factors, chest pain, anxiety and depression (SCL-90-R), and health-related quality of life (SF-36). The death rate in the study population was not significantly different from that in the general population and no significant associations were found between PD at baseline and mortality and cardiac morbidity at follow-up. PD was associated with significantly higher follow-up scores of chest pain intensity (p = 0.025), depression (p = 0.005), anxiety (p = 0.039), and poorer health-related quality of life: physical functioning (p = 0.004), role physical (p = 0.001), body pain (p = 0.007), and general health (p < 0.001). PD has a negative long-term effect on psychological and physical well-being of chest pain patients which emphasizes the necessity of identifying PD patients and offering them adequate treatment."}
{"id": "17923464", "title": "Comorbid conditions and outcomes after percutaneous coronary intervention.", "content": "Comorbid conditions and outcomes after percutaneous coronary intervention. To evaluate whether adding comorbid conditions to a risk model can help predict in-hospital outcome and long-term mortality after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Retrospective chart review Academic medical centre. 7659 patients who had 9032 PCIs. PCI performed at Mayo Clinic between 1 January 1999 and 30 June 2004. The Mayo Clinic Risk Score (MCRS) and the coronary artery disease (CAD)-specific index for determination of comorbid conditions in all patients. The mean (SD) MCRS score was 6.5 (2.9). The CAD-specific index was 0 or 1 in 46%, 2 or 3 in 30% and 4 or higher in 24%. The rate of in-hospital major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) increased with higher MCRS and CAD-specific index (Cochran-Armitage test, p<0.001 for both models). The c-statistic for the MCRS for in-hospital MACE was 0.78; adding the CAD-specific index did not improve its discriminatory ability for in-hospital MACE (c-statistic = 0.78; likelihood ratio test, p = 0.29). A total of 707 deaths after dismissal occurred after 7253 successful procedures. The c-statistic for all-cause mortality was 0.69 for the MCRS model alone and 0.75 for the MCRS and CAD-specific indices together (likelihood ratio test, p<0.001), indicating significant improvement in the discriminatory ability. Addition of comorbid conditions to the MCRS adds significant prognostic information for post-dismissal mortality but adds little prognostic information about in-hospital complications after PCI. Such health-status measures should be included in future risk stratification models that predict long-term mortality after PCI."}
{"id": "17848394", "title": "Impact of ENPP1 genotype on arterial calcification in patients with end-stage renal failure.", "content": "Impact of ENPP1 genotype on arterial calcification in patients with end-stage renal failure. Ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase-1 (ENPP1) generates inorganic pyrophosphate, a solute that serves as an essential physiological inhibitor of calcification. Inactivating mutations of ENPP1 are associated with generalized arterial calcification of infancy. We hypothesized the ENPP1 K121Q variant to be associated with increased vascular calcification in patients with end-stage renal failure. We recruited 79 patients with end-stage renal failure undergoing dialysis treatment and genotyped them for the ENPP1 K121Q polymorphism. Next, we matched to each patient with ENPP1 121KQ genotype (n=15) a respective control with ENPP1 121KK genotype by gender, age, diabetes and duration of dialysis treatment. The matching ratio was 1:1. Severity of coronary calcification was quantified by computed tomography, and aortic stiffness was measured by pulse-wave analysis. Patients with ENPP1 121KQ genotype had a significantly higher coronary calcium score (1385 vs 94; n=30; P=0.033), and also a higher aortic pulse-wave velocity when compared to matched controls with ENPP1 121KK genotype (13.69 m/s vs 9.37 m/s; P=0.003). Taken together, our study suggests a potential role of the ENPP1 K121Q polymorphism in arterial calcification of patients with end-stage renal failure. Patients heterozygous for the ENPP1 K121Q polymorphism have higher coronary calcification scores and increased aortic stiffness, and may benefit from more intense treatment in order to prevent progression of arterial calcification."}
{"id": "17826782", "title": "Relations between markers of renal function, coronary risk factors and the occurrence and severity of coronary artery disease.", "content": "Relations between markers of renal function, coronary risk factors and the occurrence and severity of coronary artery disease. While renal failure greatly increases coronary risk, mild renal impairment is not usually considered a major risk factor. To explore this we assessed relations between measures of mild impairment of renal function and coronary artery disease (CAD) together with other risk factors. In 408 consecutive patients aged 75 years or less with angiographically defined normal or obstructed coronary arteries and an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) >45 mL/min per 1.73 m(2), we assessed relations between severity of CAD and levels of plasma cystatin C, creatinine, eGFR, lipid profile, C-reactive protein (CRP), homocysteine, asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) and symmetric dimethylarginine (SDMA). With univariate ANOVA, the severity of CAD was significantly associated with all indices of renal function: increased plasma cystatin C (p=0.003) and creatinine (p=0.004) and decreased eGFR (p=0.008). An elevated plasma cystatin C was associated with increases in ADMA, SDMA, CRP, homocysteine and age. ADMA, SDMA, CRP and homocysteine levels were not associated with CAD severity. eGFR was negatively associated only with SDMA and homocysteine. In multivariate analysis, increased plasma cystatin C predicted both the occurrence and the severity of CAD more strongly than other measures of renal function. We conclude that mild renal impairment detected by elevated cystatin C is associated with both the occurrence and the severity of CAD, independent of the other risk factors we measured and that mild renal impairment results in increased plasma levels of homocysteine, ADMA and SDMA. Our findings suggest a possible mechanistic link between CAD and mild renal impairment in which cystatin C may serve as an early marker for CAD and may also participate directly in atherogenesis."}
{"id": "17638590", "title": "Obesity, and not obstructive sleep apnea, is responsible for increased serum hs-CRP levels in patients with sleep-disordered breathing in Delhi.", "content": "Obesity, and not obstructive sleep apnea, is responsible for increased serum hs-CRP levels in patients with sleep-disordered breathing in Delhi. The present study was conducted to evaluate serum levels of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) in newly diagnosed patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Between April 2005 and March 2006, a total of 231 consecutive adult habitual snorers underwent polysomnography (PSG) in the sleep laboratory. Ninety-seven subjects were found suitable for hs-CRP measurement after application of the following exclusion criteria: patients with diabetes mellitus, hypertension, coronary artery disease, acromegaly, hypothyroidism, chronic renal failure, congestive cardiac failure, or smoking history, patients who were pregnant, on steroid treatment, on hormone replacement therapy, or with chronic use of drugs such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, oral anticoagulants and lipid-lowering drugs and patients having undergone upper airway surgery. Patients were classified as apneic [apnea-hypopnea index (AHI)>5], obese non-apneic [body mass index (BMI)>25, AHI<5] and non-obese non-apneic (BMI<25, AHI<5). C-reactive protein levels were measured in stored sera by high-sensitivity enzyme immunoassay (Biocheck, Inc. Foster City, CA, USA). After checking normality with the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test and using a square-root transformation, Pearson's and partial correlation coefficients were calculated for identified risk factors and confounders. A multiple linear regression model was used to identify variables that were independently associated with hs-CRP. The mean serum levels of hs-CRP were found to be 0.25+/-0.23, 0.58+/-0.55, and 0.51+/-0.37 mg/dl in non-obese non-apneics (n=23), obese non-apneics (n=45) and apneics (obese and non-obese, n=29), respectively. Pearson's correlation coefficient of hs-CRP with BMI was found to be 0.25 (p=0.01), and with AHI 0.16 (p=0.12). Partial correlation analysis showed that hs-CRP levels correlated significantly with BMI after adjustment for AHI and age (r=0.22, p=0.03), while correlation with disease severity as assessed by AHI after adjustment for BMI and age was not significant (r=0.10, p=0.33). After stepwise multiple linear regression, only BMI was found to be significantly associated with serum hs-CRP levels (beta=0.02, p=0.01). In this first comprehensive cross-sectional study on Indian subjects, we found that obesity, and not obstructive sleep apnea, is associated with elevated serum levels of hs-CRP. No independent correlation was found between severity of OSA and hs-CRP in the present study."}
{"id": "17566575", "title": "Reviewing myocardial silent ischemia: specific patient subgroups.", "content": "Reviewing myocardial silent ischemia: specific patient subgroups. Silent myocardial ischemia (SMI) is a relatively common, yet poorly understood, clinical entity. The most accurate means of detecting SMI and the precise treatment endpoints remain unclear. However, the presence of SMI correlates with the likelihood of future adverse cardiac events. Evidence suggests that patients at high risk of severe cardiac ischemia, even with the absence of symptoms, derive the greatest benefit from an aggressive diagnostic and therapeutic approach. This paper is giving a detailed review of SMI in regards to specific patient subgroups, i.e. populations with diabetes mellitus, hypertension, elderly patients, post-revascularization patients, women, the suggested screening procedures for each subgroup, as well as the emersion of new markers for the selection of high-risk patients for screening."}
{"id": "17467825", "title": "Spontaneous coronary artery dissection during hemodialysis in the post-abortion period.", "content": "Spontaneous coronary artery dissection during hemodialysis in the post-abortion period. Spontaneous coronary dissection (SCAD) is an unusual cause of acute myocardial infarction with complex pathophysiology. We present a case of acute inferior myocardial infarction resulting from spontaneous coronary artery dissection of the right coronary artery in a 33-year-old woman during the hemodialysis due to a recent abortion and consequent curettage at first trimester of her pregnancy. This report describes a previously healthy woman without traditional cardiovascular risk factors who presented with an acute inferior myocardial infarction. Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD) should be considered as a cause of the acute myocardial infarction in young patients without traditional risk factors for coronary artery disease, in females in the both peri-partum and post-abortion period."}
{"id": "16920140", "title": "P-wave duration and dispersion in patients with coronary slow flow and its relationship with Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction frame count.", "content": "P-wave duration and dispersion in patients with coronary slow flow and its relationship with Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction frame count. P-wave dispersion (PD), and duration has been reported to be associated with inhomogeneous and discontinuous propagation of sinus impulses. The aim of this study was to investigate the PD in patients with coronary slow flow (CSF) phenomenon. Study population included 48 patients with angiographically proven normal coronary arteries and slow coronary flow in all 3 coronary vessels (group I, 36 men; mean age, 54 +/- 9 years) and 32 subjects with angiographically proven normal coronary arteries without associated slow coronary flow (group II, 24 men, mean age, 53 +/- 10 years). Coronary flow rates of all patients and control subjects were documented by Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) frame count. All patients in group I had TIMI frame counts greater than 2 SD above those of control subjects (group II). The mean TIMI frame count for each patient and control subject was calculated by adding the TIMI frame counts for each major epicardial coronary artery and then dividing the obtained value into 3. The maximum and minimum P-wave duration (P(max) and P(min)) and PD were measured from the 12-lead surface electrocardiogram. Echocardiographic examination was also performed. There was no statistically significant difference between the 2 groups with respect to age, sex, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, and cigarette smoking (P > .05). P-wave dispersion and P(max) of patients with CSF were found to be significantly higher than those of control subjects (39.4 +/- 17 vs 21.2 +/- 10 milliseconds and 121.6 +/- 17.1 vs 104.3 +/- 10.4 milliseconds, respectively; P < .0001). Moreover, we found a significant positive correlation between both P(max) and PD with mean TIMI frame count (r = 0.836 and r = 0.806, respectively; P < .0001). P-wave dispersion and P-wave duration both were found to be greater in patients with CSF than in controls."}
{"id": "19090253", "title": "Comparison of plasma cardiac Troponin I and cardiac enzymes in haemodialysis patients of Gorgan (south east of Iran).", "content": "Comparison of plasma cardiac Troponin I and cardiac enzymes in haemodialysis patients of Gorgan (south east of Iran). The objectives of this study were to evaluate the effect of haemodialysis on plasma Cardiac Troponin I and cardiac enzymes before and after the dialysis process. Twenty two patients with Chronic Renal Failure (CRF) disease who were haemodialyzed at 5th Azar hospital of Gorgan Dialysis Center were recruited for this study (2005). The patients do not have coronary heart disease. Plasma cardiac enzymes showed no significant difference in the post dialysis group when compared with predialysis. Plasma levels of Cardiac Troponin I in 12 haemodialyzed patients were significantly increased in the postdialysis group when compared with predialysis, whereas plasma level of Cardiac Troponin I in 10 haemodialyzed patients were undetectable (less than 0.1 microg L(-1)). The observation of meaningful increasing level of plasma Cardiac Troponin I in the haemodialyzed patients after the process of dialysis shows that Cardiac Troponin I is highly specific marker for Acute Myocardial Infarction (AMI) when compared with other cardiac enzymes and is particularly useful for detecting AMI in chronic renal failure and haemodialysis patients which can prevent sudden cardiovascular abnormality and sudden silent myocardial infarction in these patients."}
{"id": "18928155", "title": "Does coronary artery calcification in patients with diabetic nephropathy depend on the advancement of renal failure?", "content": "Does coronary artery calcification in patients with diabetic nephropathy depend on the advancement of renal failure? Calcium-phosphate disorders and vascular calcification are highly prevalent in patients with diabetes mellitus and nephropathy. The aim of the study was to compare the prevalence and advancement of vascular calcification in patients with end-stage diabetic nephropathy on peritoneal dialysis and diabetic patients with chronic renal disease stages 2-4. The study group included 31 patients with type 2 diabetes and diabetic nephropathy divided into 2 groups: 12 patients (aged 50-74 years: mean 58.6+/-8.8) undergoing peritoneal dialysis and 19 patients (aged 46-82 years; mean 65.8+/-9.7) with chronic kidney disease stages 2-4 (GFR range 24-78 ml/min/1.73 m2). Coronary artery calcification score, was assessed using multi-slice computed tomography. Coronary artery calcification score did not differ significantly between groups (CaSc values 1085.2 vs 452.4 AgU; NS). The patients undergoing peritoneal dialysis showed significantly higher levels of parathyroid hormone (658.2 vs. 74.3 pg/ml; p=0.001), fibrinogen (5.82 vs. 3.89 g/l; p<0.0001) and alkaline phosphatase (330.9 vs. 168.0 U/l; p=0.001). Despite more advanced abnormalities in calcium-phosphate balance parameters and more active inflammation in peritoneal dialysis subjects we failed to demonstrate any statistically significant difference in coronary artery calcification score between patients with diabetic nephropathy on peritoneal dialysis and those with chronic kidney disease stages 2-4."}
{"id": "18336102", "title": "[Multidetector row CT in assessment of coronary artery calcification on hemodialisis].", "content": "[Multidetector row CT in assessment of coronary artery calcification on hemodialisis]. Vascular calcification is a strong predictor of cardiovascular and all-cause mortality. Coronary artery calcification is more frequent, more extensive and progresses more rapidly in CKD than in general population. They are also considered a marker of coronary heart disease, with high prevalence and functional significance. It suggests that detection and surveillance may be worthwhile in general clinical practice. New non-invasive image techniques, like Multi-detector row CT, a type of spiral scanner, assess density and volume of calcification at multiple sites and allow quantitative scoring of vascular calcification using calcium scores analogous to those from electron-beam CT. We have assessed and quantified coronary artery calcification with 16 multidetector row CT in 44 patients on hemodialysis and their relationship with several cardiovascular risk factors. Coronary artery calcification prevalence was of 84 % with mean calcium score of 1580 +/- 2010 ( r 0-9844) with calcium score > 400 in 66% of patients. It was usually multiple, affecting more than two vessels in more than 50%. In all but one patient, left anterior descending artery was involved with higher calcium score level at right coronary artery. Advanced age, male, diabetes, smoking, more morbidity, cerebrovascular disease previous, and calcium-binders phosphate and analogous vitamin D treatment would seem to be associated with coronary artery calcification. Coronary artery calcification is very frequent and extensive, usually multiple and associated to modifiable risk factors in hemodialysis patients. Multi-detector-row CT seems an effective, suitable, readily applicable method to assess and quantify coronary artery calcification."}
{"id": "18192951", "title": "Acute decompensated heart failure: challenges and opportunities.", "content": "Acute decompensated heart failure: challenges and opportunities. Acute decompensated heart failure (ADHF) represents the most common discharge diagnosis in patients over age 65, and has an exceptionally high mortality and read-mission risk. ADHF is characterized by abnormal hemodynamics, including increase in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and peripheral vasoconstriction, although cardiac index may be reduced, normal, or increased. Myocardial injury, which may be related to decreased coronary perfusion, activation of neurohormones, and/or renal dysfunction, may contribute to short-term and postdischarge cardiovascular events. Recent ADHF registries have provided valuable insights into the characteristics, treatment patterns, and clinical outcomes of these patients. Most patients with ADHF present with either normal systolic blood pressure or elevated blood pressures; hypotension is relatively uncommon. These patients have significant cardiovascular and noncardiovascular comorbidities that may contribute to the pathogenesis and/or adverse outcomes in ADHF. Therapies for ADHF have been targeted to improve symptoms and hemodynamics, as well as preserve or improve renal function, prevent myocardial damage, modulate neurohumoral and inflammatory activation, and manage other comorbidities that may cause and/or contribute to the progression of this syndrome. Concomitant therapies proven to provide long-term benefits in chronic heart failure are also essential. There remains an unmet need for therapeutic approaches for the early management of ADHF that may improve short- and long-term outcomes. Ongoing clinical trials are intended to provide data that will better define the benefits and risks of therapies for ADHF."}
{"id": "18165772", "title": "The impact of left ventricular systolic dysfunction on survival after renal transplantation.", "content": "The impact of left ventricular systolic dysfunction on survival after renal transplantation. Gated single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) provides information on myocardial perfusion and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), which correlates with risk of cardiac events in patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease (CAD). We hypothesize that decreased LVEF at time of renal transplant evaluation is an independent risk factor for cardiac death and nonfatal events after transplant. A total of 653 recipients of renal allografts between 1998 and 2005 had stress SPECT imaging before transplantation. One hundred and nineteen (18%) patients had left ventricular (LV) systolic dysfunction (LVEF </=45%). The patients with LV dysfunction differed from the patients with normal LVEF having a higher proportion of males, smokers, left ventricular hypertrophy, previous left heart catheterization, and higher exposure to dialysis. During a mean follow-up of 3.01+/-1.86 years postrenal transplant, 66 patients died and 67 additional patients experienced at least one nonfatal cardiac-related complication. Patients with LV systolic dysfunction were at considerably higher risk for cardiac complications (hazard ratio [HR] 1.8, P=0.01) and all-cause mortality (HR 2.0, P=0.01) after transplantation. By multivariate analysis, LV systolic dysfunction was associated with a 5-fold increase in the cardiac mortality risk, a 2-fold increase in all-cause mortality risk, and a 70% increase in posttransplant cardiac complications. Systolic dysfunction is associated with increased risk for overall and cardiac-related death and nonfatal events after renal transplantation, an association independent of ischemic disease."}
{"id": "18160761", "title": "Comparison of long-term clinical outcome after sirolimus-eluting stent implantation in patients with and without hemodialysis.", "content": "Comparison of long-term clinical outcome after sirolimus-eluting stent implantation in patients with and without hemodialysis. Poor clinical outcomes for hemodialysis (HD) patients compared to non-HD patients after coronary intervention have been reported. Although coronary intervention using sirolimus-eluting stents (SESs) might be expected to reduce restenosis in HD patients, little is known about the efficacy of the SESs. The purpose of the present study was to compare the clinical and angiographic outcomes of HD patients with non-HD patients after SES implantation. The study population consisted of 170 consecutive patients (234 lesions) who had undergone successful coronary SES implantation. The patients were classified into 2 groups, an HD group (18 patients, 27 lesions) and a non-HD group (152 patients, 207 lesions). The incidence of any clinical event was significantly higher in the HD group than in the non-HD group (50.0% versus 12.5%, P < 0.0001). Target lesion revascularization was necessary in 6 patients (33.3%) in the HD group and in 7 patients (4.6%) in the non-HD group (P < 0.0001). The Cox proportional-hazards regression model on cardiac events identified HD patients (P = 0.0301, hazard ratio = 2.704) as an explanatory factor. Moreover, the Cox proportional-hazards regression model on target lesion revascularization identified HD (P = 0.0004, hazard ratio = 6.921) and in-stent re-stenosis lesion (P = 0.0293, hazard ratio = 3.323) as explanatory factors. The present study suggests that compared with non-HD patients, HD patients with coronary artery disease treated by SESs have a poorer clinical outcome."}
{"id": "18044763", "title": "An evaluation of octogenarians undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention from the Melbourne Interventional Group registry.", "content": "An evaluation of octogenarians undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention from the Melbourne Interventional Group registry. The objective of this study was to evaluate the clinical characteristics and outcomes of octogenarians (> or =80 years of age) in a contemporary, multi-centre percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) registry. Octogenarians are increasingly referred for PCI. This patient population frequently has significant comorbidities, which result in major therapeutic challenges. The study population consisted of consecutive patients undergoing PCI in seven major Australian hospitals, who were treated over a 2-year period (2004-2005). Of 4,360 PCI's, 11.3% (n = 491) were performed in octogenarians and 88.7% (n = 3,869) in patients <80 years. Octogenarians (compared with patients <80 years of age) were more likely female and have greater comorbidities such as cerebrovascular disease, renal impairment, congestive heart failure, and chronic airway disease. Octogenarians more frequently presented with acute coronary syndromes and cardiogenic shock. Octogenarians had significantly increased 30-day (6.0 vs. 1.4%, P < 0.01) and 12-month mortality (8.4% vs. 2.5%, P < 0.01), and major adverse cardiac event rates [(MACE), 30 days 11.3% vs. 5.4%, P < 0.01 and 12-months 18.7% vs. 12.9%, P = 0.04]. Cardiogenic shock, ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction, chronic renal failure, and age > or =80 years were independent predictors of 12-month mortality. Octogenarians comprise a significant cohort of patients undergoing PCI. Octogenarians have more comorbidities, and higher rates of mortality and MACE, mandating thorough clinical evaluation before acceptance for PCI."}
{"id": "18037745", "title": "Using transthoracic Doppler echocardiography to diagnose reduced coronary flow velocity reserve in the posterior descending coronary artery in children with elevated right ventricular pressure.", "content": "Using transthoracic Doppler echocardiography to diagnose reduced coronary flow velocity reserve in the posterior descending coronary artery in children with elevated right ventricular pressure. Advances in transthoracic Doppler echocardiography enable noninvasive measurements of coronary flow velocity and coronary flow velocity reserve (CFVR) in the posterior descending coronary artery (PD). To evaluate CFVR in the PD of children with elevated right ventricular (RV) pressure, 19 children with RV pressure overload and 13 age-matched controls with normal RV pressure were studied using transthoracic Doppler echocardiography. Average peak flow velocity (APV) was measured at rest and in hyperemic conditions (intravenous administration of adenosine of 0.16 mg.kg(-1).min(-1)). Compared with controls, the PD CFVR was significantly reduced in the patients with elevated RV pressure (1.87+/-0.42 vs 2.49+/-0.55, p<0.01) because their mean baseline APV was significantly greater (27+/-6 vs 19+/-4 cm/s, p<0.01), although hyperemic APV was not significantly different (49+/-10 vs 48+/-14 cm/s, p=NS). PD CFVR is limited in patients with elevated RV pressure because of elevation of the baseline resting flow velocity."}
{"id": "17990798", "title": "[Prognostic value of dobutamine stress echocardiography in patients with terminal renal insufficiency undergoing hemodialysis--a 5-year follow up].", "content": "[Prognostic value of dobutamine stress echocardiography in patients with terminal renal insufficiency undergoing hemodialysis--a 5-year follow up]. Patients with end-stage renal failure have high morbidity and mortality rates due to cardiovascular complications. Screening for coronary heart disease in these patients is of utmost importance. The aim of this study was to investigate the prognostic value of the dobutamine test in patients on hemodyalisis during a 5-year follow-up period. During the pretransplantation period, 24 patients on chronic hemodialysis underwent echocardiography and dobutamine echocardiography. The average age of patients was 51.50 +/- 7.35 years. The mean duration of dialysis was 74 +/- 40 months. The dobutamine stress test was positive in 50% of patients, and undefined in 12.5%. The wall motion score index before the test was 1, and after the test it was 1.54 +/- 0.27. There were no serious complications. Left ventricular mass, diastolic and systolic dimension and posterior wall were significantly higher in patients with positive dobutamine stress results and they were associated with late cardiac morbidity and mortality. Five-year survival in patients with positive dobutamine stress results was 33.3% and 52.3% in patients with negative dobutamine results. Causes of mortality were as follows: cardiac 45.4%, cerebrovascular 18.1%, other causes 36.4%. Cardiogical complications were not the cause of death in any of the patients with negative dobutamine results. In dobutamine positive group 62.5% died from cardiological complications. During the 5-year period, cardiac death and manifest coronary disease occurred in 75% of patients with positive dobutamine stress results and only in one patient with negative dobutamine results. Sensitivity was 75%, specificity 89% and positive predictive value 90%. Dobutamine stress echocardiography has a good predictive value for future cardiac events in hemnodyalisis patients, and in screening for coronary disease."}
{"id": "17964041", "title": "Association of plasma levels of F11 receptor/junctional adhesion molecule-A (F11R/JAM-A) with human atherosclerosis.", "content": "Association of plasma levels of F11 receptor/junctional adhesion molecule-A (F11R/JAM-A) with human atherosclerosis. The purpose of this study was to determine the association of the F11 receptor (F11R) with human vascular disease. A molecule identified as critical for platelet adhesion to a cytokine-inflamed endothelial surface in vitro is F11R. The F11R is known to be expressed in platelets and endothelium and reported recently to be overexpressed in atherosclerotic plaques. A novel enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was developed for the measurement of soluble F11R in human plasma. The F11R levels, along with a number of other biomarkers, were measured in 389 male patients with known or suspected coronary artery disease (CAD) undergoing coronary angiography at a Veterans Administration Medical Center. Patients with normal or nonobstructive disease (CAD angiographic score of 0), mild-to-moderate disease (score of 1 to 3), and severe disease (score of 4 to 6) had median F11R plasma levels of 38.6 pg/ml (mean 260 +/- 509.6 pg/ml), 45.2 pg/ml (mean 395.3 +/- 752.7 pg/ml), and 105.8 pg/ml (mean 629 +/- 831.7 pg/ml), respectively (p = 0.03). By multivariate analysis, the variables independently associated with CAD score were age, hyperlipidemia, chronic renal insufficiency, left ventricular function, and plasma F11R levels. The F11R was the only biomarker that was independently associated with CAD score. Consistent with the previously reported effects of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha on F11R expression in cultured endothelial cells, F11R levels correlated strongly with plasma TNF-alpha levels (r = 0.84; p < 0.0001). Plasma F11R is independently associated with the presence and severity of angiographically defined CAD. By virtue of its strong correlation to plasma TNF-alpha, F11R may be an important mediator of the effects of inflammation on the vessel wall. Strategies that block F11R may represent a novel approach to the treatment of human atherosclerosis."}
{"id": "17941465", "title": "[Influence of microinflammation and oxidative stress on atherosclerosis progression and calcifications in cardiovascular system of hemodialyzed patients during two years follow-up].", "content": "[Influence of microinflammation and oxidative stress on atherosclerosis progression and calcifications in cardiovascular system of hemodialyzed patients during two years follow-up]. Atherosclerosis and calcifications in the cardio-vascular system are the most frequent causes of increased morbidity and mortality in patients with end-stage renal disease treated with hemodialyses. The aim of this study was to estimate the atherosclerosis progression and presence of calcifications in the circulatory system in patients treated with hemodialyses using, non-invasive imaging diagnostic techniques and to search for the relationships between these changes and microinflammation and oxidative stress during two years. The study was performed in 73 patients (36 female and 37 male), aged 25 to 75 years (mean -49.5), treated with hemodialyses, 3 times/week for 12 to 275 months (mean -73.8). In each patient before starting hemodialysis levels of: ox-LDL, Lp (a), procalcitonin, IL-1beta, IL-6, CRP, TGFbeta, TNFalpha, PDGF, AOPP and MPO were determined. Presence of artery calcifications was detected by Multi-Row Spiral Computed Tomography (MSCT) and expressed as coronary artery calcification score (CACS). Ultrasonography was used to evaluate CCA-IMT. During the study CACS increased significantly after 12 and 24 months (p < 0.00001) as compare with baseline. After 12 months, CACS increase significantly correlated with procalcitonin level (r = 0.30 p = 0.01) and after 24 months with CRP (r = 0.46; p = 0.0002) and IL-6 (r = 0.36; p = 0.005). Independent factor of coronary artery calcification progression after 24 months of observation was only CRP (beta = 0.569). CCA-IMT increased during the study and this increase was statistically significant (p < 0.00001). CCA-IMT increase correlated with CACS growth after 12 (r = 0.36; p = 0.003) and 24 months (r = 0.39; p = 0.002). After 12 months significant relationship was noted with procalcitonin (r = 0.29; p = 0.022). After 24 months CCA-IMT correlated with AOPP (r = -0.30; p = 0.017). The independent factor of CCA-IMT progression after 24 months of observation was only CACS (delta CACS beta = 0.49). From the performed study, we can conclude that exacerbation of atherosclerosis and calcification in the circulatory system of patients treated with maintenance hemodialyses depends on microinflammation and oxidative stress. Reasonable tools for diagnostic algorithm estimation of atherosclerosis advancement in this group of patients are non-invasive, visual diagnostic techniques such as MSCT and ultrasonography."}
{"id": "17925609", "title": "Screening for significant coronary artery disease in high-risk renal transplant candidates.", "content": "Screening for significant coronary artery disease in high-risk renal transplant candidates. Renal transplant candidates are at an increased risk for coronary artery disease (CAD), a strong predictor of cardiovascular events [major adverse coronary events (MACE)]. Coronary angiography is a costly, risky, invasive procedure. We sought to determine clinical predictors of significant CAD (stenosis > or =70%) in high-risk renal transplant candidates. Clinical evaluation and coronary angiography were performed in 301 patients (57+/-8 years, 73% men) on hemodialysis for 32 months (median). Patients were followed-up for 22 months (median). Inclusion criteria were diabetes (type 1 or 2), evidence of cardiovascular disease, or age > or =50 years. Risk factors included hypertension (93.7%), overweight/obesity (54.3%), dyslipidemia (44.9%), diabetes (42.1%), and smoking (24.3%). Cardiovascular disease was found as follows: peripheral arterial disease (PAD) (31.2%), angina (28.1%), stroke (12.9%), myocardial infarction (MI) (10.3%), and heart failure (9.3%). Significant CAD was found in 136 individuals (45.2%). Diabetes [odds ratio (OR)=1.82; 95% confidence interval (CI)=1.08-3.07], PAD (OR=2.50; 95% CI=1.44-4.37), and previous MI (OR=7.75; 95% CI=3.03-23.98) were associated with significant CAD. The prevalence of significant CAD increased with the number of clinical predictors from 26% (none) to 100% (all present) (P<0.0001). The incidence of fatal/nonfatal MACE increased two, four, and sixfold in those with diabetes, PAD, or previous MI, respectively (P<0.0001). In high-risk patients with end-stage renal disease, the prevalence of CAD and the incidence of MACE were high. Significant CAD or cardiovascular complications were not related to the majority of classic risk factors. Patients with diabetes, PAD, or previous MI are at higher risk of CAD, MACE, or both and, thus, must be referred for invasive diagnostic procedures."}
{"id": "17921462", "title": "Hydration and disease.", "content": "Hydration and disease. Many diseases have multifactorial origins. There is increasing evidence that mild dehydration plays a role in the development of various morbidities. In this review, effects of hydration status on acute and chronic diseases are depicted (excluding the acute effects of mild dehydration on exercise performance, wellness, cognitive function, and mental performance) and categorized according to four categories of evidence (I-IV). Avoidance of a high fluid intake as a precautionary measure may be indicated in patients with cardiovascular disorders, pronounced chronic renal failure (III), hypoalbuminemia, endocrinopathies, or in tumor patients with cisplatin therapy (IIb) and menace of water intoxication. Acute systemic mild hypohydration or dehydration may be a pathogenic factor in oligohydramnios (IIa), prolonged labor (IIa), cystic fibrosis (III), hypertonic dehydration (III), and renal toxicity of xenobiotica (Ib). Maintaining good hydration status has been shown to positively affect urolithiasis (Ib) and may be beneficial in treating urinary tract infection (IIb), constipation (III), hypertension (III), venous thromboembolism (III), fatal coronary heart disease (III), stroke (III), dental disease (IV), hyperosmolar hyperglycemic diabetic ketoacidosis (IIb), gallstone disease (III), mitral valve prolapse (IIb), and glaucoma (III). Local mild hypohydration or dehydration may play a critical role in the pathogenesis of several broncho-pulmonary disorders like exercise asthma (IIb) or cystic fibrosis (Ib). In bladder and colon cancers, the evidence on hydration status' effects is inconsistent."}
{"id": "17914539", "title": "[Coronary angiography: indications, results and complications in 5.000 consecutive patients].", "content": "[Coronary angiography: indications, results and complications in 5.000 consecutive patients]. There are guidelines about equipment, premises, personnel, indications and complications rates for coronary angiography, that every center performing this procedure should adhere. To report the experience with 5.000 coronary angiographies and to assess the compliance of the center with the current guidelines. Prospective registry of 5.000 patients aged 60+/-11 years (3.475 males) subjected to coronary angiography since 1992, assessing all aspects of the procedure with special emphasis on complications. The indications for 80% of procedures was suspected coronary atherosclerosis. The main risk factors were hypertension and smoking. Coronary atherosclerosis was demonstrated in 62%, mainly one vessel disease. These were two deaths due to the procedure (0.04%), three patients (0.06%) had an acute myocardial infarction or a stroke. These figures are lower than referential values. In this center, coronary angiography is a safe procedure, with complications rates that are even lower than referential values."}
{"id": "17893000", "title": "Effects of intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation on coronary pressure in patients with stenotic coronary arteries.", "content": "Effects of intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation on coronary pressure in patients with stenotic coronary arteries. The benefits of intra-aortic balloon pumping (IABP) usage reportedly occur through systolic unloading of the left ventricle and the augmentation of diastolic coronary flow. The aim of this study was to assess the change in intracoronary pressure distal to the coronary stenosis after the IABP by using an intracoronary pressure wire. Hemodynamic variables and intracoronary pressure data were measured in 16 patients requiring IABP for clinical indication (11 vessels with coronary stenosis and 5 normal vessels were enrolled). Coronary pressure was measured directly in each vessel with and without IABP support. The diastolic aortic pressure during IABP increased compared with that without the IABP (97.9 +/- 11.7 vs 80.3 +/- 10.7 mm Hg, P < .01). The systolic aortic and intracoronary pressure during the IABP decreased (aortic pressure: 83.8 +/- 10.4 vs 95.9 +/- 11.3 mm Hg, P < .01, intracoronary pressure: 67.6 +/- 16.5 vs 76.2 +/- 20.4 mm Hg, P < .01). The diastolic distal coronary pressure (Pd) increased during the IABP in healthy coronary arteries (87.3 +/- 4.8 vs 72.1 +/- 10.3 mm Hg, P < .05). However, Pd in stenotic coronary arteries with the IABP did not increase statistically compared with those without the IABP (44.0 +/- 21.3 vs 42.8 +/- 17.9 mm Hg). There was a significant correlation between the change in Pd after IABP insertion and percent diameter stenosis calculated by quantitative coronary angiography (r2 = 0.51, P < .001). In the presence of a critical coronary stenosis, the IABP does not increase the diastolic coronary pressure distal to the stenosis. Thus, the major effect of IABP on high-risk patients with severe coronary stenosis may relate to the reduction of oxygen demand by systolic unloading more than diastolic augmentation of the coronary flow."}
{"id": "17884368", "title": "Comparison of the usefulness of gadodiamide and iodine mixture versus iodinated contrast alone for prevention of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients with chronic kidney disease undergoing coronary angiography.", "content": "Comparison of the usefulness of gadodiamide and iodine mixture versus iodinated contrast alone for prevention of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients with chronic kidney disease undergoing coronary angiography. Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) is a common cause of hospital-acquired renal failure. Gadolinium-based contrast agents have been proposed as alternatives to iodinated contrast in patients at high risk for CIN. The use of high-dose intraarterial gadolinium chelates in the catheterization laboratory has been investigated in only a small number of patients. We compared patients with a creatinine clearance <60 ml/min/1.73 m2 who received intravenous hydration (> or =1,500 ml) and oral n-acetylcysteine prophylaxis with those who received a gadodiamide-iodine mixture (n = 90) or iodinated contrast alone (n = 79) in the cardiac catheterization laboratory. CIN was defined as an increase of 0.5 mg/dl in serum creatine from baseline. The 2 groups were similar with respect to demographics and risk factors. Although less iodinated contrast was used in the gadolinium mixture group, there was no difference in the incidence of CIN between the 2 groups. However, the initiation of dialysis (n = 7) and death (n = 8) only occurred in the diluted gadolinium contrast group. A stepdown multivariate analysis found diabetes mellitus to be the only independent predictor of CIN (p = 0.02, odds ratio 3.35, 95% confidence interval 1.21 to 9.29, c-statistic 0.66). In conclusion, the incidence of CIN was not decreased in high-risk patients receiving a gadolinium-iodinated contrast mixture versus iodinated contrast alone."}
{"id": "17877923", "title": "Arterial stiffness as a risk factor for coronary atherosclerosis.", "content": "Arterial stiffness as a risk factor for coronary atherosclerosis. The major pathophysiologic process of coronary atherosclerosis is a defect or injury of the arterial endothelial function. The rate of progression of coronary atherosclerosis is highly variable and mainly determined by risk contributors such as lipids, glucose, and smoking. Coronary plaque rupture is the precipitating factor for clot formation and acute coronary events. Measurement of arterial stiffness with different noninvasive techniques provides information about the functional and structural vascular changes at the level of the aorta, muscular conduit arteries, the peripheral branches, and the microvascular components. Arterial stiffness has been related to the Framingham and other cardiovascular risk scores. Large artery stiffness contributes to exercise-induced myocardial ischemia in patients with coronary artery disease. It can predict the outcome after coronary interventions. There is now evidence that arterial stiffness is a predictor for cardiovascular events in the general population, in patients with hypertension, end-stage renal disease, impaired glucose intolerance, and coronary artery disease. Future studies are warranted to demonstrate the value of follow-up of arterial stiffness as a marker of reduction of arterial wall damage during antihypertensive, antidiabetic, and lipid-lowering therapy. Promising study results show that measurement of arterial stiffness could become an important part of the routine assessment of patients in daily practice."}
{"id": "17845634", "title": "Renal transplant outcome in high-cardiovascular risk recipients.", "content": "Renal transplant outcome in high-cardiovascular risk recipients. Cardiovascular (CV) disease is the foremost cause of mortality and an important cause of morbidity in renal transplant recipients. The disease burden is likely to increase as older patients are accepted for transplantation. The outcome of these high-CV risk patients after renal transplantation, especially with known pre-transplant coronary artery disease (CAD), has not been studied. Hence, we looked at the CV outcome in patients with known pre-transplant CAD. All renal transplants performed between 1998 and 2002 at our center, followed up to 2005, were divided into high- and low-risk groups, based on the presence of one or more of the following: pre-transplant angina, myocardial infarction, and positive coronary angiogram. The two groups were compared for post-transplant cardiac events and patient and graft survival. The factors predictive of post-transplant cardiac events were also determined by Cox-regression multivariate analysis. Forty-five patients (10.5%), out of 429, had post-transplant cardiac events; 31.3% in the high risk, and 6.5% in the low-risk group (p = 0.001). Five-yr patient survival was lower in the high-risk group (82.8% vs. 93.1%, p = 0.004), while five-yr overall graft survival and death censored graft survival were statistically not different (74.8% vs. 84.1%, p = 0.08 and 87.3% vs. 90%, p = 0.25). Forty-one percent of patients who were treated with angioplasty plus stenting or bypass graft prior to transplantation had post-transplant cardiac events, as compared with 28% of those without intervention in the high-risk group and 6.5% of patients in the low-risk group (p = 0.001). Age, pre-transplant cardiac disease, arrhythmias, and low-ejection fraction (< or = 40%) were significant independent predictors of post-transplant cardiac events. Post-transplant survival of high-CV risk patients (with known CAD) is lower than that of low-risk recipients but remains acceptable. Cardiac interventions may reduce perioperative risk but do not reduce the probability of post-transplant cardiac events to that of low-risk group."}
{"id": "17827819", "title": "Metoprolol does not effect myocardial fractional flow reserve in patients with intermediate coronary stenoses.", "content": "Metoprolol does not effect myocardial fractional flow reserve in patients with intermediate coronary stenoses. Myocardial fractional flow reserve (FFR) is utilized to determine the hemodynamic significance of coronary stenoses. We sought to determine the effect, if any, of metoprolol on FFR in patients with coronary stenoses of intermediate severity. Eighteen patients (10 males, mean age, 59.4 +/- 7.7 years) with isolated, intermediate (30% to 70% narrowing on coronary angiogram) lesions on the proximal LAD and a preserved ejection fraction, underwent FFR measurement using a 0.014 inch pressurewire and intracoronary adenosine injection before and after intravenous metoprolol at a dose that achieved at least a 10% decrease in the heart rate. Heart rate dropped significantly with metoprolol. At the premetoprolol measurement, aortic pressure (Pa) remained essentially the same (105.7 +/- 11.5 versus 105.6 +/- 11.6 mmHg, P > 0.05) and distal coronary pressure (Pd) dropped significantly by 9% from 96.3 +/- 12.7 to 87.4 +/- 13.4 mmHg (P < 0.001) after adenosine injection yielding an FFR(1) of 0.83 +/- 0.07. At the postmetoprolol phase, Pa dropped nonsignificantly by 2% from 104.4 +/- 12.8 to 102.4 +/- 14.3 mmHg (P = 0.09) and Pd dropped significantly by 11% from 95.7 +/- 14.4 to 85.3 +/- 16.4 mmHg (P < 0.001) after adenosine injection, yielding an FFR(2) of 0.83 +/- 0.08, which was almost exactly the same as FFR(1) (P > 0.05). In this study, FFR was found not to be influenced by metoprolol treatment in patients with intermediate coronary stenoses and a preserved ejection fraction."}
{"id": "17826390", "title": "Predictors of survival in patients with end-stage renal disease evaluated for kidney transplantation.", "content": "Predictors of survival in patients with end-stage renal disease evaluated for kidney transplantation. Cardiovascular disease is the major cause of mortality in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). This study examined the all-cause mortality in 3,698 patients with ESRD evaluated for kidney transplantation at our institution from 2001 to 2004. Mean age for the cohort was 48+/-12 years, and 42% were women. Stress myocardial perfusion imaging was done in 2,207 patients (60%) and coronary angiography in 260 patients (7%). There were 622 deaths (17%) during a mean follow-up period of 30+/-15 months. The presence and severity of coronary disease on angiography was not predictive of survival. Coronary revascularization did not impact survival (p=0.6) except in patients with 3-vessel disease (p=0.05). The best predictor of death was left ventricular ejection fraction, measured by gated myocardial perfusion imaging, with 2.7% mortality increase for each 1% ejection fraction decrease. In conclusion, left ventricular ejection fraction is a strong predictor of survival in patients with ESRD awaiting renal transplantation. Strategies to improve cardiac function or earlier renal transplantation deserve further studies."}
{"id": "17825738", "title": "Combined functional and morphological imaging consisting of gated myocardial perfusion SPECT and 16-detector multislice spiral CT angiography in the noninvasive evaluation of coronary artery disease: first experiences.", "content": "Combined functional and morphological imaging consisting of gated myocardial perfusion SPECT and 16-detector multislice spiral CT angiography in the noninvasive evaluation of coronary artery disease: first experiences. Appropriate diagnosis and therapy of coronary artery disease (CAD) frequently require information about both the functional and morphological status of the coronary artery tree. We hypothesized that the combination of multislice spiral CT (MDCT) angiography and myocardial perfusion SPECT (MPI) provides accurate allocation of perfusion defects (PD) to their determining coronary lesion. Twenty patients (14 male, mean age 64+/-9.2 years) with known CAD were retrospectively studied. Gated MPI, CT angiography using a 16-detector CT scanner, and conventional coronary angiography (CCA) were performed in each patient. Reversible and fixed PD were subsequently allocated to their determining lesion separately by different observers for MDCT angiography and CCA. All patients showed significant CAD in CCA; six patients with one-, six with two-, six with three-, and two with four-vessel disease; three patients had bypass grafts; and five patients had prior myocardial infarction. Correct diagnosis of CAD was stated in 14 of 20 patients by MDCT angiography. Five reversible and five fixed PD were detected in 9 of 20 patients; one patient showed both reversible and fixed PD. Five of five reversible PD could be allocated to appropriate coronary artery stenoses in CCA. In MDCT angiography, five of five reversible PD were allocated to the same lesions; all lesions were rated as >/=50%. The preliminary results of the present study show high accuracy for multislice spiral CT angiography to allocate reversible perfusion defects in myocardial scintigraphy to their determining coronary artery lesions in a small patient collective with known coronary artery disease."}
{"id": "17805238", "title": "The progression of coronary artery calcification in predialysis patients on calcium carbonate or sevelamer.", "content": "The progression of coronary artery calcification in predialysis patients on calcium carbonate or sevelamer. Coronary artery calcification is more prevalent in dialysis patients than in patients without kidney disease and this is associated with high serum phosphorus. In this study, we evaluate the effect of calcium carbonate or sevelamer treatments on the progression of calcification in 90 predialysis patients. Inclusion criteria were stable serum calcium, phosphorus, parathyroid hormone, and a similar baseline total calcium score (TCS). These patients were not treated by phosphate binder, vitamin D, or statin. They were given low-phosphorus diets without or with daily calcium carbonate or sevelamer throughout the study that averaged 2 years. Baseline demographic or clinical characteristics along with biochemical parameters were not different among the three groups. The TCS significantly increased in patients on the low-phosphorus diet alone, to a lesser extent in calcium carbonate-treated patients, and not at all in sevelamer-treated patients. The progression of coronary calcification paralleled that of the calcium score. Our study shows that sevelamer treatment should not be restricted to dialysis patients; however, a larger study should be undertaken to confirm these results."}
{"id": "17719339", "title": "Frequency and cause of cardiac troponin T elevation in chronic hemodialysis patients from study of cardiovascular magnetic resonance.", "content": "Frequency and cause of cardiac troponin T elevation in chronic hemodialysis patients from study of cardiovascular magnetic resonance. Cardiac troponin T level predicts a gradient risk for death in patients using hemodialysis. We used cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) to determine whether an asymptomatic increase of troponin T in patients using hemodialysis is associated with subclinical myocardial infarction (MI). Twenty-six patients using long-term hemodialysis (49 +/- 12 years of age, 19 men, 8 diabetics) with left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction >40% and no known coronary artery disease were selected based on a low-risk troponin T level </=0.03 ng/ml (median 0.02, interquartile range 0.00 to 0.02, n = 13) and high-risk troponin T level >/=0.07 ng/ml (median 0.15, interquartile range 0.09 to 0.19, n = 13). All underwent CMR imaging for LV mass and for MI by late gadolinium enhancement. Between high- and low-risk patients using hemodialysis, there were no differences in age, gender, ethnicity, or diabetes mellitus. Of the high-risk patients, 3 (23%, 95% confidence interval [CI] 5 to 54) had MI by late gadolinium enhancement versus 0 (0%, 95% CI 0 to 25) low-risk patients (p = 0.22). A diffuse, midwall late gadolinium enhancement pattern was seen in 1 high-risk patient (8%) versus 0 low-risk patient (0%, 95% CI 0 to 25, p = 0.97). Height-adjusted LV mass and LV hypertrophy were not significantly different between high-risk (62 +/- 26 g/m(2.7), LV hypertrophy, n = 7, 54%) and low-risk (54 +/- 20 g/m(2.7), LV hypertrophy, n = 5, 39%) patients (p = 0.37 for LV mass, p = 0.69 for LV hypertrophy). In conclusion, MI detected by CMR is present in few patients on hemodialysis with high troponin T levels and absent in the setting of very low troponin T levels, suggesting that additional myocardial pathologies cause increased troponin T in patients using hemodialysis."}
{"id": "17719319", "title": "Predictors of in-stent restenosis and patient outcome after percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with diabetes mellitus.", "content": "Predictors of in-stent restenosis and patient outcome after percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with diabetes mellitus. Diabetics have a significantly higher incidence of major adverse cardiac events (MACEs) and in-stent restenosis (ISR) than nondiabetics after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Predictors of MACEs and ISR are uncertain in diabetics. In recent studies, microalbuminuria and proliferative retinopathy have been believed to relate to progressive coronary atherosclerosis. We retrospectively studied 191 consecutive patients (mean age 65 +/- 9 years) with diabetes who underwent PCI to determine predictors of ISR and MACEs (defined as cumulative incidence of myocardial infarction, revascularization, or death from cardiovascular cause), with special reference to microalbuminuria and proliferative retinopathy. Of 191 patients, 106 (56%) had a follow-up coronary angiogram at 16 +/- 2 months. Of these 106 patients, 66 (62%) developed ISR. In the multivariate model, microalbuminuria or proliferative retinopathy did not achieve significant association with ISR. Serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were significantly associated with a lower incidence of ISR (odds ratio [OR] 0.928, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.876 to 0.983, p = 0.011) and MACEs (OR 0.96, 95% CI 0.931 to 1.000, p = 0.048). Use of drug-eluting stents also had a negative association with ISR (OR 0.171, 95% CI 0.05 to 0.585, p = 0.004). Renal insufficiency was associated with higher MACEs (OR 3.19, 95% CI 1.45 to 7.031, p = 0.0039). In conclusion, serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were inversely associated with ISR or MACEs."}
{"id": "17717445", "title": "Shifting paradigms in the treatment of lower extremity vascular disease: a report of 1000 percutaneous interventions.", "content": "Shifting paradigms in the treatment of lower extremity vascular disease: a report of 1000 percutaneous interventions. Catheter-based revascularization has emerged as an alternative to surgical bypass for lower extremity vascular disease and is a frequently used tool in the armamentarium of the vascular surgeon. In this study we report contemporary outcomes of 1000 percutaneous infra-inguinal interventions performed by a single vascular surgery division. We evaluated a prospectively maintained database of 1000 consecutive percutaneous infra-inguinal interventions between 2001 and 2006 performed for claudication (46.3%) or limb-threatening ischemia (52.7%; rest pain in 27.7% and tissue loss in 72.3%). Treatments included angioplasty with or without stenting, laser angioplasty, and atherectomy of the femoral, popliteal, and tibial vessels. Mean age was 71.4 years and 57.3% were male; comorbidities included hypertension (84%), coronary artery disease (51%), diabetes (58%), tobacco use (52%), and chronic renal insufficiency (39%). Overall 30-day mortality was 0.5%. Two-year primary and secondary patencies and rate of amputation were 62.4%, 79.3%, and 0.5%, respectively, for patients with claudication. Two-year primary and secondary patencies and limb salvage rates were 37.4%, 55.4%, and 79.3% for patients with limb-threatening ischemia. By multivariable Cox PH modeling, limb-threat as procedural indication (P < 0.0001), diabetes (P = 0.003), hypercholesterolemia (P = 0.001), coronary artery disease (P = 0.047), and Transatlantic Inter-Society Consensus D lesion complexity (P = 0.050) were independent predictors of recurrent disease. For patients that developed recurrent disease, 7.5% required no further intervention, 60.3% underwent successful percutaneous reintervention, 11.7% underwent bypass and 20.5% underwent amputation. Patency rates were identical for the initial procedure and subsequent reinterventions (P = 0.97). Percutaneous therapy for peripheral vascular disease is associated with minimal mortality and can achieve 2-year secondary patency rates of nearly 80% in patients with claudication. Although patency is diminished in patients with limb-threat, limb-salvage rates remain reasonable at close to 80% at 2 years. Percutaneous infra-inguinal revascularization carries a low risk of morbidity and mortality, and should be considered first-line therapy in patients with chronic lower extremity ischemia."}
{"id": "17704043", "title": "Coronary calcification in patients with end-stage renal disease: a novel endocrine disorder?", "content": "Coronary calcification in patients with end-stage renal disease: a novel endocrine disorder? Cardiovascular mortality is significantly increased among patients with end-stage renal disease. The commonly observed vascular calcification in such patients has been considered as one of the causative factors. In patients undergoing dialysis, the incidence of coronary artery calcification is 2-5 times higher compared to patients with normal renal function and angiographically demonstrated coronary artery disease. Moreover, epidemiological studies have revealed a significant correlation of the extent of coronary artery calcification with the severity of underlying atherosclerotic lesions. Vascular calcification was initially considered as a passive process of hydroxyapatite deposition due to elevated plasma concentrations of calcium and phosphate. Nevertheless, there is a growing body of evidence that vascular calcification is an actively regulated and cell-mediated process. This phenomenon includes phenotypic alterations of vascular smooth muscle cells mainly resulting from an imbalance between promoters (such as increased Ca x P product) and inhibitors (fetuin-A, GLA protein, osteoprotegerin) of mineral deposition. With regard to the therapeutic approach, despite the evident effectiveness of both traditional and innovative remedies in the management of metabolic and electrolytic abnormalities of patients with end-stage renal disease, an individualized intervention based on etiopathogenesis is really required."}
{"id": "17702593", "title": "Mitral annulus calcification: determinants of repair feasibility, early and late surgical outcome.", "content": "Mitral annulus calcification: determinants of repair feasibility, early and late surgical outcome. The aim of this study was to determine the factors influencing the feasibility of valve repair and the surgical outcome in patients with mitral annulus calcification. In 124 patients with mitral annulus calcification undergoing surgery, two entities were distinguished: Barlow disease (myxomatous leaflets, n=60) and fibroelastic deficiency (FED) (normal leaflets, n=64). The calcification score was lower (1.9 vs 2.8); the annulus was more dilated (ring 35 vs 32 mm) and ruptured chordae were more frequent (77% vs 37%) in Barlow than in FED (p<0.001). The clinical profile was different: age (60+/-14 vs 73+/-8 years, p<0.001), systemic hypertension (22% vs 70%, p<0.001), chronic renal insufficiency (5% vs 22%, p<0.01), cancer (7% vs 25%, p<0.01). Multifocal atherosclerosis was less frequent in Barlow than in FED: carotid disease (17% vs 54%, p<0.001), aortic atheroma (21% vs 51%, p<0.001) and coronary disease (22% vs 56%, p<0.01). Echocardiography showed two different patterns in Barlow and FED: aortic valve stenosis (1.7% vs 31%), left atrial diameter (54 vs 49 mm), left ventricular end-diastolic diameter (62 vs 54 mm), interventricular septal thickness (11 vs 13 mm), and systolic pulmonary pressure (40 vs 56 mmHg), respectively (p<0.001). Bacterial endocarditis was observed in 24 cases (19%). The surgical technique was a valve repair in 68% and a replacement in 32%. The repair rate depended upon the extent of annulus calcifications (p<0.001) and the type of degenerative disease (95% vs 44% in Barlow and FED p<0.001). In-hospital mortality was 14% (Barlow: 5% vs FED: 23%, p<0.01). The mean follow-up was 50+/-41 months. Overall 5-year year survival was 76% (Barlow: 90% vs FED: 64%, p<0.001) and survival free from cardiac event was 69% at 5 years (Barlow: 87% vs FED: 52%, p<0.001). Five-year survival was higher following repair than replacement (84% vs 64% p<0.001). Chronic renal insufficiency and bacterial endocarditis were two predictors of early and late death (p<0.01). The aetiopathogeny of the degenerative mitral disease responsible for annulus calcifications corresponded to distinct anatomical, clinical and echographic patterns. It was a main determinant of repair feasibility, early and late surgical outcome."}
{"id": "17700401", "title": "The obesity paradox and myocardial infarct size.", "content": "The obesity paradox and myocardial infarct size. Obese subjects have a risk of death from cardiovascular disease higher than those with normal body weight. Obese patients, however, have a better outcome when undergoing coronary revascularisation, and when suffering from heart failure or chronic kidney disease. The term 'obesity paradox' underlines the divergence between increased risk and better outcome in sick obese patients. We tested the hypothesis that the obesity paradox could also occur in myocardial infarction. A group of 89 patients (mean age 62 +/- 11 years) with previous myocardial infarction (Q-wave in 72 patients) underwent contrast-enhanced MRI. Areas of delayed contrast enhancement (which reflects myocardial necrosis) were present in 15 +/- 9% of left ventricular myocardium. Infarct size was not influenced by patient age, gender, history of arterial hypertension, hypercholesterolaemia, hypertriglyceridaemia nor tobacco smoking. Infarct size, however, was larger in insulin-dependent diabetic patients (P = 0.06) and in those with a family history of premature coronary artery disease (P = 0.06). Surprisingly, infarct size was smaller in obese patients (11 +/- 4% of left ventricular myocardium) than in those with normal body weight (16 +/- 9% of left ventricular myocardium, P = 0.03). Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, obesity and family history of coronary artery disease were the only independent predictors of infarct size at multiple linear regression analysis. Owing to its limitations (small sample size and exclusion of extremely obese patients), this study generates a working hypothesis, which should be tested in larger prospective studies, that the obesity paradox could also occur in myocardial infarction."}
{"id": "17700161", "title": "Risk factors for mortality in diabetic nephropathy patients accepted for transplantation.", "content": "Risk factors for mortality in diabetic nephropathy patients accepted for transplantation. There is a high incidence of silent coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients with diabetes. We wanted to investigate risk factors for mortality, and especially CAD, in a well-defined cohort of diabetic nephropathy transplant candidates accepted for transplantation. From 1999 through 2004, 155 patients underwent work up for living or deceased kidney (KA) or simultaneous pancreas-kidney (SPK) transplantation. The work up included coronary angiography for all patients and 136 were accepted. Mean (SD) age was 50 (12) years, 62% had type 1 diabetes, 73% were males, and 34% were on dialysis. Mean follow-up from time of acceptance for transplantation was 3.6 (1.9) years. Survival of KA transplanted patients was 97% at 1 year, 89% at 3 years, and 76% at 5 years, whereas in SPK patients 100%, 94%, and 90%, respectively (P=0.065). One- and 3- year survival was only 57% and 20% in those remaining wait-listed (P<0.001). In univariate analysis mortality was associated with KA transplantation (hazard ratio [HR]=0.30, P=0.011) and SPK transplantation (HR=0.10, P=0.001), and age (HR=1.04, P=0.014). In multivariable analysis, KA transplantation (HR=0.28, P=0.006), SPK transplantation (HR=0.09, P=0.001), age (HR=1.06, P=0.002), type 2 diabetes (HR=0.14, P=0.003), and duration of diabetes (HR=0.94, P=0.019) were parameters associated with mortality. The only modifiable risk factor was transplantation with risk reduction up to 90%. CAD was not a risk factor for mortality when medically treated and revascularized according to standard guidelines."}
{"id": "17699471", "title": "Coronary artery disease.", "content": "Coronary artery disease. Coronary heart disease is the most common cause of death in the general population and in patients with ESRD. The principles of cardiovascular risk assessment and management apply to both populations. Advances in noninvasive coronary artery imaging have improved early detection of subclinical disease. The goals of medical management of coronary disease are to modify the natural history of disease and to improve the symptoms of angina. Coronary revascularization poses a different risk and benefit equation in the ESRD population. In stable ESRD with multivessel coronary artery disease, coronary bypass surgery, despite the upfront risks of stroke, myocardial infarction, and chest wound infection, seems to be a favored approach. In patients with ESRD and acute coronary syndromes, percutaneous coronary intervention on the target vessel has been associated with the most favorable outcomes. This article explores the clinical issues with respect to coronary artery disease in patients with ESRD."}
{"id": "17699457", "title": "Kidney function, electrocardiographic findings, and cardiovascular events among older adults.", "content": "Kidney function, electrocardiographic findings, and cardiovascular events among older adults. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is associated with cardiovascular (CV) disease and mortality. It is not known whether cardiac rhythm disturbances are more prevalent among individuals with CKD or whether resting electrocardiogram findings predict future CV events in the CKD setting. Data were obtained from the Cardiovascular Health Study, a community-based study of adults aged >/=65 yr. After exclusions for prevalent heart disease, atrial fibrillation, implantable pacemaker, or antiarrhythmic medication use, 3238 participants were analyzed. CKD was defined by an estimated GFR <60 ml/min per 1.73 m(2). Outcomes were adjudicated incident heart failure (HF), incident coronary heart disease (CHD), and mortality. Participants with CKD had longer PR and corrected QT intervals compared with those without CKD; however, differences in electrocardiographic markers were explained by traditional CV risk factors and CV medication use. After adjustment for known risk factors, each 10-ms increase in the QRS interval was associated with a 15% greater risk for incident HF (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.04 to 1.27), a 13% greater risk for CHD (95% CI 1.04 to 1.24), and a 17% greater risk for mortality (95% CI 1.09, 1.25) among CKD participants. Each 5% increase in QTI was associated with a 42% (95% CI 1.23 to 1.65), 22% (95% CI 1.07 to 1.40), and 10% (95% CI 0.98 to 1.22) greater risk for HF, CHD, and mortality, respectively. Associations seemed stronger for participants with CKD; however, no significant interactions were detected. Resting electrocardiographic abnormalities are common in CKD and independently predict future clinical CV events in this setting."}
{"id": "17699396", "title": "Calcification of coronary intima and media: immunohistochemistry, backscatter imaging, and x-ray analysis in renal and nonrenal patients.", "content": "Calcification of coronary intima and media: immunohistochemistry, backscatter imaging, and x-ray analysis in renal and nonrenal patients. Coronary calcification is a potent predictor of cardiac events. In patients with chronic renal disease, both prevalence and intensity of coronary calcification are increased. It has remained uncertain whether it is the intima of the coronaries or the media that is calcified and whether the morphologic details of calcified plaques differ between renal and nonrenal patients. Autopsy samples of coronaries were obtained from standard sites in 23 renal and 23 age- and gender-matched nonuremic patients. Specimens were examined using light and electron microscopy, immunohistochemistry, backscatter imaging, and x-ray analysis. In coronaries, calcified plaques occupied a similar proportion of the intima area in renal versus nonrenal patients (17.3 +/- 11.9 versus 18.1 +/- 11.9%) but occupied a significantly higher proportion of the media (16.6 +/- 10.6 versus 3.8 +/- 2.31%). Expression of the proteins osteocalcin, C-reactive protein, TGF-beta, and collagen IV was significantly more intensive around coronary plaques of renal compared with nonrenal patients. The non-plaque-bearing intima of renal patients showed minimal staining for fetuin, but fetuin staining was seen surrounding calcified plaques. In addition, more pronounced deposition of C5b-9 was found around coronary plaques of renal patients, and glycophorin deposition pointed to more past intraplaque hemorrhage in renal patients. Calcification by electron backscatter analysis is more intense in the coronary media, but not if the intima is more intense in renal compared with nonrenal patients. A more marked inflammatory response in renal patients is suggested by more frequent presence and greater intensity of markers of inflammation."}
{"id": "17697816", "title": "Intravascular ultrasound parameters associated with stent thrombosis after drug-eluting stent deployment.", "content": "Intravascular ultrasound parameters associated with stent thrombosis after drug-eluting stent deployment. Drug-eluting stent (DES) thrombosis (ST) can be devastating. The study aim was to evaluate intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) predictors for DES thrombosis by comparing IVUS studies after implantation in 13 patients with 14 DES thrombosis lesions with a group of controls (30 lesions in 27 patients) matched for history of chronic renal failure and type of DES. Five patients (38%) discontinued dual antiplatelet therapy at the time of ST. There were 3 in-stent restenosis lesions (21%) treated using DESs in the ST group compared with 0 in the control group (p <0.05). Compared with the control group, IVUS studies in the ST group showed a smaller minimum stent area (4.6 +/- 1.1 vs 5.6 +/- 1.7 mm(2), p = 0.0489). In the ST group, 11 of 14 stents had a minimum stent area < or =5.0 mm(2) compared with 12 of 30 in the control group (p = 0.0392). Minimum stent area in patients who stopped clopidogrel therapy and developed ST (5.30 +/- 1.15 mm(2)) tended to be larger compared with that in patients who developed ST while using clopidogrel (4.24 +/- 0.96 mm(2), p = 0.091). Within the 5-mm-long proximal and distal reference segments analyzed, the ST group had larger proximal reference maximum plaque burdens and smaller minimum lumen areas, along with a tendency toward similar findings in the distal reference segments. In conclusion, IVUS findings at the time of DES implantation in patients who subsequently developed ST showed a smaller minimum stent area (especially in patients who developed ST while using clopidogrel) and more residual disease at the stent edges."}
{"id": "17667211", "title": "Clinical utility of cardiac troponin I in the diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome in patients with renal failure.", "content": "Clinical utility of cardiac troponin I in the diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome in patients with renal failure. To analyze sensitivity and specificity of cardiac troponin I (cTnI) in detecting obstructive coronary artery disease in African American population with renal insufficiency presenting with acute coronary syndrome. Retrospective analysis of 108 patients who underwent coronary angiography over a 3-year period in a single institution. A troponin I level of 0.1 ng/mL or higher was considered abnormal troponin I. Renal insufficiency was defined as creatinine of 1.2 mg/dL or higher. Obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD) was defined as luminal diameter reduction of 70% or more (or total occlusion) in at least 1 coronary artery. Patients were divided into group 1 (renal insufficiency without need for hemodialysis, n = 76, mean age = 65) and group 2 (patients requiring hemodialysis, n = 32, mean age = 60). Access Accu TnI method was used to quantitate cTnI where murine monoclonal antibodies specifically bind to the C-terminal end of cTnI. In group 1, 41 (54%) patients had abnormal troponin of whom 37 (90%) had CAD and 4 (10%) had normal angiogram; 35 (46%) patients had normal troponin, of whom 25 (71%) had CAD and 10 (29%) had normal angiogram yielding a sensitivity of 60% and specificity of 71% (P = 0.003; 95% confidence interval). In group 2, 20 (63%) had abnormal troponin of whom 19 (95%) had CAD and 1(5%) had normal angiogram; 12 (38%) had normal troponin of whom 7 (59%) had CAD and 5 (41%) had normal angiogram yielding a sensitivity of 73% and specificity of 83% (P = 0.06; 95% confidence interval). cTnI has a sensitivity of 60% and specificity of 71% in acute coronary syndrome patients with renal insufficiency. In patients on hemodialysis, troponin I has a sensitivity of 73% and specificity of 83% for detection of obstructive CAD."}
{"id": "17658266", "title": "Predictors of mortality after aortic valve replacement.", "content": "Predictors of mortality after aortic valve replacement. Aortic valve replacement (AVR) is recommended as a standard surgical procedure for aortic valve disease. Still the evidence for commonly claimed predictors of post-AVR prognosis, in particular mortality, appears scant. This systematic review reports on the evidence for predictors of post-AVR mortality, and may be helpful in pre-surgical risk-stratification. In PubMed, we searched for original reports of post-AVR follow-up studies. We assessed the quality of study design and methods with a standardized checklist. Data of the reported predictors of mortality and outcomes were extracted. Twenty-eight studies met our inclusion criteria. Sixteen studies were considered of high quality. There is strong evidence that the risk of early mortality is increased by emergency surgery, while the risk of late mortality is increased with older age and preoperative atrial fibrillation. There is moderate evidence that the risk of early mortality is increased by older age, aortic insufficiency, coronary artery disease, longer cardiopulmonary bypass time, reduced left ventricular ejection fraction (LV-EF), infective endocarditis, hypertension, mechanical valves, preoperative pacing, dialysis-dependent renal failure and valve size; and that the risk for late mortality is increased by emergency surgery and urgency of the operation. There is little evidence for high New York Heart Association class, concomitant coronary artery bypass graft and many other commonly claimed risk factors for post-AVR mortality. The reported evidence on predictors of post-AVR mortality will help for pre-surgical risk-stratification, i.e. to discern patients at high or low risk for early and late post-AVR mortality. Future prognostic studies should take the evidence from this review into account and should focus on derivation of a predictive model for post-AVR survival."}
{"id": "17640315", "title": "Determinants of coronary artery calcification progression in renal transplant recipients.", "content": "Determinants of coronary artery calcification progression in renal transplant recipients. Coronary artery calcification (CAC) is associated with increased atherosclerotic burden and cardiovascular events. The objective of this study was to determine the natural history and risk factors associated with CAC progression in a cohort of incident asymptomatic renal transplant recipients with no history of coronary revascularization. Electron-beam computed tomography was performed in 82 subjects at time of transplantation and at least 1 year later. Mean (SD) and median CAC score increased for all subjects from 392.4 (747.9) and 75.8 at time of transplant to 475.3 (873.5), (p = 0.002[log]) and 98.9 (p < 0.001), respectively. Most subjects (89%) with no calcifications remained without calcification. Mean annualized rate (SD) of CAC score change was 52.5 (150) with a median of 0.5. Average yearly percent change was 67.3 (409.6) with a median of 1.4. In multivariate analysis, diastolic blood pressure at 3 months post-transplant, Caucasian race, glomerular filtration rate at 3.0, months post-transplant, body mass index and baseline CAC score were independent predictors of annualized rate of CAC change. There is significant progression of CAC post-renal transplantation in most subjects. Progression is most likely to occur in white patients and is associated with clinical factors such as blood pressure, body mass index, renal function and baseline CAC score."}
{"id": "17633570", "title": "[Limitation on efficacy of sirolimus-eluting stent implantation in patients on hemodialysis].", "content": "[Limitation on efficacy of sirolimus-eluting stent implantation in patients on hemodialysis]. Patients receiving chronic hemodialysis develop complicated coronary lesions with tortuosity and calcification, which make stent delivery or expansion difficult. Restenosis rates are also higher than in patients without hemodialysis. Furthermore, there is a risk of polymer rubbing from the surface of a sirolimus-eluting stent(SES)placed across a calcified lesion. This study investigated the efficacy of SES for patients on hemodialysis compared with bare metal stent (BMS). Forty-two patients on hemodialysis underwent percutaneous coronary intervention for 46 de novo lesions treated with SES (SES group). Seventy-four patients with 78 de novo lesions were treated with BMS (BMS group). The mean age was 65.8 +/- 9.3 yr in the SES group, and 65.0 +/- 8.7 yr in the BMS group. The mean hemodialysis period was significantly longer in the SES group (9.2 +/- 7.9 vs 6.5 +/- 7.7 yr, p < 0.01). Angiographic characteristics and acute results showed no significant difference between the two groups. At 6 months follow-up, late loss was significantly smaller in the SES group (0.60 +/- 0.97 vs 1.60 +/- 1.15 mm, p < 0.05). Binary restenosis and target lesion revascularization were similar (34% vs 43%, 25% vs 36%, respectively, p = NS). Major adverse cardiac events, composite of death, myocardial infarction, and target vessel revascularization were also similar (23% vs 36%, p = NS). Our study could not demonstrate the superiority of SES implantation in patients with hemodialysis compared to BMS implantation, which suggests the limitations of using SES."}
{"id": "17631213", "title": "The Framingham predictive instrument in chronic kidney disease.", "content": "The Framingham predictive instrument in chronic kidney disease. We sought to determine the utility of the Framingham equations in individuals with chronic kidney disease (CKD). The Framingham equations predict incident coronary disease. The utility of these equations is unknown in CKD. We pooled individuals without pre-existing coronary disease age 45 to 74 years from the ARIC (Atherosclerosis Risk In Communities) and CHS (Cardiovascular Health Study) trials with CKD, defined by an estimated glomerular filtration rate of 15 to 60 ml/min/1.73 m(2). Using gender-specific models, we determined 5- and 10-year risk of incident myocardial infarction and fatal coronary disease, and evaluated discriminative and calibration ability of the Framingham equations for predicting coronary events. There were 577 women and 357 men with CKD. Thirty-five men (9.8%) and 30 women (5.2%) and 74 men (20.7%) and 56 women (9.7%) had cardiac events within 5 and 10 years, respectively; 5-year events were predicted in 6.0% and 1.9% and 10-year events in 13.9% and 4.8% of men and women, respectively. For 5-year events, C-statistics assessing discrimination were 0.62 and 0.77, while 10-year C-statistics were 0.60 and 0.73 for men and women, respectively. Calibration was also poor, with Framingham scores generally underpredicting events in individuals with CKD at 5 and 10 years. Discrimination was significantly improved by refitting models with population-specific coefficients, while recalibration improved prediction in women. The Framingham instrument demonstrates poor overall accuracy in predicting cardiac events in individuals with CKD, although refit models can substantially improve discrimination. Calibration in women can be moderately improved with adjustment for higher event rates. Development of CKD-specific equations is needed."}
{"id": "17621664", "title": "Results of percutaneous coronary interventions in patients > or =90 years of age.", "content": "Results of percutaneous coronary interventions in patients > or =90 years of age. There are few data about percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) in nonagenarians (patients aged > or =90 years). This study aimed to assess acute and intermediate term clinical outcomes among nonagenarian patients undergoing PCI. The study included 65 consecutive patients, age > or =90 years undergoing PCI between January 2001 and August 2006. Fourteen patients were admitted with acute ST elevation acute myocardial infarction (STEAMI), one had cardiogenic shock, 39 patients sustained non-STEAMI, and 12 patients were with severe stable angina pectoris. Procedural data, in-hospital, and six-month clinical outcomes were obtained and adjudicated for all patients. Coronary angiography documented multivessel disease in 86% of patients with relatively complex lesions (type B or C) in 94% treated using stent deployment in 92% of patients. In 7% of cases IABP was needed. Immediate procedural success was achieved in 92% patients. Cumulative mortality at hospital discharge and by 30-days was 14% and increased to 18% at 6-months follow-up. Total major adverse cardiac events (MACE: death, AMI, TVR, stroke) was 17% at hospital discharge and increased to 21% by 6-months. Stroke was documented in one patient (1.5%) at hospital discharge. Cumulative mortality at 6 month was 0% in patients with stable angina and 23% in emergent PCI scenario (AMI or NSTEAMI or ACS). Univariate analysis revealed that emergent PCI, systolic blood pressure, left ventricular ejection fraction, diabetes mellitus, renal failure, TIMI flow at baseline, and procedural success, are all correlative with 6-months mortality. We conclude that clinically stable nonagenarian patients with coronary artery disease undergoing PCI have excellent PCI related prognosis while clinically unstable patients have a worse outcome. Thus, careful attention to background medical history and clinical presentation should dictate the prognosis and/or management among nonagenarian patients."}
{"id": "17617653", "title": "Detection of coronary and peripheral artery calcification in patients with chronic kidney disease stages 3 and 4, with and without diabetes.", "content": "Detection of coronary and peripheral artery calcification in patients with chronic kidney disease stages 3 and 4, with and without diabetes. The purpose of this study was to describe the prevalence and extent of coronary artery calcification (CAC) in subjects with chronic kidney disease (CKD) stages 3 and 4 comparing those with and without diabetes. We also wished to determine if the presence of peripheral artery calcification (PAC) would assist in identifying patients positive for CAC. CAC was detected by multi-slice computed tomography and PAC was detected by plain foot radiography. Study population was 112 patients, 54 with diabetes and 58 without, all asymptomatic for heart disease. Demographic and laboratory data were collected and analysed. The prevalence of CAC in CKD patients was 76 and 46.5% with and without diabetes, respectively. Patients with diabetes had higher CAC scores with more vessels affected, and in the presence of diabetes men and women had the same risk for CAC. In patients with diabetes, age was the unique explanatory variable for detecting the presence of CAC, while age and smoking history predicted severity. In patients without diabetes, age, male gender, body mass index, estimated glomerular filtration rate and serum phosphate levels predicted the presence of CAC, while parathyroid hormone predicted severity. Prevalence of PAC was 63 and 12% in subjects with and without diabetes. PAC detected by foot radiography was not an adequate alternative-screening marker for identifying patients with CAC. CAC is common in CKD stages 3 and 4 patients, especially in men and women with diabetes."}
{"id": "17617651", "title": "Factors associated with mortality in patients new to haemodialysis.", "content": "Factors associated with mortality in patients new to haemodialysis. Patients receiving dialysis therapy for end-stage kidney failure have a high cardiovascular mortality that can only be partially explained by traditional risk factors. This study was a post hoc analysis of a prospectively gathered data set from a randomized trial comparing outcomes in new haemodialysis patients treated with sevelamer or calcium-containing phosphate binders. Patients were followed from the time of enrollment until death or censor on 31 December 2005. Median follow-up was 3.6 years. Demographics, cardiovascular risk factors, laboratory data, medication use and severity of vascular calcification were available at baseline and over the first 18 months of dialysis. Baseline predictors of mortality included age, creatinine, heart rate, iPTH, C-reactive protein (CRP), coronary and aortic calcium scores and the presence of aortic valve calcification. Over the first 18 months, averages of diastolic blood pressure, BUN, creatinine, albumin, phosphorus, iPTH and CRP were all significantly different between survivors and non-survivors. A stepwise multivariable adjusted Cox regression model demonstrated that low BUN and albumin and high CRP along with the use of calcium-containing phosphate binders (rather than sevelamer) were the strongest predictors of mortality in patients new to haemodialysis. These findings suggest that non-traditional risk factors, such as inflammation and malnutrition measured during the first 18 months of dialysis, are important determinates of survival in new dialysis patients. In addition, the unique risk factor for dialysis patients, the use of calcium-containing phosphate binders, was associated with a higher mortality rate in patients new to dialysis."}
{"id": "17597083", "title": "Are PTH serum levels predictive of coronary calcifications in haemodialysis patients?", "content": "Are PTH serum levels predictive of coronary calcifications in haemodialysis patients? Cardiac calcifications are a frequent occurrence in uraemic subjects and are probably connected to the increased cardiovascular mortality of haemodialysis patients. There is substantial support to the hypothesis that low levels of serum PTH in haemodialysis patients are associated with increased vascular and cardiac calcium deposits, due to decreased buffering capacity of bone in low turnover osteodystrophy. The present study has been carried out on a cohort of patients on haemodialysis, with exclusion of previously parathyroidectomized patients, with the aim to evaluate the association between PTH serum levels and coronary calcifications. The study has been carried out in a cohort of 197 haemodialysis patients. There were 133 males and 64 females. Twenty-two patients had diabetes mellitus. Average age was 58.6 +/- 12.9 years. Patients were divided into groups of intact PTH levels, 0-150 (A), 150-300 (B), 300-600 (C) and >600 (D) pg/ml. The values of coronary scores in the PTH groups were as follows: (A) 624.7 +/- 939, (B) 866.4 +/- 1080, (C) 1202.8 +/- 1742.3 and (D) 1872.7 +/- 2961.9. The difference between coronary calcium scores was significant (P < 0.01). A general linear model identified serum calcium and dialysis age as independent factors of calcium deposits in the high PTH group. No prominent association between low PTH serum levels and the severity of coronary calcium deposits in haemodialysis patients was found while increased levels of PTH, with special regard to very elevated levels, associated with more frequent hypercalcaemia and hyperphosphataemia, should be considered a major risk factor of coronary calcifications and cardiac events."}
{"id": "17589626", "title": "Coronary artery disease treatment in dialysis patients at the Hospital das Cl\u00ednicas da Faculdade de Medicina de Botucatu--UNESP.", "content": "Coronary artery disease treatment in dialysis patients at the Hospital das Cl\u00ednicas da Faculdade de Medicina de Botucatu--UNESP. Interventional treatment of coronary insufficiency is underemployed among dialysis patients. Studies confirming its efficacy in this set of patients are scarce. To assess the results of interventional treatment of coronary artery disease in patients undergoing dialysis. A total of 34 dialysis patients submitted to coronary angiography between September 1995 and October 2004 were divided according to presence or absence of coronary lesion, type of treatment and presence or absence of diabetes mellitus. The groups were compared according to their clinical and survival characteristics. Survival of patients undergoing interventional treatment was compared to overall survival of 146 dialysis patients at the institution in the same period. Interventional treatment was indicated to the same clinical conditions in the general population. Thirteen patients with no angiography coronary lesions presented a survival rate of 100% in 48 months as compared to 35% of 21 patients with coronary artery disease. Diabetic patients had a lower survival rate compared with non-diabetics. Angioplasty had a worse prognosis compared to surgery; however, 80% of patients undergoing angioplasty were diabetic. Seventeen patients submitted to interventional procedures presented a survival rate similar to that of the others 146 hemodialysis patients without clinical evidence of coronary disease. This small series shows that myocardial revascularization, whenever indicated, can be performed in dialysis patients. This conclusion is corroborated by similar mortality rates in two groups of patients: coronary patients submitted to revascularization and overall dialysis patients."}
{"id": "17584197", "title": "Stress echocardiography: abnormal response of tissue Doppler-derived indices to dobutamine in the absence of obstructive coronary artery disease in patients with chronic renal failure.", "content": "Stress echocardiography: abnormal response of tissue Doppler-derived indices to dobutamine in the absence of obstructive coronary artery disease in patients with chronic renal failure. Abnormal tissue Doppler (TD)-derived indices during dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) can predict the presence of coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients with normal renal function. These indices include a reduction in annular systolic velocity (S'), a decrease in early diastolic annular velocity (E'), and prolongation of the time to E'. However, the ability of these indices to detect or exclude CAD in patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) is unclear. To examine the ability of TD-derived indices to detect or exclude the presence of CAD in patients with CRF. We evaluated a total of 30 patients (13 males, mean age 57 +/- 15 years) using both DSE and coronary angiography. This cohort consisted of 12 control patients with normal renal function (mean creatinine 0.5 mg/dL) and 18 patient with CRF (mean creatinine 2.5 mg/dL). At each stage of the DSE, left ventricular (LV) diastolic function was assessed using conventional (peak early (E) and late (A) transmitral, E/A ratio, E-wave deceleration time (DT), and isovolumic relaxation time (IVRT)) and TD-derived indices (lateral annular systolic (S'), early diastolic (E'), and late atrial velocities (A'), time to E' and E/E'). All 30 patients had a normal DSE based on systolic regional function and a normal coronary angiogram. There was no difference in E, A, E/A, DT or IVRT between the two groups at each stage. Despite normal coronaries, patients with CRF demonstrated lower S' and E' velocities at peak stress compared to the control patients (8.0 +/- 2.2 cm/sec vs 15.1 +/- 2.6, P < 0.05 and 6.7 +/- 1.6 cm/sec vs 13.3 +/- 3.1, P < 0.05, respectively). During DSE, the time to E' at peak stress in CRF patients was also prolonged compared to control (400 +/- 44 ms vs 329 +/- 51, P < 0.05). Patients with CRF also had increased filling pressures (as estimated by E/E') as compared to controls at peak stress (14.7 +/- 5.2 vs 7.4 +/- 1.5, P < 0.05, respectively). In patients with CRF, a reduction in TD derived indices does not predict the presence of obstructive CAD."}
{"id": "17573191", "title": "Inhibition of caspases but not of calpains temporarily protect against C2-ceramide-induced death of CAD cells.", "content": "Inhibition of caspases but not of calpains temporarily protect against C2-ceramide-induced death of CAD cells. Evidence has implicated apoptosis as a mechanism underlying cell death in diverse neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease (PD). Endogenous agents such as TNF-alpha, INF-gamma, IL-1beta and others stress signals activate the sphingomyelin pathway increasing ceramide levels. Ceramide triggers apoptotic pathways while inhibiting survival signalling, and is involved in the regulation of intracellular Ca(2+) homeostasis and compartmentalisation. The contribution of caspases in neuronal apoptosis has been highlighted by the increased survival exerted by caspase inhibition, but the involvement of calpains during neuronal apoptosis and the potential benefit of their inhibition is still controversial. In the present paper, we have analysed the contribution of caspases and calpains to cell death of CAD cells, a catecholaminergic cell line of mesencephalic origin, following C2-ceramide exposure. Ceramide caused CAD cell death by a dose and time dependant mechanism. 25microM of C2-ceramide caused apoptosis. Analysis of activation of caspases and calpains by differential cleavage of alpha-fodrin showed that although calpains are activated before caspases following C2-ceramide exposure, only caspase inhibition increased cell survival. These results demonstrate the activation of caspases and calpains in C2-ceramide-induced cell death, and support the role of caspase inhibition as a neuroprotective strategy and a plausible therapeutic approach to decrease catecholaminergic cell death."}
{"id": "17564063", "title": "[Nifekalant hydrochloride effective against perioperative ventricular tachycardia in patients with impaired left ventricular function].", "content": "[Nifekalant hydrochloride effective against perioperative ventricular tachycardia in patients with impaired left ventricular function]. Perioperative ventricular tachycardia (VT) was treated with nifekalant hydrochloride, a pure potassium channel blocker in 2 patients with low left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF). The first patient is a 34-year-old woman, a chronic hemodialysis patient in whom severe aortic stenosis due to structural valvular deterioration of the previously implanted tissue valve was diagnosed with her LVEF of 26.9%. She underwent urgent redo aortic valve replacement with a mechanical valve. Postoperatively a sustained VT developed. After she received direct-current (DC) shock, nifekalant hydrochloride was administered. The 2nd patient is a 44-year-old man who presented with severe congestive heart failure. A coronary angiogram revealed triple vessel disease as well as decreased LVEF of 16% and ischemic mitral regurgitation. He underwent triple coronary artery bypass grafting and mitral ring annuloplasty. A VT developed requiring DC shock during hemostasis. Nifekalant hydrochloride was given immediately. In both patients, nifekalant hydrochloride was given intravenously in a dose of 0.3 mg/kg followed by a continuous intravenous infusion at a dose of 0.4 mg/kg/hr. Our experience shows nifekalant hydrochloride is effective against perioperative VT, especially in patients with impaired left ventricular function since it has mild positive inotropic effect."}
{"id": "17562952", "title": "Long-term safety and efficacy of drug-eluting stents: two-year results of the REAL (REgistro AngiopLastiche dell'Emilia Romagna) multicenter registry.", "content": "Long-term safety and efficacy of drug-eluting stents: two-year results of the REAL (REgistro AngiopLastiche dell'Emilia Romagna) multicenter registry. The long-term safety and efficacy of drug-eluting stents (DES) have been questioned recently. Between July 2002 and June 2005, 10,629 patients undergoing elective percutaneous coronary intervention with either DES (n=3064) or bare-metal stents (BMS, n=7565) were enrolled in a prospective registry comprising 13 hospitals. We assessed the cumulative incidence of major adverse cardiac events (death, acute myocardial infarction, and target-vessel revascularization) and angiographic stent thrombosis during 2-year follow-up. A propensity score analysis to adjust for different baseline clinical, angiographic, and procedural characteristics was performed. The 2-year unadjusted cumulative incidence of major adverse cardiac events was 17.8% in the DES group and 21.0% in the BMS group (P=0.003 by log-rank test). Angiographic stent thrombosis was 1.0% in the DES group and 0.6% in the BMS group (P=0.09). After adjustment, the 2-year cumulative incidence of death was 6.8% in the DES group and 7.4% in the BMS group (P=0.35), whereas the rates were 5.3% in DES and 5.8% in BMS for acute myocardial infarction (P=0.46), 9.1% in DES and 12.9% in BMS for target-vessel revascularization (P<0.00001), and 16.9% in DES and 21.8% in BMS for major adverse cardiac events (P<0.0001). Independent predictors of target-vessel revascularization in the DES group were diabetes mellitus (hazard ratio 1.36, 95% confidence interval 1.06 to 1.76), renal failure (hazard ratio 1.69, 95% confidence interval 1.06 to 2.69), and reference vessel diameter (hazard ratio 0.64, 95% confidence interval 0.45 to 0.93). In this large real-world population, the beneficial effect of DES in reducing the need for new revascularization compared with BMS extends to 2 years without evidence of a worse safety profile."}
{"id": "17550928", "title": "Ischaemia imaging in type 2 diabetic kidney transplant candidates--is coronary angiography essential?", "content": "Ischaemia imaging in type 2 diabetic kidney transplant candidates--is coronary angiography essential? Coronary artery disease (CAD) remains the leading cause of death in type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) patients undergoing renal transplantation. There is a high prevalence of silent CAD in these patients. Controversy exists regarding the role of dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) in detection of CAD. Our purpose was to compare DSE with coronary angiography (CA) for the detection of CAD in type 2 diabetic patients undergoing evaluation for renal transplantation. Forty (36 male, four female) type 2 diabetic patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) were subjected to DSE followed by CA as a part of their pre-renal transplant evaluation. The ability of DSE to predict 70% stenosis in one or more coronary arteries as determined by CA was evaluated. Mean age of the patients was 49.2 +/- 5 years (range 39-60 years). DSE was positive in 10 (25%) patients, while 19 patients (48%) had a more than 70% lesion in at least one epicardial vessel on CA (six patients had single vessel, three had double vessel and 10 had triple vessel disease). The sensitivity and specificity in identifying CAD was 47.3 and 95.2%, respectively, while positive predictive value and negative predictive value was 90% and 66%. Accuracy of DSE was 72.5%. All four patients with diffuse diabetic coronary artery disease had negative DSE. DSE is a poor predictor of coronary artery disease in type 2 DM patients being evaluated for renal transplantation. CA should be included in evaluation of type 2 diabetic patients who are renal transplant candidates."}
{"id": "17545020", "title": "[Nitroglycerine promotes myocardial oxygen metabolism and regional cardiac function in vivo].", "content": "[Nitroglycerine promotes myocardial oxygen metabolism and regional cardiac function in vivo]. To investigate the effects of nitroglycerine (NTG) on myocardial oxygen metabolism and regional cardiac function in canine hearts with a stable systemic hemodynamics in situ. Eight anesthetized open-chest dogs with flow-limited left anterior descending branch of the coronary artery or left circumflex artery (LCx) stenosis were studied. The percentage of ventricular wall thickening (%WT) was measured with quantitative two-dimensional echocardiography (2DE), myocardial blood flow (MBF) with radiolabeled microspheres and tissue oxygen pressure (tPO(2).) with oxygen-dependent quenching of phosphorescence. 2DE was performed and radiolabeled microspheres and Pd-porphyrin injected in the dogs at rest during intracoronary infusion of 0.3-0.6 mg x kg(-1) x min(-1) of NTG. Myocardial oxygen consumption (MVO(2), ml x min(-1) x 100 g(-1)) was calculated as the multiplication product between the arterio-venous oxygen content difference and MBF, and myocardial O(2) delivery as the product between arterial oxygen content and MBF. As compared with the baseline, NTG increased %WT and MBF significantly in both normal and ischemic beds (P<0.05). There was a significant increase in MVO(2) during NTG infusion in the ischemic bed (P<0.05) in comparison with that measured at rest. NTG, however, significantly increased the ability of myocardial O(2) delivery in both normal and ischemic beds (P<0.05), therefore tPO(2) was still higher in the ischemic bed during NTG infusion than that at rest (P<0.05). The percentage increment in tPO(2) was significantly greater in the ischemic bed than percentage MBF increment. NTG enhances myocardial oxygen concentration in normal and ischemic myocardium and may increase oxygen release to the ischemic myocardium in vivo. NTG may have a positive inotropic effect on regional cardiac function. In addition to direct effect on vascular tone, NTG plays important roles in the cardiovascular system by modulating myocardial oxygen metabolism and contractile function."}
{"id": "17533516", "title": "Postprocedural resistance of the target lesion is a strong predictor of subsequent revascularization: assessment by a novel lesion-specific physiological parameter, the epicardial resistance index.", "content": "Postprocedural resistance of the target lesion is a strong predictor of subsequent revascularization: assessment by a novel lesion-specific physiological parameter, the epicardial resistance index. Objective evaluation of the functional significance of individual stenosis in patients with multiple lesions is crucial when performing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Here we propose a novel lesion-specific parameter, the epicardial resistance index (ERI), which is derived from intracoronary pressure measurements, and validate its clinical usefulness. The ERI is defined as the ratio of the resistance of an epicardial coronary stenosis to that of downstream myocardium. After obtaining intracoronary pressure data by pull-back of a 0.014'' pressure wire, the ERI was calculated as the trans-lesional pressure gradient divided by (Pd-Pv) at maximum hyperemia, where Pd = the mean distal coronary pressure in the absence of any stenosis and Pv = the central venous pressure. Using 170 measurements obtained from 75 patients, the correlation of ERI with parameters obtained from quantitative coronary angiography (QCA) and intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) was studied. ERI showed a significant correlation with the QCA-derived percent diameter stenosis (r = 0.67, P < 0.001), and with the IVUS-derived minimum luminal area (r = 0.68, P < 0.001). In 55 patients who underwent PCI with bare metal stents, a postprocedural target lesion ERI value greater than 0.16 strongly predicted the need for subsequent revascularization within six months (81% sensitivity and 80% specificity). The ERI is a useful pressure-derived hemodynamic parameter that correlates with anatomical parameters. In addition, the postprocedural resistance of the target lesion indicated by the ERI is a reliable predictor of the late outcome of PCI."}
{"id": "17533028", "title": "Rupture of an infected liver cyst into the pericardium in a kidney transplant recipient with polycystic kidney disease.", "content": "Rupture of an infected liver cyst into the pericardium in a kidney transplant recipient with polycystic kidney disease. Polycystic liver disease is the most common extrarenal manifestation of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. Hepatic cysts often are multiple, and in renal transplant recipients, occult infection with or without concurrent kidney cyst infection is a frequent cause of abdominal pain and fever and may require long-term antibiotic use and hospitalization. Rupture and bleeding of hepatic cysts into the peritoneum or viscera are infrequent complications that have been reported. Identification of a single culprit lesion that could be targeted for surgical intervention often is difficult because such imaging studies as computed tomographic scans, magnetic resonance images, or radionuclide-tagged white cell scans often show several inflamed cysts that can persist over several subsequent scans. Treatment may require surgical intervention. Eradication of infection and wound healing also is made difficult by concomitant immunosuppression in renal transplant recipients. We present the case of a renal transplant recipient with an infected dominant polycystic liver cyst that ruptured into the pericardium, leading to tamponade."}
{"id": "17526984", "title": "The effect of diabetes mellitus on the P-wave dispersion.", "content": "The effect of diabetes mellitus on the P-wave dispersion. P-wave dispersion (PD), a measure of heterogeneity of atrial refractoriness, is defined as the difference between the minimum (P min) and maximum P-wave (P max) durations on standard 12-lead electrocardiography (ECG). Increase in PD shows the intra-atrial and inter-atrial non-uniform conduction. In the present study the evaluation of the effect of diabetes mellitus (DM) on PD in patients without coronary artery disease and hypertension was carried out. Seventy-six diabetic patients who had no coronary artery disease or hypertension (group 1; mean age 48+/-9) and 40 healthy volunteer individuals (group 2; mean age 46+/-13) were enrolled in the study. After obtaining 12-lead surface ECG of all cases, P max and P min P-wave durations were measured and the differences between them were taken as PD (PD=P max-P min). Left atrium diameter, left ventricular end systolic and end diastolic diameters were measured and left ventricular ejection fraction was determined by echocardiography. Pulse wave mitral flow velocities were measured from the apical 4-chamber view. Mitral early diastolic velocity (E), late diastolic velocity (A), E/A, E deceleration time and isovolumetric relaxation time were determined. In comparison of the 2 groups there was no statistically significant difference among age, sex, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, resting heart rate and body mass index of the cases. Although PD and P max were significantly higher in diabetic patients, there was no difference between P min values (33+/-12 vs 28+/-10, p=0.02; 99+/-12 vs 93+/-10, p=0.011; 66+/-9 vs 65+/-10, p=NS; respectively). DM might increase PD even without ischemia, hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy."}
{"id": "17524945", "title": "The impact of renal failure on survival following cardiac transplantation.", "content": "The impact of renal failure on survival following cardiac transplantation. Renal failure after cardiac transplantation is a common and serious complication. In this study we investigated the incidence and effects of renal failure on survival among patients who underwent cardiac transplantation. Eight patients underwent cardiac and one patient combined cardiac and renal transplantation. The mean age of the patients was 33 +/- 11.6 years (range, 17 to 51). On preoperative echocardiographic evaluation, the mean ejection fraction was calculated as 19 +/- 3.11% (range, 16% to 24%). One patient had compensated renal failure and one patient, dialysis-dependent renal failure. Hemofiltration was routinely used during the operations. Corticosteroids, cyclosporine, and mycophenolate mofetil were used for immunosuppression. Early renal replacement therapy was performed in patients with acute renal failure. The incidence of acute renal failure was 55.5% (5 patients). In the early postoperative and follow-up periods, the mean ejection fraction was 55 +/- 9.9% and 57 +/- 4.5%, respectively. The mean follow-up period was 21.3 +/- 8.8 (range, 6 to 33) months. In the early initiation period, the mean peak value of cyclosporine blood level was 479 +/- 201.8 ng/mL during the first month, 250 +/- 95.3 and after the third month, 195 +/- 43.7 ng/mL. The mean creatinine level at last follow-up was 1.27 +/- 0.4. One patient experienced a grade III-A rejection episode. One patient died due to coronary artery occlusive disease at 31 months after transplantation. In our study we have observed that renal failure had no negative effect on patient survival. This can be explained by improved cardiac performance, keeping cyclosporine levels low finding and utilizing early renal replacement treatment."}
{"id": "17520568", "title": "The relationship between carotid and coronary atherosclerotic damage in dialysis patients.", "content": "The relationship between carotid and coronary atherosclerotic damage in dialysis patients. Data relating carotid ultrasound (CU) to atherosclerotic damage evaluated by coronary angiography in hemodialysis patients are scarce. We carried out a cross-sectional study in 33 uremic subjects (age 55 +/- 12 years, 22 male, 7 diabetic), who have been on dialysis for 41 +/- 48 months (range 2-192). Twenty-two underwent a coronary angiography in order to complete clinical evaluation for inclusion on the kidney transplantation waiting list, and 11 because of coronary artery disease (CAD); Gensini's score was calculated. Intima-media thickness (IMT) and presence of plaques were related to the degree of coronary stenosis and to cardiovascular risk factors. Patients were divided into two groups depending on mean IMT (group 1 IM <or= 0.9 mm, n=18; group 2 IMT>0.9 mm, n=15). Group 2 was older (60 +/- 8 vs 50 +/- 12 year, p=0.01), had higher frequency of CAD (53 vs 16%, p=0.02) and had higher prevalence of coronary artery stenosis >or= 75% in the right (60 vs 22%, p=0.02), left anterior descending (46 vs 16%, p=0.06) and left circumflex coronary arteriers (60 vs 11%, p=0.05) than group 1. IMT was not related to the degree of CAD evaluated by Gensini's score. IMT sensibility and specificity in detecting the presence of hemodynamically significant coronary stenosis were 64% and 68%, respectively. Coronary narrowing was correlated with the degree of stenosis of common, internal and external carotid arteries (Spearman's rank correlation coefficient). During two years of follow-up, six major cardiac events were recorded and they were related to Gensini's score. In uremic patients, ultrasonographic evaluation of carotid arteries is a simple, noninvasive examination that could be a helpful tool in detecting coronary atherosclerotic damage, but IMT does not appear to add more information regarding risk stratification of CAD."}
{"id": "17514626", "title": "Comparison of lipid measures and risk stratification among end-stage renal disease patients.", "content": "Comparison of lipid measures and risk stratification among end-stage renal disease patients. Abnormal lipid profiles are associated with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) which significantly contributes to an accelerated progression of coronary artery disease. The purpose of this study was to examine the relationships between cholesterol measures and differences in risk stratification when using National Cholesterol Education Program, Adult Treatment Panel, Third Report (ATP-III) guidelines, compared with cholesterol particle number and size in ESRD patients. Lipid profiles were conducted on 541 ESRD patients who were chronic hemodialysis patients. Lipid profiles were measured using gel electrophoresis and their particle size and concentration measured using nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. Correlations and risk stratification were compared between each lipid measure. The findings suggest that low-density lipoprotein (LDL) size does not correlate well with LDL cholesterol and LDL particle number. The findings also suggest a \"disconnect\" between traditional lipid measures and cholesterol concentration and size when using ATP-III guidelines for risk stratification. The cholesterol risk designation variances between risk stratification guidelines and the relationships established through Pearson correlations, as illustrated within this patient pool, reveal the complex differences between measures of coronary artery disease risk. These additional patients considered at-risk using NMR technology may help to identify more patients at need for intervention and treatment."}
{"id": "17507891", "title": "Coronary artery calcifications in renal graft recipients at the time of transplantation.", "content": "Coronary artery calcifications in renal graft recipients at the time of transplantation. Coronary artery calcifications (CACs) represent an important risk factor of coronary artery disease in the general population. The purpose of the study was to determine the amount of CAC, including calcium mass, in renal graft recipients early after transplantation. Forty-nine patients aged 43.7+/-9.8 years underwent CAC determination with multi-detector row computed tomography within two weeks after transplantation. The calcium scores were compared with the clinical and laboratory data of the subjects. CACs were detected in 73% of the subjects. The mean calcium score (CS) was 500.8+/-1100.4 and the mean calcium mass (CM) 127.0+/-228.6 mg. Presence of diabetes, duration of hypertension, and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) were significantly associated with the presence of CAC in univariate analysis. CS and CM positively correlated with duration of hypertension, time on dialysis, and pulse pressure (PP) and negatively with DBP. In multiple regression analysis the duration of hypertension, DBP, and PP were identified as independent predictors of CAC presence (p<0.01), while the time on dialysis and DBP were independent predictors of CAC severity (p<0.02). The results suggest that hypertension may play a crucial role in the development of coronary artery calcifications in end-stage renal disease patients, but the nature of the relation between CAC and blood pressure needs further investigation."}
{"id": "17505439", "title": "Aortocoronary bypass grafting in high-risk patients over 75 years. Propensity score analysis of on versus off-pump, early and midterm results.", "content": "Aortocoronary bypass grafting in high-risk patients over 75 years. Propensity score analysis of on versus off-pump, early and midterm results. Bypass surgery in high risk patients over the age of 75 results in increased mortality and morbidity, which may be also related to the cardiopulmonary bypass system. Using the propensity score analysis, we have selected two homogeneous groups of high-risk elderly patients undergoing coronary surgery: 41 patients operated with cardiopulmonary bypass- coronary artery bypass graft (CPB-CABG), and 78 patients operated without cardiopulmonary bypass (off-pump coronary artery bypass graft, OPCABG). All preoperative and operative variables were similar and outcomes were compared. Perioperative mortality was higher in the patient group operated with CPB (12.2%) as compared to patients operated without CPB (1.3%, P = 0.01). Perioperative complications were more frequent in the CPB-CABG group. Logistic regression analysis showed that avoiding CPB was an independent protective factor for mortality and morbidity. Midterm survival, freedom from angina, freedom from reintervention, and Canadian Cardiovascular Society (CSS) class were comparable between the 2 groups. OPCABG is safe in the high risk elderly population and significantly reduces postoperative mortality and morbidity. There are no differences in midterm results between the 2 groups of patients in our study."}
{"id": "17505133", "title": "Prevalence and determinants of coronary and aortic calcifications assessed by chest CT in renal transplant recipients.", "content": "Prevalence and determinants of coronary and aortic calcifications assessed by chest CT in renal transplant recipients. Coronary artery calcifications independently predict cardiovascular events (CVE) in the general population. We assessed the prevalence and determinants of coronary (CAC) and thoracic aorta (AoC) calcifications in renal transplant recipients (RTR). Consecutive RTR living in Belgium, with an isolated kidney graft functioning for more than 1 year, were asked to participate. They underwent a 16-slice spiral computerized tomography in order to measure calcium mass. Demographic, clinical, biochemical and urinary parameters were recorded. We included 281 patients. CAC and AoC were detected in 81 and 85%, with geometric means (SD) of 52.2 (4.9) and 99.3 (8.2) mg, respectively. By multiple linear regression, independent predictors of both types of calcifications included older age, longer time on dialysis, a history of CVE, of multiple transplantations and of smoking. Other determinants of CAC were male gender, current statin use and history of parathyroidectomy, and other determinants of AoC included higher pulse pressure, shorter time under mycophenolate mofetil and current use of anti-vitamin-K. The prevalence of both CAC and AoC is substantial in RTR. We delineate independent determinants either common to both CAC and AoC or specific to one, and known as classic or chronic kidney disease related risk factors."}
{"id": "17498009", "title": "Is the timing of thallium injection in relation to hemodialysis treatments important?", "content": "Is the timing of thallium injection in relation to hemodialysis treatments important?"}
{"id": "17497448", "title": "Prevalence and predictors of arrhythmia in end stage renal disease patients on hemodialysis.", "content": "Prevalence and predictors of arrhythmia in end stage renal disease patients on hemodialysis. Sudden death is common in end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Cardiac arrhythmia is observed frequently in patients with ESRD and is thought to be responsible for this high rate of sudden death. This study investigated the prevalence and the predictors of arrhythmia in patients on maintenance dialysis. Ninety-four patients on hemodialysis program were enrolled in the study. Routine laboratory results were noted. Arrhythmia, periods of silent ischemia, and heart-rate variability analyses were obtained from 24-hour Holter monitor recordings. Corrected QT (QTc) dispersion was calculated from 12-lead surface EKG. Echocardiographic and tissue Doppler examinations were performed on interdialytic days as well. Ventricular arrhythmia was classified according to Lown classification; classes 3 and above were accepted as complex ventricular arrhythmia (CVA). The mean age was 52.5+/-13.2 years; 44 (46.8%) were women. Ventricular premature contractions were detected in 80 (85.1%) patients, of whom 35 (37.2%) were classified as complex ventricular arrhythmia (CVA). Coronary artery disease, hypertension, and QTc dispersion appeared as independent factors predictive of CVA development. Atrial premature contractions (APC) were detected in 53 patients (56.4%) and supraventricular arrhythmia in 15 (16%) patients; all were identified as atrial fibrillation. Duration of dialysis therapy was found as an independent predictor of APC. Arrhythmia is frequently observed in ESRD patients receiving hemodialysis and may be responsible for the high rate of sudden mortality. Hypertension, CAD, and QTc dispersion are independent predictors of CVA, and duration of dialysis therapy is an independent factor affecting APC development in these patients."}
{"id": "17493424", "title": "Safety of same-day coronary angiography in patients undergoing elective valvular heart surgery.", "content": "Safety of same-day coronary angiography in patients undergoing elective valvular heart surgery. To maximize patient convenience, we developed a protocol for coronary angiography the same day as elective valvular surgery. We analyzed the medical records from a single surgical service of 226 consecutive patients who had undergone cardiac catheterization on the day of elective valvular repair or replacement between August 1, 2000, and August 30, 2004. The rates of renal failure (creatinine >2.0 mg/dL and 2 times the preoperative level), hemodialysis, continuous renal replacement therapy, and mortality were evaluated. Patients undergoing same-day angiography had a mean age of 65.6 plus-or-minus 12.1 years, and 33% were female. Of the study patients, 11.1% were diabetic, with a mean ejection fraction of 61% plus-or-minus 10%, and 28.3% had coronary artery disease severe enough to require bypass grafting. One patient died within 30 days of surgery; the overall mortality was 0.4%. Postoperatively, serum creatinine levels increased an average of 0.1 mg/dL (P<.001) in patients undergoing same-day coronary angiography. Four patients had transient renal failure (1.8%), 2 of whom required temporary hemodialysis. In properly selected patients, same-day coronary angiography is safe and has little impact on renal function. This protocol offers a simple way to reduce the number of hospital visits required by patients undergoing elective valvular surgery."}
{"id": "17488145", "title": "Approaches to prevention of cardiovascular complications and events in diabetes mellitus.", "content": "Approaches to prevention of cardiovascular complications and events in diabetes mellitus. Diabetes mellitus affects about 8% of the adult population. The estimated number of patients with diabetes, presently about 170 million people, is expected to increase by 50-70% within the next 25 years. Diabetes is an important component of the complex of 'common' cardiovascular risk factors, and is responsible for acceleration and worsening of atherothrombosis. Major cardiovascular events cause about 80% of the total mortality in diabetic patients. Diabetes also induces peculiar microangiopathic changes leading to diabetic nephropathy conducive to end-stage renal failure, and to diabetic retinopathy that may progress to vision loss and blindness. In terms of major cardiovascular events, coronary heart disease and ischaemic stroke are the main causes of morbidity and mortality in diabetic patients. Peripheral arterial disease frequently occurs, and is more likely to be conducive to critical limb ischaemia and amputation than in the absence of diabetes. Although there are a number of differences in the pathogenesis and clinical features of diabetic macroangiopathy and microangiopathy, these two entities often coexist and induce mutually worsening effects. Endothelial injury, dysfunction and damage are common starting points for both conditions. Causes of endothelial injury can be distinguished into those 'common' to nondiabetic atherothrombosis, such as hypertension, dyslipidaemia, smoking, hypercoagulability and platelet activation; and those more specific and in some cases 'unique' to diabetes and directly related to the metabolic derangement of the disease, such as (i) desulfation of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) of the vascular matrix; (ii) formation of advanced glycation end-products (AGE) and their endothelial receptors (RAGE); (iii) oxidative and reductive stress; (iv) decline in nitric oxide production; (v) activation of the renin-angiotensin aldosterone system (RAAS); and (vi) endothelial inflammation caused by glucose, insulin, insulin precursors and AGE/RAGE. Prevention of major cardiovascular events with the antithrombotic agent aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) is widely recommended, but reportedly underutilised in patients with diabetes. However, some data suggest that aspirin may be less effective than expected in preventing cardiovascular events and especially mortality in patients with diabetes, as well as in slowing progression of retinopathy. In contrast, a recent study found picotamide, a direct thromboxane inhibitor, to be superior to aspirin in diabetic patients. Clopidogrel was either equivalent or less active in diabetic versus nondiabetic patients, depending upon different clinical settings.Recent studies have shown that some GAG compounds are able to reduce micro- and macroalbuminuria in diabetic nephropathy, and hard exudates in diabetic retinopathy, but it is as yet unknown whether these agents also influence the natural history of microvascular complications of diabetes. Lifestyle changes and physical exercise are also essential in preventing cardiovascular events in diabetic patients. Available data on the control of the metabolic state and the main risk factors show that careful adjustment of blood sugar and glycated haemoglobin is more effective in counteracting microvascular damage than in preventing major cardiovascular events. The latter objective requires a more comprehensive approach to the whole constellation of risk factors both specific for diabetes and common to atherothrombosis. This approach includes lifestyle modifications, such as dietary changes and smoking cessation and the use of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins), which are able to correct the lipid status and to prevent major cardiovascular events independently of the baseline lipidaemic or cardiovascular status. Tight control of hypertension is essential to reduce not only major cardiovascular events but also microvascular complications. Among antihypertensive measures, blockade of the RAAS by means of ACE inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor antagonists recently emerged as a potentially polyvalent approach, not only for treating hypertension and reducing cardiovascular events, but also to prevent or reduce albuminuria, counteract diabetic nephropathy and lower the occurrence of new type 2 diabetes in individuals at risk."}
{"id": "17485576", "title": "Association of fetuin-A with mitral annular calcification and aortic stenosis among persons with coronary heart disease: data from the Heart and Soul Study.", "content": "Association of fetuin-A with mitral annular calcification and aortic stenosis among persons with coronary heart disease: data from the Heart and Soul Study. Fetuin-A is a multifunctional hepatic secretory protein that inhibits dystrophic vascular and valvular calcification. Lower serum fetuin-A concentrations are associated with valvular calcification in persons with end-stage renal disease. Whether fetuin-A is associated with valvular calcification in other patient populations is unknown. We evaluated the associations among serum fetuin-A concentrations, mitral annular calcification, and aortic stenosis in 970 ambulatory persons with coronary heart disease and without severe kidney disease. The presence or absence of mitral annular calcification and aortic stenosis was determined by transthoracic echocardiography. The subjects' mean age was 66 years; 81% were men; 189 (20%) had mitral annular calcification; and 79 (8%) had aortic stenosis. Participants were categorized by tertiles of fetuin-A concentrations. Those within the highest fetuin-A tertile had significantly lower odds of mitral annular calcification compared with the lowest tertile (adjusted odds ratio, 0.47; 95% confidence interval, 0.29 to 0.77; P=0.002); this association was similar regardless of diabetes status (P for interaction=0.34). In contrast, the association of fetuin-A with aortic stenosis was modified by the presence or absence of diabetes mellitus (P for interaction=0.03). Among participants without diabetes, the highest fetuin-A tertile had a significantly lower odds of aortic stenosis compared with the lowest tertile (adjusted odds ratio, 0.37; 95% confidence interval, 0.15 to 0.92; P=0.03), whereas among participants with diabetes, no statistically significant association was observed between fetuin-A and aortic stenosis (adjusted odds ratio, 1.49; 95% confidence interval, 0.48 to 4.63; P=0.49). Among persons with coronary heart disease, we observed an inverse association of fetuin-A and mitral annular calcification. An inverse association also was observed between fetuin-A and aortic stenosis among participants without diabetes mellitus. Fetuin-A may represent an important inhibitor of dystrophic calcification in persons with coronary heart disease."}
{"id": "17476034", "title": "An evaluation of fluoroscopy time and correlation with outcomes after percutaneous coronary intervention.", "content": "An evaluation of fluoroscopy time and correlation with outcomes after percutaneous coronary intervention. We evaluated short-term prognosis and resource utilization of consecutive patients treated with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) as a function of fluoroscopy time. Advances in interventional cardiology are reflected in the growing complexity of PCI leading to an increasing use of fluoroscopic guidance. The relationship between fluoroscopy time and in-hospital outcomes after PCI has not been addressed. In a retrospective analysis of a prospectively collected database including a total of 9,650 patients, the mean fluoroscopy time was 18.3 +/- 12.2 minutes. Outcomes were stratified by fluoroscopy time. Compared to patients within the 75th percentile, those with prolonged fluoroscopy time were older and had a higher prevalence of prior coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG), chronic renal insufficiency, peripheral arterial disease, type B2/C lesions, and baseline TIMI flow 0-2. Patients with prolonged fluoroscopy time had higher rates of in-hospital death (3.3% vs. 0.3%; p <0.0001), emergent CABG (2.1% vs. 0.3%; p = 0.0001), stent thrombosis (2.9% vs. 1.3%; p = 0.17), retroperitoneal hematoma (0.9% vs. 0.2%; p = 0.01), and contrast-induced nephropathy (6.7% vs. 4.5%; p = 0.03). Resource utilization was significantly higher (p <0.0001) in patients with prolonged fluoroscopy time. By multivariate analysis, prolonged fluoroscopy time was most strongly associated with prior CABG (OR = 2.39), ostial lesion (OR = 2.87), severe lesion calcification (OR = 2.14), baseline TIMI flow 0-2 (OR = 3.71) (all p <0.0001), lesion eccentricity (OR = 1.96; p = 0.0063), and peripheral arterial disease (OR = 1.91; p = 0.0068). Prolonged fluoroscopy time is associated with higher complexity of treated lesions and increased rates of periprocedural complications including early mortality, emergent CABG, contrast-induced nephropathy, and increased resource utilization."}
{"id": "17471002", "title": "[Mechanism, imaging technique and therapy for vascular calcification in patients of chronic kidney disease].", "content": "[Mechanism, imaging technique and therapy for vascular calcification in patients of chronic kidney disease]. Vascular calcification has been reported to influence mortality and complications of cardiovascular diseases in patients with chronic kidney disease. Once vascular calcification was thought to the result from passive precipitation of calcium and phosphate, it now appears that end result of phenotypic change of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) into osteoblast-like cells. A variety of imaging technique are available to visualize vascular calcification, including X-ray, vascular ultrasound, electron beam computed tomography (EBCT) and multidetector-row computed tomography (MDCT) . Especially, MDCT with contrast medium that can detect not only coronary calcification but also stenosis is useful and noninvasive methods for screening of coronary artery disease. Through greater understanding of both the mechanism and clinical consequence of vascular calcification, future therapeutic strategies may be more effectively designed and applied."}
{"id": "17463198", "title": "Is incidental renal arteriography justified in a population of patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial disease?", "content": "Is incidental renal arteriography justified in a population of patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial disease? Renal artery stenosis is a consequence of generalized atherosclerosis and many specialists perform routine selective renal angiography to detect and treat renal artery stenosis. The incidence of clinically important renal artery stenosis is not well defined in patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial disease. The purpose of this study was to better delineate the incidence of and the risk factors associated with renal artery stenosis, renovascular hypertension, and ischemic nephropathy incidentally discovered during angiography for symptomatic peripheral arterial disease. Two hundred consecutive patients undergoing angiographic evaluation of symptomatic lower extremity peripheral arterial disease were studied retrospectively. Angiograms were reviewed for the presence of renal artery stenosis (defined as >or= 25% diameter reduction in either renal artery) and findings were then correlated to the clinical diagnosis of renovascular hypertension (> 50% renal artery stenosis and >or= 3-drug resistive hypertension) and ischemic nephropathy (defined as > 50% bilateral renal artery stenosis, 3-drug hypertension, and creatinine >or= 1.5). Angiographic findings were also correlated with risk factors to determine if a relationship correlated to the presence of and degree of renal artery stenosis. Data were analyzed using the Student's t test, Chi-square model, and multiple logistic regression analysis. The overall incidence of any degree of renal artery stenosis in this study population was 26% (52 patients). Only 24 (12%) patients had an incidental finding of >or= 50% stenosis in either renal artery. Six (3%) of these patients were found to have associated renovascular hypertension. Additionally, 9 (4.5%) patients had coexistent renal insufficiency and significant renal artery stenosis; five with end-stage renal disease on chronic hemodialysis. Only one patient with end-stage renal disease had poorly controlled 3-drug hypertension. Thus definitive ischemic nephropathy was present in only one (0.5%) patient. Statistically significant risk factors associated with the presence of renal artery stenosis include hypertension (P < .001), coronary disease (P = .024), female gender (P = .010), diabetes (P = .039), aorto-iliac disease (P = .031), multiple levels of peripheral arterial disease (P < .001), and age over 60 ( P < .001). While the incidence of renal artery stenosis in patients being evaluated for symptomatic peripheral arterial disease is similar to that reported in the cardiology literature, the incidence of renovascular hypertension and ischemic nephropathy is exceedingly low (3% and 0.5%, respectively)-findings similar to data reported in the general hypertensive population. These data suggest that incidental selective renal angiography is not justified in patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial disease."}
{"id": "17452410", "title": "Impact of haemoglobin concentration and chronic kidney disease in patients with coronary heart disease undergoing percutaneous coronary interventions.", "content": "Impact of haemoglobin concentration and chronic kidney disease in patients with coronary heart disease undergoing percutaneous coronary interventions. A few recent studies suggested that anaemia has a marked impact on the survival of patients with coronary heart disease (CHD). However, all of these analyses did not take into consideration that chronic kidney disease (CKD) plays an important role in erythropoiesis and anaemia. Therefore, we assessed in this study whether anaemia is an independent predictor of mortality or if its impact was confounded by CKD, which is known to have itself a marked impact on outcomes of patients with CHD. In a retrospective cohort study, we analysed 709 patients with symptomatic and significant CHD who underwent percutaneous coronary interventions. Patients were classified as anaemic using the WHO definition; renal function was classified by the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). In comparison with non-anaemic patients, anaemic patients had a significantly higher in-hospital mortality (4.9 vs 0.5%, P<0.001). Moreover, 1-year mortality rates of anaemic patients were significantly higher regardless of whether they had a normal eGFR (22 vs 2.8%, P=0.029), an eGFR of 60-89 ml/min (14 vs 4.2%, P<0.001), an eGFR of 30-59 ml/min (21 vs 3.7%, P<0.001) or an eGFR<30 ml/min (26 vs 0%, NS). When cumulative mortality was analysed by haemoglobin concentrations in steps of 1 g/dl from <11.0 g/dl to >16.9 g/dl, 1-year mortality rates were 28, 18, 15, 5.5, 3.8, 5.7, 1.5 and 0%, respectively (P<0.001, log rank). Even after adjustment for comorbidities by multivariable Cox regression models, haemoglobin remained a significant predictor of long-term mortality (hazard rate ratio 0.77, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.62-0.82, P<0.001) while eGFR was not (hazard rate ratio 1.0, 95% CI: 0.99-1.01). Anaemia was found to be a strong and independent predictor of acute and long-term mortality in patients with symptomatic CHD, regardless of the presence of CKD."}
{"id": "17417765", "title": "Incidence and risk factors of coronary artery disease in patients on chronic hemodialysis.", "content": "Incidence and risk factors of coronary artery disease in patients on chronic hemodialysis. Aim of the study was to estimate the incidence of coronary heart disease (CAD) in patients (pts) with end stage renal disease (ESRD) maintained on chronic hemodialysis (HD) and its association with the presence of predisposing factors. The study included 171 dialysis pts (107 male (M) and 64 female (F)). Mean age of pts was 67+/-13 years, mean time on dialysis 52.7+/-44 months and Body Mass Index (BMI) 25.9+/-3.7 kg/m2. Fifty pts (29.2%) were clinically diagnosed with CAD. The diagnosis was established by coronary angiography in 24 (48%) and in 26 by combined dipyridamole-exercise thallium imaging (52%). Pts' data in association with the development of CAD that were recorded included age, sex, smoking habits, hypertension, obesity, the presence of diabetes mellitus (DM), hyperlipidemia, anemia, low albumin levels, secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHP), the presence of chronic inflammation, as evidenced by the presence of elevated levels of CRP and hyperhomocysteinemia. There was a statistically significant association of increasing age and CAD (p<0.0001). Relative risk (RR) was significantly increased i) in male pts compared to female pts (RR: 8.56, p<0.001), ii) in anemic pts compared to pts with hemoglobin levels< or =11 g/dL (RR: 8.26, p<0.0001), iii) in obese pts compared to pts with BMI < or =30 (RR: 5.09, p<0.005) and iv) in pts with increased levels of homocysteine compared to pts with levels of homocysteine <15 |IM (RR: 4.14, p<0.0001). Using linear regression analysis, CAD was associated with the inadequacy of HD (r = - 0.05, p<0.0001), time on HD (r =0.04, p =0.012) and increasing age (r =0.24, p<0.001). There was no statistically significant association between CAD and the presence of the other traditional risk factors. The incidence of CAD in dialysis pts is significantly increased with age, male sex, obesity, time on dialysis, the presence of anemia, hyperhomocysteinemia and inadequacy of HD."}
{"id": "17395709", "title": "Prognostic value of cardiac troponin T is independent of inflammation, residual renal function, and cardiac hypertrophy and dysfunction in peritoneal dialysis patients.", "content": "Prognostic value of cardiac troponin T is independent of inflammation, residual renal function, and cardiac hypertrophy and dysfunction in peritoneal dialysis patients. We investigated whether cardiac troponin T (cTnT) independently predicted outcome and added prognostic value over other clinical risk predictors in chronic peritoneal dialysis (PD) with end-stage renal disease. Baseline cTnT, echocardiography, indices of dialysis adequacy, and biochemical characteristics were assessed in 238 chronic PD patients who were followed prospectively for 3 years or until death. Using multivariable Cox regression analysis, cTnT remained predictive of all-cause mortality [hazard ratio 4.43, 95% CI 1.87-10.45, P = 0.001], cardiovascular death (4.12, 1.29-13.17, P = 0.017), noncardiovascular death (8.06, 1.86-35.03, P = 0.005), and fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events (CVEs) (3.59, 1.48-8.70, P = 0.005) independent of background coronary artery disease, inflammation, residual renal function, left ventricular hypertrophy, and systolic dysfunction. cTnT alone had better predictive value than C-reactive protein (CRP) alone for mortality [area under the ROC curve (AUC) 0.774 vs 0.691; P = 0.089] and first CVE (AUC 0.711 vs 0.593; P = 0.009) at 3 years. Survival models including age, sex, and clinical, biochemical, and echocardiographic characteristics yielded AUCs of 0.813 (95% CI, 0.748-0.877), 0.800 (95% CI, 0.726-0.874), and 0.769 (95% CI, 0.708-0.830), respectively, in relation to all-cause mortality, cardiovascular death, and fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events. After addition of cTnT, AUCs of the above models increased significantly to 0.832 (95% CI, 0.669-0.894; P = 0.0037), 0.810 (95% CI, 0.739-0.883; P = 0.0036), and 0.780 (95% CI, 0.720-0.840; P = 0.0002), respectively; no AUCs increased when CRP was added. cTnT is an independent predictor of long-term mortality, cardiovascular death and events, and noncardiovascular death in PD patients."}
{"id": "17389785", "title": "Electron-beam computerized tomography correlates with coronary angiogram in chronic kidney disease patients.", "content": "Electron-beam computerized tomography correlates with coronary angiogram in chronic kidney disease patients. Electron-beam computerized tomography (EBCT) is able to noninvasively quantify coronary artery calcification (CAC). Chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients frequently have CAC, and clinicians are puzzled regarding the clinical significance of this finding and the diagnostic accuracy of coronary EBCT in CKD. The aim of this study was to determine the correlation in CKD patients between CAC measured by EBCT and 50% stenosis determined by coronary angiography (CA), the gold standard to identify atherosclerotic lesions. We recruited 37 patients with CKD from a single institution and compared their coronary EBCT and CA results using standard statistical analysis. Patients with at least one vessel with > or = 50% stenosis by CA had higher mean CAC scores [2,407.9 +/- (SD) 3,165.3 vs. 227 +/- 443.4; p < 0.001] and higher median CAC scores (1,052 vs. 25.8; p < 0.001) as compared with those having no stenosis > or = 50%. The sensitivity was 85.7%, and the specificity 82.6% using 50% stenosis as the definition for coronary artery disease and using a CAC score of 400 as a cutoff value for the EBCT results. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.84. The diagnostic accuracy (proportion of correct results) was 83.8%. The negative predictive value was 90.5%. The receiver operating characteristic curve suggests that the optimal cutoff value for CAC scores in our cohort is 315.9, increasing the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve to 0.91. The total coronary artery stenosis was significantly associated with the CAC score (p = 0.01). EBCT has a very good predictive value for obstructive coronary artery disease. EBCT could be used as a screening tool in CKD patients with a low-to-intermediate risk for coronary artery disease."}
{"id": "17378990", "title": "Emerging role of anemia in heart failure.", "content": "Emerging role of anemia in heart failure. Current medical therapy of heart failure (HF) focuses primarily on blockade of the neurohormonal pathways. This approach appears to have reached a benefit plateau, despite the introduction of new and improved drugs. Therefore, new targets for pharmacologic intervention are now being actively sought, and anemia has emerged as a potential candidate. Anemia is a frequently occurring comorbidity in patients with HF. However, its true prevalence is difficult to determine because no uniform definition of anemia associated with HF currently exists. Therefore, reported prevalence data can vary significantly, ranging from 4% to 55%, depending on the study population and the applied definition of anemia. Data from recent observational studies and clinical trials suggest that a low hemoglobin concentration in patients with HF is associated with, and is an independent risk factor for, increased morbidity and mortality. In light of these findings, anemia is being discussed as a possible new treatment target in patients with HF. So far, however, only a few small studies have explored this possibility using erythropoiesis-stimulating proteins, which for many years have been successfully used in the treatment of anemia secondary to chronic kidney disease or cancer chemotherapy. Preliminary data from these initial HF studies have shown that increased hemoglobin concentrations in patients with anemia were associated with improvements in cardiac and renal function as well as exercise capacity and a reduced need for hospitalizations. Larger, controlled clinical trials are needed to clearly establish the benefits and safety aspects of anemia treatment on morbidity and possibly mortality in HF patients."}
{"id": "17374087", "title": "Cardiovascular calcification in nondialyzed patients with chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Cardiovascular calcification in nondialyzed patients with chronic kidney disease. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) has become a major health-care problem of global proportions. Progression to end-stage renal disease (ESRD), the need for renal replacement therapy, and the high annual death rate of dialysis patients are the most noticeable outcomes of CKD. Less appreciated, however, is the fact that most patients with CKD actually die mainly from cardiovascular disease, rather than progress to ESRD. Coronary artery calcification (CAC), a surrogate marker of atherosclerosis, is common in dialysis and CKD patients. Coronary artery calcium scores, as measured by ultrafast computed tomography, is an independent predictor of future cardiac events. Using this technique, several studies have documented extensive calcification in dialysis patients, a subject of several exhaustive reviews. Unfortunately, much less attention has been paid to calcification in nondialyzed patients with CKD. In this review, I will emphasize the fact that CVC is common in patients with CKD not yet on dialysis, develops early in the course of CKD, and worsens with the decline in renal function particularly among diabetics who progressed to ESRD. I will also discuss the pathogenesis of CVC in CKD patients and highlight the lack of a major role for abnormalities of mineral metabolism in the pathogenesis of calcification in CKD patients. In addition to the high prevalence of traditional risk factors for CAD, the presence of proteinuria, reduced renal function, diabetic nephropathy, and the rate of progression to ESRD may represent the main uremia-related factors that increase the risk for calcification in CKD. Finally, I will review the protective role of inhibitors of calcification in CKD."}
{"id": "17367356", "title": "Chronic renal insufficiency is an independent predictor of mortality in implantable cardioverter-defibrillator recipients.", "content": "Chronic renal insufficiency is an independent predictor of mortality in implantable cardioverter-defibrillator recipients. Chronic renal insufficiency (CRI) has been associated with increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. However, there is limited knowledge regarding this association and the effect of renal dysfunction on survival benefit in patients with implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs). We investigated whether there was an association between CRI (defined as serum creatinine levels >or=1.5 mg/dL) and increased risk of mortality in ICD recipients. We retrospectively studied all patients (n = 336) followed within our ICD clinic in a 2.5-year period. CRI, ventricular tachycardia (VT), cardiomyopathy (CM), and mortality were recorded. Ischemic CM was defined as the presence of coronary artery disease (CAD) and left ventricular ejection fraction <or= 30%. Despite no significant difference in CAD and VT occurrence between CRI and non-CRI groups in the overall population, there was a significantly higher mortality rate in the CRI group (P < 0.0001). CRI is a significant independent predictor of mortality in ICD recipients. Further investigation is needed to determine whether prevention, early detection, and more aggressive intervention in the treatment of CRI will reduce the incidence of mortality in this population."}
{"id": "17366357", "title": "Characteristics of patients with coronary artery disease managed on an outpatient basis in the population of Poland. Results of the multicentre RECENT trial.", "content": "Characteristics of patients with coronary artery disease managed on an outpatient basis in the population of Poland. Results of the multicentre RECENT trial. Comprehension of clinical characteristics and therapeutic methods in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) is mandatory for the introduction of successful prevention. The aim of the multicentre RECENT trial carried out in Poland in 2005 was to gather comprehensive information regarding individuals with CAD treated by specialists as well as by general practitioners on an outpatient basis. In this report, clinical characteristics of the Polish patient population with confirmed CAD are presented. A representative group of 215 general practitioners and 67 specialists participated in this study. They collected information about 2593 patients with CAD and filled-in a specially designed questionnaire. Coronary artery disease was confirmed predominantly based on a history of myocardial infarction (50.1%), followed by positive electrocardiographic stress test (38.8%), history of typical angina in subjects at the age of >60 years (36.4%), history of previous acute coronary syndrome (29.0%), PCI (22.1%) or CABG (14.3%) or positive coronary angiography (17.6%). In patients with diagnosed stable CAD, 44.6% were women and the mean age was 65.0+/-9.8 years. Among patients with a history of hypertension (78.0%), only 34.0% had blood pressure within the normal range. History of dyslipidaemia was positive in 57.6% of patients. Normal LDL cholesterol concentrations (<3.36 mmol/L) were found in 56.7% of patients. A family history of CAD had 17.3% of subjects, 23.5% had previously detected diabetes mellitus and 11.0% were active smokers at the time of study enrolment. Overweight or obesity both in men and women was found in 79.3% of patients while metabolic syndrome (diagnosed according to NCEP ATP III criteria) was found in 31.3%. The following comorbidities were detected: 34.3% presented symptoms of congestive heart failure, 32.1% had rhythm or conduction disturbances (most commonly atrial fibrillation--in 19.0% of cases). Previous stroke was noted in 4.7% of patients with CAD and transient ischaemic attack in 5.5%. Peripheral artery disease was observed in 9.9% of CAD patients, whereas asthma or COPD--in 9.0%. The results of the RECENT trial are representative for the CAD patient population managed on an outpatient basis in our country. They suggest that CAD in the Polish population is rather advanced, and indicate still insufficient use of imaging modalities (particularly coronary angiography) and significant prevalence of risk factors throughout this population."}
{"id": "17365976", "title": "Off-pump CABG in diabetic patients: does insulin dependency matter?", "content": "Off-pump CABG in diabetic patients: does insulin dependency matter? We aimed to analyze influence of insulin dependency on short-term outcomes after OPCAB in patients with diabetes. Retrospective cohort study was planned based on chart review. Study population consisted of 148 diabetic cases (63 insulin-dependent diabetics in group I and 85 non-insulin-dependent diabetics in group II). Patients' preoperative data and risk factors for adverse outcomes are analysed. The primary endpoint was all causes of mortality during the in-hospital course. Preestablished secondary endpoints included all major postoperative complications, including non-fatal acute myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, sepsis, shock, mediastinitis, respiratory insufficiency, and renal insufficiency, and minor postoperative complications, including mechanical ventilation for more than 24 hours, inotropic support, reoperation for bleeding, and necessity of blood transfusion. Additional analysis was performed on the duration of stay in the intensive care unit and overall hospital stay. Group I patients were significantly more likely to have hypertension (87.3% versus 82.5%, p=0.023), they also had a trend toward higher prevalence of hypercholesterolemia (71.4% versus 68.6%, p=0.092) and body mass index (28.1+/-4.2 versus 26.9+/-3.7, p=0.085). Angiographic characteristics and number of distal anastomosis were similar in the two groups. There was no significant difference in mortality during the in-hospital course as the primary endpoint. However, analysis in secondary endpoints revealed that group I patients were significantly more likely to have stroke (3.1% versus 2.3%, p=0.027), sternal wound infection (4.7% versus 3.4%, p=0.036) and atrial arrhythmia (28.3% versus 20.9%, p=0.021). Moreover, group I patients were significantly more likely to stay longer than 2 days in ICU (14.2% versus 11.6%, p=0.038). Higher prevalence of renal dysfunction was also observed in group I patients (7.9% versus 6.9%, p=0.069). Similar to insulin dependent diabetes who had on-pump CABG, insulin dependent diabetes develop higher rate of major postoperative complications and stay longer in ICU after off-pump CABG."}
{"id": "17365912", "title": "Determinants of coronary artery disease in nondiabetic hemodialysis patients: a matched case-control study.", "content": "Determinants of coronary artery disease in nondiabetic hemodialysis patients: a matched case-control study. The aim of this matched case-control study was to evaluate the determinants of coronary artery disease (CAD) other than conventional risk factors in nondiabetic hemodialysis (HD) patients. Among 312 consecutive patients on regular HD, 26 nondiabetic patients with angiographically defined coronary artery disease (20 men, 6 women; mean age 57.0 +/- 13 years) constituted the case group (group 1). A subject group of the same gender, smoking status, and hypertension with similar ages and body mass indexes who had normal electrocardiography and myocardial perfusion scintigraphy served as controls (20 men, 6 women; mean age 54.1+/-12 years, group 2). Demographics, high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), erythrocytes dimentation rate (ESR), hematocrit-corrected ESR, beta-2 microglobulin, cardiac troponin I, parathyroid hormone, albumin, calcium (Ca), phosphorus (P), Ca x P, and lipid profiles were compared between the groups. Patients in group 1 had higher hs-CRP and troponin I (18.0+/-12 vs. 7.2+/-5 mg/L, p < 0.001; 0.36+/-0.16 vs. 0.22+/-0.05 ng/mL, p < 0.001, respectively) and lower HDL cholesterol levels than group 2 (37.0+/-10 mg/dL vs. 46.3+/-17 mg/dL, p = 0.02). Backwards stepwise logistic regression analysis revealed that high hs-CRP and troponin I levels (p = 0.03 and p = 0.01) and low HDL cholesterol levels (p = 0.02) were independently related with CAD. According to these results, in nondiabetic patients on regular hemodialysis, high hs-CRP, troponin I levels and low HDL-cholesterol were the determinants of CAD."}
{"id": "17365908", "title": "Evaluation of the heart and great vessel calcification by conventional computed tomography in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Evaluation of the heart and great vessel calcification by conventional computed tomography in hemodialysis patients. Heart diseases are responsible for death in hemodialysis patients. The aim of this study was to determine whether we can assess the degree of calcification of the heart and great vessels in hemodialysis patients by non-gated conventional computed tomography (CT) without contrast media. Thirty patients were included in the present study. The hemodialysis group comprised 15 patients and the age-matched control group comprised 15 patients without hemodialysis or cardiac diseases who underwent CT scanning. Axial cross-sectional images were taken from the aortic arch to the diaphragm to detect calcification of the aorta and coronary arteries. Eleven patients in the hemodialysis group showed calcification in 1.9 +/- 1.4 coronary vessels, a frequency significantly greater than that of the 0.3 +/- 0.2 coronary vessels in the control group (p < 0.01). Fourteen patients in the hemodialysis group showed calcification of the aorta with a mean score 9.7 +/- 7.2, significantly greater than mean score in the control group (3.5 +/- 2.2; p < 0.01). These results suggest that we can assess an increase in the incidence of calcification of the coronary arteries and the aorta by conventional CT scanning without contrast media in patients undergoing hemodialysis."}
{"id": "17364118", "title": "Feasibility, safety and accuracy of dobutamine/atropine stress echocardiography for the detection of coronary artery disease in renal transplant candidates.", "content": "Feasibility, safety and accuracy of dobutamine/atropine stress echocardiography for the detection of coronary artery disease in renal transplant candidates. To evaluate the feasibility, safety and accuracy of dobutamine/atropine stress echocardiography (DASE) for the detection of coronary artery disease (CAD) in renal transplant candidates. Patients candidates to renal transplant were submitted consecutively to DASE and coronary angiography. The adopted angiographic criteria for CAD were an obstructive lesion of > or = 50% and > or = 70%. 148 patients underwent the DASE and the coronary angiography. Mean age was 52 +/- 9 years, 69% of the patients were males; 27% had diabetic nephropathy and 73% had LVH; 63% were asymptomatic; 36% and 22% presented coronary obstructions > or = 50% and 70%, respectively. The DASE performance was 91% and major complication rate was 2.7%. The sensibility, specificity and accuracy for the diagnosis of coronary obstruction > 50% were 53% (CI:45-61), 87% (CI:81-93), and 75% (CI:63-83) respectively. For coronary obstruction > or = 70% these values were, respectively, 71% (CI:64-92), 85% (CI:79-91) and 81% (CI:75-87). The sensibility to detect univessel and multivessel disease was 41% (CI:19-63) and 78% (CI:64-92), respectively. The DASE was practical and safe; however, it presented a poor result for the detection of CAD regarding obstructions > or = 50%. It can be a useful screening for the detection of CAD in candidates with obstructions > or = 70% and multivessel disease."}
{"id": "17354579", "title": "Possible predictors of target lesion revascularization after drug-eluting stent implantation.", "content": "Possible predictors of target lesion revascularization after drug-eluting stent implantation. A small number of patients still need target lesion revascularization (TLR) after drug-eluting stent (DES) implantation. It is important for the management of coronary artery disease to assess the predictors of TLR after DES implantation. Two hundred ninety-seven patients (325 lesions) were treated with Cypher sirolimus-eluting and/or TAXUS paclitaxel-eluting stent implantation at four centers in Japan and Brazil. Among these centers, 20 patients (24 lesions) needed clinically driven TLR. The clinical and angiographic characteristics of TLR patients were compared to those of non-TLR patients. Hemodialysis, prior myocardial infarction (MI) and prior coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) were more frequent in TLR patients than in non-TLR patients. An ostial stenosis was more frequent in the TLR group than in the non-TLR group (41.7% vs 19.9%, p=0.012). In addition, post-procedure in-stent percentage diameter stenosis (%DS) was higher in TLR patients (21.9% vs 13.3%, p = 0.002). Stepwise logistic regression analysis indicated that all of these variables were independent predictors of TLR after DES implantation. Hemodialysis, prior MI, prior CABG, ostial lesion location and high in-stent %DS may be independent predictors of TLR after DES implantation."}
{"id": "17352135", "title": "[Left circumflex coronary aneurysm with separated left main trunk].", "content": "[Left circumflex coronary aneurysm with separated left main trunk]. We report a left circumflex coronary aneurysm associated with separated left main coronary trunks (LMT). A 66-year-old man was admitted to our hospital for further examination of dyspnea on effort. He has been performed maintenance hemodialysis since 1999 for chronic renal failure. Coronary angiography and multislice spiral computed tomography (CT) revealed an unusual coronary anatomic variance in which separate origins of the left anterior descending (LAD) and left circumflex (LCx) coronary arteries arose from the left coronary aortic sinus. Furthermore, these images of the LCx revealed an aneurysm 2 cm in diameter and 99% stenosis at the proximal of side of the aneurysm. Under cardioplegic arrest, the aneurysm was ligated and coronary artery bypass grafting (left thoracic artery to posterolateral branch) was performed. The patient was discharged at the 20th postoperative day without any complication."}
{"id": "17347076", "title": "Association of renal functional impairment and the severity of coronary artery disease.", "content": "Association of renal functional impairment and the severity of coronary artery disease. Cardiovascular diseases are the most common cause of death in patients with renal failure. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is used for the assessment of the renal functional status. In this study we aimed to examine the association between severity of coronary stenosis and renal function by quantifying the coronary lesions, angiographically and calculating the renal function with the use of GFR. Forty-three patients with decreased renal function (calculated GFR<80 ml/min) with a mean age of 67.8+/-9.0 years and 49 patients without impaired renal function (calculated GFR>/=80 ml/min) with a mean age of 52.5+/-10.3 years were studied consecutively from March 2005 to September 2005. Glomerular filtration rate was calculated according to a given formula. All patients underwent selective coronary artery angiography and Gensini scoring system was used for the detection of severity of coronary atherosclerosis. In linear regression analysis, a negative correlation was found between renal function and the severity of coronary atherosclerosis (r=0.326, p=0.002). All patients were classified into quartiles of Gensini score level. In multivariate analysis, the multiple-adjusted odds ratio (OR) of the risk of decreased renal function was 0.99 (95% CI 0.24-4.15) for quartile 2, 4.38 (95% CI 1.11-17.20, p=0.03) for quartile 3, and 7.01 (95% CI 1.72-28.61, p=0.007) for quartile 4 of Gensini score level compared with the quartile 1. Coronary atherosclerosis quantified by Gensini score is significantly associated with the severity of decreased renal function and this association is independent of age and other cardiovascular risk factors."}
{"id": "17346915", "title": "Impact on adenosine stress cardiac magnetic resonance for recanalisation and follow up of chronic total coronary occlusions.", "content": "Impact on adenosine stress cardiac magnetic resonance for recanalisation and follow up of chronic total coronary occlusions. To evaluate the impact on cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMRI) with adenosine stress and delayed enhancement for indication and follow up after interventional recanalisation of chronic total coronary occlusions (CTOs). Twenty consecutive patients (15 males; 5 females; mean age 65 years) with CTO verified by cardiac catheterisation referred to CMRI. Sixteen of them got CMRI before and after coronary recanalisation. Wall motion abnormalities (WMAs), first pass perfusion with adenosine and viability were assessed using a 1.5 T MR scanner (Sonata; Siemens). CMRI results were compared with clinical classifications, the results of cardiac catheterisation and follow up angiography. Sixteen patients had a successful recanalisation, 15 of the occluded coronary artery and one of collateral donor artery stenosis. After recanalisation all stress-induced progressive or new wall motion abnormalities (WMAs) of the corresponding segments and in the collateral donor territory (5 patients) and all adenosine induced perfusion defects (PD) or delay (12 patients) were regredient. 13/16 patients showed no transmural and one patient transmural delayed enhancement (DE) indicating myocardial scar. In 10/16 patients CSS grading of angina improved after recanalisation. After successful recanalisation of CTOs, patients with preinterventional stress-induced PDs and WMAs in viable myocardium did not display any signs of stress-induced ischemia postinterventionally. A comprehensive CMRI approach, including assessment of rest and stress WMAs, first pass perfusion and myocardial viability represents an important tool for the pre-interventional decision to recanalise CTOs and follow up."}
{"id": "17338740", "title": "The hybrid total arch repair: brachiocephalic bypass and concomitant endovascular aortic arch stent graft placement.", "content": "The hybrid total arch repair: brachiocephalic bypass and concomitant endovascular aortic arch stent graft placement. Repair of aortic arch aneurysm is technically demanding, requiring complex circulatory management. Very large atherosclerotic saccular aneurysms of the arch are grave markers of extensive arch and brachiocephalic atheromatous disease and represent high surgical risks for perioperative neurologic complications. Operative morbidity and mortality may be prohibitive with traditional surgical intervention. We described our experience with a hybrid procedure for total arch repair with a brachiocephalic bypass with a trifurcated graft followed by concomitant placement of a stent graft in the arch. Since June 2005, we have performed the hybrid total arch repair in eight patients. A retrospective review was performed to evaluate the new technique. The mean age of the patients was 67 years with a mean aneurysm size of 8 cm (range, 4.4 to 10 cm). Significant comorbidities included carotid stenosis, chronic renal insufficiency, peripheral vascular disease, hypertension, and coronary artery disease. Two patients had previous Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repairs. Three patients had previous sternotomy for type A dissection, ascending aortic aneurysm repair, and coronary artery bypass grafting. Transesophageal echocardiogram demonstrated grade IV or V atheromatous disease in the arch and ascending aorta. Stent grafts were deployed antegrade directly into the ascending aorta in three patients and retrograde from the femoral artery in five patients. Technical success with complete aneurysmal exclusion was achieved in all patients (100%). At a mean follow-up period of 11.7 months, there was no incidence of endoleak. There was one death resulting from a perioperative myocardial infarction (first patient). Documented perioperative neurologic events (stroke) occurred in two patients, with both patients demonstrating no residual deficit at the time of discharge. Saccular arch aneurysms can be technically treated by total arch repair with brachiocephalic bypass and concomitant aortic arch stent graft placement. Hybrid arch repair provides an alternative to patients otherwise considered prohibitively high risk for traditional open arch repair."}
{"id": "17338428", "title": "Evaluation of the role of severe hyperparathyroidism on coronary artery calcification in dialysis patients.", "content": "Evaluation of the role of severe hyperparathyroidism on coronary artery calcification in dialysis patients. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients are at a high risk of dying from a cardiovascular event, mainly due to coronary calcification. Among the various uremic and dialysis-specific risk factors for coronary calcification are mineral metabolism disorders. The role that secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT) consequent to the altered calcium and phosphate metabolism plays in the pathogenesis of coronary calcification remains unclear. The aim of this study was to evaluate the prevalence of coronary artery calcification in dialysis patients with severe SHPT submitted to multislice coronary tomography (MSCT) and to identify risk factors for coronary calcification. This study involved 23 adult dialysis patients (age >18 years) with severe SHPT who were candidates for parathyroidectomy (PTX). All were submitted to MSCT and bone densitometry during the month preceding PTX. Fasting blood samples were collected immediately before surgery. Markers of mineral metabolism, including ionized calcium, phosphorus, alkaline phosphatase, intact-parathyroid hormone (iPTH), osteoprotegerin (OPG) and soluble receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappaB ligand, were analyzed. Dyslipidemia was assessed by determination of LDL, HDL and VLDL-cholesterol and triglyceride levels. Agatston units (AU) were used to calculate calcium scores. No coronary calcification was found in 30% of the patients. Moderate (calcium score > 100 AU) and severe (calcium score >400 AU) calcification was observed in 12 and 36% of the patients, respectively. In the univariate analysis, calcium volume correlated positively with VLDL-cholesterol (r = 0.44; p = 0.03) and, albeit less than significantly, with age (r = 0.35; p = 0.09), triglycerides (r = 0.39; p = 0.05) and Framingham risk index (r = 0.37; p = 0.07). We also found that OPG correlated negatively with bone mineral density at the L2-L4 lumbar vertebrae (r = -0.54; p = 0.007) and femoral neck (r = -0.43; p = 0.04). Although high levels of PTH should be considered a risk factor for cardiovascular death, the real role of severe SHPT on coronary calcification is to be clarified."}
{"id": "17336702", "title": "Distribution of coronary artery disease and relation to mortality in asymptomatic hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Distribution of coronary artery disease and relation to mortality in asymptomatic hemodialysis patients. Long-term dialysis patients have a high incidence of myocardial infarction and cardiovascular death, but the incidence of coronary artery disease (CAD) in asymptomatic patients, distribution of coronary obstruction, and relationship between lesion location and mortality are unknown. We studied 67 asymptomatic hemodialysis patients who volunteered for coronary angiography. Coronary stenoses of 50% or greater were documented, and the location of each within the proximal, midportion, or distal segment of the coronary vessel was recorded. Patients were followed up until death or renal transplantation. Cox proportional hazards regression was performed to analyze the relationship of lesion location with mortality. Obstructive CAD was common. Twenty-eight subjects (41.7%) had 50% or greater stenosis in at least 1 epicardial vessel, and 19 subjects (28.5%) had evidence of CAD within the proximal third of an epicardial vessel. After a median follow-up of 2.7 years, the presence of proximal CAD was associated with a marked increase in risk of death (adjusted hazard ratio, 3.14; 95% confidence interval, 1.34 to 7.33; P = 0.008) and was associated more strongly with mortality than multivessel disease or left anterior descending disease. CAD is common in asymptomatic dialysis patients, and stenoses frequently are located within the proximal coronary arteries, where they are associated with markedly increased risks of death. Additional studies are needed to determine whether proximal disease is a modifiable risk factor for cardiovascular mortality in dialysis patients."}
{"id": "17312351", "title": "Progression of coronary artery calcification in predialysis patients.", "content": "Progression of coronary artery calcification in predialysis patients. In patients on dialysis coronary artery calcification (CAC) rapidly proceeds due to impaired mineral metabolism and/or exogenous calcium load. Progression has not been assessed in patients with chronic kidney disease not yet requiring dialysis (CKD patients). In this study, rate and determinants of CAC progression have been evaluated in CKD patients who are exposed to minor derangement of mineral metabolism and calcium load. Consecutive patients were enrolled. Exclusion criteria were: symptomatic coronary disease, arrhythmia, myocardial infarction, and diabetes. Serum calcium, phosphorus, parathyroid hormone, homocysteine, C-reactive protein, triglycerides, total cholesterol, high- and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol were serially measured. Fetuin-A was assessed at entry into the study. CAC progression was detected by measuring total calcium score (TCS) with computed tomography. Initial and final scans were obtained. Predictive factors of progression were investigated. Fifty-three patients had CKD (stage 3-5 CKD; K-DOQI classification) not yet requiring dialysis, and 60 patients had normal renal function (NRF patients). Follow-up lasted 24 +/- 4.2 months (mean +/- SE). Patients with CAC were older with lower serum fetuin-A. TCS increased from 73 +/- 17 to 80 +/- 20 (mean +/- SE; p = NS) in NRF patients, and from 384 +/- 116 to 602 +/- 140 (mean +/- SE; p < 0.01) in CKD patients. Serum phosphorus [OR = 1.97 (1.14-3.41, 95% CI); p = 0.015] was the only variable that was associated with CAC progression. Cardiovascular events occurred in CKD patients with CAC. CAC progression was prominent in CKD patients and correlated with serum phosphorus. Fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events were more frequent in CKD patients. Studies are required to ascertain whether the attainment of serum phosphorus concentration lower than that suggested by current guidelines may reduce CAC progression and ultimately mortality."}
{"id": "17309582", "title": "Coronary artery calcification, coronary artery stenosis and hyperphosphatemia in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Coronary artery calcification, coronary artery stenosis and hyperphosphatemia in hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "17307417", "title": "Prognostic value of dobutamine stress echocardiography in patients with chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Prognostic value of dobutamine stress echocardiography in patients with chronic kidney disease. Although dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) is cited in clinical guidelines for the evaluation of patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), there are limited data regarding its prognostic utility in this setting. The current study assesses the prognostic value of DSE in patients with CKD. Four hundred eighty-five patients with CKD (on renal dialysis or with creatinine > 3 mg/mL) who had DSE were followed for 2.3 +/- 1.8 years. One hundred eighty-eight (39%) patients died during follow-up. Patients with extensive ischemia (affecting > 25% of myocardial segments) had a 1- and 3-year survival rate of 77% and 48%, respectively, compared with 83% and 52% in those with lesser degrees (< or = 25% segments affected) of ischemia and with 88% and 70% in those with a normal DSE. In multivariate analyses, the percentage of ischemic segments on DSE was an independent predictor of all-cause mortality (hazard ratio, 1.40 per 25% increase; 95% CI, 1.16-1.68; P = .001). Inclusion of DSE data improved the predictive value of the best clinical model (chi2, 83.6-97.4; P = .003). In patients with CKD, the percentage of ischemic segments during DSE is an independent predictor of mortality and provides prognostic information that is incremental to clinical data."}
{"id": "17305080", "title": "[Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting for single coronary artery; report of a case].", "content": "[Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting for single coronary artery; report of a case]. A 55-year-old male with single coronary artery complicated by angina pectoris was referred to our department for coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) . Coronary arteriography could not identify the left coronary orifice. Right coronary arteriography showed that the circumflex branch (Cx) followed the course of the normal right coronary artery (RCA) , and the left anterior descending branch (LAD) followed the Cx. Other findings included 90% stenosis in #4 posterior descending (PD) of RCA. Off-pump CABG was successfully performed to D1 with the left internal thoracic artery graft and to #4PD with the radial artery graft."}
{"id": "17289431", "title": "Serum cardiac troponin T, troponin I, plasma BNP and left ventricular mass index in professional football players.", "content": "Serum cardiac troponin T, troponin I, plasma BNP and left ventricular mass index in professional football players. Concentrations of cardiac troponins (cTn) in serum or plasma may be elevated in several disease states other than acute coronary syndromes. In heart failure and end stage renal disease, cardiac troponin T (cTnT) correlates positively with left ventricular mass index (LVMI). Exercise-induced elevation of cardiac troponins in well-trained athletes has been confirmed by several reports but the aetiology and clinical significance is unclear. In the present study, we measured baseline concentrations of cardiac markers and investigated whether or not serum cTnT is associated with left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) in professional football players. Twenty-three male professional football players with a mean age of 23 years (range 18-32) were studied. Echocardiography and blood sampling were carried out approx 24h after a training session. Serum cTnT, other cardiac markers and plasma brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) were compared with LVMI. cTnT was only detectable in one subject. The prevalence of elevated cardiac troponin I (cTnI), creatine kinase MB (CKMB) and creatine kinase was higher than for cTnT. cTnI concentrations were higher in football players than in controls. LVMI did not correlate with any of the cardiac markers. Plasma BNP concentrations were normal in all subjects. Serum cTnT concentrations were not elevated in healthy professional football players with LVH. This argues against the hypothesis that LVH per se may cause increased cTnT. The finding of higher cTnI in football players than in non-athletic controls should be confirmed and the aetiology elucidated."}
{"id": "17275470", "title": "Early coronary calcification in children and young adults with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Early coronary calcification in children and young adults with end-stage renal disease. Cardiovascular disease is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in children and young adults with end-stage renal disease. In our study, we retrospectively analyzed the records of 11 patients who had undergone electron beam computerized tomography in our dialysis unit. Our patients, aged 11 to 24 years (median, 19.3 years) were on dialysis or had functioning grafts. Coronary calcification was observed in seven patients (64%) with a mean calcium score of 273.8 +/- 708 (range 0.8 to 1864) in our study population. We compared clinical characteristics like age, gender, duration of end-stage renal disease, time on hemodialysis, body mass index, and blood pressures between the patients with calcifications (group I) and those with out calcification (group II). We also compared the laboratory data including daily calcium and calcitriol intake, lipid profile, serum calcium and phosphorus levels, calcium/phosphorus products, and serum parathyroid hormone levels in the both groups. The mean daily dose of total calcium, triglyceride level, and calcium/phosphorus products were higher in the calcification group though not statistically significant. The mean daily dose of calcitriol was significantly higher in patients with calcification. Using Spearman multivariate correlation, we found a correlation between the coronary calcium scores and mean daily doses of total calcium and calcitriol (r = .750, P =.008 and r = .869, P = .001, respectively). We conclude that coronary calcification, which is a proven predictor of cardiovascular disease, begins at a very early age and that daily doses of elemental calcium and calcitriol seem to be important factors in our study population."}
{"id": "17267536", "title": "Diabetes and coronary artery disease impose similar cardiovascular morbidity and mortality on renal transplant candidates.", "content": "Diabetes and coronary artery disease impose similar cardiovascular morbidity and mortality on renal transplant candidates. In renal transplant candidates (RTC), diabetes and coronary artery disease (CAD) are commonly observed. However, whether diabetes imparts a cardiovascular risk equivalent to that of CAD and whether CAD adds to the cardiovascular risk associated with diabetes is unknown. To assess the interplay between diabetes and CAD as a determinant of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), 288 high-risk RTC (56.4+/-8.1 years old, 72% males) underwent a comprehensive cardiovascular evaluation including coronary angiography. Patients were divided into four groups based on the diagnoses of diabetes and CAD (>70% narrowing), and followed up for 1-60 months (median, 17). The primary endpoint was the composite incidence of fatal/non-fatal MACE. During follow-up, 80 MACE occurred. Patients with diabetes (P=0.03) or CAD (P<0.0001) had a worse long-term prognosis. However, only in patients without diabetes was CAD associated with an increased incidence of MACE (10.6% vs 45.9%, P<0.0001). In patients with diabetes, the endpoints were not different between those with and without CAD. No difference occurred in the long-term prognosis of patients with diabetes (with or without CAD) and patients without diabetes with CAD. We concluded that in high-risk RTC, diabetes confers a cardiovascular risk comparable to that of CAD in patients without diabetes, independent of coronary obstruction. In patients with diabetes, concomitant CAD does not add to the already very high cardiovascular risk of this population."}
{"id": "17259697", "title": "Serum levels of calcification inhibition proteins and coronary artery calcium score: comparison between transplantation and dialysis.", "content": "Serum levels of calcification inhibition proteins and coronary artery calcium score: comparison between transplantation and dialysis. Vascular calcifications in CKD are now linked to serum alterations of both divalent ions and calcification inhibitory proteins. Due to possible biochemical differences between dialysis (D) and transplantation (Tx), we examined the entity and severity of these biochemical modifications and of coronary artery calcium score separately in these two populations. We assayed, besides standard markers of inflammation, divalent ions and serum levels of fetuin, matrix Gla protein (MGP) and osteoprotegerin (OPG), in 51 Tx patients (age 45 +/- 12 years; 30 males, 21 females; previous D duration 4.8 +/- 4.2 years; Tx since 6.6 +/- 5.5 years; Cr 1.8 +/- 0.6 mg/dl) and in 49 D patients (age 49 +/- 14 years; 30 males,19 females; D duration 5.6 +/- 4.8 years). Additionally, coronary calcium score (AS) was evaluated by cardiac multi-slice CT. Compared with D patients, Tx patients had better values of divalent ions and inflammation markers, and lower prevalence (65 vs. 86%; p < 0.02) and severity (AS = 570 +/- 1,637 vs. 1,311 +/- 3,128; p < 0.008) of coronary calcification. In addition, a tendency toward normalization for all of the three calcification inhibitory proteins was evident. In both Tx and D, AS correlated with age and OPG (Tx: r(s) = 0.439, p < 0.001, and r(s) = 0.510, p < 0.0001; D: r(s) = 0.471, p < 0.001, and r(s) = 0.403, p < 0.005, respectively); in D patients, a correlation was present also with D duration (r(s) = 0.435; p < 0.002), other markers of inflammation and, notably, fetuin (r(s) = -0.442; p < 0.002). Regression analysis selected previous time on D in Tx patients (r(m) = 0.400; p < 0.004), and C-reactive protein and OPG in D patients (r(m) = 0.518; p < 0.004) as the most predictive parameters of AS. Discriminant analysis confirmed the major role of age and D duration in the appearance of AS and evidenced male gender as a distinct risk condition. At variance, Tx duration was never associated with AS. In conclusion, as compared to D, renal Tx patients show serum levels of calcification inhibition proteins and of divalent ions closer to normal. As this is associated with a lower prevalence and severity of AS, it is suggested that Tx antagonize the accelerating role of D in the progression of vascular calcification. Assessment of both coronary calcifications and serum levels of calcification inhibitory proteins may be of value to identify those subjects at higher risk of development and progression of vascular lesions, among whom males have the highest rate."}
{"id": "17258568", "title": "Coronary artery bypass grafting with or without cardiopulmonary bypass in patients with preoperative non-dialysis dependent renal insufficiency: a randomized study.", "content": "Coronary artery bypass grafting with or without cardiopulmonary bypass in patients with preoperative non-dialysis dependent renal insufficiency: a randomized study. Preoperative renal insufficiency is a predictor of acute renal failure in patients undergoing coronary artery revascularization with cardiopulmonary bypass. Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting has been shown to be less deleterious than on-pump bypass in patients with normal renal function, but the effect of this technique in patients with non-dialysis dependent renal insufficiency in a randomized study is unknown. From August 2004 through October 2005, 116 consecutive patients with preoperative non-dialysis-dependent renal insufficiency (glomerular filtration rate measured using the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease equation [MDRD GFR] < or = 60 mL x min(-1) x 1.73 m(-2)) undergoing primary coronary artery bypass grafting were randomized to on-pump (n = 60) and off-pump (n = 56) groups. MDRD GFR and serum creatinine levels were measured preoperatively and postoperatively at days 1 and 5. The changes in renal function and clinical outcomes were compared between the two groups. Preoperative characteristics were comparable between the two groups. The repeated-measures analysis of variance was performed on the data that showed worsening of renal function in the on-pump group compared with the off-pump group (serum creatinine, P < .000; glomerular filtration rate, P < .000). Further analysis of subgroups of patients with diabetes alone, hypertension alone, and combined hypertension and diabetes also showed significant deterioration renal function in the on-pump group compared with the off-pump group. In covariate analysis, diabetes has emerged as a significant covariate by serum creatinine criteria while compromised left ventricular function has emerged as a significant covariate by glomerular filtration rate criteria. These analyses showed that the use of cardiopulmonary bypass is significantly associated with adverse renal outcome (P < .000). Three patents required hemodialysis in the on-pump group and none in the off-pump group. The mean number of grafts per patient was 3.85 +/- 0.86 and 3.11 +/- 0.89 in the on-pump and off-pump groups, respectively (P < .001), but the indices of completeness of revascularization, 1.00 +/- 0.08 for off-pump coronary bypass and 1.01 +/- 0.08 for on-pump coronary bypass, were similar (P = .60). This study suggests that on-pump as compared with off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting is more deleterious to renal function in diabetic patients with non-dialysis dependent renal insufficiency. MDRD GFR is a more sensitive investigation than serum creatinine levels to assess renal insufficiency in patients undergoing coronary bypass."}
{"id": "17253600", "title": "The impact of renal function on the long-term clinical course of patients who underwent percutaneous coronary intervention.", "content": "The impact of renal function on the long-term clinical course of patients who underwent percutaneous coronary intervention. To determine the impact of the level of kidney function on the extended (>5 years) long-term clinical course of patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Chronic kidney disease (CKD) has been significantly associated with an increased in-hospital and 1-year mortality following PCI. In this single-centre retrospective study, glomerular filtration rate (GFR) at baseline was estimated in 371 patients not on dialysis, who underwent successful PCI between mid-1995 and mid-1999. Baseline demographic and angiographic characteristics, and long-term major adverse cardiac events and symptoms were compared for patients with GFR > or =60 ml/min/1.73 m(2) (normal or mildly impaired renal function) and GFR > or = 60 ml/ min/1.73 m(2) (CKD). The independent effect of GFR, modelled both as a categorical and a continuous variable, on long-term clinical outcomes was also investigated using multivariate Cox regression analysis. Nine-year all-cause and cardiac mortality rates were significantly higher in the CKD group (45.9% vs. 10.6%, P < 0.0001 and 35.4% vs. 7.1%, P < 0.0001 respectively), while there was no difference in the repeat revascularization (P = 0.27) and nonfatal Q-wave myocardial infarction (P = 0.74) rates. Multivariate analysis demonstrated an independent impact of the level of GFR on long-term mortality; adjusted 9-year all-cause and cardiac mortality increased by approximately 16% and 11%, respectively for a decrease of GFR from 120 to 60 ml/min/1.73 m(2) and by approximately 14% and 9%, respectively for a decrease of GFR from 60 to 30 ml/min/1.73 m(2). The level of renal function is a strong determinant of long-term all-cause and cardiac mortality after successful PCI."}
{"id": "17244916", "title": "Surgical coronary revascularization in severe left ventricular dysfunction.", "content": "Surgical coronary revascularization in severe left ventricular dysfunction. Surgical revascularization in patients with coronary artery disease and severe left ventricular dysfunction is a common practice and poses a surgical challenge. From September 2002 to May 2004, 50 patients (47 men and 3 women; mean age, 59 +/- 9 years) with a mean preoperative ejection fraction of 19.7% +/- 3.2% underwent surgical revascularization. The mean EuroSCORE was 7.2 +/- 3.4. Indications for surgery were congestive heart failure in 8 patients (16%), angina in 20 (40%), ventricular arrhythmias in 4 (8%), and critical left main stem disease in 12 (24%). Twenty-two patients (44%) had emergency surgery for critical anatomy and unstable symptoms. The number of grafts per patient was 3.7 +/- 0.8. Seventeen patients (34%) required intra-aortic balloon pump support, 16 (32%) needed pacing, and 48 (96%) had inotropic support postoperatively. Morbidity included re-operation for bleeding (2%), acute renal failure (10%), hemodialysis (4%), and fatal multiorgan failure (4%). Postoperative (4.9 +/- 3.7 months) 2-dimentional echocardiography was available in 18 patients of whom 11 (61%) showed improved left ventricular function (range, 5% to 45%). Thirty-day hospital mortality was 8%. These data indicate that surgical revascularization can be performed safely with acceptable hospital mortality in high-risk patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction."}
{"id": "17239676", "title": "Curriculum in cardiology: integrated diagnosis and management of diastolic heart failure.", "content": "Curriculum in cardiology: integrated diagnosis and management of diastolic heart failure. Among the general heart failure (HF) population, over half have diastolic HF (DHF). The proportion of DHF increases with age, from 46% in patients younger than 45 years to 59% in patients older than 85 years. The diagnosis of DHF is made by the combination of signs and symptoms of HF with preserved systolic function (left ventricular ejection fraction >50%), and evidence of diastolic dysfunction obtained by echocardiographic Doppler examination, invasive hemodynamic evaluation, or an elevation of serum B-type natriuretic peptide. The most common risk factors for the development of diastolic dysfunction and DHF include long-standing hypertension, older age, female sex, obesity, diabetes, chronic kidney disease, and coronary artery disease. Acute decompensation occurs in the setting of pressure overload, volume overload, or superimposed cardiac ischemia. The cornerstones of in-hospital management include blood pressure and volume control, heart rate control, and correction of precipitating factors. Priorities in the outpatient clinic include optimal blood pressure control, maintenance of euvolemia with minimal or no diuretics, and, potentially, use of disease-modifying drugs including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers, aldosterone receptor blockers, beta-blockers, and digoxin. Long-term regression of left ventricular hypertrophy, improvement in diastolic filling parameters, and sustained reductions in B-type natriuretic peptide may be future treatment targets for this condition."}
{"id": "17210392", "title": "The management of renal artery atherosclerosis for renal salvage: does stenting help?", "content": "The management of renal artery atherosclerosis for renal salvage: does stenting help? The use of endovascular techniques to treat renal artery stenosis (RAS) has increased in recent years but remains controversial. The purpose of this study was to review the outcomes and durability of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stenting (PTA/S) for patients with RAS and decreasing renal function. Between 1999 and 2004, 125 consecutive patients underwent angiography and intervention for renal salvage and formed the basis of this study. Inclusion criteria for this study included serum creatinine greater than 1.5 mg/dL, ischemic nephropathy, and high-grade RAS perfusing a single functioning kidney. Patients undergoing PTA/S for renovascular hypertension or fibromuscular dysplasia or in conjunction with endovascular stent grafting for aneurysm repair were excluded. The original angiographic imaging was evaluated for lesion grade and parenchymal kidney size. All medical records and noninvasive testing were reviewed. Preoperative and postoperative patient data were standardized and analyzed by using chi(2) tests for nominal values and t tests for continuous variables. The Modification of Diet in Renal Disease equation was used to estimate glomerular filtration rate (GFR), and univariate analysis was performed. Preoperative variables included the presence of coronary artery disease (93%), diabetes (44%), tobacco use (48%), and hypercholesterolemia (70%). RAS was suspected on the basis of preoperative duplex imaging or magnetic resonance angiography. Aortography and PTA/S were performed in 125 patients (mean age, 71 years; 59% male) with a mean baseline creatinine level of 2.2 mg/dL. There were two mortalities (1.6%) in the 30-day postoperative period, but there was no case of acute renal loss. Blood pressure decreased after PTA/S (151/79 mm Hg before vs 139/72 mm Hg after 1 month; P < .03). For all patients, the estimated GFR went from 33 +/- 12 mL . min(-1) . 1.73 m(-2) (mean +/- SD) to 37 +/- 19 mL . min(-1) . 1.73 m(-2) at 6 months (P = .10). Sixty-seven percent of treated patients had improvement (>10% increase in GFR) or stabilization of renal function. A rapid decline in GFR before intervention was correlated with improvement after PTA/S. Responders after PTA/S had a 27% decrease in GFR before intervention (44 +/- 13 mL . min(-1) . 1.73 m(-2) to 32 +/- 13 mL . min(-1) . 1.73 m(-2); P < .001) with a negative to positive slope change in GFR values. Ten patients underwent reintervention for in-stent restenosis. Cases without improvement in GFR after PTA/S were associated with eventual dialysis need (P = .01; mean follow-up, 19 months). Survival at 3 years was 76%, and dialysis-free survival was 63% as estimated by Kaplan-Meier analyses. Renal artery stenoses causing renal dysfunction can be safely treated via endovascular means. Rapidly decreasing renal function is associated with the response to renal artery angioplasty/stenting and helps identify patients for renal salvage."}
{"id": "17195964", "title": "The impact of renal insufficiency on patients' outcomes in emergent angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction.", "content": "The impact of renal insufficiency on patients' outcomes in emergent angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction. Renal insufficiency (RF) was shown to be associated with a worsened prognosis following acute myocardial infarction (AMI). The authors analyzed the outcomes of AMI patients with impaired renal function tests treated using primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), to determine factors associated with increased mortality risk. This study included 558 consecutive AMI patients treated using primary PCI between January 2001 and June 2005. The authors compared outcome results according to glomerular filtration rate (GFR). An abbreviated equation was used to calculate GFR. Patients were grouped as follow: normal (> or =90 mL/min/1.73 m(2)), mildly impaired (60-89 mL/min/1.73 m(2)), moderately impaired (30-59 mL/min/1.73 m(2)), and severely impaired GFR (< 30 mL/min/1.73 m(2)). There was a stepwise increase in 30-day mortality among patients with normal, mildly, moderately, and severely impaired RF: 2.1%, 3.7%, 8.2%, and 22.2%, respectively (P = 0.004). Seventeen out of the 324 with any degree of RF died within 1 month [5.3%] of these nine patients [53%] died because of cardiac cause. Univariate correlation analysis, factors associated with an increased risk of 1 month mortality included: age > 75 years, left ventricular ejection fraction < 35%, lower GFR, killip class > 1, multivessel coronary artery disease, failure to achieve TIMI flow grade = 3, the occurrence of no-reflow, IABP use, lack of administration of anti GP 2b/3a. The amount of contrast media used during the procedure [mL/Kg] as well as renal function deterioration were also associated with increased mortality. Clinical and angiographic parameters collected before and during PCI can be used to predict 30-day mortality among AMI patients with RF. Findings indicate that in the setting of contemporary catheter-based reperfusion strategy for AMI, the extent of coronary artery disease, measures of PCI complexity, and degree of renal impairment prior/following the procedure are altogether related to mortality."}
{"id": "17191206", "title": "Impact of renal insufficiency on clinical and angiographic outcomes following percutaneous coronary intervention with sirolimus-eluting stents.", "content": "Impact of renal insufficiency on clinical and angiographic outcomes following percutaneous coronary intervention with sirolimus-eluting stents. Sirolimus-eluting stents (SES) have been demonstrated to reduce restenosis. However, there have been few studies evaluating the impact of renal insufficiency on the angiographic as well as clinical outcomes after SES implantation. This study was composed of 304 consecutive patients having 361 lesions who underwent percutaneous coronary intervention with SES. The patients were divided into 3 groups according to renal function (group 1 [n = 204]; creatinine clearance (Ccr) > or = 60 ml/min, group 2 [n = 69]; Ccr < 60 ml/min, group 3 [n = 31]; hemodialysis). Clinical and angiographic follow-up were evaluated at 8 months. Clinical follow-up was obtained in all patients and angiographic follow-up was obtained in 283 patients (93.1%). Patients in group 3 showed a higher incidence of previous coronary artery bypass graft surgery, and there were more female gender, hypertensive, and less hyperlipidemia in this group. Late lumen loss at 8 months was significantly different among the 3 groups (group 1; 0.16 +/- 0.46 mm, group 2; 0.44 +/- 0.62 mm, group 3; 0.81 +/- 0.88 mm, P < 0.0001). Major adverse cardiac events (MACE) were documented in 22 patients (10.8%) in group 1, 13 patients (18.8%) in group 2, and 12 patients (38.7%) in group 3, respectively (P = 0.0002). Neointimal growth following SES implantation is more pronounced in patients with renal insufficiency, especially those undergoing dialysis, compared with patients with normal renal function. Regardless of the beneficial effect of SES, the increased risk of MACE mainly due to high incidence of target vessel revascularization in the subgroup of patients with renal insufficiency should be taken into account."}
{"id": "17186972", "title": "Success rate of implantation and mid-term outcomes of the sirolimus-eluting stent.", "content": "Success rate of implantation and mid-term outcomes of the sirolimus-eluting stent. The sirolimus-eluting stent (SES) is currently the sole drug-coated stent approved for use in Japan, but there are few reports on its safety and outcomes in Japan. From May 2004 to February 2005, a total of 297 patients with 402 lesions were treated with SES at 6 hospitals in the Kansai district. Follow-up angiography was performed in 82% of the patients and 80% of the lesions at 182+/-35 days after stenting. Coronary stenosis was evaluated using quantitative coronary angiography. Clinical and angiographic data were analyzed. Minimum lesion diameter was 0.75+/-0.52 mm and the reference diameter was 2.81+/-0.47 mm before stenting. The SES successfully dilated 99.5% of the lesions with few major adverse cardiac events. Restenosis occurred in 4.0% and the target lesion revascularization rate was 3.7%. Restenosis correlated with chronic hemodialysis, calcification, occlusion, ostial lesions, lesions kinked>45 degrees, right coronary artery (RCA) lesions and lesions at the ostium of the RCA. SES demonstrated a high rate of successful implantation with few complications, and mid-term outcomes were excellent. Patients with lesions at the ostium of the RCA or under chronic hemodialysis developed restenosis."}
{"id": "17185155", "title": "Coronary artery calcification and chronically decreased GFR in living kidney donors.", "content": "Coronary artery calcification and chronically decreased GFR in living kidney donors. In the presence of decreased glomerular filtration rate (GFR), the risk of morbidity and mortality caused by cardiovascular disease (CVD) is increased markedly. Increased coronary artery calcification (CAC) is proposed as a pathogenetic link between CVD and chronic kidney disease. We examined the frequency and severity of CAC in living kidney donors to test the hypothesis that decreased GFR is associated with increased CAC. We used multidetector spiral computed tomography to examine CAC in 101 living kidney donors and 99 age- and sex-matched healthy control subjects without diabetes and a history of coronary artery disease. The extent of calcification was measured by means of the Agatston score. GFR was calculated by using the abbreviated Modification of Diet in Renal Disease formula. The frequency of risk factors for coronary artery disease was compared in kidney donors and controls, and the relation between kidney donors' clinical characteristics and the presence or absence of CAC was examined. CAC frequency and mean calcification scores were similar between kidney donors (13.9%; 4.5 +/- 22.6) and controls (17.2%; 13.2 +/- 89.2). CAC was not associated with decreased GFR, and the correlation between CAC and GFR was not statistically significant. Kidney donors with calcification were more likely to be older (P = 0.003) and male (P = 0.001). Age- and sex-adjusted analysis showed an association between greater parathormone levels (odds ratio, 1.023; 95% confidence interval, 1.001 to 1.045; P = 0.037) and CAC in kidney donors. A mild decrease in GFR without the presence of diabetes does not seem to be associated with increased CAC. These findings need to be confirmed in different and larger study populations."}
{"id": "17172251", "title": "Kidney disease in cardiology.", "content": "Kidney disease in cardiology. This article helps to inaugurate NDT's new section, Kidney Diseases beyond Nephrology, by focusing on the convergence of cardiology and nephrology. The clinical themes highlighted by the articles chosen for review include cardiac screening in renal transplant candidates, cardiac troponins in end-stage renal disease patients, contrast nephropathy in coronary angiography and surgical coronary revascularization across the spectrum of renal failure."}
{"id": "17136027", "title": "Vascular function in patients with end-stage renal disease and/or coronary artery disease: a cardiac magnetic resonance imaging study.", "content": "Vascular function in patients with end-stage renal disease and/or coronary artery disease: a cardiac magnetic resonance imaging study. Decreased arterial compliance in end-stage renal disease (ESRD) is associated with increased cardiovascular risk. Our aim was to examine aortic compliance in patients with ESRD using cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and to compare these with patients with advanced atherosclerotic disease who are known to be at high cardiovascular risk. We examined a total of 83 subjects matched for age: 24 had ESRD and were on dialysis therapy for 3+/-6 years, 24 had severe coronary artery disease (CAD), 11 had both ESRD and CAD (4+/-5 years on dialysis therapy), and 24 healthy subjects with no evidence of CAD. Vascular and cardiac function was assessed using cardiac MRI. Aortic compliance was significantly reduced in patients with CAD compared to control subjects (11.3+/-6.3 ml x 10(-3)/mm Hg vs 15.6+/-6.0 ml x 10(-3)/mm Hg, P=0.009). Patients with ESRD also exhibited significantly reduced aortic compliance compared to healthy controls (12.4+/-5.8 ml x 10(-3)/mm Hg vs 15.6+/-6.0 ml 10(-3)/mm Hg, P=0.012), whereas there was no significant difference in aortic compliance between patients with CAD and ESRD. Even in the absence of symptomatic CAD, patients with ESRD have significantly reduced aortic compliance compared to normal subjects. Patients with ESRD have equivalent aortic compliance to patients with advanced CAD. These findings suggest that a significantly reduced aortic compliance is one of many mechanisms promoting premature cardiovascular events in patients with ESRD compared to age-matched controls from the general population."}
{"id": "17107672", "title": "In vitro electrophysiological mechanisms for antiarrhythmic efficacy of resveratrol, a red wine antioxidant.", "content": "In vitro electrophysiological mechanisms for antiarrhythmic efficacy of resveratrol, a red wine antioxidant. Resveratrol (trans-3, 4', 5-trihydroxystilbene), a natural antioxidant derived from grapes, has beneficial effects against coronary heart disease. Its electrophysiological characteristics for antiarrhythmic efficacy are largely unknown; thus, this study aims to explore the resveratrol's antiarrhythmic effects and conduction system in isolated hearts as well as its electrophysiological effects on cardiac myocytes. In the experiment, resveratrol suppressed the ischemia/reperfusion-induced ventricular arrhythmias in Langendorff-perfused rat hearts. In the current clamp study of the experiment, resveratrol prolonged the action potential duration (APD(50) and APD(90)) and suppressed the upstroke velocity of the action potential (V(max)). In the voltage clamp study, resveratrol inhibited sodium inward current (I(Na)) in a concentration-dependent manner and negative-shifted the voltage-dependent inactivation curve. Resveratrol also reduced the calcium inward current (I(Ca), 51.2+/-13.3% at 100 microM). Furthermore, the transient (I(to)) and sustained (I(ss)) outward potassium currents were decreased 60.2+/-5.7% and 42.3+/-5.2% after exposure to resveratrol (100 microM), respectively. The inward rectifier potassium current (I(K1)) was also reduced 24.2+/-7.0% in the presence of resveratrol (100 microM). In the isolated heart perfusion model, resveratrol (100 microM) prolonged AV nodal refractory period, the Wenckebach cycle length and the conduction through AV node and His-Purkinje system. In conclusion, resveratrol increased the cardiac effective refractory period mainly through inhibiting the ionic channels including I(Na), I(to) and I(ss) which could contribute to the conversion of ischemia/reperfusion-induced lethal arrhythmias."}
{"id": "17090607", "title": "Impact of diabetic and pre-diabetic state on development of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients with chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Impact of diabetic and pre-diabetic state on development of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients with chronic kidney disease. The aim of the present study was to assess the influence of diabetic and pre-diabetic state on the development of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) in chronic kidney disease patients undergoing coronary angiography. A total of 421 patients with Cockcroft clearance between 15 and 60 ml/min were divided into three groups [diabetes mellitus (DM), n = 137; pre-diabetes (pre-DM), n = 140; and normal fasting glucose (NFG), n = 144]. CIN was defined as an increase of > or =25% in creatinine over baseline within 48 h of angiography, DM as glucose > or =126 mg/dl, pre-DM as glucose between 100 and 125 mg/dl and NFG as glucose <100 mg/dl. CIN occurred in 20% of the DM [relative risk (RR) 3.6, P = 0.001], 11.4% of the pre-DM (RR 2.1, P = 0.314) and 5.5% of the NFG group. The decrease of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was higher in DM and pre-DM (P = 0.001 and P = 0.002, respectively). GFR < or =30 ml/min (RR 19.22), multivessel involvement (RR 7.59), hyperuricaemia (RR 3.95), use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor blocker (RR 2.70) and DM (RR 2.34) were predictors of CIN. Length of hospital stay was 2.45 +/- 1.45 day in DM, 2.27 +/- 0.68 day in pre-DM and 1.97 +/- 0.45 day in NFG (P < 0.001, DM vs NFG and P = 0.032, pre-DM vs NFG). The rate of major adverse cardiac events was 8.7% in DM, 5% in pre-DM and 2.1% in NFG (P = 0.042, DM vs NFG). Haemodialysis was required in 3.6% of DM and 0.7% in pre-DM (P = 0.036, DM vs NFG), and the total number of haemodialysis sessions during 3 months was higher in DM and pre-DM (P < 0.001). Serum glucose > or =124 mg/dl was the best cut-off point for prediction of CIN. Our data support that patients with DM are at a higher risk of developing CIN, but patients with pre-DM are not at as high a risk for developing CIN as diabetes patients."}
{"id": "17050638", "title": "Factors involved in vascular calcification and atherosclerosis in maintenance haemodialysis patients.", "content": "Factors involved in vascular calcification and atherosclerosis in maintenance haemodialysis patients. Atherosclerosis and vascular calcifications are common causes of morbidity and mortality in maintenance haemodialysis patients. In addition to the well-known traditional risk factors, uraemia-specific factors appear to enhance dramatically the progression of the pathological processes involved. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the degree of atherosclerosis and vascular calcifications in chronic haemodialysis patients using non-invasive imaging methods, and to identify potentially involved factors. The study included 73 patients (36 females, 37 males), aged 25-75 years, who were on haemodialysis treatment for 12-275 months (mean dialysis vintage 73.8 months). We assessed the following circulating parameters: calcium (Ca), phosphorus, 'intact' parathyroid hormone (iPTH), 25OH vitamin D, lipids, oxidized LDL (ox-LDL), Lp(a), homocysteine, leptin, IL-1-beta, IL-6, CRP, TGF-beta, TNF-alpha, (PDGF), advanced oxidation protein products (AOPP) and myeloperoxidase activity (MPO). Coronary artery calcification score (CACS) was assessed using multi-row spiral CT (MSCT). Intima-media thickness index of the common carotid artery (CCA-IMT) and presence of cervical artery atherosclerotic plaques were evaluated by ultrasonography. Coronary artery calcifications were observed in 79.5% of the patients, with CACS ranging from 0 to 4987. In univariate analysis, a positive correlation was observed between CACS and age, BMI, iPTH, CRP, IL-6 and CCA-IMT, whereas an inverse correlation existed with 25OH vitamin D, TGF-beta and PDGF. CCA-IMT ranged from 0.4 to 1.1 mm. It was positively correlated, in univariate analysis, with age, CACS, CRP and Il-6, and negatively with 25OH vitamin D, TGF-beta and PDGF. Only CACS remained as independent predictive factor of CCA-IMT in multivariate analysis. Atherosclerotic plaques were found in the carotid arteries of 53 patients (72%). The number of plaques was positively correlated with age, CACS, phosphorus, MPO, CRP and IL-6, and inversely with 25OH vitamin D in univariate analysis. In multivariate regression analysis, only age and CACS remained as independent variables. In addition to classic risk factors, the degree of atherosclerosis and vascular calcification in our dialysis patient population were associated with several factors that are frequently abnormal in advanced chronic renal failure, but except age, all of them were interdependent. Notably, as in the general population, CACS was an independent predictor of the degree of atherosclerosis in haemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "17050631", "title": "Value of the real-time myocardial contrast echocardiography for risk stratification and for the detection of significant coronary stenosis in patients with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Value of the real-time myocardial contrast echocardiography for risk stratification and for the detection of significant coronary stenosis in patients with end-stage renal disease."}
{"id": "17026644", "title": "Contrast nephropathy following computed tomography angiography of the chest for pulmonary embolism in the emergency department.", "content": "Contrast nephropathy following computed tomography angiography of the chest for pulmonary embolism in the emergency department. To estimate the frequency of contrast nephropathy after computed tomography angiography (CTA) to rule out pulmonary embolism (PE) in the emergency department (ED) setting. We prospectively followed patients undergoing CTA for PE, while in the ED, for 45 days. Patients who refused follow-up or were receiving hemodialysis were excluded. Severe renal failure was defined as an increase in creatinine > or = 3.0 mg dL(-1) or a need for hemodialysis within the follow-up period. Patients were also followed for laboratory-defined contrast nephropathy, defined as an increase in creatinine of > 0.5 mg dL(-1) or > 25%, within seven days following CTA. A total of 1224 patients were followed, and 354 [29%, 95% confidence interval (CI): 26-32%] patients had paired (preCTA and post-CTA) creatinine measurements. None developed renal failure (0/1224; 0%, CI: 0-0.3%). 44 patients developed laboratory-defined contrast nephropathy, corresponding to an overall frequency of 4% (44/1224; CI: 3-5%) and 12% (44/354; 95% CI: 9-16%) among those with paired creatinine measurements. Following CTA for PE, the incidence of severe renal failure was very low, but the incidence of laboratory-defined contrast nephropathy (4% overall and 12% of those with paired measurements) was higher than expected."}
{"id": "17008798", "title": "Effects of enhanced external counterpulsation on carotid circulation in patients with coronary artery disease.", "content": "Effects of enhanced external counterpulsation on carotid circulation in patients with coronary artery disease. Enhanced external counterpulsation (EECP) is a noninvasive method previously shown to improve measures of myocardial ischemia in patients with coronary artery disease. However, the concomitant effects of EECP on large and small arterial properties have been poorly examined. In a randomized controlled study, we investigated whether arterial stiffness and resistance of the carotid circulation are altered by EECP. Thirty patients with angiographically demonstrated coronary artery disease were randomized into two groups to receive either 'sham' or active EECP therapy for 35 1-hour sessions. The beta stiffness index was calculated by the ln(Ps/Pd)/DD equation where Ps and Pd = systolic and diastolic blood pressure, and DD = the ratio between carotid pulse and diastolic diameter, measured by ultrasound sequential frames during the cardiac cycle. Carotid vascular resistance was calculated as the ratio between mean arterial pressure and mean common carotid blood flow. No significant between-group differences were seen in clinical characteristics or carotid hemodynamics at baseline. The beta stiffness index and carotid vascular resistance were significantly reduced after 35 h of active EECP (p < 0.01), and the decrease was significantly different when compared with controls (p < 0.05 for beta stiffness index and p < 0.001 for carotid vascular resistance). These reductions persisted after multiple covariate adjustment. This study suggests that EECP exerts clear arterial effects on large and small vessels of the carotid circulation. The combined effects on arterial stiffness and vascular resistance are of particular interest in cardiovascular disease involving reduction in blood flow, in which techniques that increase regional blood flow may be beneficial."}
{"id": "16980518", "title": "Echocardiography-based score to predict outcome after renal transplantation.", "content": "Echocardiography-based score to predict outcome after renal transplantation. Given the high cardiac mortality of renal transplant recipients, identification of high-risk patients is important to offer appropriate treatment before transplantation. To determine patients with high mortality after renal transplantation despite selection according to current criteria. Preoperative parameters were collected from 203 renal transplant recipients over a follow-up time of 3.6 (1.9) years. The primary end point was all-cause mortality. 22 deaths (11%) and 12 cardiac failures (6%) were observed. Non-survivors were older (p< or =0.001), had larger left ventricular end-systolic diameter (LVSD) (p< or =0.001) and end-diastolic diameter (p = 0.002), and lower ejection fraction (p< or =0.001). Left ventricular mass index (p = 0.001), maximal wall thickness (p = 0.006) and the proportion with mitral annular calcification (p = 0.001) were significantly higher in the non-survivors. The risk factors for ischaemic heart disease and exercise test data were not significantly different between the two groups. Four independent predictors of mortality after renal transplantation were identified: age > or =50 years (p = 0.002), LVESD > or =3.5 cm (p = 0.002), maximal wall thickness > or =1.4 cm (p = 0.014) and mitral annular calcification (p = 0.036). The 5-year survival estimates for 0, 1, 2 and 3 prognostic factors were 96%, 86%, 69% and 38%, respectively. No patient had four prognostic factors. In patients > or =50 years, the 5-year survival estimates for 0, 1 and 2 additional prognostic factors were 73%, 45% and 18%, respectively. In addition to selection according to current guidelines, age and three conventional echocardiography parameters may further improve risk stratification before renal transplantation."}
{"id": "16905139", "title": "Renal dysfunction increases the risk of saphenous vein graft occlusion: results from the Post-CABG trial.", "content": "Renal dysfunction increases the risk of saphenous vein graft occlusion: results from the Post-CABG trial. Saphenous vein grafts are common among patients with a history of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is an established cardiovascular risk factor, but its role in graft disease has not been evaluated. The Post-CABG Trial randomized 1351 patients who had undergone CABG surgery 1-11 years earlier to high- or low-dose lovastatin and to low-dose warfarin or placebo. Coronary angiography was conducted at baseline and after a median follow-up time of 4.2 years. Subjects were grouped according to their baseline estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). The primary trial endpoint was significant graft disease progression assessed angiographically. Additional pre-defined endpoints included occlusion of grafts patent at baseline, change in minimum lumen diameter, and a composite endpoint of recurrent clinical events. Decreasing eGFR was associated with an increased risk of graft occlusion (P(trend)=0.040), but not substantial atherosclerotic progression (P(trend)=0.30), per-graft change in minimum lumen diameter (P(trend)=0.067), or recurrent clinical events (P(trend)=0.86). We did not observe significant effect modification of treatment effects by the presence of CKD. CKD may be associated with increased risk of atherosclerotic plaque disruption rather than atherosclerotic progression in saphenous vein grafts."}
{"id": "16814414", "title": "Intravenous N-acetylcysteine for preventing contrast-induced nephropathy: a randomised trial.", "content": "Intravenous N-acetylcysteine for preventing contrast-induced nephropathy: a randomised trial. Studies evaluating the role of N-acetylcysteine in patients undergoing coronary angiography have yielded inconsistent data. Less is known about patients with normal renal function at baseline. Prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to determine the benefits of intravenous N-acetylcysteine as an adjunct to hydration in this kind of population. Patients were randomly assigned to receive either N-acetylcysteine (600 mg twice daily) or placebo, in addition to 0.45% intravenous saline. The primary end point was development of contrast-induced nephropathy, defined as an acute increase in the serum creatinine concentration > or = 0.5 mg/dl and/or > 25% increase above baseline level at 48 h after contrast dosing. A total of 216 patients were studied: N-acetylcysteine = 107 and placebo = 109. Treatment groups were similar with respect to baseline clinical characteristics. Overall incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy was 10.2%, 10.3% in the N-acetylcysteine group and 10.1% in the placebo group. Furthermore, no significant differences were observed when considering the non-diabetic population, although there was a trend towards a protective effect of N-acetylcysteine in the subgroup of 47 patients with both hypertension and diabetes. There were no significant changes in serum urea nitrogen concentrations. The incidence of in-hospital adverse clinical events was low: no patient with contrast-induced nephropathy required dialysis, the median Coronary Unit stay was 4.5 vs. 4 days, and the mortality rate was 2.8% vs. 4.6% in the N-acetylcysteine and placebo groups, respectively (p=NS). The prophylactic administration of intravenous N-acetylcysteine provides no additional benefit to saline hydration in high-risk coronary patients with normal renal function."}
{"id": "16793151", "title": "A potential evidence to explain the reason behind the devastating prognosis of coronary artery disease in uraemic patients: renal insufficiency is associated with poor coronary collateral vessel development.", "content": "A potential evidence to explain the reason behind the devastating prognosis of coronary artery disease in uraemic patients: renal insufficiency is associated with poor coronary collateral vessel development. The potential of individuals to develop coronary collateral circulation is often neglected but is of potential major importance in myocardial vulnerability. Likewise, the effect of chronic kidney disease (CKD) on collateral vessel development is not known. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of CKD on collateral development in patients with advanced coronary artery disease. A total of 171 uraemic patients (serum creatinine > or = 1.5 mg/dl, creatinine clearance < 80 mL)/min) who underwent coronary angiography were evaluated in this study. A total of 134 patients met the criteria for the uraemic group and 134 consecutive non-uraemic patients who constituted the control group. The collateral score (CS) was graded according to the Rentrop classification and the collateral score was calculated by summing the Rentrop numbers of every patient. Collateral vessels have also been categorized according to their anatomic locations and collateral connection grades (CC). CC2 collaterals were observed less frequently in the uraemic patients than in the control subjects (11% versus 26%, p=0.03) and CC0 more frequently (31% versus 22%, p<0.05). Epicardial pathway was detected more frequently in the control subjects than in the uraemic patients (31% versus 12%, p=0.03) and septal pathway less frequently (37% versus 54%). There was a significant negative correlation between CS and creatinine (r=-0.68, p<0.01). The mean CS in the uraemic group was significantly lower than the non-uraemic group (1.29+/-0.88 versus 2.18+/-1.3, p<0.001). These results altogether showed that besides the quantity, quality (functional, haemodynamic and anatomic features) of the uraemic collaterals and a network that they constitute is also impaired and different from the collaterals of the patient with normal renal function."}
{"id": "16647710", "title": "Mitral annular calcification predicts mortality and coronary artery disease in end stage renal disease.", "content": "Mitral annular calcification predicts mortality and coronary artery disease in end stage renal disease. We sought to determine whether mitral annular calcification (MAC) predicts mortality and cardiac disease in a group of renal transplant candidates. Hundred and forty patients were prospectively studied. All had echocardiography and coronary angiography. Significant coronary artery disease (CAD) was defined as luminal stenosis >70% by visual estimation in at least one coronary artery. There were 21 deaths over a follow-up period of 2.2+/-0.7 years. MAC occurred in 56 patients (40%) and was associated with higher mortality (p=0.04). Patients with MAC were older (p=or<0.001), had larger left ventricular (LV) end systolic (p=0.005) and LV end diastolic (p=0.04) diameter, larger left atrial diameter (p=0.001), lower LV fractional shortening (p=0.003), larger LV mass index (p=0.04) and higher mitral E/Ea ratio (p=0.03) compared to those without. Plasma calcium (p=0.002), phosphate (p=0.004), cardiac troponin T (p=0.03), N-terminal Pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (p=0.004) concentrations were higher in those with MAC but gender, total cholesterol, haemoglobin and creatinine were similar in the two groups. The proportion diabetic (p=0.03), on dialysis (p=0.05), with significant CAD (p=or<0.001), taking calcium containing phosphate binders (p=0.02) and Vitamin D3 (p=0.04) was significantly higher in those with MAC. Significant CAD (OR 12, 95% CI 3.25, p=0.001) was the only independent associate of MAC. MAC is associated with increased mortality and significant CAD in ESRD. These patients have increased LV cavity size, poorer LV systolic function, higher LV filling pressures compared to patients without MAC."}
{"id": "16521051", "title": "Acute myocardial infarction in systemic sclerosis patients: a case series.", "content": "Acute myocardial infarction in systemic sclerosis patients: a case series. To characterize the clinical manifestations of patients with systemic sclerosis who develop a myocardial infarction (MI), a retrospective review of the medical records of all patients who were admitted to our institution between 1982 and 2002 and had the dual diagnosis of systemic sclerosis and an acute MI was done. From 1,009 systemic sclerosis hospital admissions, 11 (1.09%) were for an acute MI. Three of these patients had normal coronaries, and instead of wall motion abnormalities, left ventricular hypertrophy was the predominant finding of an echocardiography. The odds ratio of finding normal coronaries in systemic sclerosis vs the general population who develops an acute MI is 33.89 (14.08-81.39). Seven of our patients had an elevated creatinine level on presentation. Acute MI is an uncommon manifestation in systemic sclerosis patients. Normal coronaries are seen more commonly in these patients as compared to the general population, while vascular, gastrointestinal, and renal involvement is prevalent in these patients."}
{"id": "17699360", "title": "Risk factors for cardiovascular disease in children and young adults after renal transplantation.", "content": "Risk factors for cardiovascular disease in children and young adults after renal transplantation. Despite good outcomes in pediatric renal transplantation, life expectancy is reduced, mostly as a result of accelerated atherosclerosis. A comprehensive evaluation of cardiac status and risk factors for cardiovascular disease was performed in 60 patients after renal transplantation (age 3 to 29 yr; mean 15.8). Posttransplantation diabetes was diagnosed in 7%. Half of the patients did not engage in any physical activity, and this was associated with increased body mass index. Uncontrolled hypertension was found in 13% of patient, and 53% were on antihypertensive medications. BP index was associated with left ventricular mass index (LVMI). Dyslipidemia was relatively uncommon, with hypercholesterolemia found in 15% and elevated LDL cholesterol found in 10% of patients. Hyperhomocysteinemia was frequent (58%); in most patients, it was not due to folate or B(12) deficiency. Lipid and homocysteine abnormalities were associated with cyclosporine therapy. Echocardiography demonstrated normal LVMI in 93% of patients, although LVMI was higher than in healthy control subjects. Cardiac troponin I was normal in all patients, but N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide was elevated in 35% and was associated with LVMI and renal function. Although present cardiac status is relatively normal in pediatric renal transplantation patients, cardiac risk factors are common, and strategies to prevent cardiovascular disease need to be developed."}
{"id": "17699259", "title": "Coronary artery and other vascular calcifications in patients with cystinosis after kidney transplantation.", "content": "Coronary artery and other vascular calcifications in patients with cystinosis after kidney transplantation. Cystinosis, an autosomal recessive disorder of lysosomal cystine accumulation, results from mutations in the CTNS gene that encodes the lysosomal cystine transporter, cystinosin. Renal tubular Fanconi syndrome occurs in infancy, followed by rickets, growth retardation, photophobia, and renal failure, which requires renal transplantation at approximately 10 yr of age. Treatment with cysteamine decreases cellular cystine levels, retards renal deterioration, and allows for normal growth. Patients with a history of inadequate cystine depletion therapy may survive, after renal transplantation, into the third to fifth decades but will experience other, extrarenal complications of the disease. Routine chest and head computed tomography scans of 41 posttransplantation patients with cystinosis were reviewed for vascular calcification. The radiologic procedures had been performed to examine lung and brain parenchyma, so there was little ascertainment bias. Thirteen of the 41 patients had vascular calcification, including 11 with coronary artery calcification. One 25-yr-old man required three-vessel coronary artery bypass graft surgery. There were no significant differences between the 13 patients with calcification and the 28 without calcification in the following parameters: Time on dialysis, frequency of transplantation, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, homozygosity for the 57-kb deletion in CTNS, serum creatinine, and calcium-phosphate product. However, the finding of vascular calcification correlated directly with duration of life without cysteamine therapy and inversely with duration of life under good cystine-depleting therapy. The accumulation of intracellular cystine itself maybe a risk factor for vascular calcifications, and older patients with cystinosis should be screened for this complication."}
{"id": "17699219", "title": "Incidence, predictors, and associated outcomes of atrial fibrillation after kidney transplantation.", "content": "Incidence, predictors, and associated outcomes of atrial fibrillation after kidney transplantation. The risk for and predictors of atrial fibrillation (AF) after kidney transplantation are not well described. Registry data that were collected by the United States Renal Data System were used to investigate retrospectively new-onset AF among adult first renal allograft recipients and transplant candidates who received a transplant or were wait-listed in 1995 to 2001 with Medicare as the primary payer. AF events were ascertained from billing records, and participants were followed until loss of Medicare coverage or December 31, 2001. Cox hazards analysis was used to identify independent correlates of posttransplantation AF (adjusted hazard ratio [AHR]; 95% confidence interval [CI]) and to examine AF as an outcomes predictor. Among 31,136 eligible transplant recipients, the cumulative incidence of new-onset AF was 3.6% (95% CI 3.4 to 3.8%) and 7.3% (95% CI 7.0 to 7.6%) at 12 and 36 mo and declined below the demographics-adjusted cumulative incidence on the waiting list by approximately 17 mo. Risk factors for posttransplantation AF included older recipient age, male gender, white race, renal failure from hypertension, and coronary artery disease. Extended pretransplantation dialysis duration, posttransplantation diabetes, and graft failure were identified as potentially modifiable correlates of AF. In separate analyses, AF independently predicted death (AHR 3.2; 95% CI 2.9 to 3.6) and death-censored graft loss (AHR 1.9; 95% CI 1.6 to 2.3). As the population of renal transplant recipients grows older, the incidence and prevalence of AF among these patients will likely increase. Appropriate risk stratification may identify transplant recipients who are in need of close monitoring for and management of this adverse cardiovascular event."}
{"id": "17679817", "title": "High cardiovascular risk in patients with diabetes and the cardiometabolic syndrome: mandate for statin therapy.", "content": "High cardiovascular risk in patients with diabetes and the cardiometabolic syndrome: mandate for statin therapy. Diabetes mellitus confers a high risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality and requires aggressive management of all cardiovascular risk factors, including diabetic dyslipidemia. Although levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol are often normal or only slightly elevated in persons with diabetes, lipid-altering therapy with statins has been shown in large, randomized, controlled trials to decrease the risk of cardiovascular complications in this patient population. A target low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level of <70 mg/dL is now a therapeutic option in patients at very high risk for coronary heart disease, including patients with diabetes. Diabetes is also a leading cause of end-stage renal disease. In addition to their lipid-modifying effects, statins have been shown to slow the progression of diabetic nephropathy and potentially exert other renoprotective effects; these benefits, however, remain to be confirmed in clinical trials."}
{"id": "17236656", "title": "Off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery in a renal transplant patient.", "content": "Off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery in a renal transplant patient. Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting is rarely applied to patients who have previously received a renal transplant in Japan. A 59-year-old male renal transplant recipient was admitted for unstable angina pectoris. Emergency coronary angiography revealed triple-vessel disease. Intraaortic balloon pumping was applied, followed by emergency off-pump coronary bypass grafting for complete revascularization. Intraaortic balloon pumping was ceased immediately after the operation because his hemodynamic status was stable. On the morning of the surgery, the patient was given his standard dose of immunosuppressive agents. On postoperative day 1, he was extubated and infused with immunosuppressive agents. On postoperative day 2, his usual immunosuppressive agents were resumed as per his normal dosage. He recovered uneventfully and is well without angina pectoris and renal complication 1 year after the operation."}
{"id": "17224890", "title": "Impact of chronic kidney disease and diabetes on percutaneous coronary intervention outcomes.", "content": "Impact of chronic kidney disease and diabetes on percutaneous coronary intervention outcomes. Abnormalities of glucose metabolism and chronic kidney disease (CKD) complicate treatment and outcomes for patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Likely causes of the complicating effects of diabetes include hyperglycemia, abnormalities of microvascular perfusion, and a prothrombotic and proinflammatory state. CKD predisposes to atherosclerosis, adds to the mortality and morbidity risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD), and increases risks for patients undergoing PCI. The complexity of the renal dysmetabolic syndrome and its close association with CVD must be taken into account when developing a therapeutic plan for these patients. Clinical data support the use of abciximab for patients with disturbances of glucose metabolism or with CKD who are undergoing PCI. The use of drug-eluting stents reduces the rate of target vessel revascularization and restenosis."}
{"id": "17221285", "title": "Incidence and risk factors of coronary heart disease in elderly patients on chronic hemodialysis.", "content": "Incidence and risk factors of coronary heart disease in elderly patients on chronic hemodialysis. To determine the incidence of coronary heart disease (CHD) in patients (pts) over 65 years (y) and its relation to common risk factors. We retrospectively studied 128 hemodialysis (HD) pts (80 M and 48 F), mean age 73+/-6.5 years, mean time on HD 44.4+/-26.4 months and BMI 25.4+/-3 kg/m2. They were evaluated for: age, sex, smoking, diabetes, hypertension, left ventricular hypertrophy, secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHP), inflammation, as evidence by elevated level of hsCRP, hyperhomocysteinemia (HOC), time on HD, fluid overload and adequacy of HD. Forty-eight pts (37%) had CAD diagnosed by coronary angiography in 22 (46%) and (201)TL-chloride dipyridamole stress test in 26 (54%). There was a statistically significant correlation between CAD and increasing age (p<0.0001). The relative risk was significantly increased concerning: (1) male over female pts (RR: 1.95, p<0.01), (2) diabetic vs. non diabetic pts (RR: 2.09, p<0.001), (3) patients with SHP over pts with iPTH values<250 pg/ml (RR: 2.16, p<0.001), (4) hypertensive vs. non hypertensive pts (RR: 2.26, p=0.002), (5) smokers vs. non smokers (RR: 1.69, p<0.05), (6) pts with HOC over pts with normal homocysteine values (RR: 2.09, p<0.05), (7) pts with increased CRP levels over pts with normal CRP levels (RR: 1.8, p<0.01), (8) pts undergoing HD for 36 vs. 12 months (RR: 1.71, p=0.03), (9) between pts with inadequate or adequate HD (RR: 1.73, p=0.02). No significant correlation existed between CAD incidence and the other risk factors. Coronary heart disease incidence in elderly HD patients increases with age, male sex, diabetes, SHP, hypertension, increased CRP levels, HOC, smoking, time on HD and inadequacy of HD."}
{"id": "17221034", "title": "Periodontal disease as a potential risk factor for acute coronary syndromes.", "content": "Periodontal disease as a potential risk factor for acute coronary syndromes. To investigate whether there is a relationship between active periodontal disease (PD) and acute coronary syndromes (ACS). Three hundred and sixty-one patients (57,3% male), ages ranging from 27 to 89 (mean +/- DP = 60.5 +/- 12.2), were admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of a Teaching Hospital with symptoms and complementary examinations consistent with acute coronary syndrome. All the patients had a complete periodontal examination in the ICU setting, and 325 (90.9%) underwent coronary angiography for diagnostic confirmation and/or treatment planning. Periodontal examination included evaluation of all the teeth in the oral cavity and the following parameters: probing depth, clinical attachment level, plaque index, and gingival index. Of the 325 patients, 91 (28%) had coronary arteries free of obstruction or with mild obstructions (< 50% diameter stenosis), and the remaining 72% had severe obstructions. Fisher's exact text yielded a p value of 0.0245 with an odds ratio of 2.571 (95% CI 1.192 to 5.547), meaning that the group with ACS and significant obstructive coronary artery disease was 2.5-fold more likely to have active PD. A significant association was found between active periodontal disease and severe obstructive coronary artery in patients with acute coronary syndrome, underscoring the importance of prevention and adequate treatment of periodontal disease, which should be considered as a potential risk factor in the etiology and instability of the atherosclerotic plaque."}
{"id": "17173262", "title": "[Left ventricular hypertrophy in chronic kidney disease].", "content": "[Left ventricular hypertrophy in chronic kidney disease]. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is associated with increased cardiovascular (CV) risk. Left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy (LVH), together with coronary artery disease, has been considered the main target of intervention. LVH is highly prevalent in CKD even in early stages, as compared to general non-selected population. This is mainly due to the multifactorial pathogenesis of LVH in renal patients where both haemodynamic and non-haemodynamic stimuli synergically act inducing either an increase in left ventricular mass or an LV dilation. Anaemia and arterial hypertension seem to be the most important factors. Interventional studies have shown that partial correction of anaemia through epoetin, together with an arterial hypertension successful therapy through renin-angiotensin system acting drugs, such as ACE-inhibitors, were able to induce a LVH regression in CKD. Indeed, the unfavourable outcome in patients with both CKD and LVH, whose survival is reduced and incidence of fatal and non-fatal CV events increased, can be reversed if LVH is regressed by therapy. The most promising strategy in CKD seems to be LVH early diagnosis through echocardiography, the correct screening of risk factors, a LVM longitudinal monitoring through echo, as well as starting treatment in the early stages of CKD, with the aim of improving general and CV prognosis for these patients."}
{"id": "17171316", "title": "Value of diabetes as an independent predictor of death in subjects with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Value of diabetes as an independent predictor of death in subjects with end-stage renal disease. Diabetic subjects on hemodialysis have a poor survival. The authors performed a Kaplan-Meier survival analysis of diabetic versus nondiabetic subjects and investigated the value of diabetes as an independent predictor of death in these end-stage renal disease (ESRD) subjects. From 1997 to 2003, 135 ESRD subjects (41 diabetics) were enrolled in a survival study beginning at the start of dialysis. Inclusion criterion was onset of dialysis at least 6 months before study entry. Exclusion criteria comprised age < 45 years, coronary artery disease (CAD), critical limb ischemia (CLI), or malignancies at ESRD onset up to 6 months after study entry. Subjects with clinical signs of vascular disease were followed up by coronary or peripheral angiographies. Baseline risk factors were similar between diabetic and nondiabetic subjects. The 5-year survival rate in nondiabetic subjects was 76.9% (95% confidence interval [CI] = 62-86%) versus 76.4% (95% CI = 53-89%) in diabetic patients (p = 0.402). Consistent with this finding, the Cox proportional hazards model revealed that diabetes does not significantly change the risk of death in ESRD subjects. De novo CAD developed in 35 and CLI in ten subjects, but both diseases were present more frequently in nonsurvivors (42% vs. 23%; p = 0.052) versus survivors (21% vs. 5%; p = 0.005). Diabetes is not an independent predictor of death in the ESRD study group presented here. Prevention of CAD and CLI in diabetic subjects is most important to improve survival."}
{"id": "17140167", "title": "Folate supplementation fails to affect vascular function and carotid artery intima media thickness in cyclosporin A-treated renal transplant recipients.", "content": "Folate supplementation fails to affect vascular function and carotid artery intima media thickness in cyclosporin A-treated renal transplant recipients. Cyclosporin A (CsA)-treated renal transplant recipients (RTR) exhibit relative hyperhomocystinemia and vascular dysfunction. Folate supplementation lowers homocysteine and has been shown to improve vascular function in healthy subjects and patients with coronary artery disease. The aim of this study was to assess the effects of 3 months of folate supplementation (5 mg/day) on vascular function and structure in RTR. A double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study was conducted in 10 CsA-treated RTR. Vascular structure was measured as carotid artery intima media thickness (IMT) and function was assessed as changes in brachial artery diameter during reactive hyperemia (RH) and in response to glyceryl trinitrate (GTN). Function data were analyzed as absolute and percent change from baseline and area under the diameter/time curve. Blood samples were collected before and after supplementation and analyzed for total plasma homocysteine, folate, vitamin B12 and asymmetric dimethyl arginine (ADMA) in addition to regular measures of hemoglobin, hematocrit, mean corpuscular volume (MCV) and serum creatinine. Folate supplementation significantly increased plasma folate by 687% (p < 0.005) and decreased homocysteine by 37% (p < 0.05) with no changes (p > 0.05) in vitamin B12 or ADMA. There were no significant (p > 0.05) changes in vascular structure or function during the placebo or the folate supplementation phases; IMT; placebo pre mean +/- SD, 0.52 +/- 0.12, post 0.50 +/- 0.11; folate pre 0.55 +/- 0.17, post 0.49 +/- 0.20 mm, 5% change in brachial artery diameter (RH, placebo pre 10 +/- 8, post 6 +/- 5; folate pre 9 +/- 7, post 7 +/- 5; GTN, placebo pre 18 +/- 10, post 17 +/- 9, folate pre 16 +/- 9, post-supplementation 18 +/- 8). Three months of folate supplementation decreases plasma homocysteine but has no effect on endothelial function or carotid artery IMT in RTR."}
{"id": "17132882", "title": "The correlation between free thyroxine levels and left ventricular mass in Graves' disease.", "content": "The correlation between free thyroxine levels and left ventricular mass in Graves' disease. to determine the correlation between free thyroxine level and left ventricular mass in newly diagnoses Graves' disease. seventeen patients with newly diagnosed Graves' disease were studied. Inclusion criteria was new case of Graves' disease, no previous history or clinical evidence of coronary artery disease, cardiac valve disease, diabetes mellitus, chronic kidney disease, not taking antithyroid drugs and any drugs that could affect the heart (beta blockers, ACE inhibitor). Echocardiographic indices of left ventricular mass was obtained. there were no correlation between free thyroxine levels and left ventricular mass, systolic and diastolic blood pressure. There was a correlation between pulse rate and left ventricular mass in Graves' disease. there was no correlation between free thyroxine level and left ventricular mass in Graves' disease."}
{"id": "17123132", "title": "Factors associated with postoperative cognitive dysfunction in patients undergoing cardiac surgery.", "content": "Factors associated with postoperative cognitive dysfunction in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. Central nervous system complications continue to be major causes of morbidity and mortality after cardiac surgery. The purpose of this study was to identify the risk factors for postoperative cognitive dysfunction after coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery. Eighty-eight patients scheduled for elective CABG were studied. After the induction of anesthesia, a fiberoptic oximetry oxygen saturation catheter was inserted into the right jugular bulb for the continuous monitoring of jugular venous oxygen hemoglobin saturation (SjvO(2)). The hemodynamic parameters and arterial and jugular venous blood gases were measured during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). All patients underwent a battery of neurological and neuropsychological tests one day before the operation and at 6 months after the operation. The incidence of a cognitive decline at 6 months was 24/88 (27.3%). Greater age (P = 0.04), the presence of renal failure (P < 0.001), and diabetes mellitus (P < 0.001) were more frequent in the patients with postoperative cognitive dysfunction at 6 months after the operation than in patients without cognitive dysfunction. Age (odds ratio [OR], 1.4; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.0-1.7; P = 0.04), diabetes mellitus (OR, 1.8; 95% CI, 1.2-2.4; P < 0.01), and presence of renal failure (OR, 2.8; 95% CI, 2.4-4.3; P < 0.01) were associated with cognitive impairment at 6 months postoperatively. However, there was no relationship between the presence of atherosclerosis in the ascending aorta and postoperative cognitive dysfunction after CABG surgery. A greater age, diabetes mellitus, and renal failure were found to be risk factors for development of cognitive impairment at 6 months after CABG with CPB."}
{"id": "17119380", "title": "Diurnal variation of the P-wave dispersion in chronic ischemic heart diseases.", "content": "Diurnal variation of the P-wave dispersion in chronic ischemic heart diseases. Electrocardiographic indices like maximum P-wave duration (P(max)) and P-wave dispersion (PD) can be used to detect patients with atrial conduction disorders, myocardial ischemia and those at risk for atrial fibrillation. Considering the diurnal variation of ischemia in patients with significant coronary lesions, this study was designed to investigate the diurnal variation of eventual atrial conduction abnormalities. Forty-eight patients (31 male) with typical angina were grouped according to coronary angiography results as group 1 - 70% or more luminal reduction in at least one of the coronary arteries (n=28), and group 2 - normal coronary arteries (n=20). The difference between the P(max) and minimum P-wave durations (P(min)) is designated as PD. The diurnal P(max), P(min) and PD values were compared between and within the groups. The morning P(max) value of group 1 was significantly higher than the value of group 2 (112+/-1 vs. 102+/-1 ms, P<0.001). The morning PD of group 1 was significantly higher than that of group 2 (54+/-9 vs. 48+/-1 ms, P<0.05). The morning P(max) of group 1 (112+/-1 ms) was significantly higher than its afternoon (102+/-9 ms) and night (102+/-1 ms) values (P<0.001). The morning PD of group 1 (54+/-9 ms) was higher than the afternoon (40+/-10 ms) and night (43+/-9 ms) PD (P<0.001). No significant difference was observed between the P(max), P(min) and PD values in group 2 (P>0.05). This study demonstrated that coronary heart disease patients have higher morning P(max) and PD values that may be important regarding prediction of timing and treatment of atrial conduction disorders in myocardial ischemia."}
{"id": "17102544", "title": "Utility of carotid intimal medial thickness as a screening tool for evaluation of coronary artery disease in pre-transplant end stage renal disease.", "content": "Utility of carotid intimal medial thickness as a screening tool for evaluation of coronary artery disease in pre-transplant end stage renal disease. Coronary artery disease (CAD) is associated with a higher incidence of allograft failure and mortality in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) following renal transplant. To evaluate the efficacy of using carotid intimal medial thickness (CIMT) to predict the presence of CAD in patients with ESRD, using coronary angiography (CAG) as the gold standard. This prospective study enrolled consecutive patients with ESRD who underwent CAG as a part of pretransplant evaluation to rule out the presence of atherosclerotic CAD. An operator who was blinded with respect to the results of the CAG, measured carotid IMT in all patients prior to CAG and recorded it on videotape. Two independent observers blinded to the results of CAG measured carotid IMT offline to validate its predictive accuracy as a noninvasive test in predicting the presence or absence of CAD. Measurement of carotid IMT was done on USG B mode 7.5 MHZ probe [HP 5500 andover, Massachusetts]. Student's t-test was used for inter-group comparisons. Pearson correlation coefficient test was used to assess the relation between CAD and various risk factors and carotid IMT. Linear regression analysis was applied to identify independent factors determining presence of CAD. A P value < 0.05 was considered statistically significant. Mean CIMT was significantly higher in those with CAD as compared to those without [0.80+/- 0.06 vs.0.70+/-0.06 mm, P< 0.0001). Patients with CIMT> 0.75 mm were older and had more incidence of diabetes(78% vs. 47%; P=0.001). Only 4/53 (7%) of patients with CIMT< 0.75 mm had CAD, vs. 38/52 (73%) in those with CIMT >0.75 mm. The sensitivity and specificity of using CIMT > 0.75 as a predictor of CAD was 90.47%and 73% and its positive and negative predictive values were 0.73 and 0.92. On multivariate analysis, only CIMT was a significant predictor of CAD. Carotid IMT can be used to predict CAD in patients with ESRD. In the absence of other risk factors,patients with IMT< 0.75 mm may not need a pretransplant CAG."}
{"id": "17087427", "title": "Preventing cardiovascular disease in women.", "content": "Preventing cardiovascular disease in women. Cardiovascular disease (CVD) has been the primary cause of death in women for almost a century, and more women than men have died of CVD every year since 1984. Although CVD incidence can be reduced by adherence to a heart-healthy lifestyle and detection and treatment of major risk factors, preventive recommendations have not been consistently or optimally applied to women. The American Heart Association guidelines for CVD prevention in women provide physicians with a clear plan for assessment and treatment of CVD risk and personalization of treatment recommendations. The emphasis of preventive efforts has shifted away from treatment of individual CVD risk factors in isolation toward assessment of a woman's overall or \"global\" CVD risk. In addition to accounting for the presence or absence of preexisting coronary heart disease or its equivalents (e.g., diabetes, chronic kidney disease), cardiovascular risk can be further calculated with the Framingham risk score, which is based on age, sex, smoking history, and lipid and blood pressure levels. Intervention intensity and treatment goals are tailored to overall risk, with those at highest risk receiving the most intense risk-lowering interventions. Women at high risk for CVD and without contraindications should receive aspirin, beta blockers, and an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker in addition to pharmacologic therapy for hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and diabetes. Women who already are at optimal or low risk for CVD should be encouraged to maintain or further improve their healthy lifestyle practices. Optimal application of these preventive practices significantly reduces the burden of death and disability caused by heart attack and stroke in women."}
{"id": "17085983", "title": "The acute effect of aerobic exercise on brachial artery endothelial function in renal transplant recipients.", "content": "The acute effect of aerobic exercise on brachial artery endothelial function in renal transplant recipients. This study compared the effect of a 30-minute walk on brachial artery endothelial vasodilatation in kidney transplant (KT) recipients and healthy controls (HCs). Endothelial-dependent vasodilatation was measured by ultrasound before and after exercise. The HCs experienced a significant increase in vasodilatation after exercise 1 minute postocclusion when compared with the KT recipients (22%+/-13% vs 3%+/-4%; P<.05). Also, the HCs had a significantly higher vasodilatation from pre-treadmill walk to post-treadmill walk (1 minute postocclusion) when compared with KT recipients (from 3%+/-6% to 22%+/-13% vs 1%+/-3% to 3%+/-4%; P<.05). This acute vasodilatory response observed in the HCs may be related to the immediate release of nitric oxide and the combined response to shear stress and exercise. The KT recipients had several coronary artery disease risk factors that may have adversely affected endothelial function."}
{"id": "17084425", "title": "Predicting the impact of population level risk reduction in cardio-vascular disease and stroke on acute hospital admission rates over a 5 year period--a pilot study.", "content": "Predicting the impact of population level risk reduction in cardio-vascular disease and stroke on acute hospital admission rates over a 5 year period--a pilot study. The brief for this study was to produce a practical, evidence based, financial planning tool, which could be used to present an economic argument for funding a public health-based prevention programme in coronary heart disease (CHD) related illness on the same basis as treatment interventions. To explore the possibility of using multivariate risk prediction equations, derived from the Framingham and other studies, to estimate how many people in a population are likely to be admitted to hospital in the next 5-10 years with cardio vascular disease (CVD) related events such as heart attacks, strokes, heart failure and kidney disease. To estimate the potential financial impact of reductions in hospital admissions, on an 'invest to save' basis, if primary care trusts (PCTs) were to invest in public health based interventions to reduce cardiovascular risk at a population level. The populations of five UK PCTs were entered into a spreadsheet based decision tree model, in terms of age and sex (this equated to around 620,000 adults). An estimation was made to determine how many people, in each age group, were likely to be diabetic. Population risk factors such as smoking rates, mean body mass index (BMI), mean total cholesterol and mean systolic blood pressure were entered by age group. The spreadsheet then used a variant of the Framingham equation to calculate how many non-diabetic people in each age group were likely to have a heart attack or stroke in the next 5 years. In addition heart failure and dialysis admission rates were estimated based upon risk factors for incidence. The United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) risk engines 56 and 60 were used to calculate the risk of CHD and stroke, respectively, in people with type 2 diabetes. The spreadsheet deducted the number of people likely to die before reaching hospital and produced a predicted number of hospital admissions for each category over a 5-year period. The final part of the calculation attached a cost to the hospital activity using the UK Health Resource Grouping (HRG) tariffs. The predicted number of events in each of the primary care trusts was then compared with the actual number of events the previous year (2004/2005). The study used a decision tree type model, which was populated with data from the research literature. The model applied the risk equations to population data from five primary care trusts to estimate how many people would suffer from an acute CVD related event over the next 5 years. The predicted number of events was then compared with the actual number of acute admissions for heart attacks, strokes, heart failure, acute hypoglycaemic attacks, renal failure and coronary bypass surgery the previous year. The first outcome of the model was to compare the estimated number of people in each PCT likely to suffer from a heart attack, a stroke, heart failure or chronic kidney failure with the actual number the previous year 2004/2005. The predicted number was remarkably accurate in the case of heart attack and stroke. There was some over-prediction of chronic kidney disease (CKD) which could be accounted for by known under-diagnosis in this illness group and the inability of the model to pick up, at this stage, the fact that many CKD patients die of a CHD related event before they reach the stage of requiring renal replacement. The second outcome of the model was to estimate the financial consequence of risk reduction. Moderate reductions in risk in the order of around 2-4% were estimated to lead to saving in acute admission costs or around pounds sterling 5.4 million over 5 years. More ambitious targets of risk reduction in the order of 5-6% led to estimated savings of around pounds sterling 8.7 million. This study is not presented as the definitive approach to predicting the economic consequences of investment in public health on the cost of secondary care. It is simply a logical, systematic approach to quantifying these issues in order to present a business case for such investment. The research team do not know if the predicted savings would accrue from such investments; it is theoretical at this stage. The point is, however, that if the predictions are correct then the savings will accrue from over 4000 people, from an adult population of around 185,000 not having a heart attack or a stroke or an acute exacerbation of heart failure."}
{"id": "17078270", "title": "[Thoracic aortic dissection revealed by systemic cholesterol embolism].", "content": "[Thoracic aortic dissection revealed by systemic cholesterol embolism]. Systemic cholesterol embolism is a rare complication of atherosclerosis, and has various presentations. Arterial catheterisms are a common cause. However, the association with an aortic dissection has been exceptionally reported. We report the observation of a 70 year-old man, with coronary artery disease, hypertension, diabetes and dyslipidemia. Six months before hospitalization, a coronary angioplasty was performed due to recurrent angina. The association of purpuric lesions on the feet, with acute renal failure confirmed cholesterol embolism syndrome. Transoesophageal echocardiography showed a dissection of the descending thoracic aorta associated with complex atheroma. The evolution was marked by the pulpar necrosis of a toe and by a worsening of the renal failure, requiring definitive hemodialysis. Further echographic control highlighted the rupture of the intimal veil of the dissection. Cholesterol embolism syndrome may reveal an aortic dissection in patients without thoracic symptoms. In such cases, transoesophageal echocardiography is a useful and non-invasive examination."}
{"id": "17070422", "title": "Frequency of coronary artery disease in patients with renal artery stenosis without clinical manifestations of coronary insufficiency.", "content": "Frequency of coronary artery disease in patients with renal artery stenosis without clinical manifestations of coronary insufficiency. Atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis (RAS) and coronary artery disease (CAD) arise from the same multiple risk factors. The purpose of this study was to assess the frequency of previously undiagnosed CAD in patients with angiographically confirmed RAS, by conducting coronary arteriography in the same setting. Of 57 consecutive patients referred for renal arteriography on clinical grounds during a 14-month period, 28 had no RAS and 6 had RAS, but previously documented CAD. Of the remainder 23 patients, 17 (74%; CI 56%-92%) had both RAS and CAD (7 single vessel, 4 two-vessel, and 7 multivessel disease). The clinical characteristics, such as age, blood pressure (BP) levels, signs of heart failure, were no different between those with and without CAD, although the 4 diabetic patients, the 4 patients with fundoscopic findings of grade III retinopathy, 11 of 14 with peripheral arterial disease, and 7 of 8 patients with prior stroke belonged in the CAD group. None developed complications as a result of the two consecutive procedures. The data suggest that in patients with RAS the frequency of silent CAD is high and cannot be predicted on clinical grounds alone, therefore coronary angiography should be routinely recommended in the same setting."}
{"id": "17062955", "title": "Clinical and angiographic outcomes of sirolimus-eluting stents implantation in Japanese patients in daily practice.", "content": "Clinical and angiographic outcomes of sirolimus-eluting stents implantation in Japanese patients in daily practice. Studies in Western countries have shown that sirolimus-eluting stents (SES) are clinically effective in the real world, but the detailed serial angiographic analyses are limited to some complex lesions. In addition, the efficacy of SES has not been fully investigated in a Japanese population. The study population consisted of 249 consecutive unselected patients who underwent percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with SES. Clinical and angiographic follow-up were evaluated at 8 months. Clinical follow-up was obtained in all patients and angiographic follow-up was obtained in 228 patients (91.6%) with 272 lesions (91.0%). Major adverse cardiac events were documented in 44 patients (17.7%). There were 2 stent thromboses within 24 h and 11 days after PCI (0.8%). Late lumen loss in the proximal edge, in-stent, and distal edge was 0.06+/-0.44 mm, 0.26+/-0.60 mm, and -0.05+/-0.30 mm, respectively. The rate of angiographic in-segment binary restenosis was 14.0% (proximal edge: 3.3%, in-stent: 10.7%, distal edge: 0.7%). By multivariate analysis, an increased risk of restenosis was significantly associated with hemodialysis, diabetes, lesion length, and impaired left ventricular ejection fraction. In accordance with previous reports, SES is considered to be feasible, safe and effective based on the results in an unselected Japanese population. )."}
{"id": "17057922", "title": "Prevalence of renal artery stenosis in 1,656 patients who have undergone cardiac catheterization.", "content": "Prevalence of renal artery stenosis in 1,656 patients who have undergone cardiac catheterization. To determine the prevalence of renal artery stenosis (RAS) in patients who have undergone cineangiocoronariography. Prospective study of cineangiocoronariography and aortography examinations conducted between January 2002 and February 2004 on 1,656 hypertensive and normotensive patients who underwent the examinations to confirm the diagnosis of obstructive coronary artery disease or valve disease. The average age of the 1,656 patients was 61.6 +/- 11.8 years. Eight hundred and ninety-one (53.8%) were male, 169 (10.2%) were diabetic and 1,054 (63.8%) presented obstructive coronary artery disease. Renal stenosis greater than 50% was observed in 228 (13.8%) patients, and 25 (1.5%) had bilateral stenosis. Obstructive coronary artery disease was defined as stenosis greater than or equal to 50% of the vessel lumen, in one, two or three main arteries, classified as single, double or triple vessels, respectively. Quantification was conducted using visual analysis of the angiography. Comparison of the groups with and without renal artery obstruction > or = 50%, revealed significant statistical differences in relation to gender, age, diabetes mellitus, blood pressure and left ventricular function. However, no statistical difference was noted in relation to the occurrence of coronary artery obstructions > or = 50%. Nevertheless, renal artery obstructions > or = 70%, revealed significant differences in relation to blood pressure, coronary artery obstructions > or = 50% and left ventricular function, which were all higher in the renal artery obstruction group. The prevalence of RAS found in our study was comparable to that reported by major medical literature case studies. RAS is associated with systemic hypertension (SH), end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and its sequelae, emphasizing how important it is that we are aware of possible candidates for angiographic diagnosis of this disease."}
{"id": "17056347", "title": "Usefulness of clinical evaluation, troponins, and C-reactive protein in predicting mortality among stable hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Usefulness of clinical evaluation, troponins, and C-reactive protein in predicting mortality among stable hemodialysis patients. This study prospectively examined the hypothesis that dividing stable dialysis patients into different clinical subsets by presence or absence of coronary disease equivalent will lead to clearer risk stratification by abnormal troponins and highly sensitive C-reactive protein (hs-CRP). Patients with end-stage renal disease have an annual mortality of 18%. Previous studies have shown that elevated cardiac troponins T and I and hs-CRP predict increased mortality, although these studies have not taken clinical parameters into account. Stable patients with end-stage renal disease (n = 173) were divided into 2 groups: 115 patients with coronary disease equivalent (known coronary or peripheral vascular disease or diabetes mellitus) and 58 patients without it. The 2 groups were then stratified by biomarkers (cardiac troponins T and I and hs-CRP) and followed for 27 months. The primary outcome was all-cause mortality. Patients with coronary disease equivalent had twofold greater annual mortality than those without (20.4% vs 9.8%, p = 0.003). Among patients with coronary disease equivalent, those with elevated troponins had a further increase in the risk for death relative to patients with normal troponins (25% vs 9% with cardiac troponin I elevation, p <0.001; 24% vs 12% with cardiac troponin T elevation, p = 0.04). hs-CRP did not add to the risk stratification of patients with coronary disease equivalent. Conversely, in patients without coronary disease equivalent, neither troponin further predicted the risk for death. In the small subset of patients without coronary disease equivalent who had hs-CRP >or=3 mg/L, mortality was significantly increased (p = 0.01). In conclusion, initial clinical assessment, followed by the addition of biomarkers, can be used to risk-stratify stable patients with end-stage renal disease."}
{"id": "17055689", "title": "Duplex-guided endovascular treatment for occlusive and stenotic lesions of the femoral-popliteal arterial segment: a comparative study in the first 253 cases.", "content": "Duplex-guided endovascular treatment for occlusive and stenotic lesions of the femoral-popliteal arterial segment: a comparative study in the first 253 cases. The standard technique of balloon angioplasty with or without subintimal dissection of infrainguinal arteries requires contrast arteriography and fluoroscopy. We attempted to perform this procedure with duplex guidance to avoid the use of nephrotoxic contrast material and eliminate or minimize radiation exposure. From September 2003 to June 2005, 196 patients (57% male) with a mean age of 73 +/- 10 years (range, 42-97 years) had a total of 253 attempted balloon angioplasties of the superficial femoral and/or popliteal artery under duplex guidance in 218 limbs. Critical ischemia was the indication in 38% of cases, and disabling claudication was the indication in 62%. Hypertension, diabetes, chronic renal insufficiency, smoking, and coronary artery disease were present in 78%, 51%, 41%, 39%, and 37% of patients, respectively. The TransAtlantic Inter-Society Consensus (TASC) classification was used for morphologic description of femoral-popliteal lesions. The common femoral artery was cannulated under direct duplex visualization. Still under duplex guidance, a guidewire was directed into the proximal superficial femoral artery, across the diseased segment(s), and parked at the tibioperoneal trunk. The diseased segment(s) were then balloon-dilated. Balloon diameter and length were chosen according to arterial measurements obtained by duplex scan. Hemodynamically significant defects causing diameter reductions greater than 30% and peak systolic velocity ratios greater than 2 were stented with a variety of self-expandable stents under duplex guidance. Completion duplex examinations and ankle-brachial indices were obtained routinely before hospital discharge. There were 11 (4%) TASC class A lesions, 31 (12%) TASC class B lesions, 177 (70%) TASC class C lesions, and 34 (14%) TASC class D lesions in this series. The overall technical success was 93% (236/253 cases). Eight of the 17 failed subintimal dissections belonged to TASC class C and the remaining 9 to TASC class D. End-stage renal disease was the only significant predictor of subintimal dissection failure in patients with femoral-popliteal occlusions (5/17 cases; P < .04). Intraluminal stents were placed in 153 (65%) of 236 successful cases. Overall pre-procedure and post-procedure ankle-brachial indices changed from a mean of 0.69 +/- 0.16 (range, 0.2-1.1) to 0.95 +/- 0.14 (range, 0.55-1.3), respectively (P < .0001). The mean duration of follow-up was 10 +/- 7 months (range, 1-29 months). The overall 30-day survival rate was 100%. Overall limb salvage rates were 94% and 90% at 6 and 12 months, respectively. Six-month patency rates for TASC class A, B, C, and D lesions were 89%, 73%, 72%, and 63%, respectively. Twelve-month patency rates for TASC class A, B, C, and D lesions were 89%, 58%, 51%, and 45%, respectively. Duplex-guided balloon angioplasty and stent placement seems to be a safe and effective technique for the treatment of infrainguinal arterial occlusive disease. Technical advantages include direct visualization of the puncture site, accurate selection of the proper size balloon and stent, and confirmation of the adequacy of the technique by hemodynamic and imaging parameters. Additional benefits are avoidance of radiation exposure and contrast material."}
{"id": "17048206", "title": "Influence of diabetes mellitus on diagnostic potential of iodine-123-BMIPP imaging for coronary artery stenosis in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Influence of diabetes mellitus on diagnostic potential of iodine-123-BMIPP imaging for coronary artery stenosis in hemodialysis patients. Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) using a fatty acid analogue, iodine-123-beta-methyl iodophenyl-pentadecanoic acid (123I-BMIPP), as a tracer may be effective for detecting coronary artery disease in end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients. In this study, we investigated whether the presence of diabetes mellitus may affect the diagnostic potential of BMIPP SPECT for detecting coronary stenosis in ESRD patients. 123I-BMIPP SPECT was performed in 98 diabetic hemodialysis patients (male to female ratio 66:32; mean age 63.6+/-9.8 years) and 103 nondiabetic hemodialysis patients (68:35; 64.5+/-10.4 years), followed by coronary angiography within 60 days of the SPECT. SPECT imaging was evaluated and graded on a 5-point scale (0=normal, 4=absence of tracer) and assessed as a BMIPP summed score for 17 left ventricular segments. Coronary angiography revealed that 72.4% (71/98) of the diabetic patients and 56.3% (58/103) of the non-diabetic patients had significant coronary stenosis more than 50%; incidences of asymptomatic coronary stenosis were 77.5% in diabetic patients and 72.4% in nondiabetic patients. When a BMIPP summed score of 8 or more was defined as abnormal, sensitivity, specificity and accuracy for detecting coronary stenosis by BMIPP SPECT were 97.2, 63.0 and 87.8% in diabetic patients, and 96.6, 73.3 and 86.4% in nondiabetic patients. In receiver operating characteristic analysis, the areas under the curve of BMIPP SPECT to diagnose coronary stenosis were 0.897 in diabetic and 0.906 in nondiabetic patients. BMIPP SPECT seems to be able to detect coronary stenosis in diabetic as well as nondiabetic hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "17048205", "title": "Screening for silent ischemia with coronary artery calcium and nuclear stress testing in nondiabetic patients prior to kidney transplant.", "content": "Screening for silent ischemia with coronary artery calcium and nuclear stress testing in nondiabetic patients prior to kidney transplant. Whether coronary artery calcium (CAC) screening in pretransplant patients may help predict silent myocardial ischemia is unknown. Accordingly, we performed CAC imaging on 46 nondiabetic patients awaiting kidneytransplant. All patients underwent multidetector computed tomography imaging for CAC quantification, and a vasodilator myocardial perfusion stress (MPS) test was performed only in patients with a total CAC score>300 or>100 in a single coronary artery. The mean patient's age was 46+/-14 years and the median dialysis vintage was 33 months (interquartile range 19-53). The median CAC score was 82 (interquartile range 0-700) and correlated with patients' age (p=0.006) and dialysis vintage (p=0.02). Nineteen patients qualified for MPS, but 5 refused the test. Of the remaining 14 patients, 7 patients had normal scans and 7 showed a minimal perfusion defect in the inferoposterior segment of the left ventricle. At the time of writing, 12 patients have undergone successful kidney transplantation without untoward complications. CAC screening does not appear to be associated with silent ischemia in pretransplant patients. Though CAC is extensive in dialysis patients, calcium may be associated with nonobstructive atherosclerotic lesions or calcification of the media layer of the vessel wall."}
{"id": "17047442", "title": "Metabolic syndrome is associated with severe coronary artery disease and poor cardiac outcome in end-stage renal disease patients with acute coronary syndrome.", "content": "Metabolic syndrome is associated with severe coronary artery disease and poor cardiac outcome in end-stage renal disease patients with acute coronary syndrome. People with either end-stage renal disease or metabolic syndrome (MS) are at increased risk for developing coronary artery disease. The impact of MS on coronary artery disease in end-stage renal disease patients, however, remained unclear. We therefore evaluated whether the presence of MS is associated with more coronary lesions and a worse cardiac outcome in end-stage renal disease patients with acute coronary syndrome. We retrospectively examined 76 consecutive end-stage renal disease patients who experienced acute coronary syndrome and underwent cardiac catheterization. Cardiovascular events were compared between the MS and non-MS group. MS was found in 58 patients and coronary artery disease was found in 63 patients [52 with MS (accounting for 90% of the MS group); 11 without MS (61% of the non-MS); MS vs. non-MS, P=0.01]. Patients with MS had more multi-vessel coronary artery disease (P<0.001) than those without MS. Sixty-nine (MS, 51; non-MS, 18) patients survived the acute coronary syndrome. During the follow-up period (MS, 17.6+/-13.8; non-MS, 19.9+/-11.7 months), 12 patients with MS (24%) and none without MS died owing to cardiovascular events (MS vs. non-MS, P=0.028). Regarding major cardiac events, including cardiac death, repeat non-fatal myocardial infarction, and repeat revascularization, the non-MS group had a higher probability of event-free survival (P<0.0001). In patients with end-stage renal disease complicated by acute coronary syndrome, MS is frequently seen and associated with a higher probability of coronary artery disease involving multiple coronary branches and a higher probability of cardiac death and major cardiac events. Therefore, detection of MS in such patients is useful for risk stratification."}
{"id": "17040978", "title": "The treatment of coronary artery disease in patients with chronic kidney disease.", "content": "The treatment of coronary artery disease in patients with chronic kidney disease. Premature cardiovascular disease is the largest cause of mortality, and a major cause of morbidity, in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). Patients with end-stage kidney disease (ESKD) are at extreme risk, but cardiovascular event rates are increased even in early CKD. There is little controlled trial evidence on which to base treatment, as most therapeutic trials have excluded CKD patients. Current treatment strategies are therefore based upon small prospective studies or retrospective analyses of controlled trials and registry data. It is thus unclear whether CKD patients benefit from modern secondary preventive treatments in the same manner as patients with normal renal function. There is a need for randomized trials to identify effective drugs to prevent and treat coronary artery disease in CKD. Revascularization by CABG in CKD has been widely reported in registry data to provide better results than medical treatment or angioplasty. Recent angioplasty data in patients with CKD, however, show improving results, and the risks of CABG in CKD remain high. It is not clear which revascularization technique has a better outcome in patients 'equally suitable' on angiographic criteria for either procedure. The high rate of late adverse cardiovascular events after both CABG and angioplasty accentuates the need for effective secondary preventive therapy disease in these high-risk patients."}
{"id": "17003570", "title": "Prevalence and risk factors of atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis in 1,200 chinese patients undergoing coronary angiography.", "content": "Prevalence and risk factors of atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis in 1,200 chinese patients undergoing coronary angiography. Atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis (ARAS) is a common and potentially reversible cause of end-stage renal failure. Our study aimed to determine the prevalence and predictors of ARAS in Chinese patients undergoing coronary angiography for suspected coronary heart disease (CAD), or for acute or chronic myocardial infarction. Selective renal arteriography was performed immediately after coronary angiography in 1,200 consecutive patients. Medical history and laboratory data were obtained before the procedure. Significant renal artery stenosis was defined as > or =50% narrowing of the luminal diameter. Uni- and multivariate logistic regression analyses were made to explore the association of the clinical and laboratory variables, including some items which had never or rarely been studied, with ARAS or CAD. Of the 1,200 patients, 840 were male and 360 female. Their mean age was 62 +/- 10 years. Low-grade (<50%) and significant coronary artery stenosis was found in 108 (9%) and 610 (51%) patients respectively. By multivariate logistic regression analysis, risk factors associated with the presence of coronary artery stenosis included male, older age, smoking, high serum concentration of low density lipoprotein, lipoprotein (a), and fast blood glucose > or =7.0 mmol/l. Significant ARAS was present in 116 (9.7%) patients, of which 20 (1.7%) were bilateral. The incidence of ARAS was similar in patients with suspected CAD or myocardial infarction. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed the association of the clinical variables with ARAS included: older age, hypercholesterolemia, a more than 10-year history of hypertension, proteinuria and S(Cr) > or =133 micromol/l. The severity of ARAS is significantly related to the severity of coronary artery disease. ARAS is a frequent finding in Chinese patients undergoing coronary angiography, especially in patients with significant coronary artery stenosis and risk factors for ARAS. Renal arteriography can be a helpful examination in these patients."}
{"id": "16988062", "title": "Risk equation determining unsuccessful cannulation events and failure to maturation in arteriovenous fistulas (REDUCE FTM I).", "content": "Risk equation determining unsuccessful cannulation events and failure to maturation in arteriovenous fistulas (REDUCE FTM I). Fistulas are the preferred permanent hemodialysis vascular access but a significant obstacle to increasing their prevalence is the fistula's high \"failure to mature\" (FTM) rate. This study aimed to (1) identify preoperative clinical characteristics that are predictive of fistula FTM and (2) use these predictive factors to develop and validate a scoring system to stratify the patient's risk for FTM. From a derivation set of 422 patients who had a first fistula created, a prediction rule was created using multivariate stepwise logistic regression. The model was internally validated using split-half cross-validation and bootstrapping techniques. A simple scoring system was derived and externally validated on 445 different, prospective patients who received a new fistula at five large North American dialysis centers. The clinical predictors that were associated with FTM were aged > or =65 yr (odds ratio [OR] 2.23; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.25 to 3.96), peripheral vascular disease (OR 2.97; 95% CI 1.34 to 6.57), coronary artery disease (OR 2.83; 95% CI 1.60 to 5.00), and white race (OR 0.43; 95% CI 0.24 to 0.75). The resulting scoring system, which was externally validated in 445 patients, had four risk categories for fistula FTM: low (24%), moderate (34%), high (50%), and very high (69%; trend P < 0.0001). A preoperative, clinical prediction rule to determine fistulas that are likely to fail maturation was created and rigorously validated. It was found to be simple and easily reproducible and applied to predictive risk categories. These categories predicted risk of FTM to be 24, 34, 50, and 69% and are dependent on age, coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular disease, and race. The clinical utility of these risk categories in increasing rates of permanent accesses requires further clinical evaluation."}
{"id": "16979003", "title": "Cardiovascular risk among adults with chronic kidney disease, with or without prior myocardial infarction.", "content": "Cardiovascular risk among adults with chronic kidney disease, with or without prior myocardial infarction. This study sought to determine whether chronic kidney disease (CKD) should be considered a coronary heart disease (CHD) risk equivalent for cholesterol treatment. It is unclear whether patients with CKD have a risk of CHD events or cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality equivalent to patients with a prior myocardial infarction (MI). Using data from the ARIC (Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities) study, we categorized nondiabetic participants based on their average level of kidney function (estimated glomerular filtration rate > or =60 or 30 to 59 ml/min/1.73 m2, which defines stage 3 CKD) and on prior MI (yes or no). Rates and relative risks (RR) of CHD (MI or fatal CHD) events (n = 653) and CVD mortality (n = 209) that occurred over 10 years were compared across these populations. Among 12,243 middle-age participants, 271 had stage 3 CKD. After adjustment for age, gender, race, and center, CHD incidence and CVD mortality rates per 1,000 person-years by presence of CKD and MI were 4.1 and 1.0 in the presence of neither condition, 8.0 and 3.4 in CKD only, 18.8 and 7.0 in MI only, and 30.8 and 18.0 in CKD and MI. After further adjustment for CVD risk factors, RR of CHD and CVD mortality were statistically significantly lower in subjects with CKD and no prior MI (RR = 0.44 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.28 to 0.72] for CHD and RR = 0.46 [95% CI 0.24 to 0.90] for CVD mortality) than for subjects with no CKD and a prior MI. Stage 3 CKD confers CHD risk that is lower and not equivalent to a prior MI in this middle-aged, general, nondiabetic population."}
{"id": "16969750", "title": "Coronary artery calcification, common carotid artery intima-media thickness and aortic pulse wave velocity in patients on peritoneal dialysis.", "content": "Coronary artery calcification, common carotid artery intima-media thickness and aortic pulse wave velocity in patients on peritoneal dialysis. An increasing body of evidence suggests that atherosclerosis in patients with uremia differs from that found in general population in terms of advancement and localization of vascular lesions. It has also been suggested that different non-invasive techniques of vascular system evaluation are designed to show different types of lesions (i.e. vascular calcification, stiffness or 'classical' atherosclerosis). The aim of the study was to search for possible associations between results obtained with three different non-invasive methods of vascular system assessment in three different vascular sites in patients treated with peritoneal dialysis (PD). 61 patients (28 F, 33 M), mean age of 50.4+/-13.6 years, on maintenance PD for a median period of 10 months (range 1-96 months) were included. Coronary artery disease (CAD) was present in 21 subjects. In all subjects coronary artery calcification score (CaSc) using multi-row spiral computed tomography (MSCT), aortic pulse wave velocity (AoPWV) and ultrasound-based common carotid artery intima-media thickness (CCA-IMT) were performed as methods for assessing coronary calcium burden, arterial stiffness and atherosclerosis, respectively. Median value of CaSc equaled 11.5 Agatston units (range 0-5502.8 units). Median AoPWV was 10.4 m/s (range 7.56-18.1 m/s), and median CCA-IMT-0.6 mm (range 0.3-1.0 mm). In 16 patients (26.2%) at least one plaque in at least one common carotid artery was found on ultrasound. CaSc correlated with AoPWV (R=0.32, p<0.01) and with CCA-IMT (R=0.35, p<0.005), whereas no association was found between AoPWV and CCA-IMT. AoPWV, but not CaSc nor IMT correlated with blood pressure. The values of CCA-IMT and AoPWV increased together with consecutive Agatston categories (with p<0.001 for differences in AoPWV and p<0.05 for CCA-IMT). Patients with at least one plaque found in at least one CCA and patients with CAD were characterized with significantly higher values of CaSc, IMT and PWV, when compared to plaque-free and CAD- negative subjects, respectively. Association between CaSc and both IMT and PWV may suggest that the mechanism of three assessed vascular pathologies may be based, to some extent, on the process of pathologic calcium-phosphate deposition. Lack of correlation found between PWV and IMT may suggest that aortic stiffness and carotid atherosclerosis may partially differ in their pathologic background and/or are dissociated in time."}
{"id": "16968482", "title": "Steroid-free immunosuppression regime reduces both long-term cardiovascular morbidity and patient mortality in renal transplant recipients.", "content": "Steroid-free immunosuppression regime reduces both long-term cardiovascular morbidity and patient mortality in renal transplant recipients. The aim of this retrospective study was to assess the impact of steroid therapy on cardiovascular disease (CVD) and patient mortality, in 486 on-CsA renal transplant recipients, with a follow-up of 9.5 +/- 4.3 yr. Two hundred and one patients had their steroids permanently withdrawn at sixth month after transplantation (G1); 285 patients did not (G2) as they were unable (acute rejection after suspension) or unsuitable (because of clinical criteria or immunosuppressive protocols). The CVD considered were coronary artery disease diagnosed by angiography and myocardial infarction. G1 and G2 patients were well-matched regarding CVD risk factors, except for age (G1: 44 +/- 14 yr; G2: 40 +/- 12 yr; p < 0.003), incidence of male (G1: 62%; G2: 72%, p < 0.02) incidence of acute rejection (G1: 39%; G2: 83%, p < 0.0001). Both CVD and deaths occurring during the first year of transplantation were excluded from the analysis. At 20 yr, the cumulative probability of developing a CVD, was 3.8% in G1; 23.8% in G2 (p < 0.0005). Patient survival rate was 95% in G1; 62% in G2 (p < 0.003). Mortality caused by CVD was higher in G2 (4.2% vs. 0.5%; p < 0.03). The Cox analysis identified in steroid therapy the main independent risk factors for both CVD (hazard ratio 9.56 p < 0.0001) and patient mortality (hazard ratio 5.99, p < 0.0001). At 10th and 15th year after transplantation, the mean-daily dose of steroids was 4.2 mg. In the long-term, steroid therapy, even in low-doses, increases significantly both the rate of CVD and patient mortality. This retrospective study suggests that steroid-free regime should always be recommended for the prevention of post-transplant CVD. This relevant statement should be followed by a long-term prospective study."}
{"id": "16955104", "title": "Correlation of simple imaging tests and coronary artery calcium measured by computed tomography in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Correlation of simple imaging tests and coronary artery calcium measured by computed tomography in hemodialysis patients. Vascular calcification is associated with an adverse prognosis in end-stage renal disease. It can be accurately quantitated with computed tomography but simple in-office techniques may provide equally useful information. Accordingly we compared the results obtained with simple non-invasive techniques with those obtained using electron beam tomography (EBT) for coronary artery calcium scoring (CACS) in 140 prevalent hemodialysis patients. All patients underwent EBT imaging, a lateral X-ray of the lumbar abdominal aorta, an echocardiogram, and measurement of pulse pressure (PP). Calcification of the abdominal aorta was semiquantitatively estimated with a score (Xr-score) of 0-24 divided into tertiles, echocardiograms were graded as 0-2 for absence or presence of calcification of the mitral and aortic valve and PP was divided in quartiles. The CACS was elevated (mean 910+/-1657, median 220). The sensitivity and specificity for CACS > or = 100 was 53 and 70%, for calcification of either valve and 67 and 91%, respectively, for Xr-score > or = 7. The area under the curve for CACS > or = 100 associated with valve calcification and Xr-score was 0.62 and 0.78, respectively. The likelihood ratio (95% confidence interval) of CACS > or = 100 was 1.79 (1.09, 2.96) for calcification of either valve and 7.50 (2.89, 19.5) for participants with an Xr-score > or = 7. In contrast, no association was present between PP and CACS. In conclusion, simple measures of cardiovascular calcification showed a very good correlation with more sophisticated measurements obtained with EBT. These methodologies may prove very useful for in-office imaging to guide further therapeutic choices in hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "16954577", "title": "Impact of drug-eluting stents on outcomes of patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing percutaneous coronary revascularization.", "content": "Impact of drug-eluting stents on outcomes of patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing percutaneous coronary revascularization. End-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients on chronic dialysis are at heightened risk for target vessel revascularization (TVR) after coronary stenting. However, ESRD patients were excluded from the trials that demonstrated the superiority of drug-eluting stents (DES) over bare metal stents (BMS) in reducing TVR. We sought to identify the impact of stent type (DES versus BMS) on TVR and other cardiac adverse events in ESRD patients. The study included 89 consecutive ESRD patients who underwent coronary stenting and were followed for greater than or equal to 9 months. TVR was the primary endpoint, and the secondary endpoint was a composite of death, myocardial infarction (MI) and TVR. Multivariate logistic regression models were used to adjust for differences in clinical and procedural characteristics. DES were used in 24 and BMS in 65 patients. The stent diameter was smaller (p = 0.008), but the stent length was longer (p = 0.006) in the DES group. TVR was required in 1 (4%) of DES and 17 (26%) BMS patients, while 8 (33%) DES and 39 (60%) BMS patients met the secondary endpoint. By multivariate logistic regression, DES use was associated with a significant reduction in TVR (OR 0.07, 95% CI 0.006-0.844; p = 0.036) and a significant reduction in death, MI and TVR (OR 0.11, 95% CI 0.022-0.513; p = 0.005). A high rate of ischemic events was noted for ESRD patients, regardless of stent type. However, in ESRD patients undergoing coronary revascularization, DES use is effective in reducing 9-month TVR and the composite of death, MI and TVR."}
{"id": "16952302", "title": "Routine coronary angiography in diabetic nephropathy patients before transplantation.", "content": "Routine coronary angiography in diabetic nephropathy patients before transplantation. We evaluated the incidence of significant coronary artery stenoses (CAS), angina pectoris (AP), revascularization and associated risk factors in 155 consecutive diabetic nephropathy transplant candidates. Kidney and kidney-pancreas transplant candidates with diabetes for more than 10 years and/or retinopathy and/or biopsy verified diabetic nephropathy were included. The inclusion period was 1999-2004. Seventy-two percent of patients were male. Sixty-one percent had type 1 diabetes and 39% had type 2 diabetes and mean age was 46 years (+/-10) and 58 years (+/-11), respectively. History of heart disease was present in 34% of patients, 34% had cerebro-vascular and/or peripheral atherosclerotic disease, and 51% had neither. Fifty-five percent had a smoking history and 46% were on dialysis. Significant CAS was found in 45% of patients, of whom 17% had AP. No patients below 35 years of age had significant CAS (n = 11, p = 0.001). Revascularization was performed in 57% of patients with significant CAS. The only risk factor for significant CAS in multiple logistic regression was age (p = 0.046). Approximately half of the patients had significant CAS, and half of these underwent revascularization. Most patients with CAS did not have symptoms of myocardial ischemia. The data justify screening diabetic nephropathy transplant candidates with coronary angiography before transplantation."}
{"id": "16940320", "title": "Peripheral arterial disease in patients with stages IV and V chronic renal failure.", "content": "Peripheral arterial disease in patients with stages IV and V chronic renal failure. Cardiovascular disorders are frequently found among chronic renal failure (CRF) patients due to their higher susceptibility to develop atherosclerosis. However, peripheral arterial disease (PAD), that is associated with a high mortality rate, is not usually assessed in these patients. The aims of this study are to find out the prevalence of PAD affecting lower limbs in a population of CRF patients in stages IV/V, and to assess how much PAD determines the 5-year patient survival. The study population (44 males and 29 females) was aged 58 +/- 15 years. They suffered from advanced CRF (18.6 +/- 6.1 ml/min creatinine clearance), but they were not on dialysis. These patients were sequentially referred initially to the predialysis unit over a period of 14 months. The vascular lesions were assessed by carotid and transcranial ultrasound, as well as by ankle-brachial index test (ABI). Routine 24 h blood and urine laboratory tests were performed for each patient. Cardiovascular morbidity and cardiovascular disease risk factors were evaluated through personal interview. Fourteen patients had an ABI index of less than 0.91 (PAD indicative), 11 of them also suffered from intermittent claudication. PAD affected significantly more males (P = 0.001) and diabetics (P = 0.001). Also, PAD prevalence was significantly higher in patients with a previous clinical record of coronary heart disease (P = 0.001), increased clinical record of cerebrovascular disease (P = 0.005), a thickness of the left ventricular posterior wall (P = 0.03) and lower cardiac ejection fraction (P = 0.02). PAD patients had a significantly different protein intake (P = 0.003), calcium-phosphorus product (P = 0.001), risk of coronary heart disease based on the Framingham score (P = 0.001) and 5-year survival rate (P = 0.004). There were no significant differences for PAD patients in terms of body mass index, creatinine clearance, lipid profile, Ca and P. Multivariate risk factor analysis revealed that a previous clinical record of coronary heart disease and diabetes increased the risk of developing PAD, as defined by ABI < 0.91. After 5 years, 21 patients (29%) had died: 64% of patients that suffered PAD (9/14) and 20% of the non-PAD population (12/59). The Cox proportional hazards model demonstrated that older age and a lower ABI increased the risk of death. The present study, conducted on CRF patients in stages IV and V not undergoing dialysis, showed; (a) that a high percentage of these patients developed PAD (19%) or other vascular pathologies; (b) that there was an associated high mortality rate (29%) after 5 years; (c) that the 5-year mortality rate was significantly higher (P = 0.004) in PAD patients (64 vs 20%)."}
{"id": "16938228", "title": "[Clinical predictors of left main coronary artery disease in high-risk patients with a first episode of non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome].", "content": "[Clinical predictors of left main coronary artery disease in high-risk patients with a first episode of non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome]. Risk stratification in non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome makes use of clinical variables that can identify patients at an increased risk of complications. Our objective was to identify clinical variables that predict significant stenosis (i.e., >50%) of the left main coronary artery in high-risk patients who have had a first episode of non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome but who do not have a history of coronary artery disease. The study included 102 high-risk patients with no history of coronary artery disease who were admitted because of non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome. All underwent coronary angiography. Patients were divided into two groups: those with significant left main coronary artery stenosis (n=14) and those without (n=88). Univariate analysis showed that the variables significantly associated with left main coronary artery stenosis were age >65 years (57.1% vs 15.9%, P=.002), diabetes mellitus (71.4% vs 33.0%, P=.006), chronic renal failure (28.6% vs 5.7%, P=.019), left heart failure (71.4% vs 6.8%, P< .0001), cardiogenic shock (21.4% vs 1.1%, P=.008), and a low left ventricular ejection fraction at admission (49.9% [14.7%] vs 58.8% [9.9%], P=.044). In the multivariate analysis, the only significant independent predictor of left main coronary artery disease was left heart failure. The presence of left heart failure at initial assessment of high-risk patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome but without a history of coronary artery disease could be a useful predictor of significant left main coronary artery disease."}
{"id": "16923438", "title": "Prevalence and predictors of cardiovascular calcium in chronic kidney disease (from the Prospective Longitudinal RRI-CKD Study).", "content": "Prevalence and predictors of cardiovascular calcium in chronic kidney disease (from the Prospective Longitudinal RRI-CKD Study). Although the determinants of cardiovascular calcium have been well described in dialysis patients, the prevalence and predictors in predialysis chronic kidney disease (CKD) are less known. One hundred six patients with CKD from the Renal Research Institute-CKD Study underwent multidetector computed tomography for the assessment of calcium deposition at the level of coronary arteries, thoracic aorta, aortic valve, and mitral valve. Cardiovascular risk factors and renal function-related parameters (glomerular filtration rate, glomerular filtration rate slope, serum creatinine, serum urea nitrogen, hemoglobin, albumin, calcium, phosphate, and parathyroid hormone) were included in multivariate regression models to predict cardiovascular calcium. Prevalences of calcium deposition at the level of coronary arteries, thoracic aorta, aortic valve, and mitral valve were 69%, 46%, 39%, and 16%, respectively. On multivariate analysis, coronary artery calcium score was predicted by age (p < 0.0001), gender (p = 0.0001), diabetes (p = 0.024), and history of coronary artery disease (p = 0.016), but not by renal function related parameters. Similarly, renal function related parameters were not predictive of aortic or valvular calcium. In conclusion, predialysis CKD is associated with a high prevalence of cardiovascular calcium. The extent of cardiovascular calcium in patients with predialysis CKD is related to some of the traditional risk factors for atherosclerosis but not to indexes of abnormal renal function or progression in renal dysfunction."}
{"id": "16911184", "title": "Independent risk factors for progression of coronary atherosclerosis in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Independent risk factors for progression of coronary atherosclerosis in hemodialysis patients. Not uncommonly, hemodialysis patients with normal results in myocardial perfusion tests can still have a cardiac event within 2 years of evaluation. We examined possible risk factors for progression of coronary atherosclerosis in hemodialysis patients. We prospectively evaluated ability of myocardial perfusion imaging carried out under pharmacologic stress to predict 2-year outcomes in 77 hemodialysis patients, specifically thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) using high-dose adenosine triphosphate as the stressor. The primary end-point was a cardiac event (cardiac death, non-fatal acute coronary syndrome, or hospitalization for acute ischemic heart failure). Factors independently influencing duration until a cardiac event in hemodialysis patients were identified using stepwise multiple regression analysis. Myocardial perfusion defects were shown in 36 patients. Patients with a perfusion defect were more likely to have cardiac events than those with normal perfusion (78% vs. 15%, P < 0.001). Time until occurrence of a cardiac event in hemodialysis patients showed a significant, independent association with known coronary artery disease [regression coefficient (RC) = -3.391, P = 0.046], elevated C-reactive protein (RC = -5.813, P = 0.005), and a reversible myocardial perfusion defect (RC = -7.386, P < 0.001). An analysis based on the 'best cut-off' of CRP as identified on the basis of the ROC curve augmented the positive and negative predict value of CRP for the prediction of coronary events to 65 and 74%, respectively. Myocardial perfusion SPECT and measuring the plasma concentration of CRP might be useful for the prediction of hemodialysis patients with progression of coronary atherosclerosis."}
{"id": "16875924", "title": "Risk stratification of patients with chronic kidney disease: results of screening strategies incorporating clinical risk scoring and dobutamine stress echocardiography.", "content": "Risk stratification of patients with chronic kidney disease: results of screening strategies incorporating clinical risk scoring and dobutamine stress echocardiography. Cardiac disease is the principal cause of death in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). Ischemia at dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) is associated with adverse events in these patients. We sought the efficacy of combining clinical risk evaluation with DSE. We allocated 244 patients with CKD (mean age 54 years, 140 men, 169 dialysis-dependent at baseline) into low- and high-risk groups based on two disease-specific scores and the Framingham risk model. All underwent DSE and were further stratified according to DSE results. Patients were followed over 20 +/- 14 months for events (death, myocardial infarction, acute coronary syndrome). There were 49 deaths and 32 cardiac events. Using the different clinical scores, allocation of high risk varied from 34% to 79% of patients, and 39% to 50% of high-risk patients had an abnormal DSE. In the high-risk groups, depending on the clinical score chosen, 25% to 44% with an abnormal DSE had a cardiac event, compared with 8% to 22% with a normal DSE. Cardiac events occurred in 2.0%, 3.1%, and 9.7% of the low-risk patients, using the two disease-specific and Framingham scores, respectively, and DSE results did not add to risk evaluation in this subgroup. Independent DSE predictors of cardiac events were a lower resting diastolic blood pressure, angina during the test, and the combination of ischemia with resting left ventricular dysfunction. In CKD patients, high-risk findings by DSE can predict outcome. A stepwise strategy of combining clinical risk scores with DSE for CAD screening in CKD reduces the number of tests required and identifies a high-risk subgroup among whom DSE results more effectively stratify high and low risk."}
{"id": "16871241", "title": "Risk factors for de novo acute cardiac events in patients initiating hemodialysis with no previous cardiac symptom.", "content": "Risk factors for de novo acute cardiac events in patients initiating hemodialysis with no previous cardiac symptom. An initial major adverse cardiac event (MACE) is an important predictor of future cardiovascular events in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). We sought to identify factors influencing occurrence of initial MACE in new maintenance hemodialysis patients without previous cardiac symptoms during the predialysis phase of CKD. Among 112 participating patients with no predialysis cardiac history, 57 underwent coronary angiography, whereas the other 55 underwent stress thallium-201 single-photon emission computed tomography within 1 month of beginning hemodialysis to detect asymptomatic coronary artery disease (CAD). In subsequent follow-up for a median of 24 months, subjects experiencing an initial MACE were compared with those who did not have such an event based on several clinical parameters at the end of predialysis phase. Asymptomatic CAD was present in 47 patients (42%), who had a higher cumulative MACE rate, than subjects without CAD (49 vs 3%, P<0.001). Multivariate Cox's regression analysis showed that three variables independently predicted initial MACE: asymptomatic CAD (hazard ratio or HR, 611.31; 95% confidence interval or CI, 14.07-26549.23; P<0.001), diabetes (HR, 20.41; 95% CI, 2.07-200.00; P=0.010), and each 1 mg/l increment in C-reactive protein (CRP) (HR, 1.94; 95% CI, 1.27-2.94; P=0.002). In conclusion, detection of asymptomatic CAD, presence of diabetes, or elevated CRP at the end of the predialysis phase were significantly associated with occurrence of an initial MACE in CKD patients starting hemodialysis who had no CAD symptoms."}
{"id": "16864936", "title": "Myocardial infarction as a presentation of clinical in-stent restenosis.", "content": "Myocardial infarction as a presentation of clinical in-stent restenosis. In-stent restenosis is considered to be a gradual and progressive condition and there is scant data on myocardial infarction (MI) as a clinical presentation. Of 2,462 consecutive patients who underwent percutaneous coronary intervention between June 2001 and December 2002, clinical in-stent restenosis occurred in 212 (8.6%), who were classified into 3 groups: ST elevation MI (STEMI), non-ST elevation MI (NSTEMI) and non-MI. Of the 212 patients presenting with clinical in-stent restenosis, 22 (10.4%) had MI (creatine kinase (CK)>or=2xbaseline with elevated CKMB). The remaining 190 (89.6%) patients had stable angina or evidence of ischemia by stress test without elevation of cardiac enzymes. Median interval between previous intervention and presentation for clinical in-stent restenosis was shorter for patients with MI than for non-MI patients (STEMI, 90 days; NSTEMI, 79 days; non-MI, 125 days; p=0.07). Diffuse in-stent restenosis was more frequent in MI patients than in non-MI patients (72.7% vs 56.3%; p<0.005). Renal failure was more prevalent in patients with MI than in those without MI (31.8% vs 6.3%, p=0.001). Compared with the non-MI group, patients with MI were more likely to have acute coronary syndromes at the time of index procedure (81.8% vs 56.8%, p=0.02). Clinical in-stent restenosis can frequently present as MI and such patients are more likely to have an aggressive angiographic pattern of restenosis. Renal failure and acute coronary syndromes at the initial procedure are associated with MI."}
{"id": "16864812", "title": "Renal dysfunction and risk of ischemic stroke or TIA in patients with cardiovascular disease.", "content": "Renal dysfunction and risk of ischemic stroke or TIA in patients with cardiovascular disease. Mild renal insufficiency is increasingly recognized as an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. However, few data exist regarding its relation to risk of ischemic stroke. Patients with chronic coronary heart disease and measured serum creatinine levels (n = 6,685) were followed up for incident ischemic stroke or TIA over 4.8 to 8.1 years. Glomerular filtration rate was estimated by the Cockroft-Gault equation and by the four-component Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) equation and a rate < or =60 mL/minute/1.73 m2 defined chronic kidney disease (CKD). Among 6,685 patients, a quarter of patients had CKD. Adjusting for conventional risk factors and related medications, patients with CKD exhibited 1.54-fold hazard ratios (95% CI 1.13 to 2.09) of incident ischemic stroke or TIA by the Cockroft-Gault equation (1.53; 95% CI 1.16 to 2.01 by the MDRD equation). The corresponding adjusted hazard ratio associated with an increment of 1 SD in GFR was 0.71 (95% CI 0.57 to 0.88) when estimated by the Cockroft-Gault equation (0.84; 95% CI 0.75 to 0.95 estimated by the MDRD equation). Mild degrees of renal dysfunction are associated with increased risk of incident ischemic stroke or TIA in patients with pre-existing atherothrombotic disease. These findings expand the recommendation that patients with renal dysfunction should be considered as a high-risk group for cardiovascular disease and for ischemic stroke."}
{"id": "16863609", "title": "Long term clinical outcomes in patients with moderate renal insufficiency undergoing stent based percutaneous coronary intervention.", "content": "Long term clinical outcomes in patients with moderate renal insufficiency undergoing stent based percutaneous coronary intervention. Patients with end-stage renal disease have a high mortality from coronary artery disease, but the impact of moderate renal insufficiency on clinical outcomes after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and the effect of drug-eluting stent implantation in these patients remain unclear. This study determined the long-term effect of moderate renal insufficiency on death and major adverse cardiac events (MACE) after stent based PCI and examined whether drug-eluting stent implantation could favourably influence clinical outcome. Major adverse cardiac events and causes of mortality were determined for 1012 patients undergoing percutaneous intervention from January 1, 2002 to December 31, 2004 at Shanghai Ruijin Hospital. Based on estimated creatinine clearance levels, long term outcomes were compared between patients with estimated creatinine clearance < 60 ml/min (renal insufficiency group; n = 410) and those with estimated creatinine clearance > or = 60 ml/min (control group; n = 602). Subgroup analysis was also made for patients with renal insufficiency between drug eluting stent (n = 264) and bare metal stent implantation (n = 146) during PCI. During follow-up (average 17 months) after successful PCI, all causes of death (7.1% vs 2.3%, P < 0.01) and cardiac death (3.4% vs 1.0%, all P < 0.01) were significantly higher in renal insufficiency group than in control group. For patients with moderate renal insufficiency, drug-eluting stent implantation reduced significantly all causes of death (5.3% vs 10.9%, P < 0.05) and occurrence of major cardiac adverse events (15.1% vs 24.6%, P < 0.05) compared with bare metal stents. Moderate renal insufficiency is an important clinical factor influencing the mortality after PCI in patients with coronary artery disease and the use of drug-eluting stents should be the preferred therapy for the improvement of long-term outcomes in such patients."}
{"id": "16828417", "title": "Establishing a protocol for endovascular treatment of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms: outcomes of a prospective analysis.", "content": "Establishing a protocol for endovascular treatment of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms: outcomes of a prospective analysis. In our transition from elective abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) to emergent ruptured AAA (r-AAA) repair with endovascular techniques, we recognized that the availability of endovascularly trained staff in the operating rooms and emergency departments, and adequate equipment were the limiting factors. To this end, we established a multidisciplinary protocol that facilitates endovascular repair (EVAR) of r-AAA. In January 2002, we instituted a multidisciplinary approach that included the vascular surgeons, emergency department physicians, anesthesiologists, operating room staff, radiology technicians, and availability of a variety of stent-grafts to expedite EVAR of r-AAAs. Five patients with symptomatic, not ruptured AAAs suitable for EVAR underwent simulation of patients presenting to the emergency department with r-AAAs. Emergency department physicians alerted the on-call vascular surgery team (vascular surgeon, vascular resident or fellow) and the operating room staff, emergently performed an abdominal computed tomography (CT) scan in only hemodynamically stable patients with systolic blood pressures > or =80 mm Hg, and transported the patient to the operating room. The vascular surgeon informed the operating room staff to set up for EVAR and open surgical repair in an operating room equipped with interventional capabilities. The operating room setup was rehearsed with the anesthesiologists, operating room staff, and radiology technicians who were knowledgeable of the sequence of steps involved. Since then, 40 patients have undergone emergent EVAR for r-AAAs with general anesthesia. No complications developed in any of the symptomatic (simulation) patients, and 40 (95%) of 42 patients with r-AAAs had a successful EVAR with Excluder (n = 27, 68%), AneuRx (n = 9, 23%), or the Zenith (n = 4, 10%) stent-grafts. The mean age was 73 years (range, 54 to 88 years), and pre-existing comorbidities included coronary artery disease in 26 (65%), hypertension in 23 (58%), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in 7 (18%), renal insufficiency not on dialysis in two (5%), and diabetes in nine (23%). Fourteen (38%) patients were diagnosed with r-AAAs at another hospital and subsequently were transferred to us, and 26 (62%) presented directly to the emergency department at our institution. At the initial presentation, 30 patients (75%) were hemodynamically stable and either had a CT scan at an outside hospital or in the emergency department, and 10 (25%) hemodynamically unstable patients with systolic blood pressures <80 mm Hg were rushed to the operating room for EVAR without a preoperative CT scan. The mean time from the presumptive diagnosis of a r-AAA in the emergency department to the operating room for EVAR was 20 minutes (range, 10 to 35 minutes), and the mean operative time from skin incision to closure was 80 minutes (range, 35 to 125 minutes). Seven patients (18%) needed supraceliac aortic occlusion balloon, and six (15%) needed aortouniiliac stent-grafts. The mean blood loss was 455 mL (range, 115 to 1100 mL). Two patients each (5%) developed myocardial infarction, renal failure, and ischemic colitis, seven (18%) developed abdominal compartment syndrome, and seven (18%) died. Over a mean follow-up of 17 months, three patients with endovascular r-AAA repair required four secondary procedures. The early results show that emergent endovascular treatment of hemodynamically stable and unstable patients is associated with a limited mortality of 18% once a standardized protocol is established. There is an increased recognition of emerging complications with an endovascular approach, and a synchrony of disciplines must be developed to initiate a successful program for endovascular treatment of r-AAAs."}
{"id": "16821493", "title": "Elevated cardiac troponins: their significance in acute coronary syndrome and noncardiac conditions.", "content": "Elevated cardiac troponins: their significance in acute coronary syndrome and noncardiac conditions. Elevated cardiac troponin I or T levels are caused by cardiac injury. Such elevations in patients with acute coronary syndrome are crucial in terms of diagnosis, risk stratification and guiding therapy. Cardiac troponins are also often elevated in patients with chronic renal failure and in a wide range of other medical conditions in which the pathophysiology of acute coronary syndrome (plaque rupture and thrombosis) is not present. This review discusses the differences between cardiac troponin and other cardiac markers and the importance of bedside testing. The literature on elevated cardiac troponins in patients with acute coronary syndrome, patients without acute coronary syndrome and patients with chronic renal failure is summarized. The significance of elevated cardiac troponins in each group as it relates to prognosis and guiding treatment options is discussed."}
{"id": "16821026", "title": "Coronary artery calcifications in children with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Coronary artery calcifications in children with end-stage renal disease. Coronary artery calcification (CAC) is common in adults with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), but little is known about the prevalence and the extent of it in children. We used multidetector spiral computed tomography (MDCT), echocardiography, and carotid and brachial high-resolution ultrasonography to screen for the presence and predisposing factors of CAC in 53 children with ESRD [15 hemodialysis (HD) patients, 24 peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients, and 14 renal transplant (rTx) recipients]. CAC was present in 15% of patients (three HD patients, three PD patients, and two rTx). The mean age of the patients with CAC was 16.4 years (range: 11.0-21.2 years), and their median CAC score was 101.3, ranging from 8.5 to 4,322 according to the Agatston method. The patients with CAC had longer duration of total dialysis (P=0.005), had higher time-integrated serum phosphorus (P<0.001), calcium-phosphate (CaxP) product (P=0.012), intact parathyroid hormone (P=0.010), vitamin B(12) levels (P=0.010), the amount of cumulative calcium-containing oral phosphate binders (OBPs) (P<0.001), and calcitriol intake (P<0.001), and had lower serum hemoglobin level (P=0.014). Interventricular septum systolic thickness (P=0.033) was significantly higher, relative wall thickness (P=0.062) tended to be higher, and flow-mediated endothelium-dependent dilatations (P=0.071) were lower without reaching statistically significant levels in those with CAC. A stepwise logistic regression analysis revealed that serum phosphorus (P=0.018) and the cumulative exposure to calcium-containing OPBs (P=0.016) were the most significant independent predictors in the development of CAC. These results indicate that even adolescents and children with ESRD may have coronary calcifications. We concluded that impaired divalent ion metabolism is the main factor in the formation of CAC in this age group."}
{"id": "16820623", "title": "Long-term results after systematic off-pump coronary artery bypass graft surgery in 1000 consecutive patients.", "content": "Long-term results after systematic off-pump coronary artery bypass graft surgery in 1000 consecutive patients. Off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery (OPCAB) is currently used as an alternative to conventional \"on-pump\" surgery, but there are very little data available on long-term follow-up. The aim of this study was to review our long-term experience with the use of systematic OPCAB. 1000 consecutive OPCAB surgeries were systematically performed between 1996 and 2004, representing 95% of all coronary revascularization during that same time frame, with a 97% complete follow-up. Average age of the patients was 64+/-10 years (778 men and 222 women). Seventy-three percent had triple-vessel disease. Operative 30-day mortality was 1.6%. Overall survival at 96 months was 74+/-3.5% and cardiac survival was 94+/-1.3%. By Cox regression analysis, age (odds ratio [OR], 1.07), congestive heart failure (CHF) (OR, 1.90), peripheral vascular disease (OR, 1.74), chronic renal insufficiency (OR, 2.04), previous myocardial infarction (MI) (OR, 1.60), and New York Heart Association functional class (OR, 1.60) were risk factors for long- term mortality. Survival free of any cardiac events (cardiac death, MI, unstable angina, heart failure, or reintervention) was 80+/-3.4%. Survival free of any type of reintervention alone was 90+/-3%. By Cox regression analysis, mitral regurgitation (OR, 2.3), peripheral vascular disease (OR, 2.1), and diffuse coronary disease (OR, 2.3) were significant predictors of recurrent cardiac events. Conversion to \"on-pump\" (OR, 14.3) was predictor of long-term need for repeat revascularization. In this series, systematic OPCAB surgery was shown to be an acceptable alternative to conventional \"on-pump\" coronary artery bypass graft for the treatment of coronary artery disease."}
{"id": "16815856", "title": "Conversion to a proliferation signal inhibitor in a patient with coronary artery disease--a case report.", "content": "Conversion to a proliferation signal inhibitor in a patient with coronary artery disease--a case report. The calcineurin inhibitors (CNIs) ciclosporin (CsA) and tacrolimus are currently an important part of immunosuppressive regimens, but are associated with increased cardiovascular risk factors, including hyperlipidaemia, hypertension and diabetes mellitus. Conversion from CNI-based regimens to proliferation signal inhibitors or mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitors, such as everolimus and sirolimus, has been associated with an improvement in cardiovascular risk. This case study describes a 59-year-old renal transplant recipient who presented with angina pectoris while receiving immunosuppression with CsA, azathioprine and steroids. The patient developed angina pectoris 5 years after receiving a cadaveric renal transplant. At the time, the patient was obese, with hypertension controlled with diuretics and calcium channel blockers, and hyperlipidaemia controlled with statins. A scintigram revealed plurisegmental myocardial ischaemia, and a coronary angiogram showed the presence of occlusions in the left anterior descending artery and circumflex coronary artery. The patient also had 70% stenosis of the right coronary artery, which was corrected by angioplastic percutaneous intervention. The patient was converted from azathioprine to sirolimus 2 mg/day (trough blood level, 6-10 ng/ml), while the CsA dose was tapered and withdrawn. The angina pectoris subsequently resolved, no progression of coronary artery disease (CAD) has been observed during follow-up and stable renal function has been maintained throughout. Conversion to an immunosuppressive regimen of sirolimus with CsA withdrawal, along with angioplastic percutaneous correction of right coronary artery stenosis, therefore led to the complete resolution of angina pectoris and no progression of the CAD was noticed in this obese renal transplant patient with drug-controlled hypertension and hyperlipidaemia."}
{"id": "16810587", "title": "[Pancreas and kidney transplantation complicated by acute coronary syndrome].", "content": "[Pancreas and kidney transplantation complicated by acute coronary syndrome]."}
{"id": "16810416", "title": "[Influence of preload reduction on Tei index and other Doppler echocardiographic parameters of left ventricular function].", "content": "[Influence of preload reduction on Tei index and other Doppler echocardiographic parameters of left ventricular function]. To assess the influence of preload reduction by hemodialysis on Doppler Tei Index of myocardial performance and other parameters of cardiac function. The Tei index and left ventricular (LV) systolic and diastolic function parameters were estimated, before and after a single hemodialysis session. Only subjects who were in sinus rhythm, without history of coronary artery disease, and no evidence of cardiac valve disease and pericardial effusion were included in the study. Fifteen patients (8 men, mean age 53 +/- 14 years) completed the study. After an ultrafiltration of 2.2 +/- 1.1 liters, peak mitral E velocity decreased (p < 0.05) and A velocity remained unchanged (p = ns), resulting in reduction of E/A ratio (p < 0.01). The Tei index increased (from 0.57 +/- 0.07 to 0.65 +/- 0.09, p < 0.01) because of significant prolongations in isovolumetric relaxation time (from 101 +/- 14 to 113 +/- 17 ms, p < 0.01) and ejection time (from 271 +/- 22 to 252 +/- 22, p < 0.05). The isovolumetric contraction time did not vary (p = ns). There was no change in diastolic tissue Doppler parameters, while systolic velocities increased (p < 0.05). The Tei index was affected by hemodialysis-induced preload alterations, as well as other mitral inflow Doppler-derived parameters. The diastolic parameters of mitral annulus Doppler tissue were independent of preload, while systolic velocities suggested improved systolic function."}
{"id": "16797387", "title": "Serum myeloperoxidase and mortality in maintenance hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Serum myeloperoxidase and mortality in maintenance hemodialysis patients. During inflammation, myeloperoxidase (MPO) is released, for which its measurement in systemic circulation may be used as an index of leukocyte activation and oxidant stress. MPO levels correlate with angiographic evidence of coronary atherosclerosis and cardiovascular events in subjects with chest pain within the general population. We hypothesized that serum MPO levels are associated with adverse clinical outcomes in maintenance hemodialysis (MHD) patients. MPO levels were determined in serum samples from 356 MHD patients at the start of a 3-year cohort. Patients (46% women, 28% blacks, 54% with diabetes) were 54.6 +/- 14.6 (SD) years old and had undergone MHD for a median period of 26 months. Measured serum MPO level was 2,005 +/- 1,877 pmol/L (median, 1,444 pmol/L; interquartile range, 861 to 2,490 pmol/L). MHD patients with greater total body fat had greater MPO levels. MPO level had statistically significant (P < 0.01) and positive correlations with values for serum C-reactive protein (CRP; r = +0.15), interleukin 6 (IL-6; r = +0.23), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha; r = +0.21), and white blood cell count (r = +0.21). A death hazard ratio for each 1,000-pmol/L increase in serum MPO level was 1.14 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.03 to 1.26; P = 0.01) after controlling for age, race (black), diabetes mellitus, dialysis vintage, Charlson comorbidity score, history of previous cardiovascular disease, blood hemoglobin level, and serum concentrations of albumin, CRP, IL-6, and TNF-alpha. After dividing MPO values into 3 equal groups (tertiles), the death hazard ratio of the highest tertile (versus the middle tertile) was 1.82 (95% CI, 1.07 to 3.10; P = 0.03). Serum MPO levels correlate with levels of markers of inflammation and prospective mortality risk in MHD patients."}
{"id": "16780064", "title": "[Coronary artery bypass grafting to left anterior descending coronary artery diagnosed by multidetector-row computed tomography].", "content": "[Coronary artery bypass grafting to left anterior descending coronary artery diagnosed by multidetector-row computed tomography]. A 64-year-old male received coronary angiography because of chest pain. Although coronary angiography showed total occlusion of right coronary artery (RCA) # 2 and left anterior descending branch (LAD) #6, and a significant stenosis of left circumflex (LCx) #11, it could not visualize LAD distal to LAD # 6. Since coronary multidetector-row computed tomography (MD CT) could visualize the distal LAD, coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) was indicated for this patient. Left internal thoracic artery (LITA) was anastomosed to LAD and saphenous vein graft (SVG) was used for distal anastomoses to obtuse marginal branch (OM) and 4-posterior descending branch (# 4 PD). Postoperative course was uneventful. LITA anastomosed to LAD and SVG to OM and # 4 PD were visualized by postoperative coronary angiography. MD CT in addition to coronary angiography was demonstrated useful to assess precise lesions of the coronary artery disease in this case."}
{"id": "16777558", "title": "Noninvasive gadolinium-enhanced three dimensional computed tomography coronary angiography.", "content": "Noninvasive gadolinium-enhanced three dimensional computed tomography coronary angiography. Although the use of gadolinium (Gd)-based contrast agents for angiographic studies of abdominal aorta, renal vasculature, and digital subtraction angiography has been reported, no studies have shown their diagnostic efficacy and image quality in coronary computed tomography angiography (CTA). The aim of this study is to evaluate the image quality of Gd-based contrast agents during coronary CTA. A phantom study was done to evaluate the attenuation of serial dilutions of Gd and iodinated agents. This study was done on a 64-slice multirow detector CT (MDCT) scanner and e-speed scanner and CT attenuation Hounsfield units (CTHU) were compared. We evaluated 35 consecutive patients who underwent Gd-enhanced CTA. CTHU of aorta was measured at first, mid, and lowest slice levels with and without contrast administration. The image quality was graded on the basis of visualization of the coronary arteries (scale I-III; III demonstrating diagnostic image quality of the distal-most vessels). In a substudy, four patients with borderline renal insufficiency underwent CTA using Gd and iodinated contrast agents admixed in a 50:50 ratio. The phantom study showed that enhancement of various dilutions of Gd and iodine resulted in near identical CTHU with both e-speed and 64-slice scanners (r(2) > or = 0.997). Mean CTHU with contrast at the top slice was 116 HU, at middle slice was 125 HU, and at the lower slice was 93 (111.14 +/- 22). Quality evaluation showed 2 grade III, 9 grade II, and 24 grade I images (average quality of images 1.35). Mean CTHU was 222. Gd-enhanced contrast medium provides adequate enhancement of coronary vasculature, allowing for diagnostic evaluation of coronary arteries with new CT systems. Use of newer generations of multirow detector CT scanners should further enhance the quality of images."}
{"id": "16775894", "title": "Percutaneous coronary intervention under the rigid restriction of contrast media dose in patients with chronic renal insufficiency.", "content": "Percutaneous coronary intervention under the rigid restriction of contrast media dose in patients with chronic renal insufficiency. Minimizing the dose of contrast media is considered to reduce the risk of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN), which is a serious complication occurring in patients with chronic renal insufficiency (CRI) after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). We describe the drastic method of PCI, which successfully completes the procedure with minimal dose of contrast media in order to prevent CIN. In two cases complicated by CRI, PCI was safely carried out using less than 20 ml of contrast media in conjunction with various techniques or devices for minimizing the wasteful use of contrast media."}
{"id": "16775448", "title": "Pulmonary hypertension in chronic dialysis patients with arteriovenous fistula: pathogenesis and therapeutic prospective.", "content": "Pulmonary hypertension in chronic dialysis patients with arteriovenous fistula: pathogenesis and therapeutic prospective. End-stage renal disease patients receiving chronic haemodialysis via arteriovenous access often develop various cardiovascular complications, including vascular calcification, cardiac-vascular calcification and atherosclerotic coronary disease. This review describes recently published studies that demonstrate a high incidence of pulmonary hypertension among patients with end-stage renal disease receiving long-term haemodialysis via a surgical arteriovenous fistula. Both end-stage renal disease and long-term haemodialysis via arteriovenous fistula may be involved in the pathogenesis of pulmonary hypertension by affecting pulmonary vascular resistance and cardiac output. Morbidity and mortality from cardiovascular disease are greatly increased in patients on maintenance haemodialysis therapy. Using Doppler echocardiography, we found a significant increase in cardiac output in 40% of chronic haemodialysis patients, probably related to the large arteriovenous access or altered vascular resistance as a result of the local vascular tone and function expressed by the imbalance between vasodilators such as nitric oxide, and vasoconstrictors such as endothelin-1. We propose different potential mechanisms as explanations for the development of pulmonary hypertension. Hormonal and metabolic derangement associated with end-stage renal disease might lead to pulmonary arterial vasoconstriction and an increase in pulmonary vascular resistance. Pulmonary arterial pressure may be further increased by high cardiac output resulting from the arteriole-venous access itself, worsened by commonly occurring anaemia and fluid overload."}
{"id": "16741650", "title": "Chronic renal insufficiency and risk of early mortality in patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy.", "content": "Chronic renal insufficiency and risk of early mortality in patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy. We compared early outcome after carotid endarterectomy (CEA) in patients (n = 857 with 1,011 CEA interventions) with and without chronic renal insufficiency (CRI). Two groups were compared: a group with normal renal function (n = 909) and a group with CRI (creatinine >/=1.5 mg/dL and clearance of </=30 mL/min, as well as dialysis and transplant patients, n = 102). Mean age was significantly higher in CRI patients (71.22 vs. 68.33 years, p = 0.001). The incidence of smokers was 53.9% in the non-CRI group vs. 39.2% in CRI patients (p = 0.005). Hypertension (88.2% vs. 75.1, p = 0.003) and cardiac disease (58.8% vs. 47.4%, p = 0.029) were more common in the CRI group. The perioperative mortality rate was significantly higher in CRI patients (3.9% vs. 1.0%, p = 0.013). Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed a significant association between CRI and 30-day death rate (odds ratio = 3.76, p = 0.032). In this series, CRI patients presented an increased mortality. The mortality risk may be related to the increased rates of preoperative hypertension and coronary disease and perioperative myocardial infarction. A more reserved attitude seems indicated in planning CEA for patients with renal dysfunction in combination with a history of coronary artery disease."}
{"id": "16735378", "title": "The impact of traditional and non-traditional risk factors on coronary calcification in pre-dialysis patients.", "content": "The impact of traditional and non-traditional risk factors on coronary calcification in pre-dialysis patients. Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the leading cause of death among end-stage renal disease patients. There is evidence that coronary calcification is a marker of atherosclerotic vascular disease and is predictive of cardiovascular events, especially in patients on renal replacement therapy. It has recently been suggested that CHD begins in the pre-dialysis period. However, data regarding coronary calcification in this population is scarce. This study was aimed at evaluating such coronary calcification and identifying related factors. A total of 96 chronic kidney disease out-patients who were not on dialysis were included. Patients presenting neoplastic, infectious or inflammatory diseases were excluded. Demographic characteristics, clinical profiles, laboratory test results and multislice computed tomography scans were evaluated. The median age was 55 years (range 20-69 years), 67% were men and the median creatinine clearance was 37 ml/min/1.73 m(2). Coronary calcification, defined as a coronary artery calcification score (CACS) >0 Agatston units (AU), was seen in 61 patients (median 89.1 AU, range 0.37-2299.3 AU). On average, these patients were older, more often had diabetes, higher body mass indices and higher Framingham risk indices, as well as presenting higher proteinuria, intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH), blood glucose and triglyceride levels compared with those without calcification. Multiple logistic regression analysis, adjusted for age and diabetes, identified iPTH and triglyceride levels as independent determinants of calcification. Severe calcification (CACS >400 AU) was seen in 22 patients, who were also older and more frequently had a history of cardiovascular disease (CVD), as well as having higher levels of phosphorus, blood glucose and soluble Fas (sFas). Multiple logistic regression analysis, adjusted for age and diabetes, identified phosphorus and sFas levels as independent determinants of severe coronary calcification. Coronary calcification is highly prevalent in pre-dialysis patients and correlates with traditional and non-traditional risk factors for CVD."}
{"id": "16723988", "title": "Oxidative stress, advanced glycation end product, and coronary artery calcification in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Oxidative stress, advanced glycation end product, and coronary artery calcification in hemodialysis patients. Coronary artery calcification is an index of the severity of atherosclerotic vascular disease, and may predict future adverse cardiovascular events in uremic patients undergoing hemodialysis (HD). HD patients are exposed to oxidative stress, and show high plasma levels of advanced glycation end products (AGEs). The association between oxidative stress, AGEs, established cardiovascular risk factors, and coronary artery calcification score (CACS) was studied in 225 HD patients (123 male, 102 female patients). CACS was measured by using multi-detector row computed tomography. Age, systolic blood pressure, calcium, calcium x phosphate, malondialdehyde, lipid peroxides, and pentosidine were significantly and positively correlated with CACS. Duration on HD tended to be positively correlated with CACS. From the independent variables included in the forward stepwise multiple linear regression analysis, only age, systolic blood pressure, lipid peroxides, calcium, and pentosidine were independently associated with CACS. The odds ratios for past history of coronary artery disease and the presence of diabetes mellitus for high CACS (> or =100) were 6.25 (95% confidence interval; 1.83-21.4) and 2.03 (95% confidence interval; 1.02-4.05), respectively. The plasma pentosidine was significantly and positively correlated with indoxyl sulfate. In conclusion, in addition to such traditional cardiovascular risk factors as past history, diabetes mellitus, aging, systolic blood pressure and calcium overload, oxidative stress (lipid peroxides), and AGE (pentosidine) are associated with extensive coronary artery calcification in HD patients. Lipid peroxidation and glycoxidation may be involved in the pathogenesis of coronary artery calcification."}
{"id": "16716614", "title": "Occult renal impairment is common in patients with peripheral vascular disease and normal serum creatinine.", "content": "Occult renal impairment is common in patients with peripheral vascular disease and normal serum creatinine. The incidence of peripheral vascular disease (PVD) and angiography/angioplasty is rising annually. The UK Small Aneurysm Trial and other trials have shown renal function is a predictor of increased mortality and failed infrainguinal bypass despite patent vessels. Renal function is classically assessed by serum creatinine (SCr). However, SCr can be normal despite significant renal impairment. A more sensitive test is creatinine clearance (CrCl) as determined by 24-hour urine collection in combination with SCr. We studied the incidence of renal impairment, as defined by CrCl, in PVD patients with normal SCr. All patients with PVD sufficient to necessitate angiography and normal SCr (< or =120 micromol/l - men; < or =97 micromol/l - women) had their CrCl assessed prior to angiography: using both 24-hour urine collection and the Cockcroft-Gault formula. Various blood tests, a detailed history and examination were performed. A control group of arthritic patients, age and sex-matched with similar SCr, also had their CrCl determined. 65 of 76 patients (86%) with normal SCr had a subnormal CrCl (<100 ml/min) and 49 (65%) had a CrCl below 60 ml/min. In the control group of arthritic patients, the proportion having impaired CrCl was significantly less - 67% below 100 mls/min (p=0.0471) and only 15% below 60 mls/min (p<0.0001). The median and interquartile range CrCl of 52 [38-81] mls/min for PVD patients was significantly worse than for control patients (80 [68-119] mls/min -p<0.0001). The Cockcroft-Gault formula for calculating CrCl did not correlate well with the urinary CrCl for the control group but did for PVD patients (p<0.0001). Factors associated with a significantly reduced CrCl were age of at least 75 years, SCr of at least 85 micromol/l and a history of coronary heart disease (all p<0.05). This had a sensitivity of 88% and specificity of 82% for identifying subnormal CrCl. Statin use was associated with a significantly improved CrCl (p=0.040). Most PVD patients with normal serum creatinine have occult, significantly impaired renal function as defined by creatinine clearance. Vascular surgeons should include creatinine clearance in pre-operative assessment of renal function especially in patients over 75 years old, with a history of coronary heart disease or a serum creatinine over 85 micromol/l. The method of determining creatinine clearance could be the Cockcroft-Gault calculation or ideally 24-hour urinary creatinine clearance measurement. This would allow appropriate early referral to a nephrologist for further investigation and management. It is worth noting that statin use seems to be associated with a protective effect on renal function."}
{"id": "16685142", "title": "Coronary artery calcification, systemic inflammation markers and mineral metabolism in a peritoneal dialysis population.", "content": "Coronary artery calcification, systemic inflammation markers and mineral metabolism in a peritoneal dialysis population. To assess the prevalence of coronary artery calcification (CAC) in peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients and to determine whether comorbidities such as inflammation, dyslipidemia and mineral metabolism disorders correlate with its development. Forty-nine PD patients (45% male; median age, 52 years) were submitted to multislice computed tomography. Inflammatory markers, anti-oxidized LDL antibody, calcium-phosphate balance and lipid profiles were assessed. Twenty-nine patients (59.2%) presented CAC (median calcium score, 234.7 Agatston units). Patients with CAC were older than those without, more frequently presented a history of coronary artery disease or hypertension and had lower HDL cholesterol levels, as well as presenting higher levels of osteoprotegerin and LDL oxidation. The logistic regression revealed that the independent determinants of CAC were age (odds ratio = 1.12; p = 0.006) and number of prescribed anti-hypertensive drugs (odds ratio = 2.38; p = 0.048). When the population was stratified by calcium score quartile, soluble Fas levels were significantly higher in patients with severe calcification. In patients younger than 45, CAC correlated positively with phosphorus levels (r = 0.52; p = 0.04). In PD patients, CAC is highly prevalent. Our results indicate that conditions such as inflammation and mineral disturbances are associated with its development."}
{"id": "16679099", "title": "N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide and B-type natriuretic peptide for identifying coronary artery disease and left ventricular hypertrophy in ambulatory chronic kidney disease patients.", "content": "N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide and B-type natriuretic peptide for identifying coronary artery disease and left ventricular hypertrophy in ambulatory chronic kidney disease patients. Elevated natriuretic peptide levels are common in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), as is the presence of coronary artery disease (CAD) and left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH). It was hypothesized that N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-pro-BNP) and B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels could identify CAD and LVH in asymptomatic patients with CKD. Clinical, laboratory, and echocardiographic data were collected prospectively in 54 ambulatory patients with CKD not requiring dialysis. CAD was defined by previous myocardial infarction or coronary revascularization. The median age was 70 years (interquartile range [IQR] 57 to 76). Fourteen patients (26%) had CAD, and 30 (56%) had LVH. Median NT-pro-BNP was 724 pg/ml (IQR 168 to 2,950), median BNP was 137 pg/ml (IQR 31 to 391), and the median glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was 31 ml/min/1.73 m2 (IQR 21 to 42). A strong correlation was found between NT-pro-BNP and BNP levels (R = 0.74, p <0.0001), but only moderate correlations were found between NT-pro-BNP and GFR (R = -0.45, p = 0.0006) and between BNP and GFR (R = -0.38, p = 0.005). There was no trend of an increase in the prevalence of LVH or CAD with decreasing GFR. However, across progressive NT-pro-BNP and BNP quartiles, the prevalences of LVH and CAD increased significantly. Receiver-operating characteristic curves showed that these 2 markers are similar and significant predictors for indicating LVH (area under the curve [AUC] 0.72, p = 0.005 for NT-pro-BNP; AUC 0.72, p = 0.007 for BNP) and CAD (AUC 0.80, p = 0.001 for NT-pro-BNP; AUC 0.82, p = 0.0004 for BNP; p = 0.45 for NT-pro-BNP vs BNP). In conclusion, NT-pro-BNP and BNP levels are significant and equivalent indicators of CAD and LVH in asymptomatic patients with CKD."}
{"id": "16650240", "title": "Two-year follow-up of sirolimus-eluting stents for the treatment of proximal left anterior descending coronary artery stenosis.", "content": "Two-year follow-up of sirolimus-eluting stents for the treatment of proximal left anterior descending coronary artery stenosis. Sirolimus-eluting stents (SES) have demonstrated low target vessel revascularizations and low incidence of angiographic restenosis in several clinical scenarios. The aim of the present study was to assess the efficacy and safety of SES for the treatment of proximal left anterior descending coronary artery (pLAD) lesions. Ninety-six patients with severe pLAD stenosis were enrolled. Angiographic and clinical follow-up were performed at 6 and 24 months, respectively. Death, myocardial infarction (MI), new target lesion revascularization (TLR), and target vessel failure (TVF) were registered. Clinical, angiographic, and procedural variables were analyzed to identify predictors of restenosis. Mean clinical follow-up was 858+/-158 days (26.5+/-8.3 months). Angiographic procedural success was 100%. Angiographic follow-up showed 8.4% of binary restenosis without edge-restenosis phenomenon. Late loss was 0.15+/-0.65 mm; 15.6% of patients had an adverse cardiac event, with 1% of death, 5.2% of MI, 6.3% of TLR, and 9.4% of TVF. At 2 years, the probabilities of cumulative TVF- and TLR-free survival were 90.6% and 93.7%, respectively. Interestingly, no adverse cardiac events were registered between the first and second years. Female gender (OR 10.7 CI 95%[1.7-66.7]) and in-stent restenosis (OR 8.2, CI 95%[1.2-56.4]) were found as independent predictors of binary restenosis. Advanced chronic renal failure showed a strong trend toward worse outcome in terms of binary restenosis (P=0.063). SES for the treatment of pLAD stenosis proved safe and effective in a long-term follow-up with low incidence of adverse cardiac events and restenosis. Female gender and in-stent restenosis were predictors of binary restenosis."}
{"id": "16647461", "title": "Evaluation of type 1 diabetics for simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation with regard to cardiovascular risk.", "content": "Evaluation of type 1 diabetics for simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation with regard to cardiovascular risk. The main cause of death for diabetic patients and patients on dialysis is coronary artery disease (CAD). The most common cause of graft loss following simultaneous pancreas and kidney transplantation (SPK) is death with a functioning graft due to CAD. Therefore, careful pretransplantation evaluation of CAD is mandatory. In our series, every patient undergoes a noninvasive cardiac function test like dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) or myocardial thallium scintigraphy using adenosine to induce medical stress. Thirty patients were evaluated for SPK: 15 patients with myocardial scintigraphy and 8 with DSE. Seven investigations showed pathological findings and we performed coronary angiograms, none of which showed coronary artery stenosis. Seven primary coronary angiograms were performed: four due to a history of CAD and three as a primary diagnostic. Following SPK one patient died at 21 days after transplantation due to myocardial infarction. He had a history of CAD with angioplasty and stent implantation. Noninvasive cardiac function tests like DSE or myocardial scintigraphy are reliable methods to evaluate CAD in patients with diabetic nephropathy awaiting SPK. In case of a suspicious finding or a history of CAD, a coronary angiogram should be performed to assess the need for revascularization. Following this algorithm we may further reduce the mortality of SPK."}
{"id": "16647439", "title": "Does contrast medium administration in organ donors affect early kidney graft function?", "content": "Does contrast medium administration in organ donors affect early kidney graft function? Since the upper age for organ donors has been raised, a higher incidence of preexistent organ damage and functional impairment is to be expected. Coronary artery sclerosis increases with age. It can only be diagnosed with certainty by coronary angiography. Since contrast medium administration may cause renal damage when risk factors are present, this study sought to establish whether angiography negatively influenced the early postoperative function of kidney grafts. We compared the clinical courses of 36 recipients of kidneys from donors in whom coronary angiography or levography had been performed with 36 recipients of kidneys from donors who had not been subjected to contrast medium. The results showed that the administration of contrast medium had no influence on renal function at 3 or 6 months after transplantation. In conclusion, fears that donor kidneys might be harmed by contrast medium appeared to therefore be unfounded."}
{"id": "16640708", "title": "The impact of coronary artery disease risk factors on intravascular ultrasound-derived morphologic indices of human coronaries.", "content": "The impact of coronary artery disease risk factors on intravascular ultrasound-derived morphologic indices of human coronaries. The relationship of intravascular ultrasound (IVUS)-derived measurements of atherosclerotic plaque to various coronary artery disease (CAD) risk factors is not well known. The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship of percent coronary luminal stenosis by IVUS to other IVUS measures of CAD, as well as the relationship of common IVUS measures of CAD to traditional CAD risk factors. We hypothesized that one or more IVUS measures of CAD might relate more strongly to CAD risk factors than does percent luminal coronary stenosis. The records of 897 consecutive patients (57% men, mean age 62 years) who underwent IVUS investigation of their coronary arteries from 1996 through 2001 were retrospectively reviewed. IVUS was performed using a 20-MHz probe (Jomed, Rancho Cordoba, CA) and a manual pull-back technique to image the coronary arteries. Coronary artery remodeling ratio-i.e., the ratio of coronary lesion external elastic membrane cross-sectional area (EEM CSA) to proximal reference artery EEM CSA; plaque burden-i.e., plaque plus media CSA divided by EEM CSA; calcium arc; and percent stenosis of luminal cross-sectional area were measured by a single reader. Percent area stenosis, the most commonly used IVUS parameter, did not correlate with the other three IVUS-derived parameters, nor was it related to any of the CAD risk factors considered. In contrast, remodeling ratio was directly correlated with plaque burden (r=0.22, P<0.001), but inversely related to calcium arc (r=-0.13, P=0.01). IVUS plaque burden was significantly correlated with male gender (P<0.0001) and diabetes mellitus (DM) (P=0.003). In multivariate analyses including age, gender, and CAD risk factors, plaque burden was significantly associated with age, male gender, and DM, but not with chronic renal failure, hypertension, or hypercholesterolemia. The multivariate model also revealed that the calcium arc was significantly associated with male gender and age. These IVUS findings provide anatomic documentation that the traditional CAD risk factors relate more strongly to plaque burden than to percent coronary arterial luminal narrowing."}
{"id": "16640517", "title": "Validation of a screening protocol for identifying low-risk candidates with type 1 diabetes mellitus for kidney with or without pancreas transplantation.", "content": "Validation of a screening protocol for identifying low-risk candidates with type 1 diabetes mellitus for kidney with or without pancreas transplantation. Certain clinical risk factors are associated with significant coronary artery disease in kidney transplant candidates with diabetes mellitus. We sought to validate the use of a clinical algorithm in predicting post-transplantation mortality in patients with type 1 diabetes. We also examined the prevalence of significant coronary lesions in high-risk transplant candidates. All patients with type 1 diabetes evaluated between 1991 and 2001 for kidney with/without pancreas transplantation were classified as high-risk based on the presence of any of the following risk factors: age >or=45 yr, smoking history >or=5 pack years, diabetes duration >or=25 yr or any ST-T segment abnormalities on electrocardiogram. Remaining patients were considered low risk. All high-risk candidates were advised to undergo coronary angiography. The primary outcome of interest was all-cause mortality post-transplantation. Eighty-four high-risk and 42 low-risk patients were identified. Significant coronary artery stenosis was detected in 31 high-risk candidates. Mean arterial pressure was a significant predictor of coronary stenosis (odds ratio 1.68; 95% confidence interval 1.14-2.46), adjusted for age, sex and duration of diabetes. In 75 candidates who underwent transplantation with median follow-up of 47 months, the use of clinical risk factors predicted all eight deaths. No deaths occurred in low-risk patients. A significant mortality difference was noted between the two risk groups (p = 0.03). This clinical algorithm can identify patients with type 1 diabetes at risk for mortality after kidney with/without pancreas transplant. Patients without clinical risk factors can safely undergo transplantation without further cardiac evaluation."}
{"id": "16636584", "title": "Prediction of coronary artery disease by transesophageal echocardiographic detection of thoracic aortic plaque in patients with chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Prediction of coronary artery disease by transesophageal echocardiographic detection of thoracic aortic plaque in patients with chronic kidney disease. Our aim was to examine the significance of thoracic aortic plaque detected by transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) in the prediction of coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). We examined 118 patients (mean age 52 +/- 12 years) with CKD and followed them for a mean of 3.4 +/- 0.8 years. The study group included 52 predialysis patients with moderate to severe CKD (plasma creatinine > or = 200 micromol/l), 32 patients on dialysis treatment, and 34 renal transplant recipients. At baseline, TEE was performed to evaluate thoracic aortic atherosclerosis. CAD was defined by a history of a documented myocardial infarction, a coronary angiogram or a post-mortem autopsy finding showing significant occlusive CAD by the end of the follow-up period. CAD was documented in 31 (26%) of the 118 study patients. The presence of thoracic aortic plaque had a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 37% for CAD and the positive and negative predictive values were 36 and 100%, respectively. In the subset of 36 patients with morphological findings of coronary arteries by angiogram or autopsy, the presence of large thoracic aortic plaques (> or = 3 mm in diameter) had a 73% sensitivity and 90% specificity for significant coronary artery stenosis. The positive and negative predictive values were 95 and 56%, respectively. TEE may be used for detecting high-risk patients with CKD; the absence of thoracic aortic plaque predicted the absence of CAD, and the presence of large aortic plaques predicted significant coronary artery stenosis."}
{"id": "16636488", "title": "Valsartan cardio-renal protection in patients undergoing coronary angiography complicated with chronic renal insufficiency (VAL-CARP) trial: rationale and design.", "content": "Valsartan cardio-renal protection in patients undergoing coronary angiography complicated with chronic renal insufficiency (VAL-CARP) trial: rationale and design. Despite an increase in the frequency of coronary angiography (CAG) in Japan, the exact incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) remains unknown in the Japanese population, especially in patients with chronic renal insufficiency. In addition, the nature of pharmacological interventions that would benefit the patients before or after procedures such as coronary bypass graft (CABG) and percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has not been fully investigated. In the trial 500 patients with renal insufficiency (defined as a glomerular filtration rate (GFR) of between 89 and 30 ml . min(-1) . (1.73 m(-2)) following CAG will be randomly assigned to receive either valsartan, an angiotensin receptor blocker or angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor plus valsartan.1 The primary end-point is a change in the GFR of patients, which will be followed up for 3 years, including following CABG surgery or PCI. The incidence of cardiac events as well as the adverse effects of pharmacological intervention will be evaluated. In addition, the incidence of renal artery stenosis at the time of CAG will be reported also; however, the patients with renal artery stenosis will be excluded from the present study. The present study will provide data on: 1) the exact incidence and course of renal function of CIN after CAG; and 2) the comparative therapeutic benefit of pharmacological intervention with valsartan alone or with valsartan and an ACE inhibitor in combination in patients with coexisting coronary artery diseases and chronic renal insufficiency, regardless of whether they receive CABG or PCI. In addition to these studies, an estimate of the incidence of renal artery stenosis in these patients will be demonstrated."}
{"id": "16631657", "title": "Early and late outcome after off-pump coronary artery bypass graft surgery with coronary endarterectomy: a single-center 10-year experience.", "content": "Early and late outcome after off-pump coronary artery bypass graft surgery with coronary endarterectomy: a single-center 10-year experience. We aimed to review the early and late results of off-pump coronary artery bypass graft surgery (OPCABG) with coronary endarterectomy in patients undergoing surgical revascularization at our institution. Between 1995 and 2004, of 680 OPCABG patients in a single surgeon's practice (W.R.D.), 70 patients (10.29%) who underwent concomitant coronary endarterectomy were studied. The mean age was 63.6 +/- 9.29 years. Thirty-three patients (55%) were Canadian Cardiovascular Society class III or IV, and 24 patients (40%) were New York Heart Association class III or IV. Eighteen patients (35%) had impaired left ventricular function. The mean EuroSCORE of these patients was 5.9 +/- 1.8. Fifty-seven patients (81%) underwent right coronary artery endarterectomy, and 12 patients (17%) underwent left anterior descending artery endarterectomy (8 left interior mammary arteries used as conduits). Four patients (5.7%) had two vessels endarterectomized. The mean number of grafts were 2.0 +/- 0.4. The 30-day mortality rate was 2.85% (n = 2). Three patients (4.3%) suffered from postoperative myocardial infarction, and 3 patients (4.3%) required postoperative intra-aortic balloon pump counterpulsation. Mean intensive therapy unit stay was 17.6 +/- 8.1 hours. Patients were extubated after a mean of 10.38 +/- 4.9 hours. The mean length of hospital stay was 6.1 +/- 2.0 days. Fourteen patients (20%) had postoperative atrial fibrillation, and only 1 patient (1.42%) had a transient stroke with complete recovery. There were no conversions to cardiopulmonary bypass. A mean of 0.86 +/- 0.17 units of blood were transfused postoperatively. There was one reopening for bleeding, and 1 patient had renal failure requiring hemofiltration. The median follow-up was 4.91 years, 90% of patients were angina free, and the actuarial survival at 10 years was 78.04% +/- 7.6%. Off-pump coronary artery bypass graft survery with coronary endarterectomy is feasible and achieves surgical revascularization in patients with diffuse coronary artery disease."}
{"id": "16623672", "title": "Large variations in prescriptions of gastrointestinal medications in hemodialysis patients on three continents: the Dialysis Outcomes and Practice Patterns Study (DOPPS).", "content": "Large variations in prescriptions of gastrointestinal medications in hemodialysis patients on three continents: the Dialysis Outcomes and Practice Patterns Study (DOPPS). Little is known about proton pump inhibitor (PPI) or H(2) receptor antagonist (HA) prescription patterns or regarding use of predictors in hemodialysis patients. Proton pump inhibitor and HA prescribing patterns were investigated in 8628 hemodialysis patients from seven countries enrolled in the prospective, observational Dialysis Outcomes and Practice Patterns Study. Logistic regression examined predictors associated with PPI and HA use, adjusting for age, sex, country, time with end-stage renal disease, medications, 14 comorbid conditions, and the association between the number of comorbid conditions and the prescription of gastrointestinal (GI) medications. In a cross-section from February 1, 2000, 3.4% to 36.9% of patients received an HA and 0.8% to 26.9% took a PPI, depending upon the country. From 1996 to 2001, the prescription of HAs declined while PPI use increased. Facility use of HAs and PPIs ranged from 0% to 94% of patients. H2 receptor antagonist or PPI use was significantly and independently associated with age, narcotic use, corticosteroids, acetaminophen, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, tricyclic antidepressants, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, coronary artery disease history, cardiovascular diseases other than hypertension or congestive heart failure, peripheral vascular disease, pulmonary disease, and GI bleed. Proton pump inhibitors or HAs were more likely to be prescribed in Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom than in the United States. The odds of PPI prescription increased if serum phosphorus <5.5 mEq/L or serum albumin <3.5 g/dL. Prescription of GI medications was associated with many comorbidities and use of several medications. Extreme variability of prescription patterns suggests that there is no standard approach in treatment practices."}
{"id": "16609863", "title": "Cutting balloons for the treatment of vascular stenoses.", "content": "Cutting balloons for the treatment of vascular stenoses. The aim of this article is to review the mechanism, technical characteristics, biological response and clinical applications of cutting balloon angioplasty in peripheral vessels. The cutting balloon is a non-compliant, balloon catheter equipped with three-to-four microtome-sharp atherotomes. When used appropriately, it is safe and easy to use, with a high immediate success rate and few complications, provided oversizing is avoided. There is some evidence that pre-dilation with a standard or high-pressure balloon may also predispose to vascular rupture. The cutting balloon has proved to be beneficial in treating difficult complex lesions in the coronary arteries. Early experience in non-coronary vessels shows that cutting balloon angioplasty can be used to treat peripheral bypass anastomotic and haemodialysis fistula stenoses that are resistant to conventional high-inflation pressures. Its application in de novo peripheral arterial lesions and non-coronary in-stent restenosis is still under discussion. Theoretically, this device induces a smaller degree of vessel wall injury localised to the area of incisions and sparing the interincisional segments; however, this postulated reduction in restenosis rates has not been confirmed in clinical practice."}
{"id": "16606867", "title": "Effect of aggressive risk factor modification on cardiac events and myocardial ischaemia in patients with chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Effect of aggressive risk factor modification on cardiac events and myocardial ischaemia in patients with chronic kidney disease. To examine whether aggressive risk factor modification in chronic kidney disease (CKD) can limit the development of new ischaemia or reduce cardiac events. Patients with CKD were randomly assigned to either an aggressive risk factor modification strategy (targeted treatment of hypertension, dyslipidaemia, homocysteine, haemoglobin and phosphate) or standard care. An intention to treat analysis was performed on 152 patients who had baseline dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE), including 107 who had follow-up DSE. Biochemical parameters, cardiac risk factors and investigations (ECG, two-dimensional echocardiography) were recorded at baseline. New ischaemia was classed as new or worsening stress wall motion abnormality between follow-up and baseline DSE. Patients were followed up for the development of new ischaemia or cardiac death, acute coronary syndrome and non-fatal myocardial infarction over 1.8 years. The development of new ischaemia was common but not different between the standard and aggressively treated groups (15 (21%) v 18 (23%), p = 0.8). Independent predictors of new ischaemia were older age, abnormal ECG, higher systolic blood pressure and lower serum high density lipoprotein cholesterol, but not treatment arm. The standard and aggressively treated groups did not differ in cardiac event rate (10% v 13%, p = 0.6) or all-cause mortality (10% v 19%, p = 0.2). In patients with an abnormal baseline DSE (non-diagnostic, scar or ischaemia), the event rate was similar (22% v 20%, p = 0.9). Aggressive risk factor modification in CKD does not limit the development of new ischaemia or reduce cardiac events in patients with an abnormal DSE."}
{"id": "16595795", "title": "Cardiac enzymes, renal failure and renal transplantation.", "content": "Cardiac enzymes, renal failure and renal transplantation. Diagnostic accuracy of the currently available serum markers of cardiac injury, such as myoglobin, creatine kinase and its myocardial isoform, are altered in patients with renal failure. It is shown that cardiac troponins have decreased diagnostic sensitivity and specificity in patients receiving renal replacement therapy. Data regarding serum levels of these cardiac biomarkers, especially those of the cardiac troponins, in patients with a transplanted kidney are limited. Current data show that levels of cardiac troponin I are unaltered in patients who have undergone renal transplantation, while levels of cardiac troponin T may be elevated.We believe that cardiac troponin I should be the biomarker of choice for diagnosis of myocardial injury in these patients. However, further trials are required for conclusive results."}
{"id": "16581337", "title": "Benefit versus risk in statin treatment.", "content": "Benefit versus risk in statin treatment. The Statin Safety Assessment Conference of the National Lipid Association (NLA), reported in this supplement to The American Journal of Cardiology, provides a comprehensive evaluation of old and new experience on adverse events associated with the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors, or statins. To place these in context, one can express both the risk of side effects and the benefits for cardiovascular disease in terms of events per person-year of statin treatment. The mortality risk from fatal rhabdomyolysis is approximately 0.3 per 100,000 person-years, and the risks of nonfatal rhabdomyolysis and of putative statin-attributable peripheral neuropathy are approximately 3 and 12 events, respectively, per 100,000 person-years. Reports of acute liver failure and acute or chronic kidney disease give lower rate estimates that, even when corrected for underreporting, are approximately equal to the background rates of these conditions in the general population, lending scant support for statin-attributable etiology. In contrast, the benefit of statin use is to avert several hundred deaths and several hundred cases each of heart and brain infarction per 100,000 person-years in appropriately treated high-risk patients. Although population estimates such as these are useful, they must be translated repeatedly to individual patient-provider encounters, where clinical skill and art must combine with scientific evidence. The continued publication of individual case reports and small randomized trials among groups of patients with potential side effects should be encouraged. Statins should not be used in situations where minimal benefit is expected, as safety data and risk-benefit analysis must be meshed with guidelines that help the clinician decide whom to treat and how aggressively to treat."}
{"id": "16580948", "title": "Coronary artery disease and nuclear imaging in renal failure.", "content": "Coronary artery disease and nuclear imaging in renal failure."}
{"id": "16551290", "title": "Inflammatory biomarkers and cardiovascular risk: association or cause and effect?", "content": "Inflammatory biomarkers and cardiovascular risk: association or cause and effect? With the current understanding that atherosclerosis is an inflammatory disorder, markers of the associated systemic inflammatory response have been extensively studied as predictors of cardiovascular disease. Recently the use of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) has been proposed for risk assessment in individuals at intermediate risk of coronary heart disease. The traditional view of inflammatory biomarkers, including CRP, regards them as risk markers rather than risk factors. Either category of marker would serve a diagnostic role, monitor disease activity, and indicate the efficacy of therapy or changing prognosis. However a risk factor with a causal role would be a potential target for therapy. This review discusses the available evidence that argues for and against a causal role for inflammatory biomarkers, with specific reference to CRP, in the atherosclerotic process."}
{"id": "16549903", "title": "Apelin and cardiac function in hemodialyzed patients: possible relations?", "content": "Apelin and cardiac function in hemodialyzed patients: possible relations? Apelin, a newly discovered adipocytokine, is produced by white adipose tissue and is also expressed in the kidney and heart. Increasing evidence suggests a role for apelin in the pathology of the cardiovascular system. Cardiovascular disease is a major contributor to the mortality and morbidity in patients with chronic renal failure. The aim of this study was to assess associations between apelin, coronary artery disease (CAD) and echocardiographic parameters in hemodialyzed patients. We investigated plasma apelin levels (using commercially available kits) in 81 nondiabetic, clinically stable hemodialyzed patients (38 females, 43 males) with and without CAD. Patients with CAD were significantly older, with significantly increased left ventricular internal end-diastolic dimension (LVIDd), left ventricular internal end-systolic dimension (LVISd), right ventricle (RV), left atrium (LA), interventricular septum in diastole, left ventricle posterior wall in diastole (LVPW), aorta, pulmonary artery, significantly lower ejection fraction and apelin than patients without CAD. We observed statistically significant correlations between apelin and echocardiographic parameters: LVIDd, LVISd, RV, LA, right atrium, LVPW, aorta, and serum lipids: cholesterol, LDL, triglycerides. In multiple logistic regression analysis, the only associate of apelin was LVIDd. Apelin level was significantly lower in dialyzed patients with CAD and it was associated with cardiac function. Apelin might be involved in the pathophysiology of cardiovascular disease in chronic renal failure. Since apelin is an inotrope in normal and failing hearts, this finding may have clinical implications for future use of apelin as a novel inotropic agent also for patients with uremic cardiomyopathy."}
{"id": "16539621", "title": "Cardiac assessment for renal transplantation.", "content": "Cardiac assessment for renal transplantation. Cardiac death is common in patients with end-stage renal failure. Screening for coronary artery disease prior to renal transplantation is advisable in high-risk patients. The optimal screening test has not been defined; however, myocardial perfusion studies are more sensitive than exercise electrocardiography and are less invasive than coronary angiography, which remains the gold standard. The management of coronary artery disease prior to transplantation is contentious. Revascularization of coronary artery stenoses is associated with high mortality and morbidity in the renal failure population, and there is little data to indicate that most patients with asymptomatic coronary lesions will benefit from prophylactic coronary intervention. In addition, beta-blockers and aspirin are under-utilized in the renal population. This paper reviews the literature and proposes algorithms for the cardiac assessment and management of patients prior to renal transplantation."}
{"id": "16504981", "title": "The natural history of coronary calcification progression in a cohort of nocturnal haemodialysis patients.", "content": "The natural history of coronary calcification progression in a cohort of nocturnal haemodialysis patients. End-stage renal disease (ESRD) is associated with a markedly increased cardiac calcification burden, as reflected by computed tomography scans of the heart. Nocturnal haemodialysis (NHD) is a novel form of renal replacement therapy which has multiple physiologic effects that may affect vascular calcification, including improvements in phosphate and uraemia control. The objective of the present study is the determination of the natural history of coronary calcification progression in patients converted to NHD, and the examination of the relationships between calcification risk factors and calcification progression in these patients. Thirty-eight ESRD patients were converted to NHD, and included in our observational cohort study. Coronary artery calcification scores (CACS) were documented at baseline and post-conversion (mean interscan duration 16+/-1 months). Other variables of interest included age, dialysis vintage, Framingham risk profile, phosphate binder and vitamin D usage, and plasma levels of calcium, phosphate and parathyroid hormone. Our cohort was stratified according to baseline calcification burden (minimal calcification: CACS < or = 10 vs significant calcification: CACS > 10). Twenty-four patients had baseline CACS < or = 10. These patients demonstrated no change in coronary calcification after 1 year of NHD (from 0.7+/-0.5 to 6+/-3, P = 0.1). Fourteen patients had higher initial CACS at baseline (1874+/-696), and demonstrated a non-significant 9% increase over 1 year to 2038+/-740 (P = 0.1). Plasma phosphate and calcium x phosphate product were significantly reduced, as were calcium-based phosphate binder and antihypertensive usage. Our study is the first to document CACS progression in a cohort of NHD patients. Further analysis of the effect of NHD on the physiology of cardiovascular calcification is required."}
{"id": "16503954", "title": "Morbidity, mortality and economic burden of renal impairment in cardiac intensive care.", "content": "Morbidity, mortality and economic burden of renal impairment in cardiac intensive care. Moderate to severe impairment of renal function has emerged as a potent risk factor for adverse short- and long-term outcomes among patients presenting with cardiac disease. We sought to define the clinical, late mortality and economic burden of this risk factor among patients presenting to cardiac intensive care. A clinical audit of patients presenting to cardiac intensive care was undertaken between July 2002 and June 2003. All patients presenting with cardiac diagnoses were included in the study. Baseline creatinine levels were assessed in all patients. Late mortality was assessed by the interrogation of the National Death Register. Renal impairment was defined as estimated glomerular filtration rate <60 mL/min per 1.73 m2, as calculated by the Modified Diet in Renal Disease formula. In-hospital and late outcomes were compared by Cox proportional hazards modelling, adjusting for known confounders. A matched analysis and attributable risk calculation were undertaken to assess the proportion of late mortality accounted for by impairment of renal function and other known negative prognostic factors. The in-hospital total cost associated with renal impairment was assessed by linear regression. Glomerular filtration rate <60 mL/min per 1.73 m2 was evident in 33.0% of this population. Among these patients, in-hospital and late mortality were substantially increased: risk ratio 13.2; 95% CI 3.0-58.1; P < 0.001 and hazard ratio 6.2; 95% CI 3.6-10.7; P < 0.001, respectively. In matched analysis, renal impairment to this level was associated with 42.1% of all the late deaths observed. Paradoxically, patients with renal impairment were more conservatively managed, but their hospitalizations were associated with an excess adjusted in-hospital cost of $A1676. Impaired renal function is associated with a striking clinical and economic burden among patients presenting to cardiac intensive care. As a marker for future risk, renal function accounts for a substantial proportion of the burden of late mortality. The burden of risk suggests a greater potential opportunity for improvement of outcomes through optimisation of therapeutic strategies."}
{"id": "16500488", "title": "Mitral peak Doppler E-wave to peak mitral annulus velocity ratio is an accurate estimate of left ventricular filling pressure and predicts mortality in end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Mitral peak Doppler E-wave to peak mitral annulus velocity ratio is an accurate estimate of left ventricular filling pressure and predicts mortality in end-stage renal disease. The study aimed to assess whether the mitral peak Doppler E-wave to peak mitral annulus velocity ratio (E/Ea) estimates left ventricular (LV) filling pressure (LVFP) and predicts mortality in end-stage renal disease. In all, 125 candidates for renal transplant were prospectively studied. LV end-diastolic pressure of 15 mm Hg or greater at cardiac catheterization was defined as elevated LVFP. Severe coronary artery disease, N- terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide level, left atrial size, flow propagation velocity, mitral E/Ea ratio, pulmonary atrial reversal velocity, and pulmonary-mitral atrial wave duration predicted an increased LVFP. However, the mitral E/Ea ratio (odds ratio 8.1, 95% confidence interval 5.1-9.6, P = .003) was the only independent predictor. An E/Ea of 15 or more, seen in 31 (25%) patients, predicted increased LVFP with sensitivity of 82% and specificity of 88%, and was associated with increased mortality (P = .005). In end-stage renal disease, mitral E/Ea ratio 15 or higher accurately predicts increased LVFP and mortality."}
{"id": "16492298", "title": "Renal insufficiency and the risk of infection from pacemaker or defibrillator surgery.", "content": "Renal insufficiency and the risk of infection from pacemaker or defibrillator surgery. Pacemakers and implanted cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) infection rates are rising. Renal insufficiency impairs immune function and is known to increase the risk of infection following implantation of orthopedic hardware. The purpose of the current study is to characterize the risk factors for pacemaker and ICD infection and to evaluate the role of renal insufficiency in this complication. A large (n = 4,856) single center experience with pacemaker and ICD procedures was reviewed. Of these, 141 were extractions of infected devices and 76 of these patients had been implanted in the Emory system and had preimplant creatinine information available for analysis. These cases were compared to 76 control patients undergoing device implantation matched by date of implant who had no infective complications. Demographic and clinical data from both groups were compared using both univariate and multivariate analysis. The overall rate of infection was 1.5%. Patients with device infection were more likely to have congestive heart failure (CHF), be diabetic, have generator exchanges, and to take warfarin than controls. There was no difference in the prevalence of coronary disease, atrial fibrillation, steroid use, or malignancy between the two groups. Elevated creatinine (Cr > or = 1.5 mg/dL) was much more frequent in patients with infection than in controls (38% vs 12%, odds ratio 4.6, P < 0.001). Moderate to severe renal disease (GFR < or = 60 cc/min/1.73 m2) was the most potent risk factor for infection, with a prevalence of 42% in infected patients versus 13% in controls (odds ratio of 4.8). Renal insufficiency dramatically increases the risk of infection complicating pacemaker or ICD surgery. This association should be part of the risk-benefit consideration prior to device implantation. Additional study of more extensive perioperative antibiotic therapy in this subset of patients is warranted."}
{"id": "16490821", "title": "Impact of renal dysfunction on outcomes of coronary artery bypass surgery: results from the Society of Thoracic Surgeons National Adult Cardiac Database.", "content": "Impact of renal dysfunction on outcomes of coronary artery bypass surgery: results from the Society of Thoracic Surgeons National Adult Cardiac Database. Although patients with end-stage renal disease are known to be at high risk for mortality after coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery, the impact of lesser degrees of renal impairment has not been well studied. The purpose of this study was to compare outcomes in patients undergoing CABG with a range from normal renal function to dependence on dialysis. We reviewed 483,914 patients receiving isolated CABG from July 2000 to December 2003, using the Society of Thoracic Surgeons National Adult Cardiac Database. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was estimated for patients with the use of the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease study formula. Multivariable logistic regression was used to determine the association of GFR with operative mortality and morbidities (stroke, reoperation, deep sternal infection, ventilation >48 hours, postoperative stay >2 weeks) after adjustment for 27 other known clinical risk factors. Preoperative renal dysfunction (RD) was common among CABG patients, with 51% having mild RD (GFR 60 to 90 mL/min per 1.73 m2, excludes dialysis), 24% moderate RD (GFR 30 to 59 mL/min per 1.73 m2, excludes dialysis), 2% severe RD (GFR <30 mL/min per 1.73 m2, excludes dialysis), and 1.5% requiring dialysis. Operative mortality rose inversely with declining renal function, from 1.3% for those with normal renal function to 9.3% for patients with severe RD not on dialysis and 9.0% for those who were dialysis dependent. After adjustment for other covariates, preoperative GFR was one of the most powerful predictors of operative mortality and morbidities. Preoperative RD is common in the CABG population and carries important prognostic importance. Assessment of preoperative renal function should be incorporated into clinical risk assessment and prediction models."}
{"id": "16490629", "title": "Ischemia-modified albumin predicts mortality in ESRD.", "content": "Ischemia-modified albumin predicts mortality in ESRD. The primary study aim is to determine whether ischemia-modified albumin (IMA) levels predict mortality in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). The secondary aim is to determine characteristics of patients with elevated IMA levels. A prospective observational study of 114 renal transplantation candidates was performed. All underwent coronary angiography and dobutamine stress echocardiography. The primary end point is total mortality. During a follow-up period of 2.25 +/- 0.71 years, there were 18 deaths; 10 were cardiac related. Diabetes, severe coronary artery disease, positive dobutamine stress echocardiography result, cardiac troponin T (cTnT) level, IMA level, left ventricular (LV) end-systolic diameter, LV ejection fraction, left atrial size, and mitral peak velocity of early filling (E)/early diastolic velocity (Ea) ratio all predicted mortality. The receiver operating characteristic area under the curve for mortality prediction was similar for IMA and cTnT levels. An IMA level of 95 KU/L or greater (n = 46) predicted mortality with a sensitivity of 76% and specificity of 74%. cTnT level of 0.06 ng/mL or greater (> or = 0.06 microg/L; n = 51) predicted mortality with a sensitivity of 75% and specificity of 72%. Thirty-eight patients (33%) had both IMA and cTnT levels elevated. With multivariate analysis, a positive dobutamine stress echocardiography result (P = 0.003), combined elevated IMA and cTnT levels (P = 0.005), and E/Ea ratio (P = 0.009) were independent prognostic factors. IMA and cTnT levels alone were not independent predictors of mortality. Patients with an elevated IMA level had a significantly larger LV size, decreased LV systolic function, and greater E/Ea ratio compared with those without an increased level. IMA level predicts mortality in patients with ESRD. Patients with elevated levels have larger LV size, decreased systolic function, and greater estimated LV filling pressures."}
{"id": "16489569", "title": "Outcomes of contrast-induced nephropathy: experience in patients undergoing cardiovascular intervention.", "content": "Outcomes of contrast-induced nephropathy: experience in patients undergoing cardiovascular intervention. Use of iodinated contrast media for diagnostic and interventional procedures is increasing as computed tomography and percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) technologies provide increasing patient benefit. Although some complications associated with contrast media are mild and transient, contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) can negatively affect long-term patient morbidity and mortality. The incidence of and outcomes from CIN have been carefully studied in cardiology patients. A number of studies have identified CIN-associated complications in PCI patients, including bleeding, hematoma, stroke, adult respiratory distress syndrome, electrolyte imbalances, and sepsis. In post-PCI patients, rates of myocardial infarction and vessel reocclusion are more common in patients with CIN. Therefore, in-hospital mortality is increased in patients with CIN. In patients requiring dialysis after PCI, several studies have shown the 1-year mortality rate to be >55%. Even moderate renal dysfunction not requiring dialysis is associated with increased mortality in patients with coronary artery disease. Precautionary measures before, during, and after the use of contrast media that reduce the incidence of CIN, such as discontinuation of nephrotoxic medications, adequate hydration, and use of appropriate volumes and types of contrast media, should be considered in all patients with renal insufficiency or with other risk factors for CIN."}
{"id": "16488920", "title": "Relationship between serum albumin level before initiating haemodialysis and angiographic severity of coronary atherosclerosis in end-stage renal disease patients.", "content": "Relationship between serum albumin level before initiating haemodialysis and angiographic severity of coronary atherosclerosis in end-stage renal disease patients. In patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), although strong associations have been observed between malnutrition and atherosclerosis, the relationship between serum albumin concentration and angiographic changes of coronary artery disease (CAD) remains poorly explored. The goal of the present study was, in patients with CKD, to clarify the relationship between the angiographic severity of CAD and serum albumin concentration reflecting either inflammation or nutrition or both. In this study, 100 end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients were enrolled, who commenced long-term dialysis therapy at our hospital and underwent coronary angiography within 3 months of the first haemodialysis (HD) session. Mean age was 63+/-11 years, 20% of the subjects were female and 62% had diabetes. Severity of CAD was evaluated in terms of (i) number of vessels exhibiting CAD (>or=75% stenosis) and (ii) Gensini score (GS). Clinical characteristics and laboratory findings were recorded at initiation of long-term HD therapy. We then evaluated a possible association with the presence and degree of CAD. Sixty-four patients exhibited signs of CAD. Forty-one among them (64%) had multivessel disease. On univariate logistic regression analysis, age, diabetes and hypoalbuminaemia were significantly associated with multivessel CAD. Univariate linear regression analysis demonstrated a positive correlation of age and diabetes with GS, and an inverse correlation of BMI and serum albumin level with GS. Stepwise regression analysis showed age and serum albumin level to be independently associated with multivessel CAD and GS. The ROC curves demonstrated best cut-off levels of age and albumin for predicting multivessel CAD to be 70 years and 3.15 g/dl, respectively. Hypoalbuminaemia at the initiation of dialysis is an important predictor of advanced CAD, particularly in male and in diabetic patients. It may reflect mainly a state of inflammation. However, malnutrition as a confounding factor cannot be entirely excluded."}
{"id": "16485045", "title": "Treatment and one-year outcome of patients with renal dysfunction across the broad spectrum of acute coronary syndromes.", "content": "Treatment and one-year outcome of patients with renal dysfunction across the broad spectrum of acute coronary syndromes. There are limited data on the treatment and long-term outcome of patients with renal dysfunction across the broad spectrum of acute coronary syndromes (ACS) in Canada. To examine the treatment patterns and outcome of ACS patients with renal dysfunction. In the prospective, multicentre, Canadian ACS Registry, 3510 patients hospitalized for ACS (including unstable angina, ST and non-ST elevation myocardial infarction) were categorized into four groups: normal renal function (creatinine clearance [CrCl] 90 mL/min or greater; n=1152), mild renal dysfunction (CrCl 60 mL/min to 89 mL/min; n=1253), moderate renal dysfunction (CrCl 30 mL/min to 59 mL/min; n=944) and severe renal dysfunction (CrCl less than 30 mL/min; n=161). Multivariable logistic regression analysis was performed to examine the independent prognostic value of renal dysfunction, and the association of various therapies with one-year survival. All-cause mortality at one year was 2.8%, 6.4%, 14.5% and 40.9% in patients with normal renal function, and mild, moderate and severe renal dysfunction, respectively (P for trend<0.001). After adjusting for other prognosticators, moderate (OR 1.82, 95% CI 1.08 to 3.08) and severe (OR 6.29, 95% CI 3.37 to 11.77) renal dysfunction remained independent predictors of one-year death. Patients with renal dysfunction were less likely to receive fibrinolytic therapy, to undergo coronary angiography and revascularization in hospital, and to be treated with acetylsalicylic acid, beta-blockers and lipid-lowering therapy at discharge and at one-year follow-up. The association of in-hospital revascularization, and discharge use of acetylsalicylic acid and beta-blockers with better one-year survival was similar among patients with normal and impaired renal function. Renal dysfunction is prevalent and independently predicts higher mortality in patients with ACS. The current underutilization of effective therapies may contribute to the poor outcome. There remains an important opportunity to improve care in this high-risk population."}
{"id": "16481876", "title": "Anemia and cardiovascular and kidney disease.", "content": "Anemia and cardiovascular and kidney disease. The joint occurrence of cardiovascular disease, kidney disease and anemia has been termed the 'cardio-renal-anemia syndrome'. This review will examine each of these relationships as they pertain to coronary heart disease. Important contributions from the recent literature included observations suggesting that African-Americans with chronic kidney disease and no previous history of cardiovascular disease were more likely than caucasians to have incident cardiovascular disease than caucasians with chronic kidney disease but that this difference did not apply to risk of recurrent cardiovascular disease. Recent reports have brought attention to a continued lack of clinical trials evidence to support anemia treatment for cardioprotection, further concern that higher hemoglobin levels may increase cardiovascular risk and evidence that anemia and kidney function interact to increase risk for coronary heart disease. Finally, additional observational studies and small clinical trials continue to support a role of anemia treatment in protection of residual kidney function, although a recent meta-analysis failed to demonstrate a conclusive benefit of erythropoietin treatment on progressive kidney disease. The cardio-renal-anemia syndrome is a set of complex and interrelated phenomena that are poorly understood. Current evidence is insufficient to demonstrate a conclusive benefit of treatment with erythropoietin on risk of cardiovascular disease or progression of kidney disease. Future research is needed to further clarify these issues."}
{"id": "16467746", "title": "Contrast-induced nephropathy: epidemiology and prevention.", "content": "Contrast-induced nephropathy: epidemiology and prevention. Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) is a leading cause of iatrogenic acute kidney failure. Periprocedural CIN results in a greater risk of requiring renal replacement therapy, prolonged hospitalization, excessive health care costs, potential long term kidney impairment and mortality. Identified risk factors for CIN include premorbid chronic kidney disease, diabetes mellitus, congestive heart failure, critical illness and volume of administered contrast media. Prophylactic interventions for the prevention of CIN remain controversial and uncertain. In this review we critically appraise the evidence for prevention of CIN. In general, every attempt should be made to correct underlying volume depletion, discontinue potential nephrotoxins, reverse any acute kidney dysfunction or when not possible, consider delay of procedure or an alternative modality for imaging. A minimum volume of contrast media should be employed, including going left ventriculogram and performing staged procedures if applicable. There are few interventions with quality evidence for reducing the incidence of CIN. procedure hydration and the use of nonionic iso-osmolar contrast media have consistently demonstrated efficacy. For patients at high risk, there is evidence to suggest benefit with N-acetylcysteine. Clinical studies with adenosine antagonists are encouraging; however, further confirmatory trials are required. Based on the available studies, there is inadequate evidence for the routine use of hemofiltration, atrial natriuretic peptides, calcium channel blockers, or prostaglandins. There is no evidence to support prophylaxis with diuretic therapy, forced diuresis, low dose dopamine, fenoldopam, captopril, or endothelin receptor antagonists. Despite recent advances in the epidemiology, pathophysiology and natural history of CIN, few effective prophylactic or therapeutic interventions have conclusively demonstrated evidence for a reduction in CIN incidence and no therapy has proven efficacious once CIN is established."}
{"id": "16457710", "title": "Differing myocardial response to a single session of hemodialysis in end-stage renal disease with and without type 2 diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease.", "content": "Differing myocardial response to a single session of hemodialysis in end-stage renal disease with and without type 2 diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease. Though hemodialysis (HD) acutely improves cardiac function, the impact of background diseases like coronary artery disease (CAD) and Type 2 diabetes (DM) in the setting of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) is not known. Tissue velocity echocardiography (TVE) offers a fast choice to follow changes in myocardial function after HD in ESRD with concomitant DM and /or CAD. 46 subjects (17 with ESRD, Group 1; 15 with DM, Group 2; 14 with DM+CAD, Group 3) underwent standard and TVE prior to and shortly after HD. Besides standard Doppler variables, regional myocardial systolic and diastolic velocities, as well as systolic strain rate were post processed. Compared with pre-HD, post-HD body weight (kg) significantly decreased in all the three groups (51 +/- 9 vs. 48 +/- 8, 62 +/- 10 vs.59 +/- 10, and 61 +/- 9 vs. 58 +/- 9 respectively; all p < 0.01). Left ventricular end diastolic dimensions (mm) also decreased post- HD (46 +/- 5 vs. 42 +/- 7, 53 +/- 7 vs. 50 +/- 7, 51 +/- 7 vs. 47 +/- 8 respectively; all p < 0.01). Regional longitudinal peak systolic velocity in septum (cm/s) significantly increased post-HD in Group 1(5.7 +/- 1.6 vs. 7.2 +/- 2.3; p < 0.001) while remained unchanged in the other two groups. Similar trends were noted in other left ventricular walls. When the myocardial velocities (cm/s) were computed globally, the improvement was seen only in Group 1 (6.3 +/- 1.5 vs. 7.9 +/- 2.0; p < 0.001). Global early regional diastolic velocity (cm/s) improved in Group 1, remained unchanged in Group 2, while significantly decreased in Group 3(-5.9 +/- 1.3 vs. -4.1 +/- 1.8; p < 0.01). Global systolic strain rate (1/sec) increased in the first 2 Groups but remained unchanged (-0.87 +/- 0.4 vs. -0.94 +/- 0.3; p = ns) in Group 3. A single HD session improves LV function only in ESRD without coexistent DM and/or CAD. The present data suggest that not only dialysis-dependent changes in loading conditions but also co-existent background diseases determine the myocardial response to HD."}
{"id": "16442297", "title": "Mitral regurgitation progression following isolated coronary artery bypass surgery: frequency, risk factors, and potential prevention strategies.", "content": "Mitral regurgitation progression following isolated coronary artery bypass surgery: frequency, risk factors, and potential prevention strategies. Though de novo mitral regurgitation (MR) is frequently seen in patients who have undergone coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG), its incidence, predictors, and mechanisms are not known. Our surgical registry was screened for patients undergoing isolated CABG who had preoperative and postoperative resting echocardiograms performed at our institution with <or=2+ MR preoperatively. This yielded 438 patients. Progression to 3-4+ MR post-CABG was correlated with clinical, electrocardiographic, echocardiographic, and operative variables. New 3-4+ MR developed in 11 (10%) of the 108 patients with no prior MR, 21 of the 180 (12%) patients with pre-CABG 1+ MR, and 37 of the 150 (25%) patients with pre-CABG 2+ MR. MR progression correlated with female gender (42% vs 27%, p=0.01), history of renal insufficiency (12% vs 5%, p=0.05), prior-CABG (30% vs 17%, p=0.01), lack of beta-blocker use (19% vs 35%, p=0.008), lower incidence of significant PDA stenosis grafted (88% vs 98%, p=0.003), lower preoperative LVEF (42+/-19% vs 50+/-17%, p=0.001), larger LV size (p=0.01), pre-CABG MR grade (p=0.0002), and pre-CABG presence of LBBB block (20% vs 4%, p<0.0001). Independent predictors of MR progression, pre-CABG, were female gender (p=0.002), history of renal insufficiency (p=0.05), lack of beta-blocker use (p=0.006), MR grade (p=0.02), and presence of LBBB (p=0.005). Development of significant MR following isolated CABG is common and may be related to incomplete myocardium revascularization, especially in the PDA area and LV remodeling. Preoperative, beta-blocker use may be protective against its development."}
{"id": "16413522", "title": "Significance of coronary artery calcification score (CACS) for the detection of coronary artery disease (CAD) in chronic dialysis patients.", "content": "Significance of coronary artery calcification score (CACS) for the detection of coronary artery disease (CAD) in chronic dialysis patients. Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a principal cause of death in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). The coronary artery calcification score (CACS), determined by electron-beam computed tomography (EBCT), is useful for the detection of CAD in non-ESRD patients. There are few reports on the usefulness of EBCT for the detection of CAD, however, in ESRD patients. We examined the relation between CACS and CAD in ESRD patients. Coronary angiography (CAG) was used to diagnose CAD in patients with significant coronary artery stenosis (>or=50%). We examined 76 ESRD patients on chronic dialysis therapy from 1997 to 2005, of which 51 are men, 25 are women, mean (S.D.) age of 57.9 (12.1) years and mean (S.D.) HD duration of 7.7 (6.6) years. There were 50 (35 men, 15 women) patients with CAD and 26 (16 men, 10 women) without CAD. The median CACS was 1290 in all patients, 1689 in the CAD group and 527 in the non-CAD group; the mean (S.D.) CACS was 1833 (2003) in all patients, 2338 (2209) in the CAD group and 861 (991) in the non-CAD group. CACS was significantly higher in the CAD group than in the non-CAD group. The CACS cutoff values for predicting CAD were calculated at intervals of 100. At the cutoff values of >or=100, >or=500, >or=1000, >or=2000, and >or=3000, the sensitivity was 98%, 90%, 68%, 42%, and 32% and the specificity was 35%, 50%, 69%, 85%, and 96%, respectively. EBCT is not adequate for screening asymptomatic ESRD patients. Because EBCT is less invasive than CAG, further study is necessary to determine whether CAG should be performed in all high-risk ESRD patients on chronic dialysis."}
{"id": "16408115", "title": "Mild renal insufficiency is associated with reduced coronary flow in patients with non-obstructive coronary artery disease.", "content": "Mild renal insufficiency is associated with reduced coronary flow in patients with non-obstructive coronary artery disease. Patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) have increased risk for cardiovascular events. However, the association between these pathophysiological processes is unclear. Therefore, this study was designed to determine the association between early CKD and coronary microvascular disease in patients with normal or mildly diseased coronary arteries. A total of 605 patients with normal or mildly diseased coronary arteries based on angiography underwent coronary flow reserve (CFR) evaluation using intracoronary adenosine. Patients were divided based on glomerular filtration rate (GFR). CKD was defined as calculated GFR<60 ml/min/1.73 m(2). Patients with normal GFR (> or =60 ml/min/1.73 m(2), n=481) had higher CFR compared to those with CKD (n=124, CFR=3.0+/-0.8 vs 2.6+/-0.6, P<0.001, respectively). Patients with abnormal GFR were more likely to be older and of female gender, with greater prevalence of hypertension. Multiple logistic regression analysis adjusted for the aforementioned risk factors further supported the observed relationship. The current study shows that reduced renal function is associated with attenuated coronary vasodilator capacity in patients without obstructive coronary artery disease. The correlation between low GFR and reduced CFR may suggest parallel alterations in the renal and coronary microcirculation at the early stage of disease. Impairment in both microcirculatory beds may reflect an unmeasured risk factor induced by blunted renal function and add a burden to the increased propensity for cardiovascular events in CKD."}
{"id": "16395255", "title": "Insulin resistance and impaired myocardial fatty acid metabolism in dialysis patients with normal coronary arteries.", "content": "Insulin resistance and impaired myocardial fatty acid metabolism in dialysis patients with normal coronary arteries. We investigated whether insulin resistance is associated with impaired cardiac fatty acid metabolism in maintenance hemodialysis patients without coronary artery disease. We studied 55 nondiabetic (63+/-11 years old) and 51 diabetic (61+/-10 years old) hemodialysis patients with normal coronary arteries, using single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with an iodinated fatty acid analogue, iodine-123-beta-methyl iodophenyl-pentadecanoic acid ((123)I-BMIPP), to evaluate cardiac fatty acid metabolism. SPECT imaging was graded regionally from 0 (normal) to 4 (absence of tracer) to calculate a summed score for 17 left ventricular segments. Insulin resistance was determined using the homeostasis model assessment index of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR). HOMA-IR correlated with summed BMIPP score in nondiabetic and diabetic patients. Stepwise multiple regression analysis showed that HOMA-IR was independently associated with BMIPP summed score in nondiabetic (beta=0.774, t=9.218, P=0.0001) and diabetic patients (beta=0.792, t=9.079, P=0.0001). Left ventricular ejection fraction was lower in nondiabetic subjects with BMIPP summed score of at least 6 plus HOMA-IR of at least 4 than in others with lower values for both assessments (53.1+/-13.8%, n=20 vs 67.7+/-9.1%, n=23, P=0.0002); this was also true in diabetic subjects (50.9+/-15.2%, n=24 vs 71.0+/-13.6%, n=11, P=0.0007). Association between insulin resistance and impaired cardiac fatty acid metabolism may contribute to left ventricular dysfunction in patients with maintenance hemodialysis without coronary diseases."}
{"id": "16386823", "title": "[Calcific arteriolopathy (Calciphylaxis)].", "content": "[Calcific arteriolopathy (Calciphylaxis)]. Calcific arteriolopathy (CA), also known as \" Calciphylaxis \" describes a phenomenon of necrosis, mainly cutaneous and sometimes systemic, due to the obliteration of the arteriole's lumen. Initially there are under-intimal calcium deposits, and then the thrombosis occurs leading to the necrosis. CA affects mainly the renal insufficient hemodialysed patient, but not exclusively. We present 4 cases which illustrate well the etiologic spectrum of CA: terminal renal insufficiency, neoplasia, primary hyperparathyroidism, proteinuria, vitamin K inhibitors. We describe the AC's epidemiology, its cutaneous and systemic clinical presentations, its treatment. We make the hypothesis that CA is a strong risk marker in matter of cardiac mortality and we discuss this point. In this article we describe the numerous breakthroughs that have been made in matter of research about calcification over the past few years: inhibitors of calcium phosphate deposition, vitamin D and PTH1R, protein-calcium complexes, cell death, induction of bone formation. These data are analysed from a clinical point of view with practical purposes. We present CA not only as a cutaneous disease but as a systemic pathology. The CA epidemiology is an incentive to more diagnosis suspicion in front of organ infarct involving a patient likely to be concerned by CA. The scientific and therapeutic breakthroughs in matter of calcification enable a better prevention of the disease. Nevertheless it remains very difficult to cure when installed."}
{"id": "16368308", "title": "Impact of renal insufficiency on outcome after contemporary percutaneous coronary intervention.", "content": "Impact of renal insufficiency on outcome after contemporary percutaneous coronary intervention. End-stage renal failure is associated with poor outcomes, including increased mortality, after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). The effect of milder degrees of renal insufficiency (RI) is less clear, especially with routine stenting and glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor therapy, which may be of particular benefit in patients with RI. Clinical, angiographic, procedural, and outcome variables of 7769 consecutive patients who underwent PCI between April 2000 and July 2004 were entered into a prospective database. Inhospital mortality and morbidity were calculated according to baseline creatinine clearance. Simple and multiple logistic regression analyses were performed to determine independent predictors of mortality. Baseline creatinine clearance was available in 6840 patients. It was normal (> 80 mL/min) in 3474; 1670 had mild RI (61-80 mL/min), 1111 moderate RI (41-60 mL/min), and 585 severe RI (< or = 40 mL/min). Major adverse cardiac events (MACE) (death/myocardial infarction/revascularization) increased substantially with worsening renal function (2.4% vs 3.0% vs 4.8% vs 9.7%, P < .0001), as did mortality (0.3% vs 0.7% vs 1.5% vs 6.0%, P < .0001). Multiple logistic regression analysis identified moderate RI and severe RI as independent predictors of mortality (odds ratio [OR] 3.9, P < .001; OR 12.7, P < .0001, respectively) and morbidity (MACE) (OR 1.5, P < .05; OR 2.5, P < .0001, respectively). Mild RI trended to increase the risk of mortality but did not reach statistical significance as an independent predictor of inhospital death on multiple regression analysis (OR 2.1, P = .1) and did not increase the risk of MACE (OR 1.1, P = .6). Despite routine stenting and glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor therapy, RI remains an independent predictor of increased morbidity, and particularly mortality, after PCI. However, the adverse effect of truly mild RI on outcome is limited."}
{"id": "16361849", "title": "Proven strategies to reduce cardiovascular mortality in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Proven strategies to reduce cardiovascular mortality in hemodialysis patients. In hemodialysis patients, left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) correlates with mortality. The reason for LVH in uremics is multifactorial. The primary objective of our study was to investigate the effects of a multi-interventional treatment strategy on LVH. In 230 ambulatory patients, including patients with coronary artery disease, diabetes, diastolic and systolic dysfunction, we continued optimized cardiac therapy (beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers) with full anemia correction by intravenous epoetin-beta. The dose of epoetin-beta for maintaining target hemoglobin (Hb) was 68 +/- 23 IU/kg/week. Serial echocardiograms were recorded every 3-6 months. The mean observation period was 4.8 +/- 1.2 years. Mean Hb at baseline was 11.2 +/- 2.0 versus 14.1 +/- 1.4 g/dl (p < 0.001) at study end. There was a significant reduction in left ventricular mass index (LVMI: 159 +/- 50.4 vs. 130.2 +/- 42.7 g/m(2); p < 0.001). In a subgroup of 2/3 of the patients, LVMI returned to normal (169 +/- 33 vs. 114 +/- 14 g/m2; p < 0.001). Baseline LVMI (p < 0.001), Hb increase (p < 0.03), and triple cardiac therapy (p < 0.03) were significant and independent prognostic factors for a reduction in LVMI. The annual cardiovascular mortality was 5%. Even anemia correction from 12 to 14 g/dl results in further (p < 0.001) regression of LVMI."}
{"id": "16352622", "title": "Investigation of coronary artery calcification and stenosis by coronary angiography (CAG) in haemodialysis patients.", "content": "Investigation of coronary artery calcification and stenosis by coronary angiography (CAG) in haemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "16340725", "title": "Value of 99mTc-methoxyisobutylisonitrile (99mTc-MIBI) gated SPECT for the detection of silent myocardial ischemia in hemodialysis patients: clinical variables associated with abnormal test results.", "content": "Value of 99mTc-methoxyisobutylisonitrile (99mTc-MIBI) gated SPECT for the detection of silent myocardial ischemia in hemodialysis patients: clinical variables associated with abnormal test results. Although coronary artery disease is a major cause of mortality and morbidity in patients undergoing hemodialysis, there is no accurate diagnostic strategy for these patients. To assess the value of 99mTc-methoxyisobutylisonitrile (99mTc-MIBI) gated single-photon emission computed tomography for the detection of silent myocardial ischemia in patients undergoing hemodialysis and to evaluate the clinical variables associated with abnormal test results. Thirty-one asymptomatic patients undergoing hemodialysis (20 men, 11 women), with a mean age of 45 years (range, 25-75 years), were included in the study. Serum electrolytes, creatinine, homocysteine and adhesion molecules were measured prior to dialysis. Ambulatory blood pressure, carotid intima-media thickness measurements, echocardiography and stress 99mTc-MIBI imaging were performed in all patients, whereas coronary angiography was performed only in patients with abnormal myocardial perfusion scintigraphy and/or echocardiography. Gated myocardial perfusion scintigraphy results were abnormal in nine patients (29%) and coronary angiography was abnormal in six patients. After a median follow-up of 20 months (range, 14-28 months), nine patients experienced a cardiac event. Seven of the nine patients (78%) with abnormal myocardial perfusion scintigraphy suffered a cardiac event, compared with only two of 22 patients (9%) with normal myocardial perfusion scintigraphy (P<0.0001). Patients with abnormal perfusion scintigraphy had higher serum C-reactive protein, homocysteine and adhesion molecule levels and the duration of hemodialysis was significantly longer. In asymptomatic hemodialysis patients, gated myocardial perfusion scintigraphy is a safe and non-invasive screening technique for the detection of coronary artery disease and for predicting future cardiac events. The presence of ischemia correlates significantly with markers of inflammation. The discordant results (abnormal myocardial perfusion scintigraphy/normal coronary angiography) can be attributed to angiographically unrecognized occult atherosclerotic changes and abnormal vasodilatation capacity of the coronary circulation."}
{"id": "16321665", "title": "Frequency of atrial fibrillation and factors related to its development in dialysis patients.", "content": "Frequency of atrial fibrillation and factors related to its development in dialysis patients. The frequency of atrial fibrillation is increased in patients with end-stage renal disease. In this study, we sought to determine the incidence of persistent and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation in patients with end-stage renal disease and to identify the risk factors associated with this arrhythmia. Two hundred seventy-five patients with end-stage renal disease who were in a hemodialysis program for at least 4 months were included in the study. Patients with permanent, persistent, or paroxysmal atrial fibrillation were identified and recorded. All patients were evaluated for cardiac risk factors and arrhythmias. Thirty (10.9%) of the 275 patients were found to have atrial fibrillation. Ten (33.3%) of these patients had permanent or persistent atrial fibrillation, and 20 (66.6%) of these patients had paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Patients with atrial fibrillation were older. Incidences of hypertension, coronary artery disease, left ventricular systolic dysfunction, right atrial diameters, and mitral and/or aortic calcification were significantly higher in patients with atrial fibrillation. Serum albumin and high-density lipoprotein levels were significantly lower in patients with atrial fibrillation. Our data indicate that atrial fibrillation is a frequent arrhythmia in patients with end-stage renal disease, and the most frequently encountered form is paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. In this patient group, presence of coronary artery disease, age, and right atrial diameter are independent factors for determination of the risk of development of atrial fibrillation."}
{"id": "16310332", "title": "[Cardiovascular risk and chronic kidney failure before kidney transplantation. Is coronary angiography essential?].", "content": "[Cardiovascular risk and chronic kidney failure before kidney transplantation. Is coronary angiography essential?]."}
{"id": "16310267", "title": "Dynamic left ventricular obstruction: a potential cause of angina in end stage renal disease.", "content": "Dynamic left ventricular obstruction: a potential cause of angina in end stage renal disease. Patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD) often have angina which cannot be explained by coronary artery disease (CAD) alone. Symptoms are often attributed to systolic and diastolic dysfunction, arrhythmia or microvascular disease. This study proposes another potential cause for angina in renal failure, namely dynamic left ventricular obstruction (LVO). 125 renal transplant candidates underwent dobutamine stress echocardiography and coronary angiography. LVO was defined as a peak LV outflow tract gradient >50 mm Hg. None of the patients had LVO at rest. 15 (12%) developed obstruction with dobutamine. The mechanism was systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve in 13 and mid cavity obstruction in 2. Of 53 patients with angina, 26% had dynamic LVO compared to only 1% in those without angina (p=0.004). The proportion with severe CAD, parameters of systolic and diastolic function and haemoglobin levels were similar in patients with and without angina. Significantly more patients with obstruction had angina (93% vs 28%, p<0.001). LV end-systolic (p=0.03) and LV end-diastolic (LVEDD, p=0.03) diameter were reduced and LV fractional shortening (LVFS) increased (p= or <0.001) in those with LVO. Haemoglobin levels, septal wall thickness, estimated LV filling pressure, the proportion with a positive DSE and severe CAD were similar in the 2 groups. LVFS was independently associated with the development of significant obstruction (OR 1.12, 95% CI [1.002, 1.244] p=0.04). Dynamic LVO occurs in 26% of ESRD patients with angina. In these patients, the angina could not be explained by severe CAD, impaired systolic or diastolic function. Such patients have smaller LV cavity size and increased LVFS."}
{"id": "16216854", "title": "Cardiac structural and functional abnormalities in end stage renal disease patients with elevated cardiac troponin T.", "content": "Cardiac structural and functional abnormalities in end stage renal disease patients with elevated cardiac troponin T. To identify in a prospective observational study the cardiac structural and functional abnormalities and mortality in patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD) with a raised cardiac troponin T (cTnT) concentration. 126 renal transplant candidates were studied over a two year period. Clinical, biochemical, echocardiographic, coronary angiographic, and dobutamine stress echocardiographic (DSE) data were examined in comparison with cTnT concentrations dichotomised at cut off concentrations of < 0.04 microg/l and < 0.10 microg/l. Left ventricular (LV) size and filling pressure were significantly raised and LV systolic and diastolic function parameters significantly impaired in patients with raised cTnT, irrespective of the cut off concentration. The proportions of patients with diabetes and on dialysis were higher in both groups with raised cTnT. With a cut off cTnT concentration of 0.04 microg/l but not 0.10 microg/l, significantly more patients had severe coronary artery disease and a positive DSE result. The total ischaemic burden during DSE was similar in cTnT positive and negative patients, irrespective of the cut off concentration used. LV end systolic diameter index and E:Ea ratio were independent predictors of cTnT rises > or = 0.04 microg/l and > or = 0.10 microg/l, respectively. Diabetes was independently associated with cTnT at both cut off concentrations. Mortality was higher in all patients with raised cTnT. Patients with ESRD with raised cTnT concentrations have increased mortality. Raised concentrations are strongly associated with diabetes, LV dilatation, and impaired LV systolic and diastolic function, but not with severe coronary artery disease."}
{"id": "16895685", "title": "[Atherosclerosis and the kidney].", "content": "[Atherosclerosis and the kidney]. Diffuse atherosclerosis entails a 15-30% risk of plaques on renal arteries (ARAS), with a correlation with coronary atherosclerosis. Ischemia induces generation of angiotensin II (Ang II) that maintains sufficient hydrostatic pressure within the tuft to preserve the GFR. Ang II inhibition suppresses this protective mechanism. In fact, any antihypertensive drug may lead to reaching a \"critical perfusion pressure\". ARAS should be suspected in case of renal asymmetry. It should also be envisaged in case of \"flash pulmonary edemas\". Ultrasonography and renal tomography show aortic calcifications and often the outline of an abdominal aortic aneurysm. Tomodensitometry may detect large aorto-renal plaques. Spiral scanner tomography represents a progress, in terms of renal artery imaging and of renal cortical atrophy. Magnetic resonance imaging is less accurate but avoids iodine toxicity. The best noninvasive method is pulsed echo-doppler. It is particularly useful for evaluating stenoses progression. Some stenoses progress to renal atrophy and renal artery thrombosis, whereas others follow a stable course. Pulsed Doppler helps predict whether revascularization will improve renal function, according to the resistance index. Renal arteriography entails a high risk of cholesterol crystal embolism. However, it is the obligatory first step for angioplasty and stent positioning, indicated when the kidney is not atrophic. The indication for revascularization essentially depends on evaluation of the benefits vs risks of angioplasty or surgery. Some publications underscore the frequent stability of renal function and the fact that, revascularized or not, most patients will shortly die of myocardial infarction. Renal cholesterol crystal embolism (CCE) is a severe condition, which occurs when large arteries undergo surgery, aortography or interventional radiology. Anticoagulants are a frequent cause of CCE. CCE may also occur spontaneously, resulting in slowly progressive renal insufficiency. Migration of crystals in small caliber intrarenal arteries induces obstruction, followed by an inflammatory reaction. The clinical picture resembles angiitis, with laboratory evidence of inflammation along with high eosinophil counts and hypocomplementemia. Diagnosis rests on: 1) a iatrogenic event in a patient with an atherosclerotic background; 2) examination of the skin disclosing purple toes, small necrotic lesions and livedo of the lower limbs. Crystals may also be found by funduscopy. Skin or muscle biopsy are contributive in showing crystals and help avoid renal biopsy; 3) other localizations involve the mesenteric circulation and the central nervous system. Until recently, the prognosis was considered disastrous. However, a recently published treatment schedule proved efficient in reducing mortality. A last issue regarding the relationships between atherosclerosis and the kidney deserves mention. In an autopsy-based study it was shown that atherosclerosis per se is accompanied by an increase in the glomerular surface area along with a greater proportion of obsolescent glomeruli by comparison with matched controls. Finally, it should be recalled that atherogenic hyperlipidemia usually aggravates the course of any renal disease, including ARAS. Treatment with statins is indicated in all forms of atherosclerotic renal disease."}
{"id": "16789494", "title": "[Acute coronary syndrome in patients with chronic kidney disease--risk stratification].", "content": "[Acute coronary syndrome in patients with chronic kidney disease--risk stratification]."}
{"id": "16534221", "title": "Percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with end-stage renal disease. Patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) represent a growing number of patients in the cardiac catheterization laboratories worldwide. This is a consequence of the growing absolute number of ESRD patients in developed countries, better noninvasive diagnostic tools, better catheterization facilities and last-but-not-least better education of referring physicians about the incidence and prognosis of coronary artery disease (CAD) for patients with ESRD. There is growing evidence of the positive impact of coronary revascularization on long-term outcome of these patients. ESRD patients have a high comorbidity and are therefore better candidates for the less invasive approach using percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) rather than coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG). From the view of the interventional cardiologist, ESRD patients represent one of the most challenging patient cohort concerning technical challenges and potential risk of complication for the patient. Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) including debulking techniques and stent implantation is the current standard therapy for patients with symptomatic single-vessel disease (SVD) and the preferred therapy for most patients with focal, polyfocal or even diffuse multi-vessel disease (MVD). Coronary bypass surgery is reserved for a decreasing number of patients with mechanically untreatable coronary lesions and unprotected left main stem stenosis. The problem of restenosis and subsequent target lesion revascularization has been decreased to a minimum by the use of drug-eluting stents (DES), even though prospective randomized trials including ESRD patients are lacking. In case of acute coronary syndromes, the need for immediate coronary angiography and subsequent revascularization by means of PCI should be pointed out."}
{"id": "16519382", "title": "Relationship between hyperhomocysteinemia and atherosclerosis in chronic hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Relationship between hyperhomocysteinemia and atherosclerosis in chronic hemodialysis patients. Hyperhomocysteinemia is an independent risk factor of coronary artery heart disease (CAHD) and atherosclerosis in a normal population. However, it is still controversial in end-stage kidney disease patients who underwent long-term dialysis. Carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) is the standard non-invasive measurement of atherosclerosis. The aims of the present study were to determine the homocysteine (Hcy) level, and to evaluate its role as a risk factor of atherosclerosis in hemodialysis (HD) patients. Clinical data and blood chemistries were assayed in 62 HD patients. Atherosclerosis was defined by clinical presentations of CAHD, cerebrovascular or peripheral vascular diseases, or carotid plaque by ultrasound. IMT was also measured by ultrasound Plasma Hcy level in HD patients was significantly higher in HD patients than normal controls (28.3 +/- 8.3 vs 9.7 +/- 2.9 micromol/l, p < 0.001). Older age (p < 0.001), male sex (p = 0.05), longer duration of HD (p = 0.05), and higher plasma Hcy level (p = 0.01) correlated with atherosclerosis by univariate analysis, but plasma Hcy did not show significant correlation by multivariable analysis. There was also correlation between IMT and atherosclerosis in HD patients (p < 0.001) but no correlation was observed between plasma Hcy level and lMT. Hyperhomocysteinemia is not an independent factor in the genesis of atherosclerosis in HD patients. Advanced age plays a major role of hyperhomocysteinemia and IMT is a useful marker of atherosclerosis in these patients."}
{"id": "16437335", "title": "[Comparison of clinical outcomes in peritoneal dialysis and hemodialysis].", "content": "[Comparison of clinical outcomes in peritoneal dialysis and hemodialysis]. In addition to kidney transplantation, peritoneal dialysis (PD) and hemodialysis represent two options for renal replacement therapy in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Given that most patients are suitable for both types of dialysis and that many of them require lifelong therapy, differences in clinical outcome between these treatments are of major interest. Differences between the two dialysis treatments have been described in single clinical aspects (e.g., hyperkalemia, volume status, blood pressure control, cardiac complications), the relevance of which are reflected by mortality rates. Data available so far indicate that overall outcome of patients with ESRD is comparable in the two types of dialysis. However, there are significant differences in subgroups of patients, such as those with diabetes or coronary heart disease. In order to achieve the best possible survival and quality of life in ESRD, the optimal sequence of dialysis treatments during the course of renal replacement therapy, rather than a single type of treatment, has to be considered. The \"integrated care concept\" takes into account this sequence of dialysis treatments, suggesting that patients should start on PD but be transferred to hemodialysis as soon as PD is no longer adequate. This concept allows longer preservation of residual renal function, better early survival on dialysis and better short-term results of graft survival after kidney transplantation. Thus, if medically suitable, PD should be the first treatment option in patients with ESRD who need renal replacement therapy."}
{"id": "16437333", "title": "[Peritoneal dialysis and cardiopulmonary comorbidity].", "content": "[Peritoneal dialysis and cardiopulmonary comorbidity]. The number of patients suffering from end-stage renal disease (ESRD) throughout the world continues to increase. The unacceptably high mortality in this population has led to current efforts to optimize dialysis treatment and has focused attention on comorbidities and their interaction with dialysis treatment. Cardiovascular morbidity is the most important cause of death in patients with ESRD. The advantages of hemodynamic stability and volume regulation offered by peritoneal dialysis (PD), compared with hemodialysis (HD), have made PD preferable for patients with cardiovascular comorbidity. However, recent studies on PD have shown a higher mortality in patients with coronary artery disease or congestive heart failure than in similar patients receiving HD. Nevertheless, the validity of the studies is limited by their retrospective study design and, furthermore, at the time of data collection, new dialysis solutions were not available and the percentage of patients on automated PD was low. Little is known about the frequency of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in the ESRD population, but COPD data on the general population without kidney disease suggest that significant underestimation of both prevalence and mortality of this disease can be supposed in the ESRD population. Data currently available do not suggest that PD is contraindicated in patients with cardiac diseases. However, consequent diagnostic and therapeutic interventions of cardiac comorbidities and corresponding risk factors are required. Patients suffering from mild COPD should not be generally excluded from PD as renal replacement therapy, although individually tailored modifications of dialysate volume and frequency of exchanges are often required."}
{"id": "16376196", "title": "Mini skin incision for carotid endarterectomy (CEA): a new and safe alternative to the standard approach.", "content": "Mini skin incision for carotid endarterectomy (CEA): a new and safe alternative to the standard approach. Patients requiring surgery are naturally attracted to shorter incisions because they tend to cause less pain and are esthetically more appeasing. To substantially shorten the length of standard skin incisions (4 to 7 inches) for carotid endarterectomy (CEA), we used preoperative duplex scanning to outline the carotid bifurcation as well as to determine the extent of disease in both the internal and common carotid arteries. During the last 21 months, 265 consecutive primary CEAs were performed in 253 patients (mean age 72 +/- 10 years) at a single institution. Of these, 142 were men (56%). Hypertension, coronary artery disease, diabetes mellitus, smoking, and chronic renal failure were present in 81%, 44%, 43%, 28%, and 19% of the patients, respectively. Neurologically asymptomatic patients accounted for 71% of the cases. All patients received general anesthesia. Duplex-assisted skin markings of the diseased carotid artery were performed after proper patient positioning on the operating table. Synthetic patches were routinely used, and intraluminal shunts were deemed necessary by low stump pressures in 64 cases (24%). Completion duplex scanning was performed in all cases. The length of the longitudinal skin incision varied from 0.8 to 3.5 inches (average 1.4 +/- 0.5 inches). It was < or = 1 inch in 56 cases (21%), 1.1 to 1.5 inches in 110 (42%), 1.6 to 2 inches in 85 (32%), and 2.1 to 3.5 inches in the remaining 14 cases (5%). Intraluminal shunts were required in 9 (16%), 18 (16%), 29 (34%), and 8 (57%) of the cases, respectively. Incisions were longer in cases requiring an indwelling shunt (1.6 +/- 0.6 inches vs 1.4 +/- 0.4 inches) (P < .0001). The average patch length was 1.3 +/- 0.3 inches (range, 0.7 to 2.6 inches). The skin incision averaged 1.54 +/- 0.45 inches for the first 133 cases and 1.35 +/- 0.45 inches for the remaining 132 cases (P < .0001). Technical defects occurred in 10 cases (3.8%). The overall incidence of ipsilateral stroke and death was 1.9% and 0%. There were no technical defects or strokes in patients with the shortest incisions (< or = 1 inch). Overall, there were three transitory peripheral nerve injuries (1.1%). A comparative analysis with 265 consecutive CEAs performed immediately before this series without duplex-assisted skin markings revealed no significant differences in age (71 +/- 11 years), incidence of neurologically symptomatic patients (26%), sex (60% men), shunt use (24%), and major technical defects (3%). Also, postoperative transitory peripheral nerve injury (0.8%), stroke (0%), and death (0%) were not significantly different from the duplex-assisted group. It is of interest to note that none of the former cases was performed with a skin incision < or = 2 inches. Most CEAs (95%) can safely be performed with < or = 2-inch skin incisions. Pre-CEA duplex-assisted skin marking is a novel approach that confirms the side of the operation, localizes the disease, and minimizes the magnitude of the operation via shorter, more esthetically pleasing incisions."}
{"id": "16361811", "title": "Coronary-artery calcium scores using electron beam CT in patients with chronic renal failure.", "content": "Coronary-artery calcium scores using electron beam CT in patients with chronic renal failure. We evaluated the risk of coronary-artery disease in patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) by measuring the coronary-artery calcium scores with electron beam CT (EBCT). A total of 81 CRF patients were divided into three groups; pre-dialysis (group I, n = 35), hemodialysis (group II, n = 31) and peritoneal dialysis (group III, n = 15). The several serum biochemical markers and calcium score levels by EBCT were determined. The Ca x P products were significantly higher in groups II (p < 0.05) and III (p < 0.01) than in group I. The serum calcium levels were significantly higher in group III than in both group I (p < 0.01) and II (p < 0.05). The serum calcium level in 15 patients with a calcium score > 400 was significantly higher than the 66 patients with a score < or =400 (p < 0.01). The calcium score was significantly higher in the 15 patients with cardiovascular complications than in the 66 patients without cardiovascular complications (628.9+/-904.8 vs. 150.4+/-350.9, p < 0.01). EBCT seemed to be a good diagnostic tool for evaluating the risk of coronary-artery disease ''noninvasively'' in CRF patients who are at increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality."}
{"id": "16358990", "title": "Increased serum levels of troponin I and lesions in coronary angiography in hemodialysed patients.", "content": "Increased serum levels of troponin I and lesions in coronary angiography in hemodialysed patients. Calcium-phosphate disorders are a frequent finding in HD patients, and, in some cases, may cause an abnormal coronary calcification. Some of the HD patients have increased serum cTnI level without evidence of acute coronary syndrome. The aim of this study was to determine if there is a correlance between increased cTnI levels and presence of stenotic changes in coronary arteries in asymptomatic HD patients. In 13 of 119 HD patients (M:F 10:3) a coronary angiography was performed. The mean age of the patients was 53 years (33-76) and the mean HD duration was 55 months (3-156). cTnI was analyzed by AxSYM system and, subsequently, by VIDAS system. A constant or intermittent elevation of cTnI was detected in 5 of 13 patients. In 10 of 13 pts a critical stenosis of at least 1 coronary artery was found. A critical stenosis was found in 4 of 5 cTnI (+) patients and in 6 of 8 cTnI (-) patients. An excess calcification of coronaries was observed in 7 patients, including 1 cTnI positive patient with no evidence of coronary stenosis. 1. The elevation of cTnI in asymptomatic HD patients is observed when there is: (I) excess calcification accompanied by a critical stenosis of at least 1 coronary artery, (II) a critical stenosis of 2 or more coronaries with no evidence of calcification. 2. We suggest that excess cardiovascular calcification in HD patients may be one of the major factors responsible for the troponin release."}
{"id": "16350834", "title": "Fabry disease--a diagnostic and therapeutic problem.", "content": "Fabry disease--a diagnostic and therapeutic problem. The authors present a patient with Fabry syndrome that remained undiagnosed for several years. Fabry syndrome is a genetic disease related to changes on the X chromosome. Its complex clinical presentation and diverse symptomatology is caused by deficient activity of lysosomal hydrolase alpha-galactosidase enzyme. Defect in the basic alpha-galactosidase molecule implies genetic change, which can be a predisposing factor for the development of atypical and typical forms of this genetic disease. In the presented case, clinical manifestation and hemizygous symptomatology were the evidence of metabolic and genetic irregularity, typical clinical presentation of Fabry disease. Many authors report generalized vasculopathy as a basic characteristic of Fabry disease and a causative factor of multiorgan changes. Some authors indicate that persons with diagnosed asymmetric hypertrophy of the left ventricle have decreased alpha-galactosidase. Cardiac complications, coronary disease, and acute myocardial ischemia are often present in cases of Fabry disease, frequently causing death in such patients. Characteristic central nervous system symptoms with skin-burning sensation and paresthesia were also present in our case. Cerebrovascular complications were caused by changes on small blood vessels. Clinical signs of renal failure were nonspecific, and the diagnosis was based on extrarenal symptoms. Initial renal manifestations were insignificant as asymptomatic proteinuria and microhematuria, due to which our patient was referred to further examination. The level of alpha-galactosidase was significantly decreased. The severity and progression of this disease depends on the level of alpha-galactosidase enzyme in serum and its catabolic effect. More recent studies have showed that deficient enzyme can be synthetic zed and, accordingly our patient has been successfully enrolled in the replacement therapy program."}
{"id": "16350818", "title": "The value of computed tomography-derived coronary artery calcification score in coronary artery disease detection in asymptomatic hemodialysis patients.", "content": "The value of computed tomography-derived coronary artery calcification score in coronary artery disease detection in asymptomatic hemodialysis patients. We evaluated the value of coronary artery calcification (CAC) score in coronary artery disease (CAD) detection in asymptomatic hemodialysis (HD) patients by evaluating the association among CAC score, exercise electrocardiography (EECG), and Thallium-201 dipyridamole scintigraphy. Correlation between aortic pulse wave velocity (PWV) and CAC score was also evaluated. CAC score was assessed with conventional computed tomography in 40 patients. Thirty patients completed EECG and 25; those with a positive CAC score and/or a positive EECG performed Thallium dipyridamole scintigraphy. Carotid-femoral PWV was assessed in all patients. There was no association among CAC score and EECG or Thallium dipyridamole scintigraphy. In contrast, CAC score was correlated with aortic PWV. The previous results question the role of CAC score in the detection of CAD in asymptomatic HD patients. The correlation between CAC score and aortic PWV raises the possibility that CAC score represents more an indicator of coronary artery medial wall calcification than a marker of CAD."}
{"id": "16344425", "title": "Renal function and risk of myocardial infarction in an elderly population: the Rotterdam Study.", "content": "Renal function and risk of myocardial infarction in an elderly population: the Rotterdam Study. Renal insufficiency is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease in patients with renal disease or coronary heart disease; however, it is unknown whether renal function is an independent predictor of cardiovascular disease in the general population. We investigated whether the level of renal function, estimated by glomerular filtration rate, was associated with the risk of incident myocardial infarction among 4484 apparently healthy subjects in the Rotterdam Study (mean age, 69.6 years). We estimated the glomerular filtration rate by Cockcroft-Gault and abbreviated modification of diet in renal disease equations and used Cox regression analysis to estimate hazard ratios adjusted for cardiovascular risk factors, atherosclerosis, and medication use. During the follow-up period (mean, 8.6 years), 218 subjects (4.9%) had a myocardial infarction. A 10 mL/min per 1.73 m(2) decrease in glomerular filtration rate was associated with a 32% increased risk of myocardial infarction (P<.001). Compared with subjects in the fourth quartile, the multivariate-adjusted hazard ratios for the risk of myocardial infarction increased from 1.64 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.03-2.59) in the third quartile to 1.94 (95% CI, 1.21-3.10) in the second quartile and 3.06 (95% CI, 1.80-5.19) in the quartile with the lowest glomerular filtration rate estimated by the Cockcroft-Gault equation. Using the abbreviated modification of diet in renal disease equation, the risk estimates for the third to first quartiles were 1.34 (95% CI, 0.89-2.01), 1.66 (95% CI, 1.14-2.49), and 1.90 (95% CI, 1.25-2.90), respectively. The present study shows that renal function is a graded and independent predictor of the development of myocardial infarction in an elderly population. Early detection of decreased renal function may identify subjects who are at heightened risk of coronary heart disease."}
{"id": "16340024", "title": "Barriers to participation in a phase II cardiac rehabilitation programme.", "content": "Barriers to participation in a phase II cardiac rehabilitation programme. To identify barriers to participation in a phase II cardiac rehabilitation programme and measures that may enhance participation. Prospective study. Regional hospital, Hong Kong. Cardiac patients recruited for a phase I cardiac rehabilitation programme from July 2002 to January 2003. Reasons for not participating in a phase II cardiac rehabilitation programme. Of the 193 patients recruited for a phase I cardiac rehabilitation programme, 152 (79%) patients, with a mean age of 70.3 years (standard deviation, 11.9 years), did not proceed to phase II programme. Eleven (7%) deaths occurred before commencement of phase II and 74 (49%) patients were considered physically unfit. Reasons for the latter included fractures, pain, or degenerative changes in the lower limbs (24%), and co-morbidities such as cerebrovascular accident (19%), chronic renal failure (11%), congestive heart failure (9%), and unstable angina (8%). Phase II rehabilitation was postponed until after completion of scheduled cardiac interventions in 13% of patients. Failure of physicians to arrange the pre-phase II exercise stress test as per protocol was reported in 7% of patients. Other reasons were reported: work or time conflicts (16%), non-compliance with cardiac treatment (5%), financial constraints (4%), self-exercise (3%), fear after exercise stress testing (3%), and patients returning to their original cardiologists for treatment (3%). A significant (79%) proportion of patients did not proceed to a phase II cardiac rehabilitation programme for a variety of reasons. These included physical unfitness, work or time conflicts, and need to attend scheduled cardiac interventions. Further studies are required to determine how to overcome obstacles to cardiac rehabilitation."}
{"id": "16338257", "title": "The interaction of vascular inflammation and chronic kidney disease for the prediction of long-term death after percutaneous coronary intervention.", "content": "The interaction of vascular inflammation and chronic kidney disease for the prediction of long-term death after percutaneous coronary intervention. Patients with chronic kidney disease frequently have worse outcomes following percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) compared to patients with normal renal function. Furthermore, they more commonly have elevated serum markers of inflammation, which may be either directly or indirectly associated with a state of accelerated atherosclerosis. We sought to assess the relationship among glomerular filtration rate (GFR), systemic inflammation, and long-term death after PCI. In patients undergoing PCI, the intensity of vascular inflammation was measured using baseline ultrasensitive C-reactive protein (us-CRP), and GFR was calculated using the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease formula. Their association with long-term death was compared using multivariate Cox regression analysis including an interaction element for us-CRP and GFR, baseline clinical, biochemical, and angiographic variables. In 4522 patients (mean age 65 +/- 11 years) having undergone PCI, 332 (7.3%) deaths occurred over the median duration of follow-up of 20.1 months (interquartile range 8.5-31.3 months). The mean GFR was 77 +/- 33 mL/min per 1.73 m2 with a median us-CRP of 3.75 mg/L (interquartile range 1.5-10.1 mg/L). Both increasing levels of CRP (log rank P < .001) and decreasing levels of GFR were univariate predictors of long-term death (P < .001). In a multivariate model, both GFR and us-CRP retained independent predictive value for long-term death. Although baseline us-CRP and GFR are both independent predictors of long-term death after PCI, in concert, they impart a markedly exaggerated hazard of mortality."}
{"id": "16338253", "title": "Impact of moderate renal insufficiency on restenosis and adverse clinical events after paclitaxel-eluting and bare metal stent implantation: results from the TAXUS-IV Trial.", "content": "Impact of moderate renal insufficiency on restenosis and adverse clinical events after paclitaxel-eluting and bare metal stent implantation: results from the TAXUS-IV Trial. Mortality and restenosis may be increased in patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency (RI) after coronary stent implantation. Whether drug-eluting stents safely reduce restenosis and enhance event-free survival in these patients is unknown. We sought to evaluate the impact of baseline RI on clinical and angiographic outcomes in patients undergoing elective percutaneous coronary intervention using either bare metal or paclitaxel-eluting stents. In the TAXUS-IV trial, 1314 patients were randomized to either the polymer-based paclitaxel-eluting TAXUS stent or an identical-appearing bare metal stent. Outcomes were stratified on the basis of the presence of RI, defined as a baseline creatinine clearance < 60 cm3/min calculated by the Cockcroft-Gault formula. Baseline RI was present in 223 (17.2%) patients, in whom the mean creatinine clearance was 49.6 +/- 8.5 cm3/min. Compared with bare metal stents, treatment with the TAXUS stent resulted in lower rates of 9-month angiographic restenosis rates in both patients with (2.1% vs 20.5%, P = .009) and without (9.2% vs 27.8%, P < .0001) baseline RI. Similarly, 1-year target lesion revascularization rates were reduced with the TAXUS stent in patients with (3.3% vs 12.2%, P = .01) and without (4.7% vs 15.8%, P < .0001) baseline RI. The occurrence of death, myocardial infarction, and stent thrombosis at 1 year were similar in both randomization groups, independent of renal function. The polymer-based paclitaxel-eluting TAXUS stent safely reduces clinical and angiographic restenosis in patients with preserved as well as moderate impairment of baseline renal function."}
{"id": "16298262", "title": "Erythropoietin in heart failure.", "content": "Erythropoietin in heart failure. The incidence of both congestive heart failure (CHF) and end-stage renal disease both are increasing. Anemia is common in both conditions and is associated with a marked increase in mortality and morbidity in both CHF and chronic kidney insufficiency (CKI). Each of these 3 conditions can cause or worsen the other 2. In other words, a vicious circle frequently is present in which CHF can cause or worsen both anemia and CKI, in which CKI can cause or worsen both anemia and CHF, and in which anemia can cause or worsen both CHF and CKI. We have called this vicious circle the cardio renal anemia syndrome. Optimal treatment of CHF with all the recommended CHF medications at their recommended doses will, in our experience, frequently fail to improve the CHF and CKI if anemia is present and is not corrected. On the other hand, correction of the anemia with subcutaneous erythropoietin and intravenous iron has caused a great improvement in the CHF including a marked improvement in patient and cardiac function and a marked reduction in the need for hospitalization and for high-dose diuretics. It also frequently has caused renal function to improve or at least stabilize. In addition, patients' quality of life and exercise capacity also have improved with the correction of the anemia. In CKI patients, anemia also may play an important role in increasing the risk for death, coronary heart disease, stroke, and progression to end-stage renal disease. Erythropoietin may have a direct positive effect on the heart and brain unrelated to correction of the anemia by reducing cell apoptosis and by increasing neovascularization, both of which could prevent tissue damage. This could have profound therapeutic implications not only in CHF but in the future treatment of myocardial infarction, coronary heart disease, strokes, and renal failure."}
{"id": "16298258", "title": "Heart disease in diabetic patients.", "content": "Heart disease in diabetic patients. Cardiac artery disease and heart failure are major causes for morbidity and mortality in diabetes in general and in those with chronic kidney disease (CKD) in particular. Hypertension and dyslipidemia are more common in diabetes and the prevalence of coronary artery disease in diabetics is two-fold to four-fold higher than in nondiabetics. In those with CKD the incidence of cardiovascular complications is nearly two-fold higher than those without CKD. Recent studies suggest that the pathophysiology of cardiac disease is complex process involving both microvascular and macrovascular disease. In addition, myocardial lipotoxicity may be a novel contributing factor particularly in type 2 diabetics. Compelling evidence from cardiovascular outcomes trials indicates that treatment with drugs that block the renin-angiotensin system are cardioprotective in diabetics with microalbuminuria and early stages of kidney disease. Multiple risk factor intervention aimed at optimal blood pressure control (BP <130/<80 mmHG), lowering LDL cholesterol below 100 mg/dl, lowering triglyceride level to 150 mg/dl, A1C <6.5%, treatment with an ACE inhibitor or an angiotensin II receptor blocker, administration of once daily low-dose aspirin and smoking cessation together reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in type 2 diabetics. Novel studies including diabetics with nephropathy aimed at improving outcomes in diabetics by treatment of anemia and optimal control of dyslipidemia are now underway. These and other clinical trials should provide important new insights into improving the quality of life in diabetics and ultimately preventing cardiac disease."}
{"id": "16293095", "title": "Dialysis patients and cardiovascular problems: can technology solve the complex equation?", "content": "Dialysis patients and cardiovascular problems: can technology solve the complex equation? Patients with end-stage kidney disease undergoing chronic hemodialysis present higher mortality rates compared with the general population. Once patients are on hemodialysis, the risk of cardiovascular death is approximately 30-times higher than the general population, and still remains 10- to 20-times higher after stratification for age, gender and presence of diabetes. Approximately half of patient deaths on dialysis are attributed to cardiovascular causes, including coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, peripheral vascular disease and heart failure. The cardiovascular burden of the hemodialysis patient arises from three different sources: risks inherent to the patient and the uremic syndrome, traditional risk factors and risk factors related to the dialysis therapy. Based on these considerations and the fact that several aspects of the dialysis procedure can cause either a cardiovascular burden or modify the burden already present, new technologies should be directed towards the approach of a possible 'cardioprotective dialysis therapy'. This approach may significantly contribute new techniques and new dialysis machines. Born to make dialysis easy and safe, the new machines feature several options that make monitoring and online hemodiafiltration a simple routine. These and other features could make dialysis better tolerated and more efficient in protecting from fatal cardiovascular events."}
{"id": "16282683", "title": "Assessment of coronary artery disease in hemodialysis patients with delayed systolic blood pressure response after exercise testing.", "content": "Assessment of coronary artery disease in hemodialysis patients with delayed systolic blood pressure response after exercise testing. We evaluated usefulness of the postexercise systolic blood pressure (SBP) response for detecting coronary artery disease (CAD) in hemodialysis patients. A treadmill exercise testing was done, and the SBP response was measured in 44 hemodialysis patients (30 men, 14 women; age 41 to 81 years). The postexercise SBP response was defined as the ratio of SBP after 3 minutes of recovery to SBP at peak exercise. The SBP ratio of the 25 subjects with coronary artery stenosis (1.01+/- 0.13) was significantly greater (p<0.01) than 19 subjects without coronary artery stenosis (0.83+/- 0.10). An SBP ratio greater than 0.92 identified CAD with higher sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy than did the conventional ST-segment depression criterion (76 vs. 56%, 90 vs. 53%, and 82 vs. 55%, respectively). Determination of the SBP ratio is a clinically useful, noninvasive method for accurately detecting CAD in hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "16251246", "title": "Effect of lipid modification on progression of coronary calcification.", "content": "Effect of lipid modification on progression of coronary calcification. Coronary artery calcification (CAC) reflects the anatomic presence of coronary atherosclerosis and the relative burden of coronary artery disease (CAD). Higher levels of CAC are seen in the presence of CAD risk factors, older age, and chronic kidney disease. The lipid profile (primarily low HDL cholesterol, elevated triglycerides, elevated LDL cholesterol, and elevated total cholesterol) are important factors in the calcification process. The annual progression of CAC can be reduced from 25 to 30% to 0 to 6% with LDL cholesterol reduction caused by statins and possibly sevelamer. At treated LDL cholesterol levels somewhere below 100 mg/dl, several sources of data suggest the anatomic burden of CAD, including CAC, regresses. Additional supportive studies indicate that carotid intimal medial thickness and the volume of coronary atheroma also can be reduced by LDL cholesterol reduction in concert with elevation of HDL cholesterol. This article reviews the data in support of altering the natural history of CAC with lipid modification."}
{"id": "16245242", "title": "Aortic pulse wave velocity and arterial wave reflections predict the extent and severity of coronary artery disease in chronic kidney disease patients.", "content": "Aortic pulse wave velocity and arterial wave reflections predict the extent and severity of coronary artery disease in chronic kidney disease patients. Increased aortic stiffness markers - aortic pulse wave velocity (PWV) and augmentation index (AIx) - are powerful predictors of survival in ESRD patients - well-recognized for the high prevalence of coronary artery disease (CAD) and unusually high PWV and AIx. Recently, decreased aortic compliance has been shown to be predictive of primary coronary events in hypertensive patients with normal renal function. We aimed to explore relationships between arterial stiffness and CAD in cohorts of patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). 46 patients with chronic kidney disease (33 males, aged 55.7+/- 13.2 years, 20 on dialysis, 18 post renal transplantation, and 8 with glomerular filtration rate (GFR) between 10 and 25 ml/min) underwent coronary angiography for the assessment of CAD. PWV and aortic AIx were determined from pulse waveform analysis of arterial waveforms recorded by applanation tonometry using a SphygmoCortm device. The atherosclerosis burden score was calculated by adding the percentage luminal reduction of the most severe lesion in each artery. Patients with normal angiograms had significantly less arterial stiffness (as reflected by both a lower PWV=8.42+/-1.53 m/s and a lower AIx=17.9+/-5.55 %) compared with the 35 subjects with evidence of obstructive coronary disease at angiography (PWV=9.21+/-1.15 m/s and AIx=23.4+/-5.4 %, P<0.05 for both). Moreover, as more coronary vessels were affected, PWV and AIx increased proportionally. Based on receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve analysis mean PWV levels showed an optimal cut-off point at 8.35 m/s (sensitivity=0.77; specificity=0.60), while mean AIx levels showed an optimal cut-off point at 17% (sensitivity=0.87; specificity=0.70). There was a statistically significant linear relationship between the atherosclerosis burden and both measures of arterial stiffness: PWV (r=0.31, p=0.007) and AIx (r=0.46, p=0.003). Independent predictors for the arterial stiffness parameters in this CKD population (multiple stepwise regression analysis) were age (r=0.69 for PWV and r=0.62 for AIx), and mean arterial pressure (MAP) (for AIx, p<0.0001). This study provides the first direct evidence in a cross-sectional investigation that PWV and AIx are related to the extent of coronary obstruction in CKD patients."}
{"id": "16242557", "title": "Comparative analysis of autogenous infrainguinal bypass grafts in African Americans and Caucasians: the association of race with graft function and limb salvage.", "content": "Comparative analysis of autogenous infrainguinal bypass grafts in African Americans and Caucasians: the association of race with graft function and limb salvage. African Americans (AAs) are at risk for developing diabetes mellitus and atherosclerosis. Whether race influences the results of infrainguinal arterial reconstruction is unclear. The purpose of this study was to compare the results of autogenous infrainguinal bypasses in AAs and Caucasians to determine the association of race with graft function and limb salvage. This was a retrospective, comparative cohort study of AA and Caucasian patients who had undergone autogenous infrainguinal bypass surgery. Only single-limb bypasses in each patient cohort were considered in this analysis. In patients who had undergone bilateral lower limb bypasses, the first limb bypass was chosen as the index bypass procedure. From January 1985 to December 2003, 1459 autogenous infrainguinal bypasses were performed in 1459 patients for lower limb ischemia. Within this group, 89 AA patients/vein grafts formed the study cohort. The control group comprised 1370 Caucasian patients/vein grafts. Compared with the Caucasian cohort, AA patients were significantly younger (median age, 65 vs 70 years, respectively; P = .001) and predominantly female (57% vs 41%, respectively; P = .002). AA patients also had a higher prevalence of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, cerebrovascular disease, congestive heart failure, and dialysis-dependent renal failure. More AA than Caucasian patients presented with gangrene (34% vs 16%, respectively; P = .001), and more underwent bypass surgery for limb salvage indications (91% vs 81%, respectively; P = .01). The venous conduit used was predominantly the greater saphenous vein (AA, 83%; Caucasian, 85%), and the site of distal anastomosis was at the tibial/pedal level in 67% of AA and 61% of Caucasian patients. Overall morbidity (AA, 28%; Caucasian, 23%) and 30-day mortality (AA, 3%; Caucasian, 3%) were similar. Thirty-day graft failure was significantly greater in AAs than Caucasians (12% vs 5%, respectively; P = .003). The overall 5-year primary graft patency (+/-SE) was significantly worse in AA patients (AA, 52% +/- 6%; Caucasian, 67% +/- 2%; P = .009). The 5-year limb salvage rate (+/-SE) was also significantly worse in AA patients (AA, 81% +/- 5%; Caucasian, 90% +/- 1%; P = .04). With the Cox proportional hazard model, significant risk factors associated with primary graft failure were AA race, age younger than 65 years, female sex, secondary reconstructions, tibial bypasses, and critical limb ischemia. Significant risk factors associated with limb loss were age younger than 65 years, female sex, absence of coronary disease, presence of critical limb ischemia, and secondary reconstructions. Autogenous infrainguinal bypass surgery in AAs is associated with poorer primary graft patency and limb salvage rates compared with those of Caucasians. This may partially account for the higher rate of limb loss in AA patients with peripheral arterial occlusive disease."}
{"id": "16237683", "title": "When is diabetes mellitus a relative or absolute contraindication to liver transplantation?", "content": "When is diabetes mellitus a relative or absolute contraindication to liver transplantation? 1. Diabetes mellitus is common in patients with cirrhosis; patients with DM undergoing liver transplantation often have many other co-morbid illnesses including obesity, coronary artery disease (CAD), autonomic neuropathy, gastroparesis, and nephropathy. 2. Long-term survival of patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) is significantly lower and morbidity higher when compared to non-diabetics mainly because of cardiovascular complications, infections, and renal failure. 3. Obesity, CAD, and renal failure are confounding factors that result in poor patient survival. 4. Patients with DM should undergo careful cardiovascular diagnostic work up, including routine coronary arteriogram, and necessary interventions before liver transplantation. This is especially important in those over 50 years old, and in those with retinopathy, nephropathy, and neuropathy. 5. Patients with coronary artery disease that is not amenable to surgery or stents, and those with impaired left ventricular function, should not be considered for liver transplantation. Other relative or absolute contraindications are those with proteinura and renal failure who are not candidates for combined liver/kidney transplantation, those with severe gastroparesis, especially when it is associated with diabetic autonomic neuropathy, and those with two or more risk factors such as CAD, morbid obesity, and renal failure. 6. Future studies should focus on risk stratification of patients with DM undergoing liver transplantation and better interventions to reduce the risk of diabetic complications before and after liver transplantation."}
{"id": "16236087", "title": "Cardiac troponins in renal failure - time for an optimistic consensus?", "content": "Cardiac troponins in renal failure - time for an optimistic consensus? Elevated cardiac troponin concentrations are now accepted as the gold standard biochemical markers for the diagnosis of myocardial damage in patients with unstable coronary syndromes, having also a demonstrated value in early risk stratification and in adopting different therapeutic strategies. The specificity and sensitivity of cardiac troponins for diagnosis of acute coronary diseases in renal failure have been a point of confusion over the past decade, mainly because of moderate elevations of these cardiac biomarkers, commonly observed in patients with chronic renal dysfunction and without any significant myocardial damage. This review discusses the cardiac troponins, their biochemistry, their currently accepted cut-off values and their real significance in chronic renal failure (CRF), concluding that troponins maintain their diagnostic and prognostic values in patients with CRF, being predictive not only of cardiovascular mortality but also of general mortality in this patient group."}
{"id": "16225109", "title": "Methanol poisoning--case report.", "content": "Methanol poisoning--case report. The aim of this paper is to present a case of 46-yr-old man, poisoned with methanol, treated with ethanol and haemodialysis. According to history, he was alcoholic, but without any others complaints, except mild hypertension. During the clinical course of methanol poisoning ECG revealed pathological Q wave and ST segment elevation in leads II, III, aVF, without increased cardiac enzymes activity. As a sequel of acute methanol poisoning irreversible bitemporal loss of vision was confirmed four months after poisoning. Cardiologic examination at the same time confirmed past acute coronary episode."}
{"id": "16214439", "title": "Myocardial perfusion study of panic attacks in patients with coronary artery disease.", "content": "Myocardial perfusion study of panic attacks in patients with coronary artery disease. Panic disorder (PD) and panic-like anxiety have been associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular death. No study has specifically examined the association between panic attacks and ischemia in patients who have coronary artery disease (CAD). We hypothesized that panic attacks would induce myocardial perfusion defects in patients who have CAD and PD. Sixty-five patients who had CAD and positive results with nuclear exercise stress testing (35 with PD and 30 without PD served as controls) underwent a well-established panic challenge test (1 vital capacity inhalation of a gas mixture containing 35% carbon dioxide and 65% oxygen) and were injected with technetium-99m sestamibi at inhalation. Single-photon emission computed tomography was used to assess per-panic challenge perfusion defects, and heart rate, blood pressure, and 12-lead electrocardiogram were continuously measured during the procedure. Patients were not withdrawn from their cardiac medications. Patients who had PD were significantly younger than the controls; otherwise groups did not differ with respect to gender, cardiac medications, nuclear exercise test results, and baseline heart rate and blood pressure. Seventy-four percent of patients (26 of 35) who had PD had a panic attack at inhalation versus 6.7% of controls (2 of 30, p <0.001). As hypothesized, patients who had PD and demonstrated a panic attack were more likely to develop a reversible myocardial perfusion defect than were controls who did not have an attack (80.9% vs 46.4% p = 0.009). Thus, despite being on their cardiac medications, panic attacks preferentially induced significant perfusion defects in patients who had CAD and PD. In conclusion, panic attacks in patients who have CAD appear to be bad for the heart."}
{"id": "16209963", "title": "Outcomes in patients admitted for chest pain with renal failure and troponin I elevations.", "content": "Outcomes in patients admitted for chest pain with renal failure and troponin I elevations. The significance of troponin I (TnI) elevations in patients with renal failure (RF) admitted for possible myocardial ischemia is unclear. We therefore compared outcomes in patients with and without TnI elevations based on renal function. Consecutive patients without ST elevation admitted for exclusion of ischemia underwent serial assessment of cardiac markers including TnI. Coronary angiography, significant disease, and revascularization were determined, and 1-year cardiac mortality and all-cause mortality were assessed. Mortality was assessed based on TnI elevations in patients with no (creatinine clearance [CrCl] > or = 60 mL/min), moderate (CrCl 30-59 mL/min), and severe (CrCl < 30 mL/min) RF. Troponin I elevations were present in 17% of the 3774 consecutive patients and were significantly more frequent in patients with RF (CrCl < 30 mL/min: 26%; CrCl 30-59 mL/min: 19%; CrCl > 60 mL/min: 13%, all P < or = .01). Coronary angiography was performed significantly less frequently in patients with RF, whether TnI elevations were present. One-year all-cause mortality increased with both RF and TnI positivity (TnI [+] vs TnI [-], CrCl < 30 mL/min: 52% vs 26%; CrCl 30-59 mL/min: 21% vs 14%; CrCl > 60 mL/min: 8.9% vs 4.9%, all P < .001) . Troponin I was the most important independent predictor of mortality in the 3 RF groups (odds ratio 3.3 for CrCl < 30 mL/min, 2.2 for CrCl 30-59 mL/min, and 3.3 for CrCl > 60 mL/min). Troponin I elevations identified a high-risk cohort, and its prognostic value was not diminished in patients with RF."}
{"id": "16204745", "title": "The Mayo Clinic Risk Score predicts in-hospital mortality following primary angioplasty.", "content": "The Mayo Clinic Risk Score predicts in-hospital mortality following primary angioplasty. The Mayo Clinic Risk Score (MCRS) is a validated numeric score that predicts outcome following primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). We evaluated the ability of MCRS to risk stratify patients undergoing primary angioplasty. Patients undergoing primary angioplasty within 6 hours of the onset of chest pain in the New York State percutaneous coronary intervention reporting system (n = 3,005) had their MCRS calculated using predictive variables: age, presence of cardiogenic shock, renal failure, class III-IV congestive heart failure, left main coronary disease and multivessel coronary disease. All patients were presumed to have intra-coronary thrombus and undergoing an urgent/emergent procedure. Based on the MCRS, patients were classified into five risk categories: very low-risk (MCRS < 5), low risk (6-8), moderate (9-11), high (12-14) and very high risk (15-25). The mean age of the study population was 62 years, 70% were male; stents were used in 89% and glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists in 72%. The prevalence of cardiogenic shock, multivessel disease and left main disease was higher in patients with MCRS > 12. Overall in-hospital mortality following primary angioplasty was 4.7%; it was 0% in the very low-risk category, 0.9% in the low-risk category, 3.2% in the moderate-risk category, 10.7% in the high-risk category, and 25.1% in the very high-risk category (p < 0.0001). The higher-risk MCRS category predicted increased risk even when 317 (10.5%) patients with cardiogenic shock were excluded from the analysis. The overall c-statistic for the prediction of in-hospital mortality by MCRS was 0.85. Increasing MCRS predicts in-hospital mortality following primary angioplasty."}
{"id": "16202107", "title": "Long-term outcome after coronary angioplasty in renal transplant and hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Long-term outcome after coronary angioplasty in renal transplant and hemodialysis patients. In order to determine how renal transplantation modifies in hospital and long-term outcome after coronary angioplasty, we compared dialysis and renal transplant patients with control patients without renal failure. Seventy-five consecutive dialysis patients (group D) and 37 renal transplant patients (group T) undergoing coronary angioplasty, were compared with two control groups (groups control D and control T, respectively) matched 1:1 with groups D and T for clinical and angiographic characteristics. The mean follow-up was 50 months. The rate of angiographic success was high and comparable in the four groups (P=0.7). Renal transplant patients were younger than dialysis non-transplant patients (P=0.004). The risk of 4-year cardiac death and nonfatal myocardial infarction was higher in dialysis compared to control dialysis patients (OR 2.6, 95% CI 1.35--5.01, P=0.004), in transplant patients compared to control transplant patients (OR 9.93, 95% CI 1.17--84.04, P=0.03), and there was a trend toward a higher risk in dialysis than in renal transplant patients (OR 1.6, 95% CI 0.8--3.19, P=0.08). The risk of 4-year mortality was higher in dialysis patients than in the other three groups (31% in group D versus 19% in group T, 13% in group control D, and 0% in group control T, P<0.001). After adjusting for age, diabetes, and multivessel disease, long-term mortality risk was similar in dialysis and renal transplant patients. On multivariate analysis, renal function (P=0.002), age (P=0.005), and tobacco consumption (P=0.005) were independently associated with 4-year cardiac death. In patients with end-stage renal disease who undergo coronary angioplasty, renal transplantation was not independently associated with a lower long-term mortality compared to dialysis treatment. Both dialysis and renal transplant patients show lower survival rates compared to matched control patients."}
{"id": "16200483", "title": "Coronary surgery in dialysis-dependent patients with end stage renal failure.", "content": "Coronary surgery in dialysis-dependent patients with end stage renal failure. The number of patients with dialysis-dependent end stage renal failure (ESRF) and coronary heart disease (CAD) has increased in recent years. Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) has become the standard treatment for CAD in this patient group, but is still considered as a risk procedure due to increased mortality and morbidity. In a retrospective study we analyzed our clinical results of isolated CABG in 40 dialysis-dependent patients with ESRF (5 female and 35 male, mean age 65+/-8.4 years) and the use of extracorporeal circulation. The perioperative control group comprised 51 patients (10 female and 41 male, mean age 67+/-7.3 years) with normal renal function and isolated CABG. Demographic and preoperative data were comparable in both groups. Hospital mortality was 2.5% in patients with ESRF and 0% in patients with normal renal function. Morbidity was comparable in both groups. The mean number of grafts was 3.1+/-0.9 in the dialysis group and 2.9+/-0.8 in the control group. In the follow-up of the dialysis group (34+/-23 months) 8 patients died. CABG in patients with dialysis-dependent ESRF can be performed with good clinical results and morbidity comparable to patients with normal renal function."}
{"id": "16198934", "title": "Peritoneal transport status influence on atherosclerosis/inflammation in CAPD patients.", "content": "Peritoneal transport status influence on atherosclerosis/inflammation in CAPD patients. Peritoneal transport status is one of the main determinants of dialysis adequacy and dialysis-related complications in end-stage renal disease patients receiving continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). In this study we aimed to investigate the relationship between peritoneal transport characteristics and known promoters of atherosclerosis in a group of patients receiving CAPD for a minimum of 36 months. We performed a cross-sectional study of a cohort of 84 patients with end-stage renal disease (37 men, 47 women; age, 44.0 +/- 15.7 years; dialysis duration, 40.3 +/- 8.1 months) who were receiving CAPD for minimum 36 months. Peritoneal transport characteristics were identified after a peritoneal equilibration test (PET) determined at the third month of CAPD using Dialysate/Plasma (D/P) reference values. Patients were classified according to one of four peritoneal transport types: high (H), high-average (HA), low-average (LA), and low (L). After PET, patients were grouped as high (H/HA group, n = 51) or low (L/LA group, n = 33) transporters. The patient groups' clinical and laboratory data before dialysis and after initiation of the CAPD were collected retrospectively. The patients' follow-up data were retrieved for the diagnosis of any atherosclerosis-related event after the initiation of CAPD. The following events were collected, including myocardial infarction, having been diagnosed as having coronary artery disease by angiography or myocardium scintigraphy, cerebrovascular accident, and development of clinically evident peripheral arterial disease. A comparison of follow-up data revealed that the H/HA transport characteristic was associated with lower albumin (P < .01), higher C-reactive protein (CRP) (P < .0001) levels, and higher recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO) needs (P < .001) when compared with the L/LA type. During follow-up, 28 patients showed an atherosclerosis-related event. Twenty-two of these were in the H/HA group (43.1%), whereas only six were in the L/LA group (18.1%, P < .01). Reanalysis of 18 patients with atherosclerosis-related events and high CRP levels (> 10 mg/L) showed that 15 were in the H/HA and 3 were in the L/LA group. Sixty-eight percent of the H/HA patients with atherosclerosis and 50% of the L/LA patients with an atherosclerotic event also had chronic inflammation (P < .001). A Pearson correlation analysis showed that there was a positive correlation between D/P creatinine levels and 36-month mean CRP levels (r = 0.608, P < .0001), and a negative correlation between D/P creatinine levels and 36-month mean albumin levels (r = -0.299, P < .005). This study shows that the high transporter peritoneal membrane characteristic is a risk factor for inflammatory state in patients with end-stage renal disease. High-transporter patients are at an increased risk of atherosclerosis when compared with their low-transporter counterparts through chronic inflammation."}
{"id": "16190955", "title": "Exercise- or dipyridamole-loaded QGS is useful to evaluate myocardial ischemia and viability in the patients with a history of Kawasaki disease.", "content": "Exercise- or dipyridamole-loaded QGS is useful to evaluate myocardial ischemia and viability in the patients with a history of Kawasaki disease. Evaluation of myocardial ischemia and viability is very important for the management of patients with a history of Kawasaki disease (KD). (99m)Tc-tetrofosmin myocardial perfusion scintigraphy combined with quantitative gated single photon computed emission tomography (QGS) gives us information, not only about perfusion, but also the percentage change in left ventricular wall thickness (%WT) and relative changes in left ventricular wall motion (LVM). The subjects were 27 patients with a history of KD followed as outpatients at the National Cardiovascular Center, Osaka, Japan. Exercise-loaded QGS was performed on 21 patients, and dipyridamole- loaded QGS was performed in six patients younger than 7 years old. Perfusion defects (PD) were observed in 12 patients. Of the 12 patients, four with old myocardial infarction (OMI) had decreased %WT. All patients with OMI showed a decrease in %WT in the areas where PD was seen on the image. The other eight patients without OMI showed no decrease in %WT. In non-infarcted cases, the %WT was normal in the PD-positive area. It is possible to evaluate myocardial ischemia and viability in KD patients by comparing PD on the image with %WT determined by QGS using exercise or drug-loaded myocardial scintigraphy alone."}
{"id": "16188511", "title": "Impact of renal function on coronary plaque morphology and morphometry in patients with chronic renal insufficiency as determined by intravascular ultrasound volumetric analysis.", "content": "Impact of renal function on coronary plaque morphology and morphometry in patients with chronic renal insufficiency as determined by intravascular ultrasound volumetric analysis. The aim of the present study was to use intravascular ultrasonography (IVUS) to assess plaque morphology and morphometry in patients with varying degrees of chronic renal insufficiency, including end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on dialysis replacement. Cardiovascular disease is the main cause of death for patients with chronic renal insufficiency, particularly in patients with ESRD. The impact of several degrees of renal insufficiency (including ESRD) on coronary plaque characteristics has not been determined. A total of 142 patients who underwent IVUS imaging of a de novo native coronary artery stenosis before percutaneous intervention were matched for age, gender, and diabetes and were grouped according to calculated creatinine clearance (CrCl): CrCl >70 ml/min (n = 39); CrCl 50 to 69 ml/min (n = 41); CrCl <50 ml/min, (n = 37), and ESRD (n = 25). Standard clinical, angiographic, and IVUS parameters were measured. The ESRD group had more African-American (p = 0.002) and hypertensive (p = 0.002) patients. No significant difference was found in any of the IVUS measurements among patients with CrCl >70, 50 to 69, and <50 ml/min: reference and lesion site arterial, lumen, and plaque areas and volumes, and arterial calcium (p = NS for all comparisons). Conversely, patients with ESRD had larger reference segment arterial and lumen areas and volumes; larger lesion site arterial, lumen, and plaque areas; and larger arcs of calcium (p <0.05 for all post hoc comparisons between patients with ESRD and patients with CrCl >70, 50 to 69, and <50 ml/min). Thus, chronic renal insufficiency in the absence of dialysis is not associated with increased reference segment or lesion site plaque burden and calcium. However, the transition to the need for dialysis is associated with progressive calcific atherosclerosis (larger lesion plaque area and calcium)."}
{"id": "16181869", "title": "Does diabetes affect the postoperative outcomes after total arterial off-pump coronary bypass surgery in multivessel disease?", "content": "Does diabetes affect the postoperative outcomes after total arterial off-pump coronary bypass surgery in multivessel disease? Previous studies have reported conflicting results regarding the adverse effects of diabetes on surgical outcomes after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). We reviewed our experience to determine the impact of diabetes on early and midterm surgical outcomes of patients with multivessel disease who underwent total arterial revascularization with avoidance of cardiopulmonary bypass. Between January 1998 and December 2003, 517 patients with multivessel disease underwent total arterial off-pump CABG; 214 were diabetic (DM group) and 303 were nondiabetic (NDM group). The DM group was sicker than the NDM group (more left ventricular dysfunction, postinfarction angina, previous myocardial infarction, and chronic renal failure). Mean follow-up period was 34 +/- 17 months. The multivariate risk factors for operative mortality, one-year angiographic patency, and midterm survival were analyzed. Mean numbers of distal anastomoses were not different between the two groups (DM, 3.1 +/- 0.9; NDM, 3.0 +/- 0.8). Operative mortality was 1.4% (DM, 1.4% vs NDM, 1.3%; p = not significant [ns]). No differences were found in the incidences of postoperative morbidities, including mediastinitis and superficial wound problems, between the two groups. In immediate postoperative angiography, the patency rates were 99.2% in the DM and 98.9% in the NDM group (p = ns). One-year patency rates in angiography were also similar between the two groups (DM, 96.0%; NDM, 95.4%; p = ns). Multivariate analysis indicated that diabetes was not an independent risk factor of steno-occlusion at one-year follow-up angiography. Five-year cumulative survival was 87.7 +/- 4.1% in the DM, and 94.2 +/- 1.4% in NDM (p = ns) group. Five-year freedom from cardiac death was 99.0 +/- 0.7% in the DM, and 97.4 +/- 1.0% in the NDM (p = ns) group. Old age (age > 75 years) and chronic renal failure were independent risk factors for lower midterm survival. Our study failed to demonstrate that diabetes was an independent risk factor for lower midterm survival. Diabetes mellitus did not affect the early postoperative and midterm results, including one-year graft patency, in patients with multivessel disease undergoing total arterial and off-pump CABG."}
{"id": "16180779", "title": "Prevalence of risk factors predisposing to foot problems in patients on hemodialysis.", "content": "Prevalence of risk factors predisposing to foot problems in patients on hemodialysis. A disturbingly high prevalence of single or bilateral lower extremity amputations in our program prompted us to conduct a study to identify the prevalence of risk factors that predispose patients on hemodialysis (HD) to foot problems. The study consisted of a one-time assessment of subjects' risk for and actual prevalence of amputation. The sample consisted of 232 subjects--56% male, 44% female. Ages ranged from 21-91 years, mean age 65.1 and median age 69 years. The most common comorbidities were hypertension (75%), coronary artery disease (50%), diabetes (42.2%), hyperlipidemia (34.9%), and peripheral vascular disease (27.2%), which are all established risk factors for peripheral arterial occlusive disease. Twenty-one percent of subjects were current smokers; 28% were former smokers. Nearly 13.4% of subjects had undergone amputations ranging from single toes to bilateral above knee amputations. Only 31% of subjects had both bilateral palpable pedal pulses present. Neuropathy, as evidenced by the inability to feel the application of monofilaments to 10 sites on each foot or the presence of symptoms, was present in 74.6% of subjects. Only 2.6% of subjects demonstrated comprehensive self-care behaviors (SCBs). With respect to subjects' ability for self-care, 75% of subjects had adequate vision, 60% adequate dexterity, and 55% adequate flexibility to perform self-care. Study findings confirmed impressions that patients are at considerable risk for foot complications. Implications for nursing practice include regular foot assessment, education for self-care, and referral to specialists when required."}
{"id": "16164659", "title": "Effects of sevelamer and calcium on coronary artery calcification in patients new to hemodialysis.", "content": "Effects of sevelamer and calcium on coronary artery calcification in patients new to hemodialysis. Hemodialysis patients are at increased risk for progressive coronary artery calcification; however, the development and progression of this disease process in patients new to hemodialysis is unknown. One hundred and twenty-nine patients new to hemodialysis were randomized to receive calcium containing phosphate binders or the noncalcium phosphate binder sevelamer hydrochloride. Subjects underwent electron beam computed tomography scanning (EBCT) at entry into the study and again at 6, 12, and 18 months. One hundred and nine patients underwent baseline and at least one additional assessment of coronary calcification. At baseline, 37% of sevelamer treated and 31% of calcium treated patients had no evidence of coronary calcification. No subject with a zero coronary artery calcium score (CACS) at baseline progressed to a CACS >30 over 18 months. Subjects with a CACS > 30 at baseline showed progressive increases in CACS in both treatment arms (P < 0.05 for each time point in both groups). Subjects treated with calcium containing phosphate binders showed more rapid and more severe increases in CACS when compared with those receiving sevelamer hydrochloride (P= 0.056 at 12 months, P= 0.01 at 18 months). New hemodialysis patients with no evidence of coronary calcification showed little evidence of disease development over 18 months independent of phosphate binder therapy. However, subjects with evidence of at least mild coronary calcification had significant progression at 6, 12, and 18 months. Use of calcium containing phosphate binders resulted in more rapid progression of coronary calcification than did use of sevelamer hydrochloride."}
{"id": "16163425", "title": "[Myocardial revascularization of the anterior descending coronary artery with left internal mammary artery by means of extracorporeal circulation: 10 years follow-up].", "content": "[Myocardial revascularization of the anterior descending coronary artery with left internal mammary artery by means of extracorporeal circulation: 10 years follow-up]. The use of left internal mammary artery (LIMA) as a graft to anterior descending artery (LAD) has been associated with better long term results in coronary surgery. To assess and report the long-term results of LIMA to LAD bypass grafting for isolated LDA lesions. Retrospective analysis of the medical records and surgical protocols of 40 patients (aged 60+/-10 years, 28 male) subjected to coronary surgery between 1992 and 2002. Thirty-four patients presented with unstable angina. On angiography, the LAD had a proximal obstruction in 35 patients. Sixteen presented with a myocardial infarction of the LAD territory. Six were managed previously with angioplasty; four had a new critical obstruction, 1 was catalogued as a procedure failure, and one was totally occluded. There was no operative mortality, myocardial infarction, stroke or need for re operation. There were two late deaths, caused by an advanced cardiac failure at 120 months in one patient, and chronic renal failure at 61 months of follow-up in another. Actuarial survival probability was 100%, 93% and 75% at 1, 5 and 10 years. Probability of freedom from angina was 98%, and freedom of suffering a new myocardial infarction was 100% at more than 10 years. The probability of no need for a new coronary procedure (angioplasty or surgery) also was 100% at more than 10 years. The use of LIMA as a coronary bypass graft to LAD is a safe surgical technique, with an excellent duration and permeability and also provides a prolonged time free from cardiac events as mortality, angina, myocardial infarction, and the need of a new coronary procedure."}
{"id": "16159830", "title": "Relation between mild renal dysfunction and outcomes after coronary artery bypass grafting.", "content": "Relation between mild renal dysfunction and outcomes after coronary artery bypass grafting. Risk stratification algorithms for coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) do not include a weighting for preoperative mild renal impairment defined as a serum creatinine 130 to 199 micromol/L (1.47 to 2.25 mg/dL), which may impact mortality and morbidity after CABG. We reviewed prospectively collected data between 1997 and 2004 on 4403 consecutive patients undergoing first-time isolated CABG with a preoperative serum creatinine <200 micromol/L (2.26 mg/dL)] in a single institution. The in-hospital mortality was 2.5% (112 of 4403), the need for new dialysis/hemofiltration was 1.3% (57 of 4403), and the stroke rate was 2.5% (108 of 4403). There were 458 patients with a serum creatinine 130 to 199 micromol/L or 1.47 to 2.25 mg/dL (mild renal dysfunction group) and 3945 patients with a serum creatinine <130 micromol/L (<1.47 mg/dL). Operative mortality was higher in the mild renal dysfunction group (2.1% versus 6.1%; P<0.001) and increased with increasing preoperative serum creatinine level. New dialysis/hemofiltration (0.8%versus 5.2%; P<0.001) and postoperative stroke (2.2% versus 5.0%; P<0.01) were also more common in the patients with mild renal impairment. Multivariate analysis adjusting for known risk factors confirmed preoperative mild renal impairment (creatinine 130 to 199 micromol/L or 1.47 to 2.25 mg/dL; odd ratio, 1.91; 95% CI, 1.18 to 3.03; P=0.007) or glomerular filtration rate estimates <60 mL/min per 1.73 m2, derived using the Cockroft-Gault formula, (odds ratio, 1.98; 95% CI, 1.16 to 3.48; P=0.015) as independent predictors of in-hospital mortality. Preoperative mild renal dysfunction adversely affected the 3-year survival probability after CABG (93% versus 81%; P<0.001). Mild renal dysfunction is an important predictor of outcome in terms of in-hospital mortality, morbidity, and midterm survival in patients undergoing CABG."}
{"id": "16129208", "title": "Changes in cardiovascular calcification after parathyroidectomy in patients with ESRD.", "content": "Changes in cardiovascular calcification after parathyroidectomy in patients with ESRD. The effect of parathyroidectomy on vascular calcification in patients with end-stage renal disease has been a subject of interest for many years, although studies in this area have not been definitive. The purpose of this investigation is to determine changes in vascular calcification after subtotal parathyroidectomy by using fast-gated helical computed axial tomographic imaging to measure coronary and carotid artery calcification. Computed tomographic imaging was performed at baseline and in follow-up on 10 patients who had undergone subtotal parathyroidectomy and 10 reference patients who had not undergone parathyroidectomy. Patients who underwent subtotal parathyroidectomy had a mean change in coronary calcification of -92.3 +/- 469/y, and reference patients had a mean change of +479 +/- 630/y (P = 0.03). The 2 parathyroidectomy patients with the highest baseline scores had significant declines in both coronary and carotid calcification. In this study, subtotal parathyroidectomy is associated with a significant decrease in vascular calcification in 2 of 10 dialysis patients with high coronary artery calcium scores and stabilization in 7 of 10 patients with low baseline scores."}
{"id": "16123493", "title": "Quantitative coronary angiographic studies of patients with angina pectoris and impaired glucose tolerance.", "content": "Quantitative coronary angiographic studies of patients with angina pectoris and impaired glucose tolerance. We investigated the morphological characteristics of coronary arteries in patients with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) using computer-assisted quantitative coronary angiography. IGT is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. However, the morphological changes developing in the coronary arteries of patients with IGT remain unknown. A total of 534 patients with angina pectoris were studied. Of these, 144 patients were being treated for diabetes. The remaining 390 patients were classified as follows depending on the results of a 75-g oral glucose tolerance test: normal glucose tolerance (NGT) (n = 117), impaired fasting glucose (n = 3), IGT (n = 136), and diabetes pattern (preclinical diabetes) (n = 134). The diameters of the middle section of all major coronary artery segments were measured and averaged to determine the averaged vessel diameter (AVD). We defined segments of a diameter of < or = 1.5 mm as diseased lesions and determined the averaged lesion length (ALL). AVD and ALL were significantly different among patients with IGT and those with NGT. Patients with diabetes (preclinical and/or treated) had smaller AVD and longer ALL than those with IGT. By multivariate analysis, postprandial glucose levels were shown to be independently associated with an AVD <3.0 mm and an ALL >20 mm. Diffuse coronary artery narrowing develops not only in patients with diabetes but also in those with IGT. This morphological change is associated with postprandial hyperglycemia."}
{"id": "16115849", "title": "Myocardial contractility does not determine the haemodynamic response during dialysis.", "content": "Myocardial contractility does not determine the haemodynamic response during dialysis. LV systolic dysfunction in dialysis patients has been implicated in the genesis of dialysis hypotension. End-systolic elastance (E(es)), a relatively load-independent parameter of myocardial contractility, was assessed by testing the acute left ventricular (LV) response to nitroglycerine (NTG) in hypotension-prone (HP) and hypotension-resistant (HR) patients. Routine measurement of ejection fraction (EF) was done before dialysis in 15 patients without significant valvular disease or symptoms of coronary heart disease. Continuous arterial pressure was measured by Finapres, with systolic blood pressure (SBP) as surrogate for LV end-systolic pressure. Simultaneously, LV area was measured using automated border detection. SBP and LV area data were combined online to create pressure-area loops in real time following intravenous NTG bolus. E(es) was determined offline by beat-to-beat analysis of consecutive pressure-area loops. SBP, at baseline 168 mmHg (128-188 mmHg), decreased to 127 mmHg (79-161 mmHg). End-systolic LV area, at baseline 6 cm2 (1-12 cm2), decreased to 4 cm2 (1-10 cm2). E(es) in the HP group (11 mmHg cm(-2); 7-22 mmHg cm(-2)) was not different from E(es) in the HR group (9 mmHg cm(-2); 4-16 mmHg cm(-2)). EF was 61% (45-73%). There was no correlation between E(es) and EF. In this population of dialysis patients without clinically manifest heart disease, the HP and HR groups had a similar E(es). Therefore, these two types of dialysis patients were not distinguished by a difference in myocardial contractility. The results of this study argue against a role for reduced myocardial contractility in the genesis of intradialytic hypotension."}
{"id": "16109138", "title": "Role of sevelamer hydrochloride in the coronary artery calcification score.", "content": "Role of sevelamer hydrochloride in the coronary artery calcification score. The coronary artery calcification score (CACS) is higher in hemodialysis (HD) patients than in non-HD patients for each age group from the fifth to the eighth decade of life. In order to clarify the relationship between the rate of change in the CACS and several factors related to calcium (Ca) and phosphate (P) metabolism in HD patients, we determined the CACS twice in 144 HD outpatients at an interval of approximately 12 months (2003 and 2004). The dosage of vitamin D formulations (alfacalcidol or maxacalcitol) was reduced or ceased if the serum Ca concentration exceeded 5.0 mEq/L, or the serum P concentration exceeded 6.0 mg/dL, and the dosage of combined sevelamer hydrochloride (SH) and calcium carbonate (CaCO3), as the phosphate binder, was adjusted to maintain the concentrations below these levels. The study parameters were: (1) the total dosage of alfacalcidol (microg), maxacalcitol (microg), SH (mg), and CaCO3 at the time of each CACS measurement; and (2) serum concentrations of Ca, P, alkaline phosphatase, high-sensitivity parathyroid hormone (HS-PTH), total protein, albumin, total cholesterol, triglycerides (TG). Regression analysis showed a significant correlation among the total SH dosage, TG, and alphaCACS. Future investigations will include the differences in alphaCACS between patients treated with SH who experience a rise in Ca and/or P and those with a decrease in Ca and/or P."}
{"id": "16105059", "title": "Progression of coronary artery calcification in diabetics with and without chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Progression of coronary artery calcification in diabetics with and without chronic kidney disease. Rapid progression of coronary artery calcification (CAC) has been reported among individuals with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). There is limited information on the progression of CAC during earlier stages of diabetic chronic kidney disease (CKD). In a prospective, cohort study of type 2 diabetic individuals (N = 90; normoalbuminuric diabetic controls, 30; diabetic nephropathy, DN, 60), electron-beam computed tomography (EBCT) was repeated at an average interval of 19 months. All scan images were acquired at end-systole to minimize interscan variability. In order to eliminate the dependence of the residual error from interscan variability on baseline CAC scores, square root transformed CAC scores were used for analyses of progression of coronary calcification. Repeat EBCT scans were completed in 68 subjects (diabetic controls: 23; DN: 45). There was a highly significant relationship between the proportion of subjects with progressive CAC and renal disease-DN who progressed to ESRD, 80%; DN who did not progress to ESRD, 30%; and diabetic controls, 13% (P < 0.001). Similarly, the magnitude of change was significantly related to renal disease (DN who progressed to ESRD > DN who did not progress to ESRD > diabetic controls, P < 0.001). Using logistic regression and controlling for non-dialyzed DN, ESRD and inter-scan interval, advanced age was the only significant variable associated with progression of CAC. Finally, serum creatinine and baseline CAC score emerged as independent predictors for the magnitude of increase in CAC. Progression of CAC is apparent among individuals with DN both before and after ESRD. However, the risk factors associated with progression of CAC may differ at different stages of CKD."}
{"id": "16097367", "title": "Predictors of undiagnosed renal artery stenosis among Japanese patients with risk factors of atherosclerosis.", "content": "Predictors of undiagnosed renal artery stenosis among Japanese patients with risk factors of atherosclerosis. Atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis (ARAS) is a significant cause of end stage renal dysfunction (ESRD) among the elderly. Although early detection of ARAS and induction of adequate treatment could reduce the incidence of ESRD, there have been few reports about parameters predictive of ARAS among Japanese. In this study, we investigated the clinical indicators that predict ARAS among Japanese with risk factors of atherosclerosis (> 40 years of age plus hypertension, dyslipidemia or diabetes mellitus). After eliminating the patients who had already been diagnosed with renal artery stenosis, 202 patients were enrolled. The renal arteries of all 202 patients were evaluated by magnetic resonance arteriography (MRA), and the stenoses with > 50% reduction in diameter at the ostium of the renal artery were defined as ARAS. MRA detected ARAS in 42 patients (31 hemilateral and 11 bilateral). Between the patients with and without ARAS there was no significant difference in gender distribution, detection of abdominal vascular bruits or smoking habit. The prevalences of diabetic, hypertensive and cerebrovascular comorbidity were also not significantly different. The mean blood pressure, body mass index and total serum cholesterol values were similar between the two groups. However, age, pulse pressure, serum uric acid, serum creatinine, amount of urinary protein, and coronary artery comorbidity were significantly higher, while estimated creatinine clearance was significantly lower in the patients with ARAS than in those without ARAS. A high prevalence of hypertensive retinopathy was also noted among patients with ARAS. Multivariate analysis revealed that older age and renal impairment were independent predictors of ARAS in Japanese patients with atherosclerotic risk factors."}
{"id": "16085465", "title": "Ischemic heart disease in renal transplant candidates: towards non-invasive approaches for preoperative risk stratification.", "content": "Ischemic heart disease in renal transplant candidates: towards non-invasive approaches for preoperative risk stratification. This editorial refers to the paper of R. Sharma et al. entitled \"Dobutamine stress echocardiography and cardiac troponin T for the detection of significant coronary artery disease and predicting outcome in renal transplant candidates\". The editorial discusses different strategies for cardiac risk assessment in patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing renal transplantation."}
{"id": "16083529", "title": "Impaired renal function and atherosclerosis in a Pakistani cohort.", "content": "Impaired renal function and atherosclerosis in a Pakistani cohort. To investigate the relationship of creatinine and calculated glomerular filtration rate (GFR) with coronary arterial disease (CAD) in Pakistani patients. Four hundred individuals with chest pain; 200 with angiographic disease matched with 200 without occlusive disease. A prospective case-control study. A tertiary referral cardiology unit in Pakistan. Impaired renal function as estimated by calculated GFR was common in this population. Creatinine and glomerular filtration rate, as calculated by the Cockcroft-Gault (CG) and Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) formulae, were associated with CAD and atherosclerotic burden in Pakistani patients. Calculation of creatinine clearance, correcting for age, sex and body mass index, showed that clearance was 81 (17-257) mL/min/1.73 m2 in patients with CAD compared with 88 (23-167) mL/min/1.73 m2 in controls with a significant number of patients (18.5 vs. 6.5%; RR = 2.85; p < 0.001) showing significant renal impairment (< 60 mL/min/1.73 m2) by CG and more by the MDRD equation (26 vs. 9%; RR = 2.88; p < 0.001). The unadjusted odds ratios for CAD for a GFR < 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 were 3.66 (1.87-7.16) and 3.29 (1.81-6.01), respectively and, after adjustment for diabetes, smoking, insulin resistance, inflammation and apolipoprotein A1, 1.04 (1.02-1.09) and 1.04 (1.02-1.09), respectively. Impaired renal function is common in Pakistani patients with coronary arterial disease and is strongly associated with a risk of atherosclerosis independent of insulin resistance."}
{"id": "16080976", "title": "Clinical, resting echo and dipyridamole stress echocardiography findings for the screening of renal transplant candidates.", "content": "Clinical, resting echo and dipyridamole stress echocardiography findings for the screening of renal transplant candidates. Preoperative screening for coronary artery disease is recommended in high-risk renal transplant candidates. Aim of this study was to prospectively assess the value of a comprehensive risk stratification strategy including clinical, resting echo, and dipyridamole stress echo findings before renal transplantation. The study group consisted of 71 renal transplant candidates (47 men; age 54+/-11 years) fulfilling one or more of the following high-risk clinical criteria: history of coronary artery disease, wall motion abnormalities at resting echo, dialysis dependency lasting >5 years, presence of 2 or more risk factors. Clinical history, resting echo, and dipyridamole stress echo (up to 0.84 mg over 10 min + atropine up to 1 mg) were obtained in all subjects. Mean number of risk factors was 2.5+/-1.0. Known coronary artery disease and diabetes were present, respectively, in 2 (3%) and 11 (15%) persons. No patient had left ventricular ejection fraction <45%. Left ventricular hypertrophy was found in 53 (74%) cases. Stress echo showed 100% safety and 97% overall feasibility. Inducible ischemia (new wall motion abnormalities) was detected in 3 (4%) subjects. During follow-up (36+/-12 months), 8 (11%) cardiac events occurred: 2 deaths, 2 myocardial infarctions, 3 coronary interventions, and 1 pulmonary edema. The perioperative period and subsequent follow-up (22+/-12 months) was uneventful among 32 patients who received renal transplantation. Four-year event-free survival was 92% in those without ischemia; it was 96% in the non-diabetic population. Diabetes (HR=4.78), age (HR=1.14), and left ventricular mass index (HR=1.02) were independent prognostic indicators among clinical and resting echo variables. The global chi-square of the statistical model was 18.8; it increased to 27.3 (+45%) after the addition of stress echo result. Renal transplant candidates can undergo effective stratification of risk by combining clinical, resting echo and dipyridamole stress echo findings."}
{"id": "16075826", "title": "The significance of elevated troponin T in patients with nondialysis-dependent renal insufficiency: a validation with coronary angiography.", "content": "The significance of elevated troponin T in patients with nondialysis-dependent renal insufficiency: a validation with coronary angiography. Patients with elevated troponin are at high risk of adverse outcomes, future cardiac events, and are more likely to have hemodynamically significant coronary artery stenoses. Elevated troponin T (cTnT) in patients with poor renal function portends a poor prognosis; however, findings of significant coronary artery disease (CAD) by coronary angiography have not been demonstrated in patients with poor renal function and elevated cTnT. The purpose of this study was to correlate the angiographic findings of patients with elevated cTnT with respect to renal function in patients with nondialysis-dependent renal insufficiency. We retrospectively identified 342 patients with elevated cTnT who underwent coronary angiography in the setting of acute coronary syndrome. Patients were divided into poor (< 40 ml/min) and normal (> 40 ml/min) renal function by measuring their glomerular filtration rate. Our primary outcome was CAD stenosis, defined as epicardial stenosis > or = 70%. Secondary outcomes were rates of contrast nephropathy, initiation of hemodialysis, revascularization, length of stay (LOS), and in-hospital mortality. There was no significant difference in the prevalence of CAD between patients who had positive cTnT with poor renal function versus patients with positive cTnT and normal renal function (87.1 vs. 89.7%, p = 0.54). This finding persisted after stratifying by age. Patients with impaired renal function had a higher mortality, longer LOS, and a higher rate contrast nephropathy requiring hemodialysis. The association between elevated cTnT and significant CAD stenosis does not vary with renal function."}
{"id": "16030034", "title": "Dobutamine stress echocardiography and the resting but not exercise electrocardiograph predict severe coronary artery disease in renal transplant candidates.", "content": "Dobutamine stress echocardiography and the resting but not exercise electrocardiograph predict severe coronary artery disease in renal transplant candidates. After renal transplantation half of all deaths are cardiac, so prior detection and treatment of severe coronary artery disease (CAD) is advocated. The aim of this study was to identify non-invasive predictors of severe CAD in a group of renal transplant candidates. One hundred and twenty-five renal transplant candidates (mean age 52+/-12 years, 80 male, mean creatinine 608+/-272 micromol/l) were studied. All had coronary angiography, dobutamine stress echocardiography, and resting and exercise electrocardiograph (ECG). Severe CAD was defined as luminal stenosis >70% by visual estimation in at least one epicardial artery. The resting ECG was recorded as abnormal if there was evidence of pathological Q waves, left ventricular hypertrophy, ST depression or elevation > or=1 mm, T wave inversion or bundle branch block. Total exercise time, maximal ST segment change, maximal heart rate and systolic blood pressure, limiting symptoms and Duke score were calculated during the exercise ECG test. Of the patients, 36 (29%) had severe CAD, 55% were on dialysis and 39% were diabetic. Patients with severe CAD were significantly older (P<0.001), had higher total cholesterol (P = 0.05), higher CRP level (P = 0.05), larger left ventricular (LV), end systolic and end diastolic diameter (P = 0.007 for each), and lower LV ejection fraction (P = 0.01). A significantly higher percentage were diabetic (P = 0.05), had previous graft failure (P = 0.05), mitral annular calcification (P = 0.04), an abnormal resting ECG (P = 0.001) and positive stress echo result (P<0.001). Cardiac symptoms and exercise ECG parameters were not significantly different in the two groups. Stepwise logistic regression identified an abnormal resting ECG (OR 7, 95% CI 2, 34, P = 0.013) and positive stress echo result (OR 23, 95% CI 6, 88, P<0.001) as independent predictors of severe CAD. In selecting which potential renal transplant candidates should undergo coronary angiography, resting ECG and dobutamine stress echocardiography are the best predictors of severe CAD."}
{"id": "16014069", "title": "Renal Doppler resistance indices are associated with systemic atherosclerosis in kidney transplant recipients.", "content": "Renal Doppler resistance indices are associated with systemic atherosclerosis in kidney transplant recipients. In kidney transplant recipients, increased intrarenal resistance indices measured by duplex ultrasound are associated with poor subsequent allograft performance. It remains unclear whether high resistance indices rather reflect local renal damage or systemic vessel disease. We hypothesized that resistance indices are associated with cardiovascular risk factors and with subclinical systemic atherosclerosis in transplant recipients. In 105 renal transplant recipients, categories of risk for coronary heart disease were determined by Framingham risk scoring. Intrarenal resistive index (RI) and pulsatility index (PI) were measured in segmental arteries at five representative locations. For assessment of subclinical atherosclerosis, common carotid intima-media thickness, and ankle-brachial blood pressure index (ABI) were determined. Transplant recipients with high coronary risk had higher intrarenal resistance indices than low-risk patients. Higher age, female gender, and lower body mass index were independently associated with increased resistance indices. Renal resistance indices were correlated with common carotid intima-media thickness [RI: r= 0.270 (P= 0.005); PI: r= 0.355 (P < 0.001)]. This association remained significant after adjusting for renal function. Renal resistance indices were increased in patients with pathologic ankle-brachial-indices compared to patients with physiologic ankle-brachial-indices [RI: 73.3 +/- 7.1 vs. 70.2 +/- 6.9 (P= 0.03); PI: 146.4 +/- 29.9 vs. 131.4 +/- 25.9 (P= 0.01)]. Renal resistance indices were neither significantly correlated with glomerular filtration rate (GFR), nor with donor age. Intrarenal resistance indices are a complex integration of arterial compliance, pulsatility, and peripheral resistance. They are associated with traditional cardiovascular risk factors as well as with subclinical atherosclerotic vessel damage and should thus not be considered specific markers of renal damage."}
{"id": "16003716", "title": "P-wave dispersion in patients with stable coronary artery disease and its relationship with severity of the disease.", "content": "P-wave dispersion in patients with stable coronary artery disease and its relationship with severity of the disease. P-wave dispersion (PD) has been reported to be associated with inhomogeneous and discontinuous propagation of sinus impulses. The purpose of this study was to investigate the PD in patients with stable coronary artery disease (CAD) and to determine its relationship with severity of the disease. We prospectively analyzed 66 subjects with normal coronary angiogram (group 1) and 68 patients with significant (> or =50%) coronary stenosis; 25 had 1-vessel disease (group 2), 27 had 2-vessel disease (group 3), and 16 had 3-vessel disease (group 4). The maximum and minimum P-wave duration (Pmax and Pmin) and PD were measured from the 12-lead surface electrocardiogram. Echocardiographic examination was also performed. Angiographic vessel score and Gensini score were used to evaluate the severity of CAD. Pmax was longer in groups 3 and 4 compared with group 1 (P = .001 for both comparison). PD was greater in groups 2, 3, and 4 compared with group 1 ( P < .001 for all comparison), and also in group 4 compared with group 2 (P = .001). However, there was no statistically significant difference among the groups regarding Pmin. In bivariate correlation, increased PD was correlated with presence of hypertension (r = 0.278, P = .013), left ventricular ejection fraction (r = -0.231, P = .044), left atrial diameter (r = 0.223, P = .032), presence of moderate to severe mitral regurgitation (r = 0.284, P = .017), vessel score (r = 0.465, P < .001), and Gensini score (r = 0.338, P = .005). Multiple linear regression analysis showed that only vessel score was independently associated with PD (beta = .471, P = .01). PD was found to be greater in patients with stable CAD than in controls and to be associated with severity of the disease."}
{"id": "15996243", "title": "Coronary artery calcification in renal transplant recipients.", "content": "Coronary artery calcification in renal transplant recipients. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of mortality in renal transplant recipients. Although renal transplant recipients frequently undergo cardiac functional tests prior to surgery, coronary atherosclerosis can remain undetected. Coronary artery calcification (CAC), an early marker of atherosclerosis can be quantified using EBCT. The purpose of this study was to determine the extent and characteristics of CAC at the time of renal transplantation. We evaluated 79 consecutive incident asymptomatic renal transplant recipients. Patients were mostly White (62%), male (54%) and had a deceased donor renal transplant (61%). The mean age was 47 (12.1) years. Sixty-five percentage of subjects had CAC. The mean CAC score was 331.5 (562.4) with a median of 43.3. Older age, presence of diabetes, not having a preemptive transplant, deceased donor transplantation and hypercholesterolemia were significantly associated with presence of CAC univariately. Median CAC scores were significantly increased in subjects with diabetes (127.8 vs. 28.9, p=0.05), exposed to dialysis (102.9 vs. 3.7, p<0.001) and deceased donor recipients (169.7 vs. 7.5, p=0.02). Using multiple logistic regression, age and time on dialysis were significantly associated with the presence of CAC at the time of transplant. In summary, CAC is prevalent in patients undergoing kidney transplant. CAC may be a method to identify renal transplant recipients at increased risk for future cardiovascular events."}
{"id": "15985387", "title": "Dobutamine stress echocardiography and cardiac troponin T for the detection of significant coronary artery disease and predicting outcome in renal transplant candidates.", "content": "Dobutamine stress echocardiography and cardiac troponin T for the detection of significant coronary artery disease and predicting outcome in renal transplant candidates. Ischaemic heart disease is the leading cause of mortality and morbidity in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and after renal transplantation. However, the optimal non-invasive test for coronary artery disease (CAD) diagnosis in this population has yet to be established. The aim of this study was to assess the diagnostic accuracy of dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) and baseline plasma cardiac troponin T (cTnT) for detecting significant CAD and predicting adverse cardiac events in patients referred for renal transplantation. Coronary angiography, DSE, and baseline cTnT measurements were performed in 118 consecutive patients (mean age 52+/-12 years, 75 male) with ESRD (mean creatinine 608+/-272 micromol/L) referred for renal transplantation. The mean follow-up period was 1.32+/-0.48 years. Significant CAD was defined as a reduction in luminal diameter >70% by visual estimation in at least one major epicardial vessel. An abnormal DSE result defined as the development of a new regional wall motion abnormality in one or more normal resting segments or a deterioration of wall motion in one or more resting hypokinetic segments. A baseline cTnT>0.1 microg/L was taken as positive. Significant CAD in at least one vessel was present in 35 patients (30%). The number of patients with significant 3 vessel and 2 vessel disease was 6 and 7, respectively. An abnormal DSE result was present in 36 (31%) patients. Thirty-one (26%) had cTnT>0.1 microg/L. Sixty-four (54%) patients were on dialysis and 46 (39%) were diabetic. The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values for DSE in detecting significant coronary artery disease were 88%, 94%, 86% and 95%, respectively. The same values for a raised cTnT were 54%, 62%, 40% and 74%, respectively. The combination of an abnormal DSE result and raised cTnT gave values of 61%, 91%, 76%, and 80%, respectively. Over the follow-up period, mortality was significantly higher in those with a raised baseline cTnT but not those with an abnormal DSE result or significant CAD. DSE is an accurate technique for the detection of significant CAD in renal transplant candidates. An elevated cTnT does not predict significant CAD in this population and when used in conjunction with DSE, reduces the sensitivity of the combined tests. cTnT is an important marker of prognosis in renal transplant candidates."}
{"id": "15985135", "title": "Coronary bypass procedures in patients with renal artery stenosis.", "content": "Coronary bypass procedures in patients with renal artery stenosis. We present our experience on patients with renal artery stenosis undergoing myocardial revascularization procedures. Eighteen patients with varying degrees of renal artery stenosis were operated for coronary artery bypass grafting between 1996 and 2003. The overall incidence was 0.15%. There were nine male and nine female patients with a mean age of 62 +/- 8.2 (40-72 years). Four had bilateral and eight had significant unilateral (>50%) renal artery stenoses. Preoperatively, three patients had renal arterial intervention (stenting), and one patient was on hemodialysis. The mean preoperative creatinine value was 2.6 +/- 2.7 mg/dL (range 0.7 to 9.3). The patients were followed medically: two patients underwent off-pump coronary bypass grafting and the others were operated on-pump. There was only one mortality and two patients required hemodialysis postoperatively. The postoperative mean creatinine values were 3.4 +/- 4.9 mg/dL (range 1.0 to 12.5). No electrolyte imbalances were noted except that one case revealed a transient metabolic acidosis. Five patients required inotropic support with dopamine and two needed diuretic infusions. Only five patients demonstrated a refractory hyper tensive period postoperatively. The concomitant correction of renal artery stenosis with CABG is usually not necessary, but the principles for renovascular diseases must be kept in mind and individually oriented strategies must be planned."}
{"id": "15983955", "title": "N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide for predicting coronary disease and left ventricular hypertrophy in asymptomatic CKD not requiring dialysis.", "content": "N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide for predicting coronary disease and left ventricular hypertrophy in asymptomatic CKD not requiring dialysis. N-Terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) level predicts underlying heart disease in the general population. However, because NT-proBNP clearance may depend on renal function, the significance of an elevated level in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) without cardiac symptoms is uncertain. We sought to determine whether there is an association between NT-proBNP level and coronary artery disease (CAD) and left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) in this population. We enrolled 207 ambulatory patients with CKD not on dialysis therapy. Medical records were reviewed for cardiac history and risk factors. NT-proBNP and troponin T (cTnT) levels were measured. Echocardiograms were analyzed from 99 patients. NT-proBNP levels were elevated in 116 patients (56%), and 67 patients (33%) had experienced prior CAD events (myocardial infarction or revascularization). The prevalence of advanced age, diabetes, prior CAD events, myocardial injury (cTnT > 0.03 ng/mL [>0.03 microg/L]), and LVH increased, whereas glomerular filtration rate decreased, across quartiles of NT-proBNP levels. After adjustment for glomerular filtration rate, cTnT level, age, and diabetes, NT-proBNP remained an independent indicator of prior CAD events compared with quartile 1 (cTnT range, 4 to 116 pg/mL) for quartile 2 (range, 122 to 490 pg/mL): odds ratio, 1.6; 95% confidence interval, 0.5 to 5.0; for quartile 3 (range, 490 to 1,819 pg/mL): odds ratio, 5.3; 95% confidence interval, 1.7 to 16.2; and for quartile 4 (>1,975 pg/mL): odds ratio, 4.1; 95% confidence interval, 1.3 to 13.5. For patients with echocardiograms, NT-proBNP level predicted prior CAD events independent of LVH. NT-proBNP level elevation in asymptomatic patients with CKD reflects underlying ischemic heart disease and hypertrophy independent of renal function in a population with anticipated high cardiac morbidity."}
{"id": "15976967", "title": "Impact of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor therapy on in-hospital outcomes and long-term survival following percutaneous coronary rotational atherectomy.", "content": "Impact of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor therapy on in-hospital outcomes and long-term survival following percutaneous coronary rotational atherectomy. Percutaneous coronary rotational atherectomy (PCRA) is a potent stimulus of platelet activation and aggregation in vivo. For this reason, many patients undergoing PCRA are treated with platelet glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa inhibitors. However, there is limited data regarding the ability of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors to reduce ischemic complications of PCRA and no data regarding their effect on long-term survival. Data on 1138 consecutive patients undergoing PCRA in 5 hospitals in 1998-1999 were pooled and analyzed. Long-term survival was available for all 530 patients treated in 3 of the hospitals. GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors were administered to 315 of 1138 (28%) PCRA patients. There was no difference in age, gender or race among patients treated with and without GP IIb/IIIa antagonists. The prevalence of hypertension, diabetes, renal insufficiency and peripheral vascular disease did not differ between groups. Unstable angina was more common among patients treated with GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors (45% vs. 38%, P = 0.036) Patients treated with GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors had lower ejection fractions (50% vs. 55%, P < 0.001) and more 3-vessel coronary disease (24% vs. 16%, P = 0.002). Angiographic success was over 99% in both groups (P = NS). The frequency of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) was slightly greater in GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor treated patients (3.8% vs. 2.2%, P = 0.126). At a mean follow-up of 3 years, mortality was 13.3% in the GP IIb/IIIa treated patients and 12% in the untreated patients (P = 0.224). On Cox proportional hazards analysis, treatment with a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor was not significantly associated with increased survival (Hazard Ratio, 0.81, 95% Confidence Interval, 0.631-1.039, P = 0.098). These data do not indicate a significant association between GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor treatment during PCRA and MACE or survival. There is limited data regarding the ability of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors to reduce ischemic complications of percutaneous coronary rotational atherectomy (PCRA) and no data regarding their effect on long-term survival. These data do not indicate a significant association between GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor treatment during PCRA and MACE or survival."}
{"id": "15963738", "title": "Aortic calcification.", "content": "Aortic calcification. Vascular calcification is a complicating factor observed in advanced atherosclerosis. This review summarises the present knowledge regarding abdominal aortic calcification. Literature review. A literature review was carried using MEDLINE and PUBMED with the search terms 'abdominal', 'aortic' and 'calcification'. Articles were assessed for data regarding mechanisms, measurement, risk factors and outcomes of aortic calcification. Thirty relevant studies were identified. These demonstrated a positive correlation between abdominal aortic calcification and the following factors: older age, hypertension, and smoking. Further studies are required to critically assess other risk factors such as gender, diabetes mellitus and renal failure. Calcification of the abdominal aorta is associated with an increased risk of mortality, coronary heart disease and stroke. Aortic calcification predicts an increased incidence of cardiovascular events, however, the reasons for this association requires further investigation. Accurate measurement of aortic calcification is likely to be increasingly used to determine the risk of cardiovascular events."}
{"id": "15960272", "title": "[Risk factors and prognosis of contrast-induced nephropathy with renal dysfunction].", "content": "[Risk factors and prognosis of contrast-induced nephropathy with renal dysfunction]. To investigate the risk factors, clinical characteristics, and prognosis of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) in patients with renal dysfunction. We retrospectively analyzed 44 patients with renal dysfunction who received coronary angiography in our hospital. CIN was found in 23 patients, after angiography. We compared the clinical characteristics, medication during angiography day, volume of contrast-medium, as well as renal function changes before and after angiography in patients with (23 cases) and without (21 cases) CIN. The CIN patients were further divided into two groups according to their serum creatinine (Scr) levels: renal function recovery group (12 cases) and renal function non-recovery group (11 cases), and difference between these two groups was analyzed. CIN incidence was 52.3% (23/44) in all 44 patients with renal dysfunction. CIN incidence was 42% (8/19) in patients whose Scr was between 132.6 - 168 micromol/L, was 60% (15/25) in those whose Scr was more than 176.8 micromol/L. In all 23 CIN patients, the average volume of contrast-medium was (144.79 +/- 71.8) ml, while 43.5% of the CIN patients whose dosage was over the maximum threshold of contrast-medium; the average risk factors were 5.14 +/- 1.3. Compared with the group without CIN, the difference was statistically significant (P < 0.05). Multiple stepwise regression analysis showed the volume of radio-contrast-medium was correlated with CIN in patients with renal dysfunction (F=10.4, P=0.003). Patients in the CIN group showed a significant rise of Scr level 24, 48, and 72 hours after angiography. However, the urine volume had no change before and after angiography. Renal function was improved in 12 of 23 patients (52.2%), and deteriorated in 11 patients (47.8%). Four patients (17.4%) received dialysis. Compared with the non-reavery group, Scr levels [(194.5 +/- 70.7) micromol/L, (443.8 +/- 282.9) micromol/L, respectively] of pre-angiography in renal function recovery group and the patients whose dosage was over maximum threshold of contrast-medium (2/12, 8/11) had significant difference (P < 0.05). Higher volume of contrast-medium is a risk factor of CIN in patients with renal dysfunction. Pre-angiography Scr level and the contrast-medium volume are correlated with the prognosis of CIN in such patients."}
{"id": "15956822", "title": "Endothelial dysfunction: its role in hypertensive coronary disease.", "content": "Endothelial dysfunction: its role in hypertensive coronary disease. Coronary artery disease is the major cause of death worldwide. Hypertension is a major risk factor for developing coronary disease. It is now recognized that endothelial dysfunction is an early marker of coronary artery disease before structural changes to the vessel wall are apparent on angiography or intravascular ultrasound and that it has a prognostic value in predicting cardiovascular events in hypertensive patients. This review addresses recent developments in hypertension-induced endothelial dysfunction. Hyperaldosteronism causes endothelial dysfunction independent of high blood pressure. Exaggerated exercise blood pressure response has been related to endothelial dysfunction. Cyclosporin-A-induced endothelial dysfunction is related to reduced cholesterol content in caveolae. Chronic kidney disease induces changes in caveoli-1 and thus contributes to the reduced nitric oxide bioavailability, and causes oxidative stress independent of the high blood pressure. Asymmetric dimethylarginine plays a role in endothelial dysfunction in hypertensive patients independent of insulin resistance. 20-Hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid is an independent predictor of hypertension in postmenopausal women. Endothelial dysfunction precedes and predicts the development of hypertension in postmenopausal women. Oral treatment with L-arginine improves endothelial dysfunction in hypertensives and lowers the blood pressure. The pathophysiology of endothelial dysfunction in hypertension is multifactorial. Recent findings have contributed to our understanding of mechanisms of endothelial dysfunction and support a role for early intervention to prevent irreversible vascular and organ damage."}
{"id": "15956072", "title": "Close association of Chlamydia pneumoniae IgA seropositivity by ELISA with the presence of coronary artery stenosis in haemodialysis patients.", "content": "Close association of Chlamydia pneumoniae IgA seropositivity by ELISA with the presence of coronary artery stenosis in haemodialysis patients. Traditional risk factors of cardiovascular disease do not fully explain the accelerated atherosclerosis present in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). The goal of this study was to identify the association of clinical and laboratory factors including seropositivity for Chlamydia pneumoniae determined by a specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) with the presence of coronary artery disease identified by coronary angiography in ESRD patients. We prospectively enrolled 161 consecutive ESRD patients undergoing haemodialysis for >6 months (106 men, 55 women; mean age 63.1+/-10.2 years; mean dialysis duration 91.3+/-90.1 months). All patients underwent coronary angiography within 1 week after blood sampling. The associations of coronary artery disease with clinical parameters including C. pneumoniae IgA and IgG seropositivity were analysed using multiple logistic regression models. Coronary stenosis >50% was found in 102 of 161 haemodialysis patients (63.4%). Of the 102 patients, 75.5% were asymptomatic. Seropositivity for C. pneumoniae IgA was found in patients with coronary stenosis (77 out of 102, 75.5%) more frequently (P<0.001) than in patients without coronary stenosis (10 out of 59, 16.9%). Seropositivity for C. pneumoniae IgA but not IgG was strongly associated with the presence of coronary stenosis in multiple logistic regression analysis (odds ratio, 18.440; 95% confidence interval, 7.500-45.337), independently of the Framingham coronary risk factors, factors peculiar to ESRD or serum C-reactive protein levels. C. pneumoniae IgA seropositivity determined by ELISA is an independent laboratory factor indicating the presence of coronary artery stenosis in ESRD patients undergoing maintenance haemodialysis."}
{"id": "15954917", "title": "Cardiovascular calcification in Hispanic Americans (HA) with chronic kidney disease (CKD) due to type 2 diabetes.", "content": "Cardiovascular calcification in Hispanic Americans (HA) with chronic kidney disease (CKD) due to type 2 diabetes. Cardiovascular calcification (CVC) is common and severe in patients with end-stage renal disease on dialysis. However, the prevalence and severity of CVC is less well documented in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) not yet on dialysis. Fifty-eight nondialyzed HA with type 2 diabetes and CKD were enrolled. They comprise 29 patients with stages 1 and 2 CKD (early CKD group) and 26 patients with stages 4 and 5 CKD (advanced CKD group). Coronary artery calcification (CAC) was measured by ultrafast spiral computed tomography, while peripheral artery calcification (PAC) was evaluated by plain x-ray of the chest, pelvis, thighs, and lower extremities. The prevalence of CAC and PAC were significantly higher in the advanced CKD group compared to the early CKD group (73% vs. 38%; P < 0.01 and 85% vs. 35%; P < 0.0001, respectively). The median CAC scores were 18-fold greater in the advanced CKD group (138.9 vs. 7.8, respectively). By linear regression analysis, a strong association was found between the level of renal function and ln total volume of CAC. Our data indicate that CAC and PAC are common and severe in HA diabetic patients with CKD not previously treated with dialysis, calcium-based phosphate binders, or vitamin D analogues. Lower level of renal function is associated with increased burden of vascular calcification in predialysis patients with CKD."}
{"id": "15943627", "title": "Early subclinical coronary artery calcification in young adults who were pediatric kidney transplant recipients.", "content": "Early subclinical coronary artery calcification in young adults who were pediatric kidney transplant recipients. Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the leading cause of death in adults after successful kidney transplantation. Children who have undergone successful kidney transplantation are entering young adulthood; however, the prevalence and extent of CAD in this population is unknown. We conducted a pilot study in young adults with stable allograft function, who received kidney transplants as children to measure coronary artery calcification (CAC), a marker of coronary artery atherosclerosis and CAD. We evaluated 19 young adults after successful pediatric kidney transplantation for known CAD risk factors; these patients underwent noninvasive imaging with electron-beam computed tomography (EBCT) for measurement of CAC. Prevalence and quantity of CAC were then compared to asymptomatic individuals from the community. All patients had multiple risk factors for CAD. Mean age at evaluation was 32 years (range: 21-48 years). CAC is uncommon in individuals in the community in this age range; however, nearly half of our patients had CAC detected with the quantity of CAC comparable to asymptomatic individuals from the community 10-40 years older. These data suggest young adults who received pediatric kidney transplants are at increased risk for developing early CAC and need close monitoring to detect early CAD so as to prevent premature cardiac morbidity and mortality."}
{"id": "15942180", "title": "Diabetic nephropathy, percutaneous coronary interventions, and blockade of the renin-angiotensin system.", "content": "Diabetic nephropathy, percutaneous coronary interventions, and blockade of the renin-angiotensin system. Since recent studies demonstrated an impaired outcome after percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) in patients with chronic renal failure but did not address the aetiology of renal failure, we now analysed the outcome of patients with diabetic nephropathy in 721 consecutive patients undergoing PCI. Diabetic nephropathy was present in 37 patients (5.1%), and diabetes alone in 126 patients (17.5%); 178 patients (24.7%) suffered from renal insufficiency of other causes; the other 380 patients (52.7%) were used as controls. Although angiographic success rates were similar in the subgroups (94-97%), 30-day and long-term mortality after 4 years was significantly higher in patients with diabetic nephropathy (8.1 and 27%, respectively) than in diabetics (1.6 and 8.7%, respectively), patients with renal insufficiency (3.9 and 16.8%, respectively), or controls (2.4 and 5.0%, respectively, each p<0.001, log-rank test). Treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers was associated with a marked decrease in 2-year mortality in patients with diabetic nephropathy (19.4 vs. 33.3%, respectively, p=0.02, log-rank test)."}
{"id": "15939068", "title": "Plasma homocysteine predicts progression of atherosclerosis.", "content": "Plasma homocysteine predicts progression of atherosclerosis. MINI ABSTRACT: Three emerging risk factors potentially useful in predicting future cardiac events are electron-beam computed tomography (EBT), homocysteine(HCY), and C-reactive Protein (CRP). We evaluated a cohort of 133 serial asymptomatic patients, who underwent two consecutive EBT scans (8-84 months apart) and a comprehensive cardiac risk factor assessment, including measurements for lipids, ultrasensitive CRP and homocysteine. Individuals with elevated HCY (> or =12 micromol/L) demonstrated a mean increase in CC progression of 35% per year, while those with HCY <12 micromol/L (median) progressed at 17% per year (p = 0.0008). Patients with a level equal to or lower than the median value of CRP (0.8 mg/L) had a median yearly progression of 22%, compared to 21% for those with CRP value = 0.9-11 mg/L (p = ns). Presence of elevated HCY (>12 micromol/L) strongly and independently predicts progression of coronary plaque burden. Despite the availability of effective preventive therapies, coronary artery disease (CAD) remains the leading cause of morbidity and mortality. Use of traditional cardiovascular risk factors is imprecise and predicts less than one half of future cardiovascular events. Three 'emerging risk factors', as potential means of identifying subclinical atherosclerosis and predicting future cardiovascular events, are electron-beam computed tomography, homocysteine, and C-reactive protein. Given the evidence that HCY and CRP are involved in atherogenesis, we hypothesized that significant progression of EBT calcium score (a measure of atherosclerotic plaque burden) is associated with higher levels of these markers. We evaluated 133 asymptomatic patients (100 men, 33 women; mean age was 61 +/- 9 years) who underwent previous EBT calcium score testing at Harbor-UCLA 8-80 months prior to enrollment (mean follow-up 20 months). Exclusion criteria included those with known or symptomatic CAD and chronic renal disease. During enrollment, we measured risk factors, serum HCY, serum lipids, ultrasensitive-CRP, and repeat EBT calcium scan. Statistical analysis was performed using probable Chi square method, and Student's t-test. Individuals with elevated HCY (> or =12 micromol/L) demonstrated a mean increase in CC progression of 35% per year, while those with HCY <12 micromol/L (median) progressed at 17% per year (p = 0.0008). Patients with a level equal to or lower than the median value of CRP (0.8 mg/L) had a median yearly progression of 22%, compared to 21% for those with CRP value = 0.9-11 mg/L (p = ns). Neither cholesterol values, body mass index, gender, age nor presence of individual risk factors predicted progression of coronary calcium. Presence of elevated HCY (>12 micromol/L) strongly and independently predicts progression of coronary plaque burden."}
{"id": "15938026", "title": "Are 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase inhibitors renoprotective?", "content": "Are 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase inhibitors renoprotective? Statins reduce serum cholesterol and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The mechanisms for these beneficial effects are reviewed. Altered inflammatory responses and improved endothelial function mediated by statins are thought to be partly responsible for the reduction of morbidity and mortality as a result of cardiovascular events. In analogy, whether statins confer similar benefits on the kidney has not been established. This review critically considers the available data whereby dyslipidemia mediates renal dysfunction by modulating the inflammatory response to diverse cytokines. Also reviewed is the emerging database indicating that statins may modulate renal function by altering the response of the kidney to dyslipidemia."}
{"id": "15913813", "title": "Prediction of length of stay postoperative complications and long term mortality by EuroSCORE.", "content": "Prediction of length of stay postoperative complications and long term mortality by EuroSCORE."}
{"id": "15912119", "title": "Screening asymptomatic diabetic patients for coronary artery disease prior to renal transplantation.", "content": "Screening asymptomatic diabetic patients for coronary artery disease prior to renal transplantation. Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a significant contributor to excess mortality in renal transplant candidates with diabetes mellitus (DM). Prior studies relating to risk stratification for significant CAD in diabetics are confined to Caucasian type 1 DM patients. To assess the prevalence of clinically silent CAD and to identify variables that are associated with CAD, we retrospectively analyzed the cardiac catheterization data of 97 asymptomatic type 1 and 2 DM kidney and kidney-pancreas transplant candidates. Thirty-three percent of type 1 and 48% of type 2 DM patients had significant stenosis (> or = 70%) in 1 or more coronary arteries. On multivariate logistic regression analysis, body mass index (BMI) >25 was significantly associated with CAD (relative risk = 4.8, P = 0.002). The age of the patient (7% increase in risk/year, P = 0.01; or relative risk = 3.0 if age >47 years, P = 0.032) and smoking history (2% increase in risk/pack-year of smoking, P = 0.10) were also associated with CAD. African American patients, who comprised 30% of the sample, had a 71% lower risk compared with Caucasian patients (P = 0.03). Factors that were not significantly associated with CAD included gender, type of diabetes, and whether dialyzed for >6 months prior to catheterization. We conclude that a notable proportion (approximately one-third to one-half) of asymptomatic type 1 and type 2 diabetic renal transplant candidates have significant CAD. Additionally, young African American DM patients with no smoking history and a BMI </=25 are at reduced risk, and invasive tests may not be necessary in this group."}
{"id": "15908026", "title": "Does EuroSCORE predict length of stay and specific postoperative complications after coronary artery bypass grafting?", "content": "Does EuroSCORE predict length of stay and specific postoperative complications after coronary artery bypass grafting? To evaluate the performance of EuroSCORE in the prediction of in-hospital postoperative length of stay and specific major postoperative complications after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). Data on 3760 consecutive patients with CABG were prospectively collected. The EuroSCORE model (standard and logistic) was used to predict in-hospital mortality, prolonged length of stay (>12 days) and major postoperative complications (stroke, myocardial infarction, sternal infection, bleeding, sepsis and/or endocarditis, gastrointestinal complications, renal and respiratory failure). A C statistic (receiver operating characteristic curve) was used to test the discrimination of the EuroSCORE. The calibration of the model was assessed by the Hosmer-Lemeshow goodness-of-fit statistic. In-hospital mortality was 2.7%, and 13.7% of patients had one or more major complications. EuroSCORE showed very good discriminatory ability in predicting renal failure (C statistic: 0.80) and good discriminatory ability in predicting in-hospital mortality (C statistic: 0.75), sepsis and/or endocarditis (C statistic: 0.72) and prolonged length of stay (C statistic: 0.71). There were no differences in terms of the discriminatory ability between standard and logistic EuroSCORE. Standard EuroSCORE showed good calibration (Hosmer-Lemeshow: P>0.05) in predicting these outcomes except for postoperative length of stay, while logistic EuroSCORE showed good calibration only in predicting renal failure. EuroSCORE can be used to predict not only in-hospital mortality, for which it was originally designed, but also prolonged length of stay and specific postoperative complications such as renal failure and sepsis and/or endocarditis after CABG. These outcomes can be predicted accurately using the standard EuroSCORE which is very simple and easy in its calculation."}
{"id": "15894962", "title": "Potential antiatherogenic and anti-inflammatory properties of sevelamer in maintenance hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Potential antiatherogenic and anti-inflammatory properties of sevelamer in maintenance hemodialysis patients. Patients affected by end-stage renal disease (ESRD) demonstrate a very high cardiovascular risk mediated by traditional cardiovascular risk factors as well as abnormal mineral metabolism and a state of chronic inflammation. Sevelamer is a nonabsorbable non-calcium-based hydrogel with potential antiatherosclerotic properties. One hundred eight patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis were randomized to sevelamer or calcium acetate as treatment for hyperphosphatemia. A coronary artery calcium score, as a measure of plaque burden, was calculated at baseline and 1 year, along with serial measurements of serum lipoproteins, beta2-microglobulin, and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP). At 1 year, coronary artery calcium score progressed significantly from baseline in calcium acetate-treated subjects ( P < .001) but not in sevelamer-treated patients (P = NS). Total cholesterol (P < .0001), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (P < .0001), apolipoprotein B (P < .0001), beta2-microglobulin (P = .018), and hs-CRP (P < .002) decreased, and high-density lipoprotein increased significantly (P = .036) from baseline in the sevelamer-treated subjects but not in subjects treated with calcium acetate despite the more frequent use of statins in the latter group (46% vs 22%, P < .05). The changes in total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, apolipoprotein B, and hs-CRP were significantly different between treatment groups (all P < .01). Sevelamer leads to favorable changes in lipids and inflammatory markers with potentially useful antiatherogenic effects in hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "15888499", "title": "Angiographic, intravascular ultrasound, and fractional flow reserve evaluation of direct stenting vs. conventional stenting using BeStent2 in a multicentre randomized trial.", "content": "Angiographic, intravascular ultrasound, and fractional flow reserve evaluation of direct stenting vs. conventional stenting using BeStent2 in a multicentre randomized trial. Direct stenting (DS) may not be as safe and effective as conventional stenting. The objective was to demonstrate equivalence of post-procedural mean luminal diameter (MLD) by angiography after BeStent2 placement between DS and pre-dilatation (PD) strategy. Two hundred and two patients with a single de novo lesion (diameter >/=3.0 mm and length </=13 mm) were randomized to DS (n=101) vs. PD. Stent deployment was guided by on-line quantitative coronary angiography (QCA). A second randomization assigned half of the patients to intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) and fractional flow reserve (FFR) assessment. QCA was repeated at 6 months. Baseline characteristics were similar. Crossover to PD was necessary in seven DS patients. Stent deployment was successful in 97% (DS) and 98% (PD). The post-procedural MLD was 2.79+/-0.45 mm (DS) and 2.76+/-0.40 mm (PD). The null-hypothesis of non-equivalence could be rejected (95% one-sided; P=0.0003). The minimum stent area (IVUS) was 7.89+/-1.75 mm(2) (DS) and 8.07+/-2.37 mm(2) (PD; P=0.69), with an FFR of 0.92+/-0.07 and 0.92+/-0.05, respectively (P=0.97). Major adverse cardiac event rates at 6 months were 9% (DS) and 11% (PD; P=0.93). Target lesion re-angioplasty was 6% (DS) and 5% (PD; P=0.77). The in-stent restenosis rate by QCA was 7.4% (DS) and 6.8% (PD; P=0.87). DS with BeStent2 is equivalent to PD. Both strategies resulted in a low angiographic restenosis rate."}
{"id": "15879602", "title": "Differences in baseline characteristics and in-hospital outcomes in patients with or without prior stroke undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention.", "content": "Differences in baseline characteristics and in-hospital outcomes in patients with or without prior stroke undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is increasingly used in patients with high-risk baseline characteristics. A prior stroke may identify patients who have a higher risk for post-PCI complications. However, no comparative data exist on post-PCI outcomes of patients with or without prior stroke. Review of a PCI database of 9,088 consecutive PCIs from July 1997 to December 2002 identified 812 PCIs in patients with a history of prior stroke and 8,044 PCIs without prior stroke. Patients with prior stroke had high-risk baseline characteristics [diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, smoking, peripheral arterial disease, congestive heart failure, chronic renal failure, history of prior myocardial infarction and prior coronary artery bypass graft (CABG)] and high-risk coronary anatomy (p < 0.001 for each one). The triple composite (death, myocardial infarction and emergent CABG) and the triple composite plus post-PCI stroke were higher in patients with prior stroke (11.2% vs. 4.8%; p < 0.001; z = 7.617 and 12.1% vs. 5.0%; p < 0.001; z = 8.271, respectively. Patients with prior stroke constitute a high-risk PCI cohort with higher rates of in-hospital adverse events. A prior stroke history should be considered in evaluating potential candidates for PCI."}
{"id": "15877668", "title": "QTc dispersion in haemodialysis patients with cardiac complications.", "content": "QTc dispersion in haemodialysis patients with cardiac complications. QTc dispersion (Maximum - Minimum QTc interval on a standard 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG)) is a useful predictor of tachyarrhythmic events and related sudden cardiac death. Recent studies have reported that QTc dispersion is prolonged in patients receiving haemodialysis (HD), and it is often further prolonged following HD treatment. In the present study, we examine whether the patients who are susceptible to prolongation of QTc dispersion by HD are prone to life-threatening cardiovascular events and related deaths. Forty-eight patients with cardiac symptoms such as chest pain (n = 32), arrhythmia (n = 2) or heart failure (n = 14) and receiving chronic HD treatment (40 males and eight females) were subjected to the present study. Twenty-six of a total 48 patients were given a diagnosis of ischaemic heart disease (IHD) by coronary angiography. Ten patients had cerebrovascular accidents and 11 patients had peripheral vascular disease. After the ECG recording, a prospective follow up was conducted for 37 +/- 24 months. During the follow-up period, 30 patients had cardiac events, and 23 including 18 cardiovascular deaths occurred as outcomes. Throughout the total period, patients who showed prolongation of QTc dispersion after HD had cardiovascular deaths with higher incidence than those did not show the prolongation. We consider that prolongation of QTc dispersion after HD treatment can predict the prognosis of patients with renal failure bearing cardiac complications. Great care is necessary for such patients if they show longer QTc dispersion and/or susceptibility for further prolongation after HD treatment."}
{"id": "15875551", "title": "Early results of off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting for patients on chronic renal dialysis.", "content": "Early results of off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting for patients on chronic renal dialysis. Renal dialysis is one of the independent risk factors for coronary artery bypass graft surgery. Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (OPCAB) may become a good option for these patients. In this study, early results as well as surgical techniques of OPCAB in dialysis patients were analyzed compared with non-dialysis patients. Between July 1997 and December 2002, 471 consecutive patients who underwent OPCAB were enrolled in this study. Among them, 20 patients (4.2%) had received hemodialysis regularly for more than 3 months until the operation. Severity of coronary artery disease or clinical presentations had no significant difference, however, left ventricular function was significantly impaired in dialysis patients. The average number of anastomosis was 2.8 +/- 1.0 in the dialysis group and 3.2 +/- 1.0 in the non-dialysis group (p=0.056). Twelve patients (60.0%) received 3 or more bypass grafts in the dialysis group. Among them, 6 patients were revascularized only by in-situ or composite arterial conduits using bilateral internal thoracic arteries with or without the gastroepiploic artery. No patients required aortic clamping in the dialysis group. There was no mortality or morbidity in dialysis patients. Perioperaitve bleeding and mechanical ventilation time in the intensive care unit was similar in both groups. No dialysis patients required prolonged mechanical ventilation and hemodialysis from the beginning of the operation to extubation. The rationale for OPCAB for dialysis patients has been established. Total arterial revascularization without aortic clamping is applicable for dialysis patients who require multivessel bypass grafts."}
{"id": "15864241", "title": "Association of chronic kidney disease with clinical outcomes after coronary revascularization: the Arterial Revascularization Therapies Study (ARTS).", "content": "Association of chronic kidney disease with clinical outcomes after coronary revascularization: the Arterial Revascularization Therapies Study (ARTS). Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is associated with adverse outcomes after coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG) and percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI), but it is unclear which of these revascularization strategies is associated with lower risk for morbidity and mortality in this population. In the Arterial Revascularization Therapies Study (ARTS), we compared long-term clinical outcomes after CABG or PCI with multivessel stenting in patients with CKD. The ARTS randomly assigned 1205 participants with and without CKD to CABG or PCI with multivessel stenting. We defined CKD as creatinine clearance < or =60 mL/min, estimated by the Cockroft-Gault equation. The primary outcome was the composite of death, myocardial infarction (MI), or stroke; and, a secondary outcome was repeat revascularization. Participants were followed for a mean of 3 years after their intervention. We evaluated whether randomization to CABG or PCI was associated with different outcomes among participants with CKD. Two hundred ninety participants (25%) had CKD at entry into ARTS. One hundred fifty-one received PCI, and 139 received CABG. No difference was observed in the primary endpoint with CABG or PCI among CKD participants (adjusted Hazard Ratio [HR] CABG vs PCI = 0.93; 95% CI 0.54-1.60; P = .97). However, CABG was associated with a reduced risk for repeat revascularization (HR = 0.28; 95% CI 0.14-0.54; P < .01). Compared with participants with normal renal function, CKD was associated with a nearly 2-fold risk for the primary outcome (unadjusted HR = 1.9; 95% CI 1.4-2.7; P < .01). After multivariate adjustment, this association remained significant (HR 1.6; 95% CI 1.1-2.4). In patients with multivessel CAD and CKD, treatment with CABG or PCI with multivessel stenting led to similar outcomes of death, MI, or stroke, but CABG was associated with decreased repeat revascularizations. When compared with ARTS participants with normal renal function, those with CKD had substantially elevated risk of adverse clinical outcomes after coronary revascularization."}
{"id": "15864236", "title": "Influence of clinical trial enrollment on the quality of care and outcomes for patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes.", "content": "Influence of clinical trial enrollment on the quality of care and outcomes for patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes. Clinical trials provide evidence that is formulated into recommendations for practice guidelines, but it remains uncertain whether patients enrolled in trials are similar to those treated in routine practice and whether trial enrollment influences inhospital treatments and outcomes. Using data from the CRUSADE quality improvement initiative, we evaluated predictors of trial enrollment, treatment patterns, and clinical outcomes among high-risk patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes (NSTE ACS) who were and were not enrolled in a clinical trial during hospitalization. Among 55,172 high-risk patients presenting with NSTE ACS at 443 US hospitals, 1397 (2.5%) patients were enrolled in a clinical trial during index hospitalization. Significant predictors of trial enrollment included male sex, lack of renal insufficiency, and absence of congestive heart failure on presentation. Acute (<24 hours) and discharge secondary prevention interventions recommended by the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association guidelines for NSTE ACS were used more commonly in patients enrolled in clinical trials. Cardiac catheterization (84.5% vs 65.8%, P < .0001), percutaneous coronary intervention (48.2% vs 36.3%, P < .0001), and bypass surgery (19.1% vs 11.3%, P < .0001) were also performed more frequently in trial patients. The adjusted risk of inhospital mortality was similar in trial versus nontrial patients (odds ratio 0.86, 95% CI 0.60-1.24). Patients with NSTE ACS participating in clinical trials are more likely to receive beneficial therapies and interventions throughout hospitalization, but preferential recruitment of patients with lower-risk features may limit the external validity of trial results."}
{"id": "15861353", "title": "Sleep apnea, coronary artery disease, and antioxidant status in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Sleep apnea, coronary artery disease, and antioxidant status in hemodialysis patients. It recently was suggested that sleep apnea syndrome (SAS) is associated with the cardiovascular complications and outcomes seen in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). This study investigates the association of SAS with coronary artery disease and antioxidant status in patients with ESRD. Twenty-six hemodialysis patients underwent overnight polysomnography to evaluate sleep parameters. We performed multirow spiral computed tomography to derive coronary artery calcification (CAC) scores as an indicator of the severity of coronary artery disease and measured predialysis serum total antioxidant status (TAS) as a marker of antioxidant defenses. Nine of 26 patients had normal to mild SAS with an apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) less than 15, 9 patients had moderate SAS with an AHI of 15 to 30, and the remaining 8 patients had severe SAS with an AHI greater than 30. AHI and oxygen desaturation index (ODI) were strongly interrelated (r = 0.754; P < 0.001). CAC severity was associated with SAS severity: median CAC scores increased (P = 0.009) with increasing AHI category. However, values for TAS were not significantly different among the 3 AHI categories. CAC score also correlated positively (r = 0.564; P = 0.003) with ODI, and TAS correlated negatively (r = -0.539; P = 0.005) with ODI. These results suggest that frequent oxygen desaturation triggered by SAS is associated with severe coronary artery disease and decreased antioxidant status in patients with ESRD. However, conclusions from this study should be drawn with caution because of its methodological limitations (cross-sectional design, heterogeneity of study population, and small number of patients)."}
{"id": "15860518", "title": "Use of granulocyte-colony stimulating factor during acute myocardial infarction to enhance bone marrow stem cell mobilization in humans: clinical and angiographic safety profile.", "content": "Use of granulocyte-colony stimulating factor during acute myocardial infarction to enhance bone marrow stem cell mobilization in humans: clinical and angiographic safety profile. There is increasing evidence that stem cell (SC) mobilization to the heart and their differentiation into cardiac cells is a naturally occurring process. We sought to assess the safety and feasibility of granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) administration in humans to enhance SC mobilization and left ventricle (LV) injury repair during myocardial infarction (MI). Twenty patients with STEMI (mean age, 61+/-10 years), of whom 14 were submitted to primary percutaneous coronary intervention, were randomized to G-CSF (5 microg/kg/day s.c. for 4 consecutive days) or placebo. At entry and then at months 3 and 6, (99m)Tc-sestamibi gated-SPECT was performed to estimate extension of perfusion defect (PD) and LV function. The study drug was well tolerated and induced a significant increase of white blood count, CD34(+) cells, and CD34(+) cells coexpressing AC133 and VEGFR-2. At follow-up, treated and placebo groups did not differ for the angiographic coronary late loss and showed a similar pattern of PD recovery, whereas in the former at 6 months LVEF and especially LVEDV tended to be relatively higher (P=0.068) and lower (P=0.054), respectively. G-CSF administration in acute MI patients was feasible and did not lead to any clinical or angiographic adverse events and resulted in CD34(+) and CD34(+)AC133(+)VEGFR2(+) cell mobilization."}
{"id": "15848702", "title": "Incidence of coronary heart disease and cardiac events in patients undergoing kidney and pancreatic transplantation.", "content": "Incidence of coronary heart disease and cardiac events in patients undergoing kidney and pancreatic transplantation. One major cause of graft loss after kidney transplantation or simultaneous kidney and pancreas transplantation is death of the recipient due to cardiac events. Records of 261 patients who underwent sole kidney (group A) or combined kidney-pancreas transplantation (group B) were retrospectively analyzed. Patients were divided into groups with basic cardiac evaluation (chest X-ray, electrocardiogram) and patients with additional diagnostics [echocardiography, exercise stress test, myocardial perfusion test, and coronary angiography (CAG)]. The results of the performed CAGs were as follows: proven coronary artery disease (CAD) in 22 patients (12.43%) in group A and 37 patients (44.05%) in group B; stenosis of one main coronary artery of 70% or greater in 8.47% (group A) and 16.67% (group B) of the patients. Subsequent revascularization procedures were performed in 15 candidates (8.47%) of group A and 11 (13.10%) of group B. The incidence of posttransplant cardiac events (PCE) was lower in recipients in both groups who underwent additional cardiac evaluation. Late postoperative deaths were reported in 3.45% of kidney recipients with no additional evaluation (group A), in 2.06% of patients with further diagnostics (group A), and in only 1.19% of patients with invasive pretransplant evaluation (group B). Patients with known CAD and no further invasive diagnostics or subsequent revascularization are at great risk. PCE were observed in three of seven patients in this subgroup. Careful cardiac evaluation including echocardiography, exercise stress test, myocardial perfusion test, and CAG is associated with a low incidence of PCE."}
{"id": "15848540", "title": "Global cardiovascular risk under early corticosteroid cessation decreases progressively in the first year following renal transplantation.", "content": "Global cardiovascular risk under early corticosteroid cessation decreases progressively in the first year following renal transplantation. A primary reason to eliminate corticosteroids from immunosuppressive regimens in solid organ transplant recipients is improved cardiovascular risk profiles. Although a number of studies have documented that corticosteroid withdrawal (CSWD) regimens reduce hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes, and weight gain, global assessments of cardiovascular risk under CSWD have not been reported. The purpose of this study was to document cardiovascular risk under CSWD using a global risk assessment by Framingham risk assessment. Framingham global cardiovascular risk assessments were performed at baseline and 3, 6, and 12 months posttransplant on patients enrolled in prospective, IRB-approved early (<7 days of corticosteroids) CSWD trials. Framingham score was based on age, sex, presence of diabetes, HDL and total cholesterol, and systolic blood pressure. All patients were nonsmokers. Left ventricular hypertrophy assessment by EKG criteria was not available at all time points and therefore were not included. One hundred eighty-three patients were included in the analysis. Fourteen percent of patients had evidence of coronary heart disease (prior MI, CABG, PTCA, or significant cardiovascular disease as evidenced by angiography) prior to transplant. Complete information was available for 160 patients at baseline, 132 at 1, 3, and 6 months, and 93 at 12 months posttransplant. Mean 10-year risk (expressed as percent) for developing coronary heart disease decreased over time: 8.03 at baseline, 8.31 at 3 months, 7.40 at 6 months, and 7.20 at 12 months, indicating that global cardiovascular risk fell at 1 year posttransplant by about 10% in renal transplant recipients undergoing early CSWD. Estimation of cardiovascular risk by Framingham risk factor assessment allows incorporation of several cardiovascular risk factors into a single estimate, thereby accounting for differential effects of each individual factor on global cardiovascular risk. This experience indicates that global cardiovascular risk decreases by approximately 10% at 1 year posttransplant in renal transplant recipients who undergo early corticosteroid withdrawal (CSWD)."}
{"id": "15848315", "title": "Ten year survival after paediatric heart transplantation: a single centre experience.", "content": "Ten year survival after paediatric heart transplantation: a single centre experience. To report 10 years survival in children under the age of 16 years undergoing heart transplantation in a single institution. One hundred and thirty nine/one hundred and ninety three patients (73%) survived more than 1 year after transplant. Seventy four (53%) of these survived more than 10 (10.0-20.1) years. Age at operation was 10 days-15.5 (mean 8.1) years. Patients were maintained on ciclosporin and azathiaprine alone. Routine steroids only given to 4 patients for either persistent rejection or deteriorating renal function. Rejection diagnosed on clinical or echocardiographic grounds. No routine biopsies were performed. Bi-annual coronary angiography was used to diagnose graft coronary disease. Graft coronary disease was found in 8 patients (11%), 2 were re-transplanted and have survived 4.3-7.2 years since. Two patients are alive without intervention 2.0-13.0 years from initial diagnosis. Two patients have undergone interventional procedures 11 and 16 years after transplantation and are alive 3 and 4 years, respectively, later. Seven patients have had post transplant lymphoproliferative disease (PTLD) and 6 have had no recurrence for 3-13 years after treatment. Impaired renal function with abnormal serum creatinine levels is increasingly common-11 patients have developed end stage renal failure, 7 requiring renal transplantation, hypertension occurred in only 3 patients other than those in renal failure. Late rejection episodes associated with probable non-adherence occurred in 7 patients. There were 10 late deaths; 2 from graft coronary disease; 1 from PTLD; 3 from renal failure; 3 from acute rejection and 1 from infection. Conditional actuarial survival from 1 year post transplant was 76 and 67% at 10 and 15 years, respectively. Survival for more than 10 years is increasingly realistic. In this age group adherence and deteriorating renal function are major challenges."}
{"id": "15839989", "title": "Flail tricuspid valve after snare retrieval of a vascular angioplasty balloon.", "content": "Flail tricuspid valve after snare retrieval of a vascular angioplasty balloon. We report a case of unsuspected flail tricuspid diagnosed by transesophageal echocardiography after snare catheter removal of an embolized vascular angioplasty balloon."}
{"id": "15838473", "title": "Duplex-assisted internal carotid artery balloon angioplasty and stent placement: a novel approach to minimize or eliminate the use of contrast material.", "content": "Duplex-assisted internal carotid artery balloon angioplasty and stent placement: a novel approach to minimize or eliminate the use of contrast material. Carotid artery balloon angioplasty and stenting (CBAS) is emerging as an acceptable alternative to carotid endarterectomy in selected high-risk patients. Conversely, patients with pre-existing renal impairment, diabetes, or both may be harmed by the nephrotoxic contrast agents required during CBAS. We attempted to limit or eliminate the use of contrast material during CBAS. Eighteen patients with severe carotid stenoses (>70%) underwent CBAS at our institution over the last 12 months with duplex scan-assisted CBAS. Of these, 12 were primary procedures, and 6 were performed for carotid re-stenosis. Fourteen patients (78%) were neurologically asymptomatic. The average age of these patients was 75 +/- 11 years (range, 44-92 years). Hypertension, chronic renal insufficiency (serum creatinine level > or =1.5 mg/dL), coronary artery disease, diabetes, and smoking were present in 89%, 67%, 59%, 33%, and 28% of patients, respectively. Preoperative duplex carotid mapping was performed in all cases. All procedures were performed with patients under local anesthesia and light sedation. An ATL HDI 5000 scanner with the SonoCT feature was used. The common femoral artery was cannulated with a single-entry needle under direct ultrasound visualization. Fluoroscopy was used to assist passage of the guidewire into the aorta and the common carotid artery. In only four cases (22%) was an aortic arch angiogram obtained. Selective catheterization of the internal and external carotid arteries was performed under ultrasound guidance. The distal cerebral protection device (17 cases) was placed under fluoroscopic guidance. Balloon width and length were chosen according to ultrasound measurements. Balloon and stent deployment were successfully achieved with ultrasound guidance alone in all cases. Appropriate stent apposition and resolution of the stenosis was confirmed by duplex scanning in all cases. Five patients (28%) were noted to have low (<100 mL/min) internal carotid artery volume flow after stent deployment (range, 20-88 mL/min; mean +/- SD, 50 +/- 25 mL/min). The internal carotid artery volume flow increased immediately after Filterwire retrieval in all cases and ranged from 136 to 400 mL/min (mean, 245 +/- 107 mL/min). This increase was statistically significant ( P < .02). No ipsilateral strokes or deaths occurred during follow-up from 1 to 12 months (mean follow-up, 5 months). Duplex scan-assisted CBAS is feasible and may reduce the need for intra-arterial contrast injection in selected patients deemed at high risk for renal failure from nephrotoxic contrast material. Additional advantages include direct visualization of the puncture site, precise position of the balloon and stent, and B-mode and hemodynamic confirmation of the adequacy of the technique."}
{"id": "15828903", "title": "Different routes bridging calcium in Japanese hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Different routes bridging calcium in Japanese hemodialysis patients. There is growing evidence that not only serum calcium concentration but also excess calcium load is associated with vascular calcification and mortality in hemodialysis patients. Calcium load in hemodialysis patients cumulatively comes from three different routes: oral intake of calcium including calcium-based phosphate binders, traffic of calcium from/to dialysate, and calcemic action of vitamin D. The K/DOQI guidelines recommend sevelamer hydrochloride instead of calcium-containing phosphate binders to control serum phosphate concentration. However, in Japan, both kinds of phosphate binders are used concomitantly, mainly because Japanese patients are prone to a higher incidence of sevelamer-associated adverse events such as gastrointestinal symptoms. Regarding the calcium concentration of dialysate (D-Ca) in Japan, 3.0 mEq/L is more popular than 2.5 mEq/L. Calcium loaded through 3.0 mEq/L dialysate may lead to metastatic calcification rather than to bone formation because serum phosphate concentration rebounds several hours after the end of each hemodialysis session when plasma pH is still high. In contrast, use of 2.5 mEq/L dialysate may result in an unfavorable increase of intact parathyroid hormone particularly when the amount of oral calcium intake is reduced. Although a higher dose of vitamin D is required to counteract the stimulation of parathyroid glands, hypercalcemia is less likely with 2.5 mEq/L dialysate. As the new K/DOQI guidelines are released, it is time to discuss the appropriate D-Ca as well as doses and kinds of phosphate binders and vitamin D for the comprehensive management of Japanese hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "15828252", "title": "[Dor operation for left ventricular aneurysm with sustained ventricular tachycardia].", "content": "[Dor operation for left ventricular aneurysm with sustained ventricular tachycardia]. A 60-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital because of syncope attack due to sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT). She was treated medically after cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Coronary arteriography revealed a 99% stenosis of right coronary artery (posterior descending artery: # 4 PD), a 90% stenosis of left descending artery (# 6) and left akinetic aneurysm was demonstrated. The patient successfully underwent Dor operation with endocardial cryoablation. The postoperative course was uneventful and the recurrence of VT was never recognized clinically."}
{"id": "15807181", "title": "Silent myocardial ischemia and high-grade ventricular arrhythmias in patients on maintenance hemodialysis.", "content": "Silent myocardial ischemia and high-grade ventricular arrhythmias in patients on maintenance hemodialysis. The occurrence of silent myocardial ischemia (SMI) and serious arrhythmias during hemodialysis (HD) has been well documented. However, it is unclear whether these changes are due to epicardial coronary artery disease (CAD). We conducted a prospective study to assess whether SMI and arrhythmias during HD correlated with angiographically demonstrable CAD. Twenty-three patients with end-stage renal disease on maintenance HD underwent 48-hour Holter monitoring, beginning 24 hours prior to a HD session. All patients underwent biochemical evaluation, coronary angiography, and echocardiography. Holter monitoring showed SMI during HD in 22% cases. A significant increase in the frequency of ventricular ectopics (VEs) was noted during and after HD. Patients who showed SMI during HD and VEs prior to initiation of dialysis were more likely to develop significant ventricular arrhythmias during and after HD. Epicardial CAD was documented in four patients, and it did not correlate with SMI. To conclude, HD is an arrhythmogenic process. SMI during dialysis is probably not due to epicardial CAD but predisposes to clinically significant ventricular arrhythmias during and after HD. The cause of SMI during HD in patients without demonstrable CAD needs further investigation."}
{"id": "15780114", "title": "Coronary calcification in hemodialysis patients: the contribution of traditional and uremia-related risk factors.", "content": "Coronary calcification in hemodialysis patients: the contribution of traditional and uremia-related risk factors. Coronary artery calcification is a common feature of atherosclerosis, occurring in 90% of angiographically significant lesions. There is recent evidence that coronary artery calcification is frequent in hemodialysis patients and it has been suggested that this increased incidence may be associated to uremia-related factors. The development and progression of coronary artery calcification is similar to osteogenesis. The aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship between coronary artery calcification, uremia-related factors, and bone histomorphometry in hemodialysis patients. A total of 101 hemodialysis patients were assessed for biochemical markers of inflammation, oxidative stress, and bone metabolism. Subsequently, they were submitted to multislice coronary tomography (MSCT) and transiliac bone biopsy. The median calcium score was 116.2 (range 0 to 5547). Fifty-two percent of the patients showed moderate and severe coronary artery calcification, 20% had calcium scores greater than 1000. In univariate analysis, age (r= 0.57, P < 0.000001), osteoprotegerin (OPG) (r= 0.44, P= 0.00002), and body mass index (BMI) (r= 0.24, P= 0.01) correlated positively with calcium score. Bone trabecular volume and trabecular thickness correlated negatively with calcium score (r=-0.24, P= 0.02; r=-0.22, P= 0.03). There was a correlation of borderline significance between calcium score and C-reactive protein (CRP) (r= 0.18, P= 0.062). The multiple linear regression analysis identified OPG as the only variable independently associated with coronary artery calcification. Coronary artery calcification is highly prevalent in the hemodialysis population and is associated with older age, higher BMI, inflammation and reduced trabecular bone volume. Higher OPG is independently associated with coronary artery calcification and may represent an incomplete self-defensive response to the progression of atherosclerosis in hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "15773630", "title": "Quantitative analysis of synchrotron radiation intravenous angiographic images.", "content": "Quantitative analysis of synchrotron radiation intravenous angiographic images. A medical research protocol on clinical intravenous coronary angiography has been completed at the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF) biomedical beamline. The aim was to investigate the accuracy of intravenous coronary angiography based on the K-edge digital subtraction technique for the detection of in-stent restenosis. For each patient, diagnosis has been performed on the synchrotron radiation images and monitored with the conventional selective coronary angiography method taken as the golden standard. In this paper, the methods of image processing and the results of the quantitative analysis are described. Image processing includes beam harmonic contamination correction, spatial deconvolution and the extraction of a 'contrast' and a 'tissue' image from each couple of radiograms simultaneously acquired at energies bracketing the K-edge of iodine. Quantitative analysis includes the estimation of the vessel diameter, the calculation of the absolute iodine concentration profiles along the coronary arteries and the stenosis degree measurement."}
{"id": "15770879", "title": "Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha and Troponin T as predictors of poor prognosis in patients with stable heart failure.", "content": "Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha and Troponin T as predictors of poor prognosis in patients with stable heart failure. TNFalpha, a proinflammatory cytokine expressed under several conditions in the myocardium, may contribute to myocardial damage in heart failure (HF). The aim of the study was to determine TNFalpha concentrations and their relation to severity, mortality, and clinical, biochemical and echocardiographic parameters in patients with stable chronic heart failure. In a prospective study in 128 patients with HF, average follow-up 33 mos, serum concenrations of TNFalpha were determined, and clinical, biochemical and echocardiographic characteristics and mortality were recorded. Serum TNFalpha concentrations were also determined in 35 healthy subjects. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to determine variables that could influence TNFalpha concentrations, and that could predict mortality. Patients with HF have higher serum concentrations of TNFalpha than controls (6.72+/-0.2 vs 5.5+/-0.2 pg/ml, P=0.02). Patients with functional class I had lower concenrations of TNFalpha than patients with functional classes II and III (P=0.05 and P=0.001, respectively). Variables associated with higher concentrations of TNFalpha were; lower ejection fraction (P=0.04), worse functional class (P=0.007), coronary artery disease (P=0.05), chronic renal failure (P=0.02), arterial hypertension (P=0.05), higher concentrations of epinephrine (P=0.03) and norepinephrine (P=0.05). On follow-up, factors associated with decline in ejection fraction were arterial hypertension and higher total catecholamines. Factors associated with higher mortality were hypertension, elevated concentrations of TNFalpha and troponin T. Endothelin levels correlated with worsening functional class. Serum TNFalpha and troponin T concentrations are independent predictors of severity and mortality in stable HF patients."}
{"id": "15761631", "title": "[Prevalence of coronary artery disease in type I diabetic candidates for double transplantation (kidney and pancreas)].", "content": "[Prevalence of coronary artery disease in type I diabetic candidates for double transplantation (kidney and pancreas)]. To assess the prevalence of coronary artery disease (CAD) in a population of type I diabetic, nephropathic patients in a dialysis program and candidates for double transplantation (kidney and pancreas). From January 2000 to July 2002, 58 type I diabetic patients underwent coronary cineangiography as part of an assessment protocol for double transplantation. Coronary artery disease was defined as any irregularity in the coronary arteries and was classified according to the degree of luminal stenosis as mild (< 30%), moderate (> or = 30 to 70%), and severe (> 70%). The mean age of the patients was 34 +/- 12 years, and 32 (55%) were men. No patient had a history of angina or acute myocardial infarction. The major risk factors for the disease were systemic arterial hypertension in 93% of the patients, dyslipidemia in 38%, familial history in 25%, and smoking in 20%. The mean duration of diabetes was 20.8 +/- 9 years, and the duration of dialysis was 26 +/- 9 months. Coronary angiography revealed coronary artery disease in 42 (72%) patients, which was mild in 20 (34%) patients, moderate in 9 (16%), and severe in 13 (22%). Patients with type I diabetes in a dialysis program and candidates for double transplantation had an elevated prevalence of coronary artery disease. It is worth noting that those patients had no symptoms of the disease."}
{"id": "15757600", "title": "Prevalence of valve calcium and association of valve calcium with coronary artery disease, atherosclerotic vascular disease, and all-cause mortality in 137 patients undergoing hemodialysis for chronic renal failure.", "content": "Prevalence of valve calcium and association of valve calcium with coronary artery disease, atherosclerotic vascular disease, and all-cause mortality in 137 patients undergoing hemodialysis for chronic renal failure. Of 137 patients (mean age 63 years) who underwent hemodialysis for chronic renal failure, 65 (47%) had mitral valve calcium, mitral annular calcium, or aortic valve calcium. Thirty-eight of 65 patients (59%) who had valve calcium died at 3.5-year follow-up versus 21 of 72 patients (29%) who did not have valve calcium and who died at 4.3-year follow-up (p = 0.0005)."}
{"id": "15752228", "title": "Calcification and cardiovascular problems in renal failure.", "content": "Calcification and cardiovascular problems in renal failure. Extraosseus calcification has plagued management of renal failure since the beginning of hemodialysis, but the issue has largely been neglected because the impact on survival was thought to be limited. The recent recognition that hyperphosphatemia is a strong predictor of all-cause mortality, and particularly of cardiac mortality, has transformed the situation. Relatively stringent, though difficult to implement, guidelines have been proposed for the management of hyperphosphatemia. Important recent insights document that, for different reasons, both high and low turnover of bone disease increase the risk of vascular calcifications. Vascular calcification impacts cardiac death not only by complicating coronary atherosclerosis, but also by increasing the stiffness of central arteries, impacting on heart function (increased impedance, reduced coronary perfusion). While in the past extraosseous calcification, including vascular calcification, was thought to be a passive process resulting from transgression of a critical Ca x P product, recent studies show that the adverse effect of hyperphosphatemia is also mediated by active processes (e.g., induction of \"osteogenic\" genetic programs), and is modulated by calcification inhibitors."}
{"id": "15743997", "title": "High prevalence of occult coronary artery stenosis in patients with chronic kidney disease at the initiation of renal replacement therapy: an angiographic examination.", "content": "High prevalence of occult coronary artery stenosis in patients with chronic kidney disease at the initiation of renal replacement therapy: an angiographic examination. The prevalence of coronary artery stenosis (CAS) at the initiation of renal replacement therapy (RRT) in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) and no previous history of angina and/or myocardial infarction (MI) has not been fully elucidated. The prevalence of significant CAS was evaluated in 30 asymptomatic stage 5 CKD patients without a history of angina and/or MI by coronary angiography at the initiation of RRT. The correlations of various parameters with the prevalence of CAS were also examined. Atherosclerotic surrogate markers, including intima-media thickness of carotid artery and ankle-brachial BP index (ABI), were also evaluated. Significant CAS (>50% stenosis) was seen in 16 (53.3%) of 30 asymptomatic CKD patients on coronary angiography at the start of RRT. Stress cardiac scintigraphy was not effective for detecting hidden cardiac ischemia among the CKD patients. Univariate analysis showed that diabetes (P = 0.01), left ventricular mass index (P = 0.04), hyperlipidemia (P = 0.04), total cholesterol (P = 0.02), LDL cholesterol (P < 0.01), intima-media thickness (P = 0.04), and fibrinogen (P = 0.01) were positively correlated with the presence of CAS, whereas ABI (P < 0.01) showed a negative correlation with CAS. Stepwise logistic regression analysis revealed that diabetes and fibrinogen were significant and independent risk factors for CAS in asymptomatic CKD patients who started RRT. The results clearly demonstrated that despite the absence of cardiac events, stage 5 CKD patients are already in a very high risk group for CAS at the initiation of RRT, which was also closely associated with a significant decrease in ABI."}
{"id": "15743271", "title": "Prognostic potential of brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) in predialysis chronic kidney disease patients.", "content": "Prognostic potential of brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) in predialysis chronic kidney disease patients. In the present study, we investigated the potential of N-BNP (N-terminal B-type natriuretic peptide) as a prognostic marker for risk of CV (cardiovascular) events, overall mortality and progression to ESRD (end-stage renal disease) in a cohort of 83 pre-dialysis CKD (chronic kidney disease) patients without clinical evidence of heart failure. During the study, ten patients reached the combined end point of overall mortality and/or CV event. Univariate factors associated with the combined end point were plasma N-BNP (P < 0.0005), creatinine (P < 0.002), systolic blood pressure (P < 0.009) and age (P < 0.015). N-BNP levels were higher in patients with CV events (P < 0.0005). Cox model regression analysis yielded log10 N-BNP (hazard ratio, 9.608; P < 0.007) and pre-existing CV disease (hazard ratio, 4.571; P < 0.029) as independent predictors of overall mortality or CV events. Kaplan-Meier analysis curves for the subgroup with supramedian creatinine levels (225 micromol/l) showed significant separation of the curves stratified for plasma N-BNP levels above and below the group median (291 pmol/l) for all end points. Receiver-operator-characteristic curves for N-BNP (355 pmol/l cut-off) demonstrated a specificity of 65.8% at a sensitivity of 100% for predicting CV events/overall mortality. The measurement of plasma N-BNP may aid in the risk stratification of pre-dialysis CKD patients. The high sensitivity and negative predictive value (100%) may enable the selection of patients who could safely be excluded from further investigations, resulting in better focusing of resources."}
{"id": "15716296", "title": "Atherosclerosis and vascular calcification are independent predictors of left ventricular hypertrophy in chronic haemodialysis patients.", "content": "Atherosclerosis and vascular calcification are independent predictors of left ventricular hypertrophy in chronic haemodialysis patients. Accelerated atherosclerosis and vascular calcification are common in chronic haemodialysis (HD) patients. In this study, we aimed to investigate the relationship between left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) in HD patients and atherosclerosis and vascular calcification measured by electron beam computed tomography (EBCT). In a cohort of 118 HD patients (52 male, 66 female, mean age: 46+/-13 years), we measured biochemical parameters, including BUN, creatinine, albumin, haemoglobin, C-reactive protein and fibrinogen levels, and performed echocardiography, high-resolution B-mode carotid ultrasonography and EBCT in 85 of them. The degree of stenosis was measured at four different sites (communis, bulbus, interna and externa) in both carotid arteries. Carotid plaque scores were calculated by summing the degrees of stenosis measured at all locations. LVH was detected in 89 of the patients (75%). Plaque-positive patients had higher left ventricular mass index (LVMI) than plaque-negative patients (175+/-59 vs 143+/-46 g/m2, P = 0.003). LVMI was correlated with systolic blood pressure (r = 0.62, P<0.001), pulse pressure (r = 0.58, P<0.001), haemoglobin levels (r = - 0.25, P = 0.008), carotid plaque score (r = 0.32, P = 0.001) and coronary (CACS) and aortic wall calcification score (AWCS) (r = 0.34, P = 0.002 and r = 0.43, P<0.001, respectively). Multiple linear regression analysis (model r = 0.76) showed the independent factors related to LVMI to be systolic blood pressure, pulse pressure, CACS and presence of carotid plaques. Extra-coronary atherosclerosis and vascular calcification are associated with LVH in HD patients. Whether the treatment of atherosclerosis or vascular calcification may cause regression of or even prevent LVH in HD patients remains to be seen."}
{"id": "15708149", "title": "Non-dialysis-dependent renal dysfunction and cardiac surgery-an assessment of perioperative risk factors.", "content": "Non-dialysis-dependent renal dysfunction and cardiac surgery-an assessment of perioperative risk factors. In most reports, dialysis-dependent patients are known to be at increased risk for perioperative morbidity and mortality after cardiac surgical procedures.(1-7) However, the preoperative factors important for risk stratification of patients who have renal insufficiency but are not dialysis dependent are unclear. We set forth to ascertain preoperative risk factors important for predicting 2 endpoints: (1) dialysis at discharge and (2) hospital death. A retrospective analysis. A tertiary referral center. From a database of patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass over a 6-year period, 150 patients were chosen for study based on their preoperative creatinine being greater than 1.5 mg/dl. Routine monitoring and care of patients after their cardiac surgical procedures. Many preoperative, perioperative, and postoperative variables were measured. Multivariable regression was used for data analysis. There were 21 (14%) hospital deaths and 7 (5%) patients who were not on preoperative dialysis who required dialysis at discharge. Preoperative risk factors for hospital death were the patients' New York Heart Association (NYHA) class (p = 0.004) and emergency status (p = 0.005). Preoperative risk factors for dialysis at discharge were female gender (p = 0.02), emergency status of procedure (p = 0.01), and preoperative creatinine (p = 0.03). These data allow for a more accurate assessment of risk stratification in this group of patients with renal insufficiency but who are not dependent on dialysis. Given the data presented here and other studies that report good outcomes for patients with renal disease after cardiac surgical procedures,(8-10) earlier operative intervention for coronary disease in this subset of patients might be warranted."}
{"id": "15691673", "title": "Surgical repair of post infarction ventricular septal defects: a national experience.", "content": "Surgical repair of post infarction ventricular septal defects: a national experience. Ventricular septal rupture is a rare but feared complication after acute myocardial infarction. Most reports about outcome after surgical treatment are single center experiences. We investigated the results after surgical repair in all patients in Sweden during a 7-year period. All patients undergoing surgical repair 1992-1998 were identified with the aid of the Swedish Heart Surgery Registry. The patients (n=189, 63% men, mean age 69+/-8 years) were operated at 10 different centers. Pre-and peri-operative variables were collected from the Registry and individual patient charts. Mortality was calculated and a Cox proportional hazards regression model was used to identify independent predictors for early and late mortality. Mean follow-up was 2.4 years. Seventy-seven of the 189 patients died within 30 days (41%). Urgent repair (Risk Ratio 4.2 (2.0-8.9), P<0.001) and posterior rupture (RR 2.1 (1.3-3.4), P=0.002) were independent predictors of 30-day mortality. Total cumulative survival (Kaplan-Meyer) was 38% at 5 years. For patients that survived the first 30 days (n=112), 5 year cumulative survival was 67%. Independent predictors for mortality after 30 days were number of concomitant coronary anastomoses (RR 1.5 (1.2-2.0), P=0.001), residual postoperative shunt (RR 2.7 (1.4-5.4), P=0.004) and postoperative dialysis (RR 3.4 (1.5-7.5), P=0.003). Early mortality after surgical repair of post infarction septal rupture is still considerable. Early repair and posterior rupture are predictors of early mortality. Long-term survival in patients surviving the immediate postoperative period is limited by pre-existing coronary artery disease, postoperative renal failure and the presence of a residual postoperative shunt."}
{"id": "15632474", "title": "[Sevelamer:hydrochloride].", "content": "[Sevelamer:hydrochloride]. The recent global breakthrough in the field of renal osteodystrophy is the inhibitory effect of sevelamer hydrochloride on the progression of coronary artery calcification, which was revealed with EBCT (Electron beam computed tomography) 1) approximately 3). It has been found that the degree of coronary artery calcification assessed with EBCT is proportional to the mortality risk by the coronary artery stenosis and by myocardial infarction in non-hemodialysis patients 4) approximately 10). In 2004 in Japan Matsuoka and Iseki et al showed for the first time in the world that coronary artery calcification assessed by EBCT was correlated with mortality 11). In Japan, however, it is difficult to administer sevelamer hydrochloride to many patients because of constipation as its side effect. Its prescription rate is 26.8% and its single administration rate is only 15.4% 12). We explained fully to the patients that sevelamer hydrochloride seldom caused coronary artery calcification. And we used sorbitol, an osmotic purgatives, with sevelamer hydrochloride. Moreover, we gradually replaced calcium carbonate with sevelamer hydrochloride in supper at first. With protocol above, we succeeded in having 86.7% of the patients take sevelamer hydrochloride 12). We think that it is important to increase the intake rate of sevelamer hydrochloride in order to prevent coronary artery calcification and to aim at the long survival of the patients."}
{"id": "15625072", "title": "Traditional and nontraditional risk factors predict coronary heart disease in chronic kidney disease: results from the atherosclerosis risk in communities study.", "content": "Traditional and nontraditional risk factors predict coronary heart disease in chronic kidney disease: results from the atherosclerosis risk in communities study. Some risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) incidence in the general population are not associated with CHD incidence among patients with ESRD but have not been well characterized in chronic kidney disease (CKD). The association of several risk factors with CHD incidence was studied among participants with CKD in the population-based Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) Study. CHD risk factors and estimated GFR using serum creatinine were measured among 807 ARIC participants with CKD (estimated GFR between 15 and 59 ml/min per 1.73 m(2)). The incidence of CHD during 10.5 yr of follow-up was 6.3, 8.5, and 14.4 per 1000 person-years among ARIC participants with an estimated GFR of >/=90, 60 to 89, and 15 to 59 ml/min per 1.73 m(2), respectively. After adjustment for age, race, gender, and ARIC field center, among those with CKD, the relative risk (95% confidence interval) of CHD was 1.65 (1.01 to 2.67) for current smoking, 2.02 (1.27 to 3.22) for hypertension, 3.06 (2.01 to 4.67) for diabetes, and 1.96 (1.14 to 3.36) for anemia. The comparably adjusted relative risks of CHD for each standard deviation higher total and HDL cholesterol were 1.50 (1.25 to 1.71) and 0.79 (0.62 to 1.01), respectively, and 1.38 (1.13 to 1.69), 1.24 (1.06 to 1.46), 0.65 (0.54 to 0.79), and 1.38 (1.19 to 1.59) for waist circumference, leukocyte count, serum albumin, and fibrinogen, respectively. CHD risk factors in the general population remain predictive among patients with CKD. Given the high risk for CHD among patients with CKD, control of these risk factors may have a substantial impact on their excess burden of CHD."}
{"id": "15613068", "title": "Subclinical peripheral arterial disease in patients with chronic kidney disease: prevalence and related risk factors.", "content": "Subclinical peripheral arterial disease in patients with chronic kidney disease: prevalence and related risk factors. Atherosclerotic artery disease is a common condition in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD); however, there are few published data on the prevalence of peripheral arterial disease (PAD) in nondialyzed patients with renal insufficiency. The ankle-brachial index (ABI) is a simple, noninvasive, and reliable method to assess PAD. Prevalence of PAD using ABI was investigated in 102 patients referred for the first time to a nephrology clinic with CKD in stages 3 to 5 of the K/DOQI classification, and with no previous diagnosis of PAD. Patients with ABI <0.9 were considered positive for PAD. A total of 64% of the patients were male. The mean age was 70 +/- 11 (range 58-84) years, and the estimated creatinine clearance (CrCl) was 35 +/- 12 (range 6-59) mL/min(-1). Of the total sample, 26% were diabetics, 10% active smokers, 48% ex-smokers, and 29% had a diagnosis of coronary heart disease (CHD), 15% had been previously diagnosed of stroke, and 17% had signs and symptoms compatible with intermittent claudication, which had passed unnoticed. Thirty-two percent of patients had an ABI <0.9 (mean 0.64 +/- 0.25). Of these patients with PAD, 84% were men (P < 0.005), and only 30% presented a clinical picture compatible with intermittent claudication. Absolute risk of CHD according to the Framingham 1998 score was higher in the PAD group (19.3% +/- 6 vs. 13.1% +/- 8; P= 0.01). Patients with PAD were older (75 +/- 6 vs. 66 +/- 11 years, P= 0.000), and had worse renal function (CrCl 30.8 +/- 12 vs. 37 +/- 10.7 mL.min(-1), P= 0.016) compared to patients without PAD, but no differences were found in cholesterol levels (total, HDL, LDL), calcium, phosphorus, or PTH. In the logistic regression analysis, independent indicators of PAD risk were male sex, age, and lower CrCl. Twelve percent of patients had an ABI > or =1.3, suggestive of parietal arterial calcifications. In these patients, systolic blood pressure and pulse pressure were lower (126 +/- 18 vs. 150 +/- 27, P= 0.005, and 52 +/- 13 vs. 68 +/- 25 mm Hg, P= 0.044), i-PTH levels were higher (228 +/- 267 vs. 117 +/- 63 pg/mL, P= 0.01), and a larger proportion of this group was treated with calcitriol (34% vs. 13%) compared to patients with a normal ABI. A high prevalence of PAD, considered as an ABI <0.9, was demonstrated in nondialyzed patients with CKD. This was related with age, male sex, and higher degree of renal insufficiency, while the presence of ABI > or =1.3 was associated with a greater degree of hyperparathyroidism. These data show the need to carry out routine ABI determinations in patients with CKD for early detection of peripheral arterial disease."}
{"id": "15601745", "title": "Association between chronic kidney disease and coronary artery calcification: the Dallas Heart Study.", "content": "Association between chronic kidney disease and coronary artery calcification: the Dallas Heart Study. The hypothesis that chronic kidney disease (CKD) is associated with increased coronary artery calcification (CAC) was tested using data from the Dallas Heart Study, a representative sample of Dallas County residents aged 30 to 65 yr. CKD was defined as presence of microalbuminuria and GFR > or =60 ml/min per 1.73 m(2) (stage 1 to 2), or GFR <60 ml/min per 1.73 m(2) (stage 3 to 5), excluding end-stage kidney disease. Logistic regression was used to examine the association between stages of CKD and CAC scores >10, >100, and >400 versus scores < or =10 compared with no CKD while adjusting for covariates. Analyses were repeated after stratifying by presence of diabetes. The mean age was 43.9 yr, and hypertension and diabetes were noted in 31.0 and 9.8%, respectively. No association was noted between stage 1 to 2 CKD and increased CAC scores. Compared with no CKD, stage 3 to 5 CKD was associated with CAC scores >100 (odds ratio, 2.85; 95% confidence interval, 0.92 to 8.80) and >400 (odds ratio, 8.35; 95% confidence interval, 1.94 to 35.95) in the total population after adjustment for covariates, but these associations were substantially reduced after exclusion of participants with diabetes. Participants with diabetes and stage 3 to 5 CKD had a ninefold increased odds of CAC scores >10 versus scores < or =10 compared with participants with diabetes and without CKD, whereas no association was noted between stage 3 to 5 CKD and CAC scores >10 in the nondiabetic population. In conclusion, stage 3 to 5 CKD is associated with increased CAC scores, but this association may be substantially stronger among adults with diabetes. These findings need to be confirmed in study populations that include adults >65 yr of age and a larger number of CKD cases."}
{"id": "16773801", "title": "[Takotsubo cardiomyopathy thought to be induced by MRSA meningitis and cervical epidural abscess in a maintenance-hemodialysis patient: case report].", "content": "[Takotsubo cardiomyopathy thought to be induced by MRSA meningitis and cervical epidural abscess in a maintenance-hemodialysis patient: case report]. A 65-year-old man was admitted to our hospital for high fever and severe left shoulder pain. He was initiated on maintenance hemodialysis for end-stage renal failure caused by diabetic nephropathy 9 years previously. On admission, the serum CRP level was 29.3 mg/d/l and the white blood cell count was 29,000/mm3. Bacterial examination of blood and spinal fluid revealed MRSA colonization. On the 6th hospital day, a giant negative T wave in the V2-6 leads of an electrocardiogram asymptomatically appeared. Ultracardiogram revealed apical systolic paradoxical centrifugal motion. None of the cardiogenic enzymes, such as creatine kinase, lactate dehydrogenase and glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase was elevated. Cardiac thallium-201-chloride (201Tl-Cl) and I-123 beta-metyl iodophenyl-pentadecanoic acid (123I-BMIPP) scintigraphy revealed a decreased accumulation of isotopes in the apex. From these findings, we diagnosed Takotsubo cardiomyopathy induced by MRSA meningitis. Vancomycin was administrated and the inflammatory signs decreased. On the 46th hospital day, tetraplegia and respiratory suppression occurred. A cervical spinal magnetic resonance image revealed cervical spondylodiscitis and cervical epidural abscess, which compressed the medulla oblongata. Surgical spinal decompression and drainage of the abscess were performed. The giant negative T wave in the electrocardiogram improved after the operation. Two months after the operation, cardiac 201Tl-Cl scintigraphy revealed improvement in the accumulation of isotopes in the apex. Takotsubo cardiomyopathy is secondary cardiomyopathy presenting with apical systolic paradoxical centrifugal motion without coronary stenotic disease. It has been reported to be induced by severe mental stress or intracranial disease. In the present patient, it was predicted that stress on the central nerve system caused by the MRSA meningitis and the cervical epidural abscess induced the Takotsubo cardiomyopathy."}
{"id": "15799174", "title": "The prevalence and clinical predictors of atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis in patients undergoing coronary angiography.", "content": "The prevalence and clinical predictors of atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis in patients undergoing coronary angiography. Renal artery stenosis is an important cause of secondary hypertension as well as ischemic nephropathy. The purpose of this study was to determine the clinical predictors in patients with renal artery stenosis in a population referred for coronary angiography. From March 1998 to July 1999, 1459 patients undergoing coronary angiography for various indications were routinely screened for renal artery stenosis by undergoing abdominal aortography. Coronary angiography, carotid angiography, and abdominal aortography was performed via either the radial or the femoral approach. The data were analyzed retrospectively. Out of 1459 patients undergoing abdominal aortography, 158 (10.8%) were found to have significant renal artery stenosis with 24 of the patients having bilateral stenosis. Significant coronary artery diseases were found in 994 of the 1459 study population (68.1%), with 134 (13.5%) of these patients having concomitant renal artery stenosis. Multivariate logistic regression showed that extracranial carotid artery stenosis odds ratio [(OR) 4.89 (95% confidence interval 2.57-9.33), P < 0.001], peripheral artery disease [OR 4.64 (2.65-9.33), P < 0.001], renal insufficiency [OR 2.68 (1.43-5.02), P = 0.002], significant coronary artery disease [OR 2.01 (1.12-3.59), P = 0.019], hypercholesterolemia [OR 1.92 (1.07-3.43), P = 0.028], hypertension [OR 1.85 (1.16-2.95), P = 0.010], and old age (> 60 years) [OR 1.64 (1.01-2.64), P = 0.044] were significant clinical predictors of renovascular disease. The prevalence of indolent atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis is relatively high in selected groups of patients with high clincial risk factors for this underdiagnosed disease. Renal artery stenosis should be highly suspected in patients who have these risk factors because early detection of this disease may reverse the progression to chronic renal failure and end-stage renal disease."}
{"id": "15793624", "title": "Posterior descending coronary artery flow reserve assessment by Doppler echocardiography in children with and without congenital heart defect: comparison with invasive technique.", "content": "Posterior descending coronary artery flow reserve assessment by Doppler echocardiography in children with and without congenital heart defect: comparison with invasive technique. To evaluate whether transthoracic Doppler echocardiography can reliably measure coronary flow velocity and coronary flow velocity reserve (CFVR) in the posterior descending coronary artery (PD) in children, we examined 32 patients who had congenital heart disease (ventricular septal defect in 10, tetralogy of Fallot in 6, tricuspid atresia in 3, double-outlet right ventricle in 2, patent ductus arteriosus in 2, and aortic valve stenosis in 2) and 7 patients who had a history of Kawasaki disease without stenosis or aneurysm formation of the coronary artery. Average peak flow velocity (APV) in the PD was measured by transthoracic Doppler echocardiography at the time of intracoronary Doppler study. CFVR was defined as the ratio of hyperemic to basal APV. Clear envelopes of basal and hyperemic APV in the PD were obtained in 23 of 32 patients by transthoracic Doppler echocardiography. APV obtained from transthoracic Doppler echocardiography correlated highly with that from the Doppler guidewire method (r=0.91). The mean difference between transthoracic Doppler echocardiography and the Doppler guidewire method was 0.1+/-2.9. There was an excellent correlation between transthoracic Doppler echocardiography and the Doppler guidewire method for the measurements of CFVR (r=0.84). The mean difference between transthoracic Doppler echocardiography and Doppler guidewire was -0.016+/-0.198. Noninvasive measurement of coronary flow velocity and CFVR in the PD using transthoracic Doppler echocardiography accurately reflects invasive measurement of coronary flow velocity and CFVR by the Doppler guidewire method in pediatric patients with various heart diseases."}
{"id": "15736585", "title": "Cardiac troponins in renal insufficiency and other non-ischemic cardiac conditions.", "content": "Cardiac troponins in renal insufficiency and other non-ischemic cardiac conditions. The emergence of cardiac troponins has been an interesting step in the diagnosis of ACS. It has clearly helped us to better triage patients toward a more aggressive posture in performing early cardiac catheterization, and in some cases, early use of adjunctive Gp IIb/IIIa antagonists and percutaneous or surgical myocardial revascularization. However, with this step forward has come uncertainty and many cardiology consults regarding positive cardiac troponins in patients without ACS or myocardial infarction. In general, increased cardiac troponins imply a worse prognosis. This is clearly true of patients with ESRD and advanced heart failure. It is also true of patients with severe, noncardiac illnesses. In other situations, such as acute pericarditis and cardiac surgery, slightly elevated cardiac troponins do not seem to predict a worse prognosis, and can probably be disregarded. The elevation of cardiac troponins after successful percutaneous coronary interventions is not unexpected, and the level of cardiac troponin release seems to predict problems, but lively controversy persists. Last, monitoring cardiac troponins in cardiac transplant recipients and those receiving certain cardiotoxic chemotherapies may be of some diagnostic value, but clearly more experience and clinical research are needed."}
{"id": "15666478", "title": "[Specificity of the management of atheromatous disease in diabetic renal failure].", "content": "[Specificity of the management of atheromatous disease in diabetic renal failure]. Atheromatous disease is particularly common and severe in diabetics with renal failure. The prognosis depends on specific therapeutic measures: in this article, the authors will limit the discussion to the management of coronary artery disease. The cardiovascular risk factors must be treated intensively and corrected. The outlook of these patients also depends on the diagnosis of silent ischaemia with a stress test every two years and the prevention of acute renal failure after coronary angiography. Myocardial revascularisation improves the prognosis of high risk coronary patients. The choice of mode of revascularisation depends on the anatomy of the coronary lesions, the surgical risk and the presence of associated valve disease. The results of coronary angioplasty have been improved by the optimisation of anti-thrombotic treatment and the use of active stents. Despite revascularisation, short and medium-term mortality remains much higher than that of non-diabetics with normal renal function. Non-invasive investigations for residual ischaemia are justified 6 months after angioplasty for diagnosing restenosis and, thereafter, every year to detect progression of the atherosclerosis."}
{"id": "15633662", "title": "Bleeding risk in patients with underlying chronic kidney disease admitted for acute coronary syndromes.", "content": "Bleeding risk in patients with underlying chronic kidney disease admitted for acute coronary syndromes. A retrospective review of 200 patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and chronic kidney disease (CKD) was compared to 200 patients without CKD to investigate the incidence of bleeding. Logistic regression analysis identified CKD as an independent risk factor for bleeding (OR 1.82, 95% CI 1.02 - 3.25). CKD patients with ACS appear to have more bleeding complications."}
{"id": "15633660", "title": "Gender differences in therapy for patients admitted for unstable angina and myocardial infarction with underlying chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Gender differences in therapy for patients admitted for unstable angina and myocardial infarction with underlying chronic kidney disease. We examined treatment patterns of female pts with CKD admitted for ACS. In this retrospective review of 200 patients with chronic kidney disease presenting with acute coronary syndrome, we found that females patients were less likely to receive aspirin and ACE-inhibitors and there was a trend towards less frequent use of coronary angiography"}
{"id": "15633659", "title": "Severity of chronic kidney disease did not influence bleeding during treatment of acute coronary syndromes.", "content": "Severity of chronic kidney disease did not influence bleeding during treatment of acute coronary syndromes. We assessed the influence of CKD on bleeding in 200 patients with ACS via retrospective chart analysis. Using K/DOQI guidelines to stratify patients based on GFR, no differences in documented bleeding or antithrombotic utilization were observed among the groups. Due to increased mortality risk of patients with CKD from cardiovascular disease, assessing benefit-to-risk ratios of various medical interventions is crucial."}
{"id": "15633658", "title": "Management of patients with chronic kidney disease presenting with acute coronary syndrome.", "content": "Management of patients with chronic kidney disease presenting with acute coronary syndrome. We evaluated the treatment pattern of patients with chronic kidney disease presenting with acute coronary syndromes. In a retrospective chart review of 400 patients with and without kidney disease presenting with angina pectoris we found that patients with chronic kidney disease have longer hospital stays, receive fewer diagnostic angiographies, and have a delay in therapy."}
{"id": "15628116", "title": "Cardiac troponins T and I in patients with end-stage renal disease: the relation with left ventricular mass and their prognostic value.", "content": "Cardiac troponins T and I in patients with end-stage renal disease: the relation with left ventricular mass and their prognostic value. Cardiac troponins are frequently elevated in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in the absence of acute myocardial ischemia. The cause and prognostic value of cardiac troponin elevations in such patients are controversial. The aims of this study were (1) to define the incidence of cTnT and cTnI elevations in patients with ESRD, (2) to evaluate the relationship between troponin elevations and left ventricular mass index (LVMI), and (3) to evaluate the prognostic value of elevations in cTnT and cTnI prospectively. We included 129 patients with ESRD (71 men, age 44 +/- 16 years) with no clinical evidence of coronary artery disease. All patients underwent cardiac examinations, including medical history, physical examination, electrocardiogram, and transthoracic echocardiography. Left ventricular mass index was calculated and all patients were followed for 2 years. The cTnT concentration was > 0.03-0.1 ng/ml in 27 (20.9%) and > 0.1 ng/ml in 27 (20.9%) of the 129 patients. The cTnI concentration was > 0.5 ng/ml in 31 (24%) of 129 patients. Multiple logistic regression analysis identified LVMI (p < 0.001), diabetes (p = 0.001), and serum albumin level (p = 0.009) as a significant independent predictor for elevated cTnT. Left ventricular mass index was the only significant independent predictor for elevated cTnI (p = 0.002). There were 25 (19.4%) deaths during follow-up. Multivariable analysis showed that elevation of cTnT and cTnI did not emerge as an independent predictor for death. Serum albumin level (p < 0.001) was the strongest predictor of mortality, followed by age (p = 0.002) and LVMI (p = 0.005). Cardiac troponin T and I related significantly to the LVMI. The increased serum concentration of cardiac troponins probably originates from the heart; however, they are not independent predictors for prognosis."}
{"id": "15627718", "title": "A single chinese center investigation of renal artery stenosis in 141 consecutive cases with coronary angiography.", "content": "A single chinese center investigation of renal artery stenosis in 141 consecutive cases with coronary angiography. There is an increasing prevalence of ischemic nephropathy in the aging population of the world. However, the exact incidence of ischemic nephropathy in the Chinese population is still uncertain. The present study investigated the incidence of renal artery stenosis (RAS) in patients with suspected coronary artery disease (CAD) using renal angiography. Renal angiography was performed immediately after coronary artery angiography in 141 patients with suspected CAD, including 59 males and 82 females whose mean ages were 59 +/- 10 years. Comorbidities included hypertension (n = 69), diabetes mellitus (n = 21), hyperlipidemia (n = 19), hypokalemia (n = 7) and preoperative renal insufficiency (Cr >132 micromol/l; n = 14). The patients were divided into CAD (luminal narrowing of > or =50%) and non-CAD (luminal narrowing of <50%) subgroups, and RAS (luminal narrowing of > or =50%) and non-RAS subgroups. In the RAS group, there were 11 patients (5 males, 6 females) in whom percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty was performed in conjunction with stent implantation due to refractory hypertension. The incidence of RAS was 18.4% (26/141) in all cases and 30.8% (16/52) in patients with CAD identified by coronary artery angiography. Ten cases with RAS were found among the 89 cases with normal coronary arteries (11.2%). The incidence of RAS in patients with CAD was higher than that in patients without CAD (30.8 vs. 11.2%, p< 0.05). In 52 cases with CAD, the incidence of RAS with three vessel lesions was significantly higher than that with one or two vessel lesions. Hypertension, CAD, renal insufficiency, hyperlipidemia and hypokalemia were associated with a higher risk of RAS. This study suggests that RAS is very common in the elderly Chinese population, specifically for those with three vessel lesions in CAD. For early detection of potential ischemic nephropathy, renal angiography is necessary in patients who receive coronary artery angiography."}
{"id": "15609655", "title": "[Kinking of skeletonized internal thoracic artery graft].", "content": "[Kinking of skeletonized internal thoracic artery graft]. A 66-year-old woman underwent coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). Postoperative angiography on postoperative day (POD) 11 revealed that right internal thoracic artery (RITA) anastomosed to left anterior descending artery (LAD) had a kinking. The angiography performed 30 months after operation revealed no specific changes in the kinking of RITA and in the left ventricular function. Another case was a 74-year-old man with chronic renal failure under hemodialysis. He underwent CABG with left internal thoracic artery (LITA) to LAD. Post-operatively he had chest pain during hemodialysis. On POD 10, angiography revealed that LITA had a kinking with moderate stenosis and normal left ventricular function. The angiography performed 10 months after operation revealed no specific changes in the kinking of LITA. However, left ventriculography revealed akinesis in the antero-apical region. It suggested that the viability was lost due to the graft kinking of LITA and steal phenomenon on hemodialysis."}
{"id": "15607622", "title": "Inflection point of ascending aortic waveform is a predictive factor for all-cause and cardiovascular mortality in patients with chronic renal failure on hemodialysis.", "content": "Inflection point of ascending aortic waveform is a predictive factor for all-cause and cardiovascular mortality in patients with chronic renal failure on hemodialysis. The reflection waveform in the ascending aortic pressure has been reported to reflect systemic arterial stiffness, and increase risk of coronary heart disease. The purpose of this study is to evaluate prospectively whether the reflection waveform in the ascending aortic pressure is associated with the mortality in patients with chronic renal failure on hemodialysis. Fifty two patients with chronic renal failure on hemodialysis and undergoing cardiac catheterizations were enrolled in this study. Inflection time was measured to determine the reflection waveform in the ascending aortic pressure at angiography. Inflection time was defined as the time interval from initiation of a systolic pressure waveform to the inflection point. The mean duration of follow-up was 55 +/- 49 months (mean +/- SD). Mean age at entry was 58.5 +/- 9.0 years. We confirmed 14 cardiovascular deaths, and 5 non-cardiovascular deaths. Shorter inflection time increased all-cause and cardiovascular mortality. Kaplan-Meier analysis demonstrated a significantly reduced survival ratio in patients with inflection time < or =87 msec (all-cause death; P < 0.01, cardiovascular death; P < 0.001 by log-rank test). Multiple-adjusted hazard ratio for 10 msec decrease in inflection time was 1.49 (95% confidence interval, 1.07 to 2.08) for all-cause mortality, and was 4.66 (95% confidence interval, 1.82 to 11.95) for cardiovascular mortality. Shorter inflection time increased all-cause and cardiovascular mortality in patients with chronic renal failure on hemodialysis."}
{"id": "15600258", "title": "Elevated cardiac troponin T in hemodialysis patients receiving more intravenous iron sucrose.", "content": "Elevated cardiac troponin T in hemodialysis patients receiving more intravenous iron sucrose. Elevated cardiac troponin T (cTnT) has been associated with shorter survival in hemodialysis patients. Moreover, intravenous (IV) iron treatment has been held responsible for oxidative stress and accelerated atherosclerosis in these patients. In the present study, we investigated the relationship between cTnT concentration, IV iron treatment, and parameters of iron status. In addition, parameters of oxidative stress, inflammation, and atherosclerosis were evaluated. Predialysis blood samples of 78 chronic hemodialysis patients were analyzed for cTnT, malondialdehyde, creatine kinase (CK), and CK-isoenzyme MB (CK-MB). In addition, the mean value of predialysis serum samples collected during the last year, were considered for homocysteine, ferritin, iron, iron binding capacity, blood cell counts, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, albumin, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein (CRP), calcium, phosphate, iPTH, cholesterol, and triglyceride. The quantity of IV iron sucrose administered during the last two years was counted from the patients' files. Echocardiography, all events related to ischemic heart disease, and urine volume were also recorded. Elevated cTnT levels (> or =0.10 ng/mL) were found in 18 patients (23.1%). The amount of iron administered was 2264+/-1871 mg with a range 0-7000 mg. Patients with elevated cTnT levels received more IV iron than those with normal cTnT (3692+/-1771 vs. 1761+/-1595 mg, p<0.001). The serum ferritin level was higher in patients with elevated cTnT (median levels; 477 vs. 288 ng/mL; P<0.05). Patients with elevated cTnT were longer on dialysis compared to those with normal levels (median times; 35.5 vs. 15 months, P<0.01) and regression analysis identified the amount of administered iron as an independent factor for elevated cTnT (P<0.01). Intravenous iron treatment and high ferritin concentration are related to high cTnT level, which has previously been incriminated as a survival marker in hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "15599628", "title": "Current outcome of elective open repair for infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm.", "content": "Current outcome of elective open repair for infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm. The outcome of conventional elective open repair for infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) has improved mainly as a result of screening to detect coronary artery disease, the main risk factor for morbidity and mortality. Our group's policy is to perform routine coronary angiography in patients scheduled to undergo elective AAA repair. The purpose of this study was to evaluate morbidity and mortality in our department using this work-up strategy. From January 1990 to December 2000 we performed elective open repair on 632 patients, including 580 men (92%) and 52 women (8%). Preoperative coronary angiography performed in 607 cases (96%) revealed significant coronary disease in 53% of patients and led to the decision to propose prior myocardial revascularization in 12.5% of cases. Mortality and morbidity in the first 30 days after AAA repair were 1.4% and 15%, respectively. Analysis with the Cox model showed that the only risk factor for mortality was chronic renal insufficiency. Our data support routine use of coronary angiography prior to AAA repair. Screening and, if necessary, treatment of coronary artery disease that is commonly associated with AAA enhances the outcome of open AAA repair."}
{"id": "15591005", "title": "Therapeutic effects of L-carnitine and propionyl-L-carnitine on cardiovascular diseases: a review.", "content": "Therapeutic effects of L-carnitine and propionyl-L-carnitine on cardiovascular diseases: a review. Several experimental studies have shown that levocarnitine reduces myocardial injury after ischemia and reperfusion by counteracting the toxic effect of high levels of free fatty acids, which occur in ischemia, and by improving carbohydrate metabolism. In addition to increasing the rate of fatty acid transport into mitochondria, levocarnitine reduces the intramitochondrial ratio of acetyl-CoA to free CoA, thus stimulating the activity of pyruvate dehydrogenase and increasing the oxidation of pyruvate. Supplementation of the myocardium with levocarnitine results in an increased tissue carnitine content, a prevention of the loss of high-energy phosphate stores, ischemic injury, and improved heart recovery on reperfusion. Clinically, levocarnitine has been shown to have anti-ischemic properties. In small short-term studies, levocarnitine acts as an antianginal agent that reduces ST segment depression and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure. These short-term studies also show that levocarnitine releases the lactate of coronary artery disease patients subjected to either exercise testing or atrial pacing. These cardioprotective effects have been confirmed during aortocoronary bypass grafting and acute myocardial infarction. In a randomized multicenter trial performed on 472 patients, levocarnitine treatment (9 g/day by intravenous infusion for 5 initial days and 6 g/day orally for the next 12 months), when initiated early after acute myocardial infarction, attenuated left ventricular dilatation and prevented ventricular remodeling. In treated patients, there was a trend towards a reduction in the combined incidence of death and CHF after discharge. Levocarnitine could improve ischemia and reperfusion by (1) preventing the accumulation of long-chain acyl-CoA, which facilitates the production of free radicals by damaged mitochondria; (2) improving repair mechanisms for oxidative-induced damage to membrane phospholipids; (3) inhibiting malignancy arrhythmias because of accumulation within the myocardium of long-chain acyl-CoA; and (4) reducing the ischemia-induced apoptosis and the consequent remodeling of the left ventricle. Propionyl-L-carnitine is a carnitine derivative that has a high affinity for muscular carnitine transferase, and it increases cellular carnitine content, thereby allowing free fatty acid transport into the mitochondria. Moreover, propionyl-L-carnitine stimulates a better efficiency of the Krebs cycle during hypoxia by providing it with a very easily usable substrate, propionate, which is rapidly transformed into succinate without energy consumption (anaplerotic pathway). Alone, propionate cannot be administered to patients in view of its toxicity. The results of phase-2 studies in chronic heart failure patients showed that long-term oral treatment with propionyl-L-carnitine improves maximum exercise duration and maximum oxygen consumption over placebo and indicated a specific propionyl-L-carnitine effect on peripheral muscle metabolism. A multicenter trial on 537 patients showed that propionyl-L-carnitine improves exercise capacity in patients with heart failure, but preserved cardiac function."}
{"id": "15584591", "title": "[The diagnosis and treatment of coronary heart disease in chronic renal failure].", "content": "[The diagnosis and treatment of coronary heart disease in chronic renal failure]."}
{"id": "15580159", "title": "Current advances in the diagnosis and treatment of renal artery stenosis.", "content": "Current advances in the diagnosis and treatment of renal artery stenosis. Renal artery stenosis (RAS) is a common condition associated with hypertension and renal insufficiency. The high prevalence of RAS patients with coronary and lower extremity vascular disease has been well established. Fibromuscular dysplasia in young females and atherosclerosis in patients over the age of 55 are the most common causes. Poorly controlled hypertension refractory to medical therapy, worsening of renal function, and flash pulmonary edema may point to underlying RAS. Duplex ultrasonography and magnetic resonance angiography have largely replaced captopril scanning for RAS screening. However, renal angiography still remains the gold standard to diagnose RAS. Treatment options include medical therapy, angioplasty, and surgery. In general, patients with a stenosis greater than 50%, a translesional systolic pressure gradient greater than 15 mm Hg, and difficult-to-control hypertension and/or worsening renal insufficiency are candidates for renal revascularization. Percutaneous transluminal revascularization has evolved to become the preferred revascularization therapy because it is a less invasive and more cost-effective alternative to surgery and is associated with high technical success, as well as a low complication rate. The natural history of RAS is to progress over time, leading to renal artery occlusion, loss of renal mass, worsening of renal function, and, ultimately, end-stage renal disease. It is therefore important to aggressively screen, recognize, and treat the entity early in its course."}
{"id": "15577064", "title": "[Evaluation of coronary artery calcification in ESRD patients].", "content": "[Evaluation of coronary artery calcification in ESRD patients]. Coronary artery calcification (CAC), observed in most end stage renal disease (ESRD) patients, has been reported to influence mortality and complications of cardiovascular diseases. Depend on the these reports, K/DOQI (Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative) guideline recommended to control serum Ca and phosphorus levels strictly in ESRD patients, in order to inhibit the progression of CAC. And then, we have been able to use new phosphate binder, sevelamer which dose not contain calcium and will able to use calcimimetics for secondary hyperparathyroidism as soon. Now, we should evaluate the diseases of bone as well as cardiovascular diseases according to the change of paradigms for renal osteodystrophy. It is undoubted that imaging methods play a main role on the management of CAC and coronary stenosis in end stage renal failure patients. Multidetector-row CT (MDCT) is a most useful imaging method, which has high temporal resolution and high spatial resolution. We may obtain adequate image quality for diagnosis and evaluate in 26 cases (87%), except for 4 cases not evaluated due to severe calcification. Therefore, this study suggested that 16-row MSCT is useful as a screening test for coronary angiography (CAG) even in dialysis patients."}
{"id": "15577062", "title": "[Evaluation and related factors in coronary artery calcification in chronic dialysis patients].", "content": "[Evaluation and related factors in coronary artery calcification in chronic dialysis patients]. Electron beam CT (EBCT) has been used to measure coronary artery calcification score (CACS). We have been studied CACS on chronic dialysis patients and examined the relationship between CACS and laboratory variables, incidence of ischemic heart disease, and survival. High CACS is often observed in patients with high serum phosphate, high calcium phosphate product, and dyslipidemia. Several factors for calcification both stimulating and suppressing have been playing a role in chronic dialysis patients. CACS is a surrogate marker of adequate control of uremia."}
{"id": "15558523", "title": "Coronary artery calcification in patients with CRF not undergoing dialysis.", "content": "Coronary artery calcification in patients with CRF not undergoing dialysis. Coronary artery calcification (CAC) correlates with the extent of coronary atherosclerosis and, consequently, with an increased risk for cardiovascular events. CAC is more frequent in uremic patients than in the general population. Nearly all data about CAC relate to patients on dialysis therapy. This study evaluates the prevalence and extent of CAC in patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) not yet on dialysis therapy. Consecutive outpatients with CRF not on dialysis therapy were enrolled and compared with controls (ie, healthy volunteers and patients with essential hypertension with normal renal function). Patients and controls were asymptomatic and had no previous history of myocardial infarction, coronary bypass surgery, or angioplasty. Patients with diabetes were excluded. Clinical characteristics, biochemical test results (included homocysteinemia and C-reactive protein level), and serum concentrations of calcium, phosphorus, and intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH) were evaluated in patients and controls. CACs were searched for and scored by means of spiral computed tomography (CT). To assess the CAC progression rate, spiral CT was repeated in some patients. Eighty-five patients and 55 controls were studied. Patients were aged 52 +/- 13 years and had a CRF duration of 6.3 +/- 5.6 years, glomerular filtration rate of 33.0 +/- 16.0 mL/min (0.55 +/- 0.27 mL/s), serum calcium level of 9.5 +/- 0.5 mg/dL (2.37 +/- 0.12 mmol/L), serum phosphorus level of 4.1 +/- 0.9 mg/dL (1.32 +/- 0.29 mmol/L), and serum iPTH level of 143 +/- 121 pg/mL (ng/L). CAC was found in 40% of patients and 13% of controls; calcification scores were 422 +/- 634 in patients and 43.9 +/- 33 in controls. Only age ( P < 0.001) was a predictor of CAC. In patients with a repeated score performed (after a mean of 7.9 months), calcification scores increased (from 383 +/- 627 to 682 +/- 890) in 8 of 10 patients. CAC is already present in the early phase of CRF; the prevalence is greater in patients with CRF than in controls, but less than that reported in dialysis patients. Serum concentrations of calcium, phosphorus, iPTH, and inflammation markers do not predict the appearance or progression of CAC."}
{"id": "15550749", "title": "Unprotected left main \"kissing\" stent implantation with a percutaneous ventricular assist device.", "content": "Unprotected left main \"kissing\" stent implantation with a percutaneous ventricular assist device."}
{"id": "15546893", "title": "Elevated concentrations of cardiac troponins are associated with severe coronary artery calcification in asymptomatic haemodialysis patients.", "content": "Elevated concentrations of cardiac troponins are associated with severe coronary artery calcification in asymptomatic haemodialysis patients. Elevated concentrations of cardiac biomarkers, such as troponins and natriuretic peptides, have been shown to be predictive of poorer long-term cardiovascular outcomes in stable patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). However, little is known about the relationship between elevated concentrations of these cardiac markers and underlying coronary artery pathology in these patients. The aim of the present study was to investigate associations between coronary artery calcification (CAC) and the concentrations of cardiac biomarkers in ESRD patients. We conducted a cross-sectional study of 38 asymptomatic patients (median age, 54 years; 26 males, 12 females; diabetic, 39%) who were undergoing chronic haemodialysis. In these patients, pre-dialysis circulating concentrations of cardiac troponin T (cTnT), cardiac troponin I (cTnI), creatine kinase-MB (CK-MB) and B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) were measured. We quantified the level of CAC by multirow spiral computed tomography to obtain a CAC score. CAC scores > or = 400 were defined as being indicative of severe CAC. Severe CAC was detected in 17 patients (45%). The degree of CAC severity was positively associated (P < 0.05) with cTnT concentrations. Thus, 15% of patients had severe CAC in the lowest tertile of cTnT, 50% had severe CAC in the middle third, and 69% in the highest third. Similarly, the degree of severity of CAC was positively associated (P < 0.01) with cTnI concentrations across concentration categories. In contrast, there was no association between the degree of CAC severity and the concentrations of either BNP or CK-MB. A logistic regression analysis revealed that elevated concentrations of cTnT (> or = median vs <median, P < 0.05) and cTnI (> or = 0.1 ng/ml vs <detection limit, P < 0.05) were independently associated with severe CAC after adjusting for age, duration of dialysis, diabetes and previous cardiovascular events. Elevated concentrations of cTnT and cTnI, but not BNP or CK-MB, were independently associated with the degree of severity of CAC in asymptomatic haemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "15541787", "title": "Heart rate variability in coronary artery disease patients with and without panic disorder.", "content": "Heart rate variability in coronary artery disease patients with and without panic disorder. Panic disorder (PD) and coronary artery disease (CAD) often co-occur, and CAD patients with comorbid PD suffer greater cardiovascular morbidity and mortality relative to CAD patients without PD. However, the mechanisms underlying these associations are still unknown. Reduced heart rate variability (HRV), a non-invasive measure of cardiac autonomic modulation, is an important predictor of adverse cardiac events. Interestingly, reduced HRV has been observed in patients with panic-like anxiety and PD, as well as in various CAD populations. However, the extent to which HRV is altered in patients with both PD and CAD is unknown. This study evaluated HRV in 42 CAD patients with (n=20) and without (n=22) PD. Patients underwent 48-h electrocardiographic monitoring. Power spectral analysis of HRV indicated that CAD patients with PD exhibited significantly lower LF/HF ratios, which may reflect lower sympathetic modulation, compared with non-PD patients. Additionally, total power in PD patients was made up of a significantly higher proportion of HF power and a significantly lower proportion of VLF power than in non-PD patients. No other significant differences in HRV indices were observed. Results suggest that contrary to what has been observed in the majority of PD-only and CAD-only populations; patients with both PD and CAD appear to exhibit lower sympathetic modulation during ordinary daily life conditions. Though preliminary, these findings suggest that changes in HRV may not be the mechanism underlying greater cardiovascular morbidity and mortality among CAD patients with PD."}
{"id": "15539124", "title": "Increased plasma homocysteine concentrations accelerate cardiac allograft vasculopathy.", "content": "Increased plasma homocysteine concentrations accelerate cardiac allograft vasculopathy. A toxic and pro-oxidative effect of homocysteine on the coronary endothelium may accelerate cardiac allograft vascular disease (CAVD). In this study, we evaluated the influence of hyperhomocysteinemia on the course of CAVD. We investigated plasma homocysteine (tHCY) concentrations in 183 consecutive heart transplant recipients (158 men and 25 women, mean aged 53.1 +/- 10.0 years, at 6.7 +/- 3.2 years after transplantation) to evaluate the course of CAVD. We used serial coronary angiography to assess coronary status and graded the severity of CAVD based on the extent of luminal obstruction in the main coronary arteries (graded as 1-4). We defined progression as increased focal stenosis of >/=30% or as detection of a new coronary lesion after a mean observation period of 2.8 +/- 1.0 years. A multivariate analysis (backward logistic regression) was performed that included potential risk factors for CAVD. We excluded patients undergoing dialysis. Initially, tHCY concentrations were increased in the entire cohort (mean, 18.6 +/- 7.6 mumol/liter) and ranged from 6.6 to 46.9 mumol/liter. A total of 105 patients (57.0%) had CAVD at first angiography, and progression was detected in 52 transplant recipients (28.0%). Patients with progressive CAVD had significantly greater tHCY concentrations (21.6 +/- 6.2 mumol/liter) at baseline investigation compared with patients who had stable courses (17.4 +/- 7.7 mumol/liter; p < 0.001). These results were independent of parameters such as sex, age, dyslipoproteinemia, cyclosporine blood concentrations, and indication for transplantation. Progression of CAVD is strongly associated with increased tHCY concentrations. The intervals between routine surveillance angiography should be shortened in patients with hyperhomocysteinemia, and routine medical treatment to decrease homocysteine concentrations should be considered."}
{"id": "15535931", "title": "[Value of troponins in acute coronary syndrome in patients with renal failure].", "content": "[Value of troponins in acute coronary syndrome in patients with renal failure]. Patients with renal insufficiency can have elevations of serum troponin without suspected clinical coronary ischemia. Although cardiovascular disease is the main cause of death in patients with renal failure, the process of elevation of serum troponin is not well known. Troponin T is more frequently elevated than troponin I in these patients which leads to uncertainty in the clinical interpretation of results. There are studies suggesting that troponin elevations are associated with a higher risk and increased mortality. To explain the process leading to troponin increases in this kind of pathology and to confirm its usefulness in the diagnosis, evolution and prognosis it would be necessary to carry out more clinical studies monitoring troponin and studying the stratification of risk."}
{"id": "15529903", "title": "Fourier phase analysis can be used to objectively analyze real-time myocardial contrast echocardiograms.", "content": "Fourier phase analysis can be used to objectively analyze real-time myocardial contrast echocardiograms. Real-time myocardial contrast echocardiography (MCE) is increasingly used to assess myocardial perfusion. However, objective methods for evaluating MCE are not yet widely available. We sought to validate the ability of Fourier analysis applied to MCE to assess serial changes in microvascular perfusion during coronary occlusion and reperfusion. Six pigs underwent 45 min of left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) occlusion followed by 120 min of reperfusion. Real time MCE was performed at baseline, during coronary occlusion, and at 5, 30, 60 and 120 min of reperfusion. Signal intensities from replenishment curves were fitted to an exponential function to obtain plateau SI (A) and the rate of SI rise (b). MCE images were mathematically transformed using a first-harmonic Fourier algorithm displaying the sequence of myocardial intensity changes as phase angles in parametric images. The phase angle difference (PD) of posterior vs. anterior region was calculated as an index of myocardial opacification heterogeneity and compared to MCE index of myocardial blood flow A x b. After initial hyperemia, a progressive reduction in flow was observed during reperfusion. During LAD occlusion signal intensities were significantly reduced in anterior regions (A x b = 0.02+/-0.01) compared to baseline (1.2+/-0.34, p < 0.01) defining risk areas and approached higher levels postrecanalization (A x b = 1.48+/-0.6) but gradually decreased during 120 min of reperfusion (A = 0.51+/-0.3, p < 0.01). Similarly, profiles of phase angles in LAD perfusion territorities were consistently modified during reperfusion. The mean PD at baseline was 18 degrees+/-15 degrees. PD decreased during coronary occlusion to -108 degrees+/-38 degrees, increased to 29 degrees+/-19 degrees postrecanalization but decreased to -61 degrees+/-35 degrees after 120 min of reperfusion. PD significantly correlated with A (r = 0.8, p < 0.0001) and b (r = 0.73, p < 0.0001). The progressive reduction in post-ischemic microvascular perfusion was accurately detected by real-time MCE. Fourier phase imaging is feasible to quantify dynamics of myocardial opacification in a simple and objective format and is a promising approach for the interpretation of contrast echocardiograms."}
{"id": "15523169", "title": "Serum malondialdehyde and coronary artery disease in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Serum malondialdehyde and coronary artery disease in hemodialysis patients. It has been suggested that enhanced oxidative stress participates in the acceleration of coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between the level of malondialdehyde (MDA), which is a marker of lipid peroxidation, and the severity of CAD in ESRD patients. We conducted a study of 39 hemodialysis patients (median age 58 years; 27 males and 12 females; diabetics 44%). In these patients, the predialysis serum concentrations of MDA and C-reactive protein (CRP) were measured. We performed multirow spiral computed tomography to derive coronary artery calcification (CAC) scores, as a marker of CAD severity. Eleven of the 39 patients had minimal CAC (28%, CAC score <10), 10 patients had mild to moderate CAC (26%, 10-400), and 18 patients had severe CAC (46%, >400). The MDA levels increased (p < 0.05) with increasing CAC category and were correlated (r = 0.35, p < 0.05) with the CAC scores. The levels of MDA also correlated with the serum concentrations of CRP and albumin (r = 0.34, p < 0.05 and r = -0.32, p < 0.05, respectively). Patients in the highest tertile of MDA compared with the other patients were over four times as likely to have severe CAC, and the highest tertile of MDA was an independent predictor of severe CAC, along with a previous cardiovascular event. An increased level of MDA, which was associated with inflammatory markers, was a predictive factor for severe CAC in ESRD patients."}
{"id": "15521215", "title": "Cardiac calcium evaluation in hemodialysis patients with multisection spiral computed tomography.", "content": "Cardiac calcium evaluation in hemodialysis patients with multisection spiral computed tomography. The aim of this study is cardiac calcium content evaluation in hemodialysis patients by a new technique, based on ultrafast multisection CT (MTC). The study was carried out on 30 HD patients, 14 F and 16 M, average age 57.7 +/- 13.9 years, average HD age 57.3 +/- 47.4 months. The intact PTH levels were 625.4 +/- 571 pg/mL. Serum calcium, phosphate and CaxP product were 9.75 +/- 0.84 mg/mL, 6.21 +/- 1.01 mg/dL and 60.2 +/- 10.7 mg2/dL2, respectively. The values obtained with the MTC technique were reported in terms of Agatson scores. Score values frankly in the pathologic range (>100) were found in 24 patients (80%). Correlation analysis has shown positive and significant correlation coefficients of the score with patients' age (p = 0.003), serum calcium (p = 0.012), CaxP (p = 0.015), iPTH (p = 0.049), and borderline, to HD age (p = 0. 06). Risk factors for cardiac calcification are mainly age, degree of hyperparathyroidism, increased CaxP and serum calcium levels. A control of calcium phosphate parameters in hemodialysis patients seems to be mandatory to avoid increased severity of coronary artery disease."}
{"id": "15519008", "title": "Impact of mild or moderate chronic kidney disease on the frequency of restenosis: results from the PRESTO trial.", "content": "Impact of mild or moderate chronic kidney disease on the frequency of restenosis: results from the PRESTO trial. The goal of this study was to determine if restenosis is increased in mild and moderate chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Mortality is increased in CKD after PCI. Restenosis may contribute to increased late mortality. We analyzed 11,187 patients with a creatinine <1.8 mg/dl from the Prevention of REStenosis with Tranilast and its Outcomes (PRESTO) trial, grouped by estimated creatinine clearance (CrCl) (<60, 60 to 89, >89 ml/min). The Cox proportional hazards models investigated the association between CrCl group and death, myocardial infarction, and target vessel revascularization (TVR). Generalized estimating equation regression models determined the association between CrCl group and lesion-specific restenosis. At 30 days, there was no difference in myocardial infarction, death, or TVR between the CrCl groups. At nine months, mortality was higher in the lowest CrCl group (2.2%, 1.2%, 0.8%; p < 0.001), which was no longer significant after adjusting for confounding variables. Myocardial infarction and TVR were not different between the groups. In patients undergoing protocol follow-up angiography, restenosis (>/=50%) was not increased with CKD (32%, 32%, 37%; p = 0.02). Mortality nine months after PCI is mildly increased in mild or moderate CKD patients. However, restenosis is not and does not account for the increased mortality."}
{"id": "15514576", "title": "The prevention of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention.", "content": "The prevention of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in high-risk patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or other radiocontrast procedures. Approximately 25% of all patients selected for these procedures are at risk for its development. Patients who experience this complication have higher rates of mortality, longer hospital stays and poorer long-term outcomes. The occurrence of CIN is directly related to the number of co-existing clinical risk factors. Among the many risk factors, preexisting renal impairment, advanced age, the presence of diabetes mellitus and both the volume and type of the contrast agent administered are among the most important. While the precise pathophysiological mechanisms responsible for this condition are complex and incompletely understood, experimental studies suggest that the pathogenesis involves a combination of renal ischemia and direct tubular epithelial cell toxicity. At the present time, adequate periprocedural hydration and the selection of low-osmolar and, more recently, iso-osmolar contrasts agents are the only available tools to the operator for reducing the risk of this complication. Several other modalities, such as the use of NaHCO3 and hemofiltration, also appear promising in preventing the development of this complication. This article reviews the epidemiology, pathophysiology, and consequences of CIN. It also reviews the risk factors for the development of CIN, as well as the history of the various modalities studied in its prevention."}
{"id": "15504944", "title": "Association of chronic kidney disease and anemia with physical capacity: the heart and soul study.", "content": "Association of chronic kidney disease and anemia with physical capacity: the heart and soul study. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) and anemia are common conditions in the outpatient setting, but their independent and additive effects on physical capacity have not been well characterized. The association of CKD and anemia with self-reported physical function was evaluated and exercise capacity was measured in patients with coronary disease. A cross-sectional study of 954 outpatients enrolled in the Heart and Soul study was performed. CKD was defined as a measured creatinine clearance <60 ml/min, and anemia was defined as a hemoglobin level of <12g/dl. Physical function was self-assessed using the physical limitation subscale of the Seattle Angina Questionnaire (0 to 100), and exercise capacity was defined as metabolic equivalent tasks achieved at peak exercise. In unadjusted analyses, CKD was associated with lower self-reported physical function (67.6 versus 74.9; P < 0.001) and lower exercise capacity (5.5 versus 7.9; P < 0.001). Similarly, anemia was associated with lower self-reported physical function (62.6 versus 74.3; P < 0.001) and exercise capacity (5.7 versus 7.5; P < 0.001). After multivariate adjustment, CKD (69.4 versus 74.2; P = 0.003) and anemia (67.5 versus 73.6; P = 0.009) each remained associated with lower mean self-reported physical function. In addition, patients with CKD (6.3 versus 7.7; P < 0.001) or anemia (6.5 versus 7.4; P = 0.004) had lower adjusted mean exercise capacities. Participants with both CKD and anemia had lower self-reported physical function and exercise capacity than those with either alone. CKD and anemia are independently associated with physical limitation and reduced exercise capacity in outpatients with coronary disease, and these effects are additive. The broad impact of these disease conditions merits further study."}
{"id": "15496175", "title": "Determinants of coronary artery calcification in diabetics with and without nephropathy.", "content": "Determinants of coronary artery calcification in diabetics with and without nephropathy. In the general population, including those with diabetes mellitus, coronary artery calcification (CAC) correlates with atherosclerotic plaque burden. On the other hand, accumulating evidence suggests that disordered mineral metabolism significantly contributes to the vascular calcification in individuals with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). In order to determine the relative contribution of accelerated atherosclerosis and disordered mineral metabolism to CAC in chronic kidney disease, a pilot study of 90 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus was done [age, 40-65 years; normoalbuminuria, N= 30; diabetic nephropathy (DN), N= 60]. CAC was more prevalent and severe among individuals with DN compared to diabetic controls (odds ratio for prevalence 8.1, 95% CI 2.3-28.5; median scores, 66 vs. 4, P < 0.001). None of the 4 measures of disordered mineral metabolism evaluated in this study (serum calcium, phosphorus, parathyroid hormone, and 1,25 di-hydroxy vitamin D levels) correlated with the prevalence or severity of CAC, or accounted for the differences seen between DN and diabetic controls. On the other hand, the difference in the severity of hypertension (number of antihypertensive medications) appeared to account for the differences in CAC burden seen between DN and diabetic controls. This first such study of nondialyzed individuals with DN suggests that, unlike ESRD patients, the high CAC burden seen at earlier stages of diabetic chronic kidney disease is probably unrelated to disordered mineral metabolism. The relationship between the severity of hypertension and CAC burden provides a probable target for intervention in the predialysis phase of DN."}
{"id": "15496174", "title": "Kidney function is inversely associated with coronary artery calcification in men and women free of cardiovascular disease: the Framingham Heart Study.", "content": "Kidney function is inversely associated with coronary artery calcification in men and women free of cardiovascular disease: the Framingham Heart Study. Among patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), the risk of cardiovascular disease is 10 to 20 times higher than the general population. Adults with ESRD have increased coronary-artery calcification (CAC) detected by electron-beam computed tomography (EBCT). Because the risk of coronary heart disease is increased even at moderate declines in kidney function, we sought to test whether high CAC scores are seen among those with mild reductions in kidney function. Men and women free of symptomatic cardiovascular disease underwent EBCT. Coronary calcium was quantified using the method described by Agatston. Renal function was estimated by glomerular filtration rate (GFR). Spearman correlation coefficients were used to test the association between GFR and CAC. Three hundred nineteen subjects (162 men/157 women), mean age 60, were included. Mean GFR was 86 +/- 23 mL/min/1.73 m2 (range 31-169; 10% with GFR <60 mL/min/1.73 m2). The median CAC scores by quartile of GFR were 85.9, 48.1, 7.9, and 2.7. Overall, the unadjusted correlation of GFR and CAC was -0.28 (P < 0.0001). This remained significant after adjustment for age and sex (-0.11, P < 0.05), and additionally after adjustment for body mass index (-0.11, P < 0.05), hypertension (-0.11, P < 0.05), or total cholesterol (-0.12, P= 0.04). A similar correlation was noted after multivariable adjustment (-0.10, P < 0.08). Mild declines in kidney function are associated with subclinical coronary artery calcification in a sample of subjects free of clinically apparent cardiovascular disease. This might help explain the increased risk of cardiovascular disease among individuals with renal dysfunction. Larger ongoing studies are needed to better quantify this finding."}
{"id": "15492470", "title": "Assessment of coronary artery calcification in hemodialysis patients using multi-detector spiral CT scan.", "content": "Assessment of coronary artery calcification in hemodialysis patients using multi-detector spiral CT scan. Cardiovascular disease in association with coronary artery calcification (CAC) is the leading cause of death in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). The evaluation of CAC has been performed by electron beam CT scan. The purpose of the present study was to assess CAC using multi-detector spiral CT (MDCT) and to evaluate contributors to CAC in these patients. Fifty-three patients on chronic hemodialysis participated in this study. Their mean age was 61.0+/-9.6 years, and the mean duration of dialysis therapy was 6.7+/-5.4 years. We used an automatic device to measure arterial pulse wave velocity (PWV) as an index of arterial wall stiffness. The aortic calcification index (ACI) was quantified morphometrically by CT scan. The CAC score correlated positively with ACI score (r =0.863, p <0.0001). Linear regression analysis indicated that the CAC scores correlated positively with age (r =0.406, p =0.0023), C-reactive protein (r =0.38, p =0.0047) and PWV (r =0.303, p =0.0271). Stepwise regression analysis indicated that ACI (beta-coefficient=0.862, p <0.0001) and arterial PWV (beta-coefficient=0.303, p <0.0001) were independently associated with CAC score. The mean CAC score of patients with cardiac events (2,568.5+/-2,575.1 mm3) was significantly higher than that (258.0+/-409.2 mm3) of patients without cardiac events. In conclusion, our results showed clearly that assessment of CAC score using MDCT may be predictive for detecting the presence of coronary artery disease. CAC is indirectly associated with increased arterial stiffness and the extent of aortic calcification in hemodialysis patients. We did not find a significant correlation between CAC score and parameters of mineral metabolism, including serum levels of calcium, phosphorus and parathyroid hormone. A longitudinal prospective study is required to assess the predictive value of this technique in determining cardiac events in large numbers of hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "15489090", "title": "The association among renal insufficiency, pharmacotherapy, and outcomes in 6,427 patients with heart failure and coronary artery disease.", "content": "The association among renal insufficiency, pharmacotherapy, and outcomes in 6,427 patients with heart failure and coronary artery disease. This study was designed to examine the use of cardiovascular medications and outcomes in patients with heart failure (HF) and renal dysfunction. Renal insufficiency is associated with poorer outcomes in patients with HF, but the mechanisms are uncertain. In particular, the degree of therapeutic nihilism in these patients, and whether it is appropriate, is unclear. This was a prospective cohort study with a one-year follow-up. In 6,427 patients with cardiologist-diagnosed HF and angiographically proven coronary artery disease (mean age 69 years; 65% men; one-year mortality, 10%), 39% had creatinine clearances <60 ml/min. Patients with renal insufficiency were less likely to be prescribed angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, beta-blockers, statins, or aspirin (all p < 0.001). However, users of aspirin (odds ratio [OR] 0.69, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.57 to 0.85), statins (OR 0.79, 95% CI 0.64 to 0.97), and beta-blockers (OR 0.75, 95% CI 0.62 to 0.90) were less likely to die in the subsequent 12 months than nonusers, irrespective of renal function (all OR adjusted for covariates including atherosclerotic burden and ejection fraction). Although ACE inhibitor users with creatinine clearances > or =60 ml/min had lower 12-month mortality (OR 0.72, 95% CI 0.48 to 0.99), ACE inhibitor users with clearances <60 ml/min did not (OR 1.21, 95% CI 0.97 to 1.51). Renal insufficiency is common in patients with HF and coronary artery disease, and these patients have more advanced coronary atherosclerosis. Patients with renal insufficiency are less likely to be prescribed efficacious therapies, but have better outcomes if they receive these medications."}
{"id": "15481627", "title": "Comparison of cardiac troponin T and troponin I assays--implications of analytical and biochemical differences on clinical performance.", "content": "Comparison of cardiac troponin T and troponin I assays--implications of analytical and biochemical differences on clinical performance. The usefulness of cardiac troponins for detection of myocardial cell necrosis and risk stratification has been established beyond doubt. Cardiac troponin testing is a key diagnostic element for the diagnosis and management of patients with acute coronary syndromes without ST segment elevation and is increasingly used in non-coronary diseases to indicate prognostically important cardiac damage. Given the biochemical and analytical differences of cTnT and cTnI there is ongoing controversy regarding the comparability and clinical performance of cTnT and cTnI. cTnT and cTnI are both expressed in cardiomyocytes but differ with respect to biochemical and analytical characteristics. While minor differences of analytical precision or biochemical properties are not relevant for diagnosis and management of patients with acute coronary syndromes and most diseases with non-coronary related elevations of cardiac troponins, these differences may be amplified in patients with chronic renal failure. In fact, recent studies in patients with end-stage renal disease under chronic hemodialysis have readdressed the issue whether cTnT and cTnI are really comparable. The present review will provide a state-of-the-art overview on the performance of cardiac troponins in acute coronary disease and other clinical conditions."}
{"id": "15462104", "title": "Pretransplant cardiac investigations in the Irish renal transplant population--the effectiveness of our current screening techniques in predicting cardiac events.", "content": "Pretransplant cardiac investigations in the Irish renal transplant population--the effectiveness of our current screening techniques in predicting cardiac events. Coronary artery disease (CAD) is prevalent among endstage renal failure patients and remains the major cause of mortality following renal transplantation. Death with a functioning transplant institute remains the most common cause of kidney graft failure. In this study we attempt to evaluate the effectiveness of the clinical history and current screening techniques available in predicting posttransplant CAD and also assess the role of coronary angiography as a pretransplant screening technique. Clinical data of 190 renal transplant patients was analyzed. Any clinical history of cardiac disease and all preoperative cardiac screening data was recorded for each patient. The study endpoints were the subsequent development of myocardial infarction (MI), undergoing coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) or death. Factors that were significantly associated with reaching a study endpoint included: age at transplant [Hazard Ratio (HR) 1.91, P<0.001], history of heart failure (HR 8.22, P<0.001), presence of CAD on coronary angiography (HR 5.55, P=0.033), anterior Q wave on electrocardiograph (ECG) (HR 8.6, P<0.001), carotid artery disease (HR 3.74, P=0.030) and history of a cerebrovascular accident (HR of 4.32, P=0.008). The screening techniques of exercise stress testing and echocardiography were not conclusive as predictive variables of outcome. Clinical history and ECG results are good, practical and low-cost screening methods. In our study exercise stress testing and echocardiography were found to be of limited value. Coronary angiography is appropriate in certain high-risk groups but not necessary as part of screening in all potential renal transplant recipients."}
{"id": "15461067", "title": "Frequency of non-vascular accompanying diseases in patients with peripheral arterial disease.", "content": "Frequency of non-vascular accompanying diseases in patients with peripheral arterial disease. Since there are so far no relevant figures on the frequency of non-vascular associated diseases in patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD), an analysis was carried out to determine how frequently co-morbidity is found in such patients. In the course of a retrospective analysis, 1693 patients (55.4% men, 44.6% women/average 68.6years) with peripheral arterial diseases (PAD) of Fontaine stage II to IV were examined to find out how often cardiopulmonary, gastrointestinal, haematological, endocrinological, neurological, orthopaedic, urological-nephrological, psychiatric diseases and tumours were seen. Coronary ischaemic heart disease was present in 63.1% of the cases, heart failure existed in 20.7%, hypertension in 57.9%, endocrine and metabolic diseases in 60.4%, gastrointestinal diseases in 14.8%, pulmonary diseases in 14.5%, psychological and behavioural deficiencies in 16.2%, orthopaedic diseases in 21.6%, haematological diseases in 9.0%, urological diseases in 16.9%, chronic renal insufficiency in 7.3% and malignant tumours in 5.8%. The frequency of non-vascular comorbidity in patients with PAD necessitates systematic interdisciplinary diagnosis prior to any therapy decision to take into account the patient's associated diseases, life expectancy and current quality of life."}
{"id": "15459602", "title": "N-acetylcysteine reduces contrast-associated nephropathy but not clinical events during long-term follow-up.", "content": "N-acetylcysteine reduces contrast-associated nephropathy but not clinical events during long-term follow-up. Contrast-associated nephropathy (CAN) is associated with increased morbidity and mortality following percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). N-acetylcysteine (NAC) has been shown to reduce the risk of nephropathy; however, the impact of NAC on long-term clinical outcomes has not been assessed. This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial enrolled 180 patients with moderate renal dysfunction undergoing PCI or coronary angiography with a high likelihood of ad hoc PCI; 171 patients completed the clinical follow-up. Patients received oral NAC (2000 mg/dose, n = 95) or placebo (n = 85) twice a day for 3 doses if randomized the night prior to the procedure, and 2 doses if randomized the day of the procedure. The primary end point was the incidence of a > or =25% increase in serum creatinine level 48 to 72 hours after PCI. Secondary end points were the inhospital incidence of death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or urgent dialysis, and the 9-month incidence of death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, need for dialysis, or repeat hospitalization for cardiac reasons. CAN occurred in 9.6% of patients assigned to NAC and 22.2% of patients assigned to placebo (P =.04); 1 patient receiving NAC required urgent dialysis. The inhospital composite end point occurred in 7 (7.4%) NAC-treated and 3 (3.5%) placebo-treated patients, P = NS. At 9 months, the composite end point occurred in 23 (24.2%) NAC-treated patients and 18 (21.2%) placebo-treated, P = NS. Although high-dose NAC prevented periprocedural CAN, this benefit did not translate into a decrease in adverse outcomes over 9 months. Further studies to determine the clinical utility of this drug are required."}
{"id": "15458460", "title": "Prognostic value of inducible myocardial ischemia in predicting cardiovascular events after renal transplantation.", "content": "Prognostic value of inducible myocardial ischemia in predicting cardiovascular events after renal transplantation. The aims of the present study were to determine the prevalence of inducible myocardial ischemia (IMI) in renal transplant recipients (RTR) more than 50 years old, to identify predictors of IMI, and to search for its prognostic value. Among the 377 renal transplantations performed between 1989 and 1998 in a single institution, 120 were done in patients > or =50 years old, and 97 were recruited for the study. During the last quarter of 1998, all of them underwent an exercise test (EST), an exercise-thallium 201 single photon emission computed tomography coupled with dipyridamole (SPECT), and 81% of them had a dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE). Patients with IMI subsequently underwent coronary angiography to detect coronary stenosis. IMI was present in 12 of the 97 patients (10%). The diagnosis was evidenced by EST in four cases, by SPECT in 11 cases, and DSE in three cases. Five of these 12 patients (42%) had significant coronary artery stenosis (> or =50%). Multivariate analysis of several pre- and post-transplant variables evidenced acute rejection and left ventricular hypertrophy as significant correlates of IMI (both P < 0.03). Patients were prospectively followed-up for 48 months for the occurrence of major cardiovascular events. Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed a significant increase in cardiovascular events in the IMI group (P < 0.0001). In addition, the Cox proportional hazards model revealed that IMI and diabetes mellitus had an independent significant effect on the occurrence of major cardiovascular events. IMI was present in 10% of RTR aged > or =50 years, and was predicted by acute rejection and left ventricular hypertrophy. IMI had a strong effect on major cardiovascular events in this population."}
{"id": "15449920", "title": "Radiocontrast nephropathy: is it dose related or not?", "content": "Radiocontrast nephropathy: is it dose related or not? To assess the safety of high dose non-ionic contrast media during a single radiological procedure in patients with pre-existing renal impairment. One hundred eighteen patients, with serum Creatinine greater than 1.3 mg/dl who were undergoing coronary angiography or percutaneous transluminal coronary angiography (PTCA) were included in the study. All patients received the nonionic dye ULTRAVIST (lopromide). Serum creatinine were measured before, 48 hours and 1 week after the administration of contrast agent. An acute contrast induced reduction in renal function was defined as an increase in Serum Creatinine concentration of >=0.5 mg/dl, 48 hours after the administration of contrast agent. All patients with end stage renal disease or patients undergoing coronary bypass surgery within a week after coronary angiography or had any concomitant factors that could cause acute renal failure e.g., sepsis, hypotention, etc., were excluded. Patients receiving a dose of upto 100 ml of contrast agent (low dose group) were separated from those who received greater than 100 ml of contrast agent (high dose group). Patients in both groups had similar characteristics in terms of sex, age, weight and underlying disease. Student's t-test was used for statistical analysis. The mean age of our patients was 62.3+/-8.83 (range 40-84 years). There were 93 (78.8%) males and 25 (21.2%) females. The mean pre-contrast creatinine in the low contrast group was 1.97+/-0.92 and high dose group was 2.16+/-1.90 (p=0.48). The post-contrast Creatinine at 48 hours was 2.11+/-1.11 and 2.06+/-1.39 in the groups receiving low and high dose contrast agents respectively (p=0.830), while at 7 days post-contrast it was 2.17+/-1.28 and 1.95+/-1.43 respectively in the two groups (p=0.391). The contrast-induced reduction in renal function (rise in serum Cr >=0.5 mg/dl above base line) occurred in 14% (n=8) of patients in low dose and in 11% (n=7) in high dose contrast group (p=0.830, insignificant). The results of our study confirm that high dose non-ionic contrast is not associated with increased risk of contrast-mediated nephrotoxicity in patients with pre-existing renal insufficiency undergoing cardiac angiography (p=0.830, insignificant)."}
{"id": "15389228", "title": "A randomized controlled trial of intravenous N-acetylcysteine for the prevention of contrast-induced nephropathy after cardiac catheterization: lack of effect.", "content": "A randomized controlled trial of intravenous N-acetylcysteine for the prevention of contrast-induced nephropathy after cardiac catheterization: lack of effect. Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) after cardiac catheterization is common in patients with preexisting renal dysfunction. Studies of oral acetylcysteine to prevent CIN have produced conflicting results. Intravenous N-acetylcysteine (NAC) has logistic advantages in this setting. The objective of this study was to evaluate, in a blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled fashion, whether intravenous NAC reduced CIN in the setting of cardiac catheterization in patients with preexisting renal insufficiency. Patients with renal dysfunction undergoing cardiac catheterization were randomly assigned to intravenous NAC 500 mg immediately before the procedure or placebo. All patients received isotonic saline (200 mL) beforehand, followed by 1.5 mL/kg per hour for 6 hours, unless contraindicated. Exclusion criteria included acute renal failure, creatinine >400 micromol/L, concurrent dialysis, unstable clinical status, and prior NAC use. Baseline creatinine was obtained immediately before the procedure and repeated 2 to 8 days later. The primary end point was the occurrence of CIN defined as a reduction in creatinine clearance from baseline of >5 mL/min (Cockcroft-Gault formula). The study was terminated early because of a determination of futility by the Data Safety Monitoring Committee after enrollment of 487 patients. The median baseline creatinine clearance was 44 mL/min (interquartile range, 33, 55). Median contrast received was 120 mL (interquartile range, 80, 175). Baseline characteristics were similar in the two groups. Altogether, 98 (22.0%) subjects had the primary end point: 23.3% in the NAC group and 20.7% in the placebo arm (P =.57). In this large, randomized trial, enrolling a high-risk group of patients with impaired renal function, intravenous NAC was ineffective in preventing CIN."}
{"id": "15385810", "title": "Association of the genetic polymorphisms of the renin-angiotensin system and endothelial nitric oxide synthase with chronic renal transplant dysfunction.", "content": "Association of the genetic polymorphisms of the renin-angiotensin system and endothelial nitric oxide synthase with chronic renal transplant dysfunction. Chronic allograft dysfunction (CAD) is a complex phenomenon caused by underlying kidney disease and superimposed environmental and genetic factors. We investigated the association of polymorphisms in the genes for angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), angiotensinogen (AGT), angiotensin II receptor type 1 (ATR1) and type 2 (ATR2), and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (ENOS) with the initiation of CAD. Genotyping was performed in 125 patients who underwent renal transplantation during a 5-year period for the ACE I/D, AGT M235T, ATR1 A1166C, ATR2 C3123A, and ENOS intron 4a/b gene polymorphisms. The following information was collected for each case: date of transplantation, age and sex of donor and recipient, donor type, cold ischemia time, number of human leukocyte antigen mismatches, number of acute rejection episodes, and laboratory findings at discharge from hospital and annual rechecks. Blood pressure was measured at yearly intervals throughout follow-up. The proportions of the genotypes were ACE II/ID/DD 12%, 33.6%, 54.4%; AGT MM/MT/TT 33%, 65.2%, 1.9%; ATR1 AA/AC/CC 68.6%, 30.7%, 0.7%; ATR2 CC/CA/AA 57.9%, 27.5%, 14.4%; and ENOS aa/ab/bb 6.4%, 22%, 71.6%, respectively. Statistical analysis of the major risk factors for the initiation of CAD showed that ACE DD genotype, cadaveric donor type, and level of proteinuria at 1 year posttransplantation were associated with poorer renal function. The graft function was not affected by AGT, ATR1, ATR2, and ENOS gene polymorphisms. These findings suggest that the DD variant of the ACE gene polymorphism is associated with increased risk of developing CAD."}
{"id": "15384711", "title": "Accelerated graft disease in a composite saphenous vein with internal thoracic artery in a chronic renal dialysis patient.", "content": "Accelerated graft disease in a composite saphenous vein with internal thoracic artery in a chronic renal dialysis patient. A 59-year-old man with 18-year history of renal dialysis due to chronic nephritis suffered coronary artery disease, which was complete occlusion of the right coronary artery and diffuse 90% stenosis of the proximal left anterior descending artery. Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting was performed. Saphenous vein (SV) was anastomosed with left internal thoracic artery (ITA) as a T-graft. Left ITA was anastomosed to the left anterior descending artery. The end of SV was sewn on the posterior descending artery. Coronary and graft angiography performed 2 weeks after the operation showed good patency with good distal run-off of both left ITA and SV. Three months after the operation, he was admitted with unstable angina. Angiography revealed accelerated SV graft stenosis without any change of prior coronary disease. However, angiography 7 months after the operation revealed complete obstruction of the SV graft when he was admitted because of recurrent anginal pain."}
{"id": "15384019", "title": "Effects of cyclic intermittent etidronate therapy on coronary artery calcification in patients receiving long-term hemodialysis.", "content": "Effects of cyclic intermittent etidronate therapy on coronary artery calcification in patients receiving long-term hemodialysis. Coronary artery calcification (CAC) is thought to be associated with greater cardiovascular mortality in patients with end-stage renal disease than in nonuremic persons. The purpose of the present study is to assess the effects of etidronate, a synthetic analogue of pyrophosphate, on progression of CAC score. The extent of CAC was evaluated by using multidetector spiral computed tomography. Repeated CAC score estimation was possible in 35 patients (29 men, 6 women). Bone mineral density (BMD) was measured using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. Serum osteoprotegerin (OPG) was measured by using enzyme-linked immunoassay. Serum etidronate was measured by means of the gas spectrometry technique using deuterium-labeled etidronate as internal standard. Mean patient age was 63.2 +/- 8.2 (SD) years, and mean duration of dialysis therapy was 7.4 +/- 5.5 years. CAC score was estimated 3 times in each patient. After the second CAC score estimation, 35 patients were administered etidronate, 200 mg/d, for 14 days. This cycle was repeated 3 times every 90 days. CAC progression was significantly less pronounced during treatment with etidronate compared with the period before treatment was initiated. The median annualized absolute increase in calcified volume was 195.0 mm3 without treatment compared with -490.0 mm3 during treatment ( P < 0.01). Patients were divided into 2 groups based on changes in CAC score during etidronate treatment. Responders (n = 26) were patients whose CAC score decreased during therapy, and nonresponders (n = 9) were patients whose CAC score increased, even after etidronate therapy. Serum C-reactive protein values (0.18 +/- 0.13 mg/dL) in the responder group were greater than those (0.14 +/- 0.08 mg/dL) in the nonresponder group ( P = 0.013). Serum OPG levels decreased significantly during etidronate therapy (256.8 +/- 93.8 versus 245.0 +/- 83.0 pg/mL; P = 0.0161). Etidronate was well tolerated during the study. BMD values during etidronate therapy were not significantly changed from 0.941 +/- 0.125 to 0.968 +/- 0.246 g/cm2. Results of the present study suggest that the extent of CAC may be suppressed by etidronate in association with a reduction in chronic inflammatory responses. They also suggest that a decrease in serum OPG concentrations by means of etidronate may be associated with changes in vascular calcification in dialysis patients."}
{"id": "15384013", "title": "Coronary revascularization in patients with renal insufficiency: restenosis rate and cardiovascular outcomes.", "content": "Coronary revascularization in patients with renal insufficiency: restenosis rate and cardiovascular outcomes. Several interventional trials have shown a lower success rate for coronary angioplasty and lower long-term event-free survival in patients with renal insufficiency, and data are conflicting about restenosis after coronary angioplasty. This study included 4,131 consecutive patients with coronary artery disease treated with coronary angioplasty (23%) or stenting (77%). Renal insufficiency is defined as a creatinine clearance (CrCl) less than 60 mL/min (<1.0 mL/s). Of 4,131 patients, 1,412 patients (34.2%) had renal insufficiency and 2,719 patients (65.8%) did not have renal insufficiency. The primary end point of the study is clinical restenosis, defined as the need for target-lesion revascularization. There was no difference in clinical restenosis rates between groups after 1 year (18.8% versus 18.4%; P = 0.75). The incidence of angiographic restenosis at the 6-month angiography was 32.7% in the group with renal insufficiency and 29.7% in the group without renal insufficiency ( P = 0.10). The composite end point of death and myocardial infarction was observed more frequently in patients with than without renal insufficiency (8.3% versus 3.2%; P < 0.001). Renal insufficiency was not independently associated with clinical restenosis (for 10-mL/min [0.167-mL/s]) decrease in CrCl, adjusted odds ratio, 1.03; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.98 to 1.08; P = 0.198), but remained as an independent predictor for death or myocardial infarction (for 10-mL/min [0.167-mL/s] decrease in CrCl, hazard ratio, 1.29; 95% CI, 1.18 to 1.42; P < 0.001). Patients with renal insufficiency do not show an increased incidence of restenosis after coronary revascularization."}
{"id": "15375022", "title": "Pathophysiology of vascular calcification in chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Pathophysiology of vascular calcification in chronic kidney disease. Patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) on dialysis have 2- to 5-fold more coronary artery calcification than age-matched individuals with angiographically proven coronary artery disease. In addition to increased traditional risk factors, CKD patients also have a number of nontraditional cardiovascular risk factors that may play a prominent role in the pathogenesis of arterial calcification, including duration of dialysis and disorders of mineral metabolism. In histological specimens from the inferior epigastric artery of dialysis patients, we have found expression of the osteoblast differentiation factor core binding factor alpha-1 (Cbfa1) and several bone-associated proteins (osteopontin, bone sialoprotein, alkaline phosphatase, type I collagen) in both the intima and medial layers when calcification was present. In cultured vascular smooth muscle cells, the addition of pooled serum from dialysis patients (versus normal healthy controls) accelerated mineralization and increased expression of Cbfa1, osteopontin, and alkaline phosphatase to a similar magnitude as does beta-glycerophosphate alone. However, a lack of inhibitors of calcification may also be important. Dialysis patients with low levels of serum fetuin-A, a circulating inhibitor of mineralization, have increased coronary artery calcification and fetuin-A can inhibit mineralization of vascular smooth muscle cells in vitro. These data support that elevated levels of phosphorus and/or other potential uremic toxins may play an important role by transforming vascular smooth muscle cells into osteoblast-like cells, which can produce a matrix of bone collagen and noncollagenous proteins. This nidus can then mineralize if the balance of pro-mineralizing factors outweighs inhibitory factors."}
{"id": "15374805", "title": "Ability of troponin T to predict angiographic coronary artery disease in patients with chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Ability of troponin T to predict angiographic coronary artery disease in patients with chronic kidney disease. Association between angiographic coronary artery disease and cardiac troponin T levels has been observed in patients with normal kidney function; however, this association remains unsettled in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) or end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Over a 12-month period we retrospectively reviewed coronary angiograms (CAs) performed in 194 hospitalized patients with presumed acute myocardial injury. About 50% of the ESRD and 30% of the CKD patients had normal CAs. Troponin T levels significantly correlated with CAs in patients with normal kidney function (r = 0.4, p = 0.005) but not in ESRD and CKD patients (r = 0.2, p = NS, respectively)."}
{"id": "15374804", "title": "Clinical findings in patients with cardiac troponin T elevation and end-stage renal disease without acute coronary syndrome.", "content": "Clinical findings in patients with cardiac troponin T elevation and end-stage renal disease without acute coronary syndrome. Clinical, echocardiographic, and carotid ultrasound parameters were compared according to the level of cardiac tropopin T (cTnT) (cTnT <0.04 vs > or =0.04 microg/L; cTnT <0.1 vs > or =0.1 microg/L) in patients with end-stage renal disease without acute coronary syndrome. Left atrial size, left ventricular mass index, the ratio of transmitral early left ventricular filling velocity to early diastolic Doppler tissue imaging velocity of the mitral annulus, and the prevalence of left ventricular dysfunction and diabetes mellitus were higher in the groups with cTnT > or =0.04 and > or =0.1 microg/L. Diabetes was an independent correlate of cTnT elevation of > or =0.04 and > or =0.1 microg/L. Left ventricular mass index and left atrial size were independent predictors of cTnT elevations of > or =0.04 and > or =0.1 microg/L, respectively."}
{"id": "15365955", "title": "Percutaneous coronary intervention in chronic kidney disease patients.", "content": "Percutaneous coronary intervention in chronic kidney disease patients. Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) and end-stage renal disease (ESRD). The increased prevalence of CVD in patients with renal dysfunction has been attributed to lack of effective prevention and low utilization of effective therapy. The optimal treatment of ischemic heart disease in ESRD patients before renal transplantation is controversial. Although no meta-analysis or pooled analysis of the data from small trials exists, it appears that percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) provides excellent angiographic success but is associated with increased restenosis and the need for revascularization and that coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), while associated with higher in-hospital morbidity and mortality, provides better overall long-term results and freedom from angina. Despite suboptimal results for percutaneous interventions in comparison with bypass surgery, PCI remains a viable option, especially for patients who are not candidates for surgery and those with disabling angina despite anti-anginal therapy. Regardless of the revascularization strategy used, outcomes of CABG or PCI in these patients are significantly worse than outcomes in the general population. The long-term benefit after revascularization and adjunctive medical therapy should be an area of intense future research. Studies should also be conducted to investigate the benefit and safety of therapies such as the long-term use of beta-blockers, statins, and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone axis inhibition in patients with CKD."}
{"id": "15365517", "title": "Relationship of proximal fixation to renal dysfunction in patients undergoing endovascular aneurysm repair.", "content": "Relationship of proximal fixation to renal dysfunction in patients undergoing endovascular aneurysm repair. Technological advancements have lead to dramatic improvements in stentgraft device design resulting in more trackable delivery systems and transrenal uncovered stents and barbs for better fixation. Transrenal bare-stents may limit stentgraft migration, particularly in patients with short or flared proximal aortic necks. However, potential disadvantages might be in worsening renal function, particularly in patients with preexisting renal insufficiency. We retrospectively analyzed our recent 7 year experience of patients undergoing endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) using a variety of stentgrafts with and without transrenal bare-stent fixation. Patients were divided into 2 groups; infrarenal fixation (IRF) vs transrenal fixation (TRF), or patients with preoperative serum Cr values that were normal (= or <1.5 mg/dl) vs slightly elevated (1.6-2 mg/dl), vs markedly elevated (2.1- 3.5 mg/dl). The exclusion criteria included patients with chronic renal insufficiency (CRI) on hemodialysis, and preoperative high-grade renal artery stenoses requiring angioplasty and stenting. Of 705 patients that underwent EVAR, 496 (IRF: 385 [78%], and TRF: 111 [22%]) were available with routine evaluations of serum Cr and CT scans. Preexisting comorbidities, mean procedure contrast volume, and postprocedure follow-up were similar in both groups. In the immediate postoperative period, mean serum Cr did not change significantly in either the IRF group (1.3+/-0.7 mg/dl to 1.2+/-0.9 mg/dl) or the TRF group (1.3+/-0.5 mg/dl to 1.3+/-0.6 mg/dl). Mean serum Cr did, however, significantly increase over longer follow-up in both groups: 1.4+/-0.8 mg/dl for IRF (P<0.03), and 1.5 +/- 0.8 mg/dl for TRF (P<0.01). Cr clearance was similarly unchanged in the immediate postoperative period (58+/-23 to 61+/-25 ml/min/1.73 m2 for IRF group, 53+/-17 to 55+/-17 ml/min/1.73 m2 for TRF group), but was significantly decreased in longer follow-up (53+/-23 ml/min/1.73 m2 for IRF, p<0.02: and 48+/-16 ml/min/1.73 m2 for TRF, P<0.01). There were no significant differences in serum Cr increase (p=0.19) or Cr clearance decrease (p=0.68) between the IRF and TRF groups. Small renal infarcts were noted in 6 patients (1.6%) in the IRF group, and in 8 patients (7%) in the TRF group (p=0.37). Of patients with normal preoperative renal function, renal dysfunction developed in 7.7% of IRF group and 6.1% of TRF group (p=0.76). In patients with preexisting CRI, renal dysfunction developed in 18.2% of IRF group, and 17.1% of TRF group (p=0.95). Eight patients with postoperative renal dysfunction, 5 (1.3%) from IRF group and 3 (2.7%) from TRF group subsequently required hemodialysis, and this difference was not statistically significant (p=0.91). We also analyzed 200 consecutive patients undergoing EVAR with intra-arterial contrast agents with and without preexisting CRI not on dialysis. The groups were identified on the basis of preprocedure serum Cr: group 1 (n=108), Cr less than 1.5 mg/dL (normal range); group 2 (n=65), Cr 1.5 to 2.0 mg/dL; group 3 (n=27), Cr 2.1 to 3.5 mg/dL. Routine precautions in patients with CRI included preoperative intravenous hydration with 2 L of normal saline solution, discontinuation of all nephrotoxic drugs, intraoperative administration of mannitol (0.5 g/kg intravenously), and use of nonionic, low osmolar intra-arterial contrast agent (Omnipaque 350). One-hundred and eight patients had normal renal function (group 1), and 92 patients had preexisting CRI with baseline Cr 1.5 to 2.0 mg/dL (group 2, n=65) or 2.1 to 3.5 mg/dL (group 3, n=27). Comorbid conditions included coronary artery disease (group 1, 51%; group 2, 49%; group 3, 59%), hypertension (group 1, 39%; group 2, 46%; group 3, 52%), and diabetes mellitus (group 1, 25%; group 2, 35%; group 3, 48%). In groups 1, 2, and 3, the mean volume of low osmolar contrast agent used was 210 cc, 160 cc, 130 cc, respectively; hemodynamic instability developed in 3, 1, and 1 patient, respectively. The incidence of postoperative complications between the 3 study groups was not statistically different. In grications between the 3 study groups was not statistically different. In group 1 a transient increase in serum Cr (>30% over baseline and >1.4 mg/dL) was noted in 3 patients (2.7%), 2 of whom (1.9%) required temporary hemodialysis and 1 (0.9%) who died of renal failure. In group 2 a transient increase in serum Cr was noted in 2 patients (3.1%); both patients (3.1%) required temporary hemodialysis, and 1 patient (1.5%) died of renal failure. In group 3 a transient increase in serum Cr was noted in 2 patients (7.4%); 1 patient (3.7%) required temporary hemodialysis, and 1 patient (3.7%) died of renal failure. Perioperative hypotension significantly increased the risk for elevated serum Cr and death (p<0.05), and larger contrast volume was associated with an increase in serum Cr (p<0.05) during the postoperative period. Following EVAR renal function declines slightly with both IRF and TRF. Our data show no overall difference between patients with IRF and TRF with respect to infarcts, decline in renal function, or onset of dialysis. There were a slightly greater number of renal infarcts in the TRF group, but these infarcts were clinically inconsequential. In patients with CRI, EVAR with intra-arterial radiographic contrast agents is believed to impair renal function, and CRI is considered a relative contraindication to the procedure. Results of our investigation indicate that risk for worsening renal insufficiency, dialysis, and death is only slightly and not significantly greater in patients with CRI compared with patients with normal renal function. With appropriate precautions of avoiding perioperative hypotension and limiting the volume of nonionic contrast agents, CRI need not be a contraindication for EVAR with intra-arterial contrast agents."}
{"id": "15355614", "title": "[Protection of renal function during interventional diagnostic or therapeutic procedures in coronary heart disease patients complicated by chronic renal insufficiency].", "content": "[Protection of renal function during interventional diagnostic or therapeutic procedures in coronary heart disease patients complicated by chronic renal insufficiency]. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of protective measures for renal function during interventional procedures in patients with chronic renal insufficiency. Changes in renal function in 90 patients of coronary artery disease with chronic renal insufficiency admitted from January 1994 to July 2002 during intraoperative intervention were analyzed. These patients were divided into three groups: in group A patients underwent coronary angiography (SCA) with conventional peri-intervention treatment; in group B patients underwent SCA and treated with low dose dopamine plus saline hydration peri-intervention; in group C patients underwent percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) and stenting, and treated with low dose dopamine plus saline hydration during peri-intervention. Coronary intervention was successful in all patients of three groups. Contrast medium-associated nephropathy (CAN) was found in 28 patients after the procedures, and them 11 occurred in group A (36.7%), 5 in group B (16.7%), and 12 in group C (40.0%), respectively. The incidence of CAN was highest in group C, and lowest in group B (P<0.01). All patients recovered and discharged after medical treatment, and no hemodialysis was necessary. Higher incidence of CAN was found in patients with congestive heart failure than patients without heart failure (64.5%, 20/31 cases vs. 13.6%, 8/59 cases; P<0.01), and also higher incidence of CAN was found in diabetic patients than non-diabetic patients (42.6 , 23/54 cases vs. 13.9%, 5/36 cases; P<0.01). The patients with coronary artery disease with chronic renal insufficiency are able to tolerate the interventional procedures well with safety and ideal prognosis, if they are properly protected with dopamine and fluid during the procedure."}
{"id": "15332225", "title": "Trends and dynamics of changes in calcification score over the 1-year observation period in patients on peritoneal dialysis.", "content": "Trends and dynamics of changes in calcification score over the 1-year observation period in patients on peritoneal dialysis. Accelerated vascular calcification is an important cause of excess mortality in patients on dialysis therapy. The aim of the study was to evaluate the trends in coronary artery calcification (CAC) score (CaSc) during a 1-year period in a group of stable peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients and identify factors that may be associated with CaSc changes. Sixty-one stable patients (28 women, 33 men) on PD therapy with a mean age of 50.4 +/- 13.6 years were included. Forty-seven patients survived the entire study period on PD therapy and were suitable for the final analysis. CaSc was assessed at baseline and after 12 months by using multislice spiral computed tomography. Proinflammatory cytokines (interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha [TNF-alpha]), acute-phase proteins (C-reactive protein [CRP], fibrinogen), calcium-phosphate balance, and lipid profile were assessed at baseline and after 6 and 12 months. Median CaSc was 22.6 Agatston units (range, 0 to 5,502.8 Agatston units) at baseline and increased to 84 Agatston units (range, 0 to 5,001.3 Agatston units) at a 1-year follow-up (P < 0.05). In the entire group of patients, 3 subgroups were identified: patients with progression (n = 21; P = 0.02 for the difference between initial versus follow-up CaSc), patients with regression (n = 12; P = 0.05), and subjects without change in CaSc after 1 year (n = 14). Patients without progression showed no calcifications at baseline and follow-up and were younger, less overweight, and characterized by significantly lower mean TNF-alpha, leptin, and CRP levels during 1 year compared with both progressors and regressors. Mean serum phosphate and calcium x phosphate product (Ca x P) values were gradually increasing from regressors through the no-calcification group to progressors (P < 0.01 for phosphate levels, P < 0.02 for Ca x P product). Significant correlations were found between changes in CaScs and mean values for phosphate (R = 0.44; P < 0.0005) and Ca x P product (R = 0.38; P < 0.005). Chronic nonspecific inflammation does not directly attribute to progression in CaScs. Calcium-phosphate balance abnormalities appear to be the only important factors promoting CAC, although a permissive or promoting role of inflammation cannot be ruled out."}
{"id": "15312855", "title": "N-Acetylcysteine versus fenoldopam mesylate to prevent contrast agent-associated nephrotoxicity.", "content": "N-Acetylcysteine versus fenoldopam mesylate to prevent contrast agent-associated nephrotoxicity. We performed a study to assess the efficacy of fenoldopam mesylate (a specific agonist of the dopamine-1 receptor) as compared with N-acetylcysteine (NAC) in preventing contrast agent-associated nephrotoxicity (CAN). Prophylactic administration of NAC, along with hydration, prevents CAN in patients with chronic renal insufficiency who are undergoing contrast media administration. Preliminary data support the hypothesis that fenoldopam might be as effective as NAC. One hundred ninety-two consecutive patients with chronic renal insufficiency, referred to our institution for coronary and/or peripheral procedures, were assigned randomly to receive 0.45% saline intravenously and NAC (1,200 mg orally twice daily; NAC group; n = 97) or fenoldopam (0.10 microg/kg/min; fenoldopam group; n = 95) before and after a nonionic, iso-osmolality contrast dye administration. Baseline creatinine levels were similar in the two groups: NAC group = 1.72 mg/dl (interquartile range, 1.55 to 1.90 mg/dl) and fenoldopam group = 1.75 mg/dl (interquartile range, 1.62 to 2.01 mg/dl) (p = 0.17). An increase of at least 0.5 mg/dl of the creatinine concentration 48 h after the procedure occurred in 4 of 97 patients (4.1%) in the NAC group and in 13 of 95 patients (13.7%) in the fenoldopam group (p = 0.019; odds ratio 0.27; 95% confidence interval 0.08 to 0.85). The amount of contrast media administration was similar in the two groups (NAC group = 160 +/- 82 ml; fenoldopam group = 168 +/- 104 ml; p = 0.54). N-acetylcysteine seems to be more effective than fenoldopam in preventing CAN."}
{"id": "15308878", "title": "Prevalence of coronary artery disease using thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography among patients newly undergoing chronic peritoneal dialysis and its association with mortality.", "content": "Prevalence of coronary artery disease using thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography among patients newly undergoing chronic peritoneal dialysis and its association with mortality. Previous data about the prevalence of coronary artery disease in dialysis patients were mainly based on history or electrocardiogram. We evaluated the prevalence of coronary artery disease using routine thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in 227 patients at the start of chronic peritoneal dialysis between January 1996 and October 2003. We also analyzed its association with mortality. Fifty-one patients (22.5%) were positive on thallium SPECT. There were significant differences in age, underlying diabetic nephropathy, and C-reactive protein (CRP), serum albumin, total cholesterol, and prealbumin levels among patients positive and negative on thallium SPECT. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that age (> or =60 years), underlying diabetic nephropathy, and CRP (> or =0.5 mg/dl) were independent predictors of positive thallium SPECT, with the patients positive for all three factors having a probability for positive thallium SPECT of 43%, whereas patients negative for all three factors had a probability of only 4%. Ninety patients died, and 137 survived during the median follow-up period of 34 (range 3-99) months. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis revealed that age, underlying diabetic nephropathy, serum albumin, prealbumin, and CRP levels, positive thallium SPECT, and smoking affected survival. Survival was not different according to gender, presence of hypertension, body mass index, total cholesterol, or lipoprotein(a). Cox regression analysis showed that only underlying diabetic nephropathy and age (> or =60 years) were independent predictors of mortality. We found that 22.5% of the patients who started chronic peritoneal dialysis had a positive thallium SPECT. Age, underlying diabetic nephropathy, and CRP were independent predictors of a positive thallium SPECT. Underlying diabetic nephropathy and age, but not positive thallium SPECT, were independent predictors of mortality."}
{"id": "15291295", "title": "Sternal osteomyelitis complicating percutaneous coronary artery stenting.", "content": "Sternal osteomyelitis complicating percutaneous coronary artery stenting. Hematogenous sternal osteomyelitis is a rare infection that has been associated with i.v drug abuse and blunt thoracic trauma, but iatrogenic infections have also been described following resuscitation and in conjunction with hemodialysis catheters. Staphylococcus aureus is the most common causative organism. Stenting is the preferred treatment for isolated stenosis of the coronary artery and is associated with a low complication rate and high patency rate. Such intravascular procedures are rarely complicated by infections. A 72-year-old man developed hematogenous sternal osteomyelitis following coronary artery stenting. Radiological diagnosis was made using CT scan and MRI, and blood cultures and aspiration fluid from the infected soft tissue were positive for S. aureus. Initial therapy consisted of i.v. second-generation cephalosporin followed by oral cephalexin and later linezolid. Prolonged antibiotic therapy without surgical intervention was successful in controlling this rare complication. The patient was well at the one-year follow up, with patent stent and no signs for recurrent osteomyelitis. Although transcutaneous stenting is a widely accepted strategy for treating stenosed arteries, this case highlights the possibility of hazardous infectious complications associated with such procedures."}
{"id": "15276092", "title": "Impact of chronic kidney disease on prognosis of patients with diabetes mellitus treated with percutaneous coronary intervention.", "content": "Impact of chronic kidney disease on prognosis of patients with diabetes mellitus treated with percutaneous coronary intervention. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a frequent complication of diabetes mellitus. However, the role of CKD in outcomes of patients with diabetes who have undergone percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has not been studied specifically. Therefore, we investigated the impact of CKD on prognosis of patients with diabetes who underwent PCI. Of 1,575 diabetic patients who underwent PCI, 1,046 (66%) had preserved renal function, 492 (31%) had CKD (baseline serum creatinine >1.5 mg/dl or estimated glomerular filtration rate <60 ml/min/1.73 m(2)) without dialysis, and 37 (2.3%) were dependent on dialysis. Patients with CKD versus those without CKD had more in-hospital complications, including mortality (2.6% vs 0.5%, respectively; p <0.0001), neurologic events (3.1% vs 0.6%, p = 0.0001), and gastrointestinal bleeding (2.9% vs 0.9%, p = 0.01). Contrast-induced nephropathy after PCI (increase > or =25% and/or > or =0.5 mg/dl of serum creatinine before PCI vs 48 hours after PCI) was found in 15% of patients without CKD versus 27% of those with CKD, and de novo dialysis was instituted in 0.1% versus 3.1%, respectively. Contrast-induced nephropathy was independently predicted (all p <0.0001) by peri-PCI hypotension (odds ratio [OR] 2.62), insulin treatment (OR 1.84), and volume of contrast medium (OR 1.30). The 1-year mortality rate was strikingly higher (all p <0.0001) in patients with CKD who did not receive dialysis (16%) and those on dialysis (44%) compared with the group with preserved renal function (5%). Contrast-induced nephropathy was among the independent predictors of a 1-year mortality rate (OR 2.75, p <0.001)."}
{"id": "15275627", "title": "Impact of intravascular ultrasound-guided direct stenting on clinical outcome of patients treated for native coronary disease.", "content": "Impact of intravascular ultrasound-guided direct stenting on clinical outcome of patients treated for native coronary disease. Despite the fact that in animal models direct stenting (DS) reduces the vessel injury, in clinical practice this treatment strategy did not reduce late restenosis as compared to conventional strategy with balloon predilatation (PD). However, the influence of DS was not evaluated when stent expansion is optimized by intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) assessment. We analyzed the in-hospital and 1-year outcomes of patients at Washington Hospital Center who were treated with percutaneous coronary interventions and stent implantation when percutaneous intervention was guided by IVUS. Only patients treated for single de novo lesions were included. In 1386 patients, 251 (18.1%) were treated with DS and 1135 (71.9%) were treated with PD. Pre- and postprocedure characteristics by angiography and IVUS were similar in both groups. Postprocedure non-Q-wave myocardial infarction (MI) occurred in 4.9% of the DS group and in 12.5% of the PD group (P = .005). At 1-year follow-up, target lesion revascularization (TLR) rate was 4.9% in the DS group and 14.8% in the PD group (P = .005). DS strategy (odds ratio = .46, confidence interval = .25-.85, P = .013) was independently correlated to lower risk for revascularization in multivariate analysis. When DS is implemented by IVUS assessment, it is associated with low in-hospital and long-term events."}
{"id": "15266035", "title": "Critical limb ischaemia as a main cause of death in patients with end-stage renal disease: a single-centre study.", "content": "Critical limb ischaemia as a main cause of death in patients with end-stage renal disease: a single-centre study. Patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) have a high overall mortality rate, particularly due to cardiovascular morbidity. In an era of decline in cardiovascular diseases and early cardiovascular intervention, non-cardiac diseases seem to have a larger impact on overall mortality. From 1997 to 2003, all incident haemodialysis patients in a single centre were enrolled in this prospective study. Those with clinical signs of vascular disease were examined by coronary or peripheral angiographies. Physicians took the patients' medical histories, examined them and followed them up until the end of the study or death. Causes of death were defined by the physicians. In all, 322 patients were enrolled in the study, 38% of whom were diabetic. At the start of dialysis treatment, 38% had coronary artery disease (CAD), defined as >50% stenosis of at least one coronary artery or as definite myocardial infarction, and 14% had critical ischaemia of at least one limb (CLI). In all patients with foot lesions, CLI was defined angiographically, as evidenced by stenosis or rarefication of distal vessels in the legs. Patients who died (n = 121) [due to cardiac causes (n = 25), complications of CLI (n = 22), stroke (n = 10), cachexia following a long-standing, non-malignant disease (n = 6), malignancy (n = 24), infection not related to CLI (n = 18) and other causes (n = 16)] were older (71+/-10 vs 65+/-13 years), more often male [74/121 (61%)] and often diabetic [56/121 (46%)]. CAD was documented in 82/121 (68%). Five-year survivals in patients with no risk and diabetes without CAD or CLI, CAD and CLI were 74%, 73%, 50% and 10%, respectively. Age, CLI and smoking habits independently increased the risk of death (hazard ratios: 1.052, 4.921 and 2.292, respectively). These results indicate that CLI with associated complications is not only an indicator of high mortality in patients with ESRD, but is also one of the main causes of death."}
{"id": "15264192", "title": "Severe coronary stenosis is an important factor for induction and lengthy persistence of ventricular arrhythmias during and after hemodialysis.", "content": "Severe coronary stenosis is an important factor for induction and lengthy persistence of ventricular arrhythmias during and after hemodialysis. Ventricular arrhythmias have been shown to be the major cause of sudden cardiac death in hemodialysis (HD) patients. We investigated whether angiographic coronary stenosis was responsible for the induction of ventricular arrhythmias in HD patients. HD patients (n = 150) showing ischemic signs in exercise electrocardiography or echocardiography were divided into 2 groups: the stenotic group (n = 61), with significant coronary stenosis (> or =75% in diameter), and the nonstenotic group (n = 89), without significant coronary stenosis on coronary angiography. Severity of ventricular arrhythmias was evaluated by means of ambulatory 24-hour Holter monitoring in HD patients with and without significant coronary stenosis. The frequency of ventricular premature contractions and prevalence of patients with Lown class 4 ventricular arrhythmias were significantly greater in the stenotic than nonstenotic group during HD and for 12 hours after HD (P < 0.03). In the stenotic group, a significantly greater frequency of ventricular premature contractions and prevalence of patients with complex arrhythmias were observed during HD (1.33% and 31.1%, respectively) compared with before HD (0.50% and 11.5%, respectively), and the high incidence persisted for 6 hours after HD. In the nonstenotic group, a slightly increased incidence was observed only during HD compared with before HD. Multivariate analysis showed only coronary stenosis (odds ratio, 5.69; P = 0.041) as an independent and significant factor for the induction of complex arrhythmias. These data clearly indicate that severe coronary stenosis, which may cause myocardial ischemia, is an important factor for the induction and lengthy persistence of ventricular arrhythmias during and after HD."}
{"id": "15264190", "title": "Differential management of cardiovascular disease in ESRD by nephrologists and cardiologists.", "content": "Differential management of cardiovascular disease in ESRD by nephrologists and cardiologists. Mortality and morbidity from cardiovascular disease are high in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). The cardiovascular profile of patients with ESRD may differ from that of the general population. We examined how nephrologists and cardiologists differ in managing hypertension and cardiovascular disease in patients with ESRD. Seven cases incorporating relevant clinical and echocardiographic findings common to this population were developed based on a chart review of an ESRD population. Each ESRD case incorporated a clinical presentation designed to test for a specific dichotomous response to a common and important clinical problem. Nine nephrology and 7 cardiology faculty members, each paired with a senior clinical fellow from the discipline, were surveyed. Nephrologists were less likely than cardiologists to initiate beta-blockade in patients with echocardiographic evidence of regional wall motion abnormalities if there was no history of coronary artery disease (CAD; P < 0.01). In patients with known CAD, cardiologists were more likely than nephrologists to intensify antihypertensive therapy, even in the setting of a history of fractures associated with orthostatic hypotension (P < 0.02). Decision making did not differ between subspecialists in the management of left ventricular hypertrophy, congestive heart failure, or diastolic dysfunction. Nephrologists and cardiologists differ in their management of hypertension in the presence of ischemic heart disease in the ESRD population. Only limited data specific to the ESRD population are available to assess which approach is superior. The discipline-driven differential management approaches observed emphasize the need for better evidence-based management strategies for this population."}
{"id": "15253738", "title": "Myocardial scintigraphy using a fatty acid analogue detects coronary artery disease in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Myocardial scintigraphy using a fatty acid analogue detects coronary artery disease in hemodialysis patients. Coronary artery disease contributes significantly to mortality in end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients. Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) using an iodinated fatty acid analogue, iodine-123-methyl iodophenylpentadecanoic acid (123I-BMIPP), can assess fatty acid metabolism in the myocardium. We investigated the ability of 123I-BMIPP SPECT to detect coronary artery disease in hemodialysis patients compared with 201thallium chloride (201Tl) SPECT. We prospectively studied 130 ESRD patients undergoing hemodialysis for a mean of 88.6 months (male/female, 77/53; mean age, 63.8 years). Dual SPECT using 123I-BMIPP and 201Tl was performed, followed by coronary angiography. SPECT findings were graded in 17 segments on a five-point scale (0, normal uptake; 4, none) and assessed as a summed score. By coronary angiography, 71.5% of patients (93/130) had significant coronary stenosis (> or =75%), and five patients showed coronary spasm without coronary stenosis. When a BMIPP summed score of 6 or more was defined as abnormal, sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy for detecting coronary artery disease by BMIPP SPECT were 98.0%, 65.6%, and 90.0%, respectively; in contrast, these parameters for detecting coronary artery disease by Tl SPECT were 84.7%, 46.9%, and 75.0%, respectively, when a Tl summed score of 1 or more was defined as abnormal. In receiver operating characteristic analysis, the area under the curve was 0.895 in BMIPP and 0.727 in Tl SPECT, respectively. Resting BMIPP SPECT is superior to Tl SPECT for detecting coronary lesions, and provides safe screening for coronary artery disease among maintenance hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "15252163", "title": "Natural history of vascular calcification in dialysis and transplant patients.", "content": "Natural history of vascular calcification in dialysis and transplant patients. The purpose of the present study was to determine the natural history of coronary artery and aorta calcification by spiral computed tomography (CT) in patients who undergo a renal transplant and patients on haemodialysis. Two cohorts were evaluated for the natural history of vascular calcification: (i) 23 patients who underwent a baseline CT scan at the time of renal transplant and a repeat evaluation 15-20 months later; and (ii) 33 chronic kidney disease, stage 5 haemodialysis subjects who underwent a baseline CT scan, all followed for a minimum of 15 months, and 17 of whom underwent a second CT scan. In the patients undergoing a renal transplant, there was no net change in CAC with time, suggesting stabilization of calcification. In the haemodialysis patients, the median CAC increased by 1.27+/-1.88 score/days, P = 0.013. There was a trend towards increasing AoC score in both groups. All patients without calcification at baseline remained calcification free at follow-up. In the 15 months following baseline, the six dialysis patients who died had a significantly greater CAC score at baseline compared with the 24 patients who remained alive. Similarly, those patients who were hospitalized had a greater baseline CAC than patients who were not hospitalized. In this preliminary study, renal transplantation appears to slow down or arrest CAC, whereas CAC progresses in haemodialysis patients. In haemodialysis patients, CAC was greater in patients who died or were hospitalized compared with those who remained alive or were not hospitalized."}
{"id": "15241739", "title": "The evaluation of underlying cardiovascular disease among patients with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "The evaluation of underlying cardiovascular disease among patients with end-stage renal disease. Although coronary artery disease (CAD) is highly prevalent among patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), interventions proven to reduce cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality are underutilized in this population of patients. Given the burden of CVD in this population, knowledge of specific diagnostic tests for detection and evaluation of CAD in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and their correlation with outcomes is imperative for the practicing nephrologist. Studies that examine the use of exercise electrocardiography testing, pharmacologic stress imaging, single-photon emission computed tomographic myocardial perfusion imaging, electron beam computed tomography, and dobutamine stress echocardiography among patients with ESRD are detailed with recommendations for the noninvasive evaluation of CAD in this population."}
{"id": "15216484", "title": "Cardiovascular risk in stage 4 and 5 nephropathy.", "content": "Cardiovascular risk in stage 4 and 5 nephropathy. Severity of heart disease of almost all types, as well as mortality risk associated with heart disease, increases in step with severity of kidney disease, although not necessarily in a linear fashion. Heart failure is more common and just as lethal as ischemic heart disease in patients with severe chronic kidney disease (CKD). The incidence of nonfatal heart disease in dialysis and transplant populations has now been described in detail. Although standard risk factors for heart disease that are more common among patients with CKD than in the general population do not adequately explain the greatly increased risk of heart disease in patients with severe CKD, neither do as yet identified \"nontraditional\" risk factors. However, in addition to the factors not common in the general population, such as anemia, hyperphosphatemia, and markers of systemic inflammation, patients with CKD in the modern era may also exhibit excessive thrombotic tendencies. Screening for heart disease in this population relies mainly on dobutamine stress echocardiography or nuclear scintigraphy. The role of electron beam CT (EBCT) scanning is currently controversial. The indications for coronary angiography are the same for patients with CKD as for the general population, but patients with CKD are at greatly increased risk for contrast-associated nephropathy, the least controversial preventive therapy, which consists of isotonic saline and N-acetylcysteine. Finally, patients with CKD do not currently receive adequate medical therapy for prevention and treatment of heart disease."}
{"id": "15213315", "title": "Coronary artery calcification is related to coronary atherosclerosis in chronic renal disease patients: a study comparing EBCT-generated coronary artery calcium scores and coronary angiography.", "content": "Coronary artery calcification is related to coronary atherosclerosis in chronic renal disease patients: a study comparing EBCT-generated coronary artery calcium scores and coronary angiography. Coronary artery calcification (CAC) measured by electron beam computed tomography (EBCT) correlates with plaque burden, vessel stenosis and is predictive of future cardiac events in the general population. Extensive CAC has been described recently in dialysis cohorts. For the first time we studied the relationship between CAC and coronary angiographic findings in patients with chronic renal failure, on dialysis and after renal transplantation. We studied 46 patients who all had an EBCT-derived Agatston coronary calcium score and a diagnostic coronary angiogram within a 12-month period. The mean age was 55.7+/-13.2 (SD) years (range 29-80). The mean duration of dialysis was 54.4 months (range 1-372). The mean CAC was 2370+/-352.8. The mean CAC in patients with an abnormal coronary angiogram (n = 35) was 2869.6+/-417.9, while that in patients with a normal coronary angiogram (n = 11) was 559.4+/-255.1 (P = 0.001 for the inter-mean comparison). Total CAC correlated with the number of diseased vessels (P = 0.0001) and with severity of atherosclerosis in all the vessels (P = 0.0001). The individual coronary artery calcification score correlated well with the severity of atherosclerotic coronary disease (P<0.0001 for all) in the left anterior descending, right coronary and circumflex arteries. Running a multivariate regression analysis for atherosclerosis burden, we found that the only predictor was CAC (r = 0.34, P = 0.0001). CAC is common and more severe in patients with chronic kidney disease. Although in chronic kidney disease patients CAC can occur in the absence of occlusive coronary atherosclerosis, our data suggest that, as in the general population, CAC in chronic kidney disease patients is associated with obstructive atherosclerosis and may therefore be associated with a worse outcome."}
{"id": "15211444", "title": "Association between ENOS gene polymorphism and cardiovascular events in nondiabetic hemodialysis patients: a prospective study.", "content": "Association between ENOS gene polymorphism and cardiovascular events in nondiabetic hemodialysis patients: a prospective study. Synthesis of nitric oxide by endothelial nitric oxide synthase (ENOS) plays a key role in the atherosclerotic process. Several polymorphisms of the gene encoding ENOS are now known and have been investigated with respect to their influence on cardiovascular disease risk in the general population. The authors prospectively investigated whether ENOS gene polymorphisms determined the risk of cardiovascular complications in a cohort of hemodialysis patients. A total of 335 nondiabetic hemodialysis patients were genotyped for 3 ENOS polymorphisms (T-786-->C, intron 4, and Glu298Asp polymorphism) and were followed up prospectively for a mean of 44.2 +/- 9.0 months. The end-points of the study were major cardiac, cerebrovascular, or peripheral vascular events. Two ENOS polymorphisms were associated with cardiovascular events: a T to C substitution at position -786 of the promoter and a deletion-insertion in intron 4 (the a allele having 4 repeats of a consensus sequence and the b allele having 5 repeats). A total of 84 subjects were -786C carriers (CC+TC), and 15 (18%) suffered from cardiovascular events compared with only 13 of 251 TT patients (5%). The relative risk of cardiovascular events was higher for -786C carriers compared with noncarriers (relative risk: 2.05, P = 0.0003). It was also higher for a allele carriers (intron 4 polymorphism) compared with noncarriers (relative risk: 1.97, P = 0.0005). T-786-->C polymorphism and intron 4 polymorphism, but not Glu298Asp polymorphism, of the ENOS gene can influence the risk of cardiovascular events in Japanese nondiabetic hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "15205654", "title": "[Prevalence of renal artery stenosis in patients undergoing cardiac catheterization: when should abdominal aortography be performed? Results in 467 patients].", "content": "[Prevalence of renal artery stenosis in patients undergoing cardiac catheterization: when should abdominal aortography be performed? Results in 467 patients]. To define a subgroup of patients at increased risk of renal artery stenosis (RAS) in a population of patients undergoing cardiac catheterization. A total of 467 patients (mean age of 64 Years +/-11) underwent cardiac catheterization and aortography Results were evaluated to detect correlations between the presence or absence of RAS and clinical and biological parameters. A total of 42 (9%) patients had a renal artery stenosis. Univariate analysis defined parameters correlated with the presence of RAS: systolic blood pressure (p=0.03), pulse pressure (p=0.005), age (p<0.0001), creatinine clearance (p<0.0001), 2-vessel (p=0.028) and 3-vessel (p=0.037) coronary artery diseases. Multivariate analysis showed that the presence of RAS correlated to creatinine clearance (p=0.02) and 2-vessel coronary artery disease. A creatinine clearance between 30 and 60 ml/min and multi-vessel coronary artery disease defined a subgroup at increased risk of RAS with sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values of: 47.6, 90.1, 32.3 and 94.6%. The prevalence of renal artery stenosis was 5.2% when both parameters were absent. Patients with mild renal insufficiency and multi-vessel coronary artery disease defined a subgroup of patients at increased risk of RAS (32.5%) that may benefit from abdominal aortography performed at the time of cardiac catheterization."}
{"id": "15200454", "title": "Predicting coronary heart disease in renal transplant recipients: a prospective study.", "content": "Predicting coronary heart disease in renal transplant recipients: a prospective study. Current cardiovascular risk calculators, widely used in the general population, have not yet been validated in renal transplant recipients. We conducted a prospective study to determine the incidence and risk factors for ischemic heart disease in renal transplant recipients and to assess the relevance of the Framingham Heart Study risk calculator in this population. Three hundred and forty four consecutive renal transplant recipients free of vascular disease were enrolled. Coronary events were registered and analyzed with respect to traditional and nontraditional cardiovascular risk factors. The risk of coronary events was assessed through the Framingham Heart Study formula and the relevance of this equation was then analyzed. The patients were followed for a mean duration of 72 +/- 14 months. Twenty seven coronary events occurred in 27 patients (7.8%). In addition to risk factors included in the Framingham Heart Study score, C-reactive protein (CRP) level (P= 0.009), and hyperhomocysteinemia (P= 0.01) were found to be independent risk factors for ischemic heart disease events in renal transplant recipients. The Framingham Heart Study model did not predict absolute ischemic heart disease risk in the transplant population as a whole. Nontraditional cardiovascular risk factors greatly contribute to increased incidence of ischemic heart disease events in renal transplant recipients. They should therefore be considered in preventive care of these patients which relies on reduction of overall absolute risk. Although the Framingham Heart Study score has an excellent predictive value in low-risk renal transplant recipients, it tends to underestimate the real cardiovascular risk in high-risk patients."}
{"id": "15199357", "title": "Outcomes of elderly patients with cardiogenic shock treated with early percutaneous revascularization.", "content": "Outcomes of elderly patients with cardiogenic shock treated with early percutaneous revascularization. Subgroup analysis from the Should We Emergently Revascularize Occluded Coronaries for Cardiogenic Shock (SHOCK) trial indicated that patients with acute myocardial infarction (MI) complicated by cardiogenic shock (CS) who were > or =75 years old did not benefit from early revascularization and may have been harmed; their mortality rate at 30 days was 75%. The applicability of this subset analysis from a select patient population enrolled in a randomized trial to the general population is unclear. At the Mayo Clinic between 1991 and 2000, we evaluated the outcome of all patients > or =75 years old with CS caused by MI who underwent urgent percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). The study included 61 patients with a mean age of 79.5 +/- 3 years; 21% of these patients had a history of prior coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), 41% had had a prior MI, 28% had diabetes mellitus, and 18% had a history of a cerebrovascular accident (CVA). PCI was performed 8.0 +/- 7.2 hours after onset of MI. Angiographic success (<50% residual stenosis) was achieved in 91% of the lesions that were dilated. In hospital outcomes included death (44%), CABG (1.6%), and CVA (4.9%). The 30-day mortality rate was 47%. The estimated survival rate 1 year after discharge (Kaplan Meier method) was 75%. These data confirm a high early mortality rate among patients > or =75 years old with MI complicated by CS, but suggest that among patients referred for angiography, outcomes may be better than previously believed when early revascularization is performed. In this population, 56% of patients survived to be discharged from the hospital, and of the hospital survivors, 75% were alive at 1 year."}
{"id": "15199350", "title": "Coronary flow reserve abnormalities in patients with diabetes mellitus who have end-stage renal disease and normal epicardial coronary arteries.", "content": "Coronary flow reserve abnormalities in patients with diabetes mellitus who have end-stage renal disease and normal epicardial coronary arteries. Diabetic nephropathy is associated with increased cardiovascular events. Coronary atherosclerosis is responsible for many of these events, but other mechanisms such as impaired flow reserve may be involved. The purpose of this study was to define the prevalence and mechanism of abnormal coronary velocity reserve (CVR) in patients with diabetes mellitus who have nephropathy and a normal coronary artery. Patients undergoing catheterization for clinical purposes were enrolled. CVR was measured with a Doppler ultrasound scanning wire in a normal coronary in 32 patients without diabetes mellitus, 11 patients with diabetes mellitus who did not have renal failure, and 21 patients with diabetes mellitus who had nephropathy. A CVR <2.0 was considered to be abnormal. Patients with diabetes mellitus who had renal failure had a higher incidence of hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. The average peak velocity (APV) at baseline was higher in patients with diabetes mellitus who had renal failure. At peak hyperemia, APV increased in all 3 groups, with no difference between groups. The mean CVR for patients without diabetes was 2.8 +/- 0.8 and was not different from that in patients with diabetes mellitus who did not have renal failure (2.7 +/- 0.7), but was lower than that in patients with diabetes mellitus who had renal failure (1.6 +/- 0.5; P < 0.001). Abnormal CVR was observed in 9% of patients without diabetes mellitus, 18% of patients with diabetes mellitus who did not have renal failure, and 57% of patients with diabetes mellitus who had renal failure, and abnormal CVR was caused by an elevation of baseline APV in 66% of these cases. The baseline heart rate and the presence of diabetes mellitus with renal failure were independent predictors of abnormal CVR by multivariable analysis. Patients with diabetic nephropathy have abnormalities in CVR in the absence of angiographically evident coronary disease."}
{"id": "15198880", "title": "Emergency off-pump coronary artery surgery.", "content": "Emergency off-pump coronary artery surgery. Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting is fast-becoming a procedure of choice for elective revascularization in high-risk patients with multi-vessel coronary artery disease. However, the role of off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting for patients with acute coronary syndromes requiring emergency revascularization still requires validation. We present our experience to show the feasibility of off-pump coronary artery surgery as an emergency revascularization technique. From April 2001 to September 2003, emergency (operation within 24 hours after hospitalization) coronary artery bypass grafting without cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) was performed in 66 patients with a mean age of (66.9 +/- 5.4) years (range 49-72 years). They presented acute coronary syndromes with 38 patients on platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor antagonists. All patients underwent off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery via sternotomy with the intention of complete coronary revascularization. An average of 2.9 grafts per patient were performed and the posterior descending artery and marginal branches of the circumflex artery were grafted in 83.3% of the patients. There were 4 events of intraoperative cardiac instability, precipitated by occlusion of right coronary artery or positioning of a cardiomegaly heart, leading to immediate conversion to CPB. The mortality rate was 3% (2/66). Two patients suffered postoperative stroke while three needed hemofiltration for acute renal failure. Post surgery elective coronary angiography (n = 46) showed no significant stenosis. Emergency off-pump coronary artery surgery with complete revascularization is feasible in patients with acute coronary syndrome with low morbidity and mortality and excellent early results."}
{"id": "15183983", "title": "Ex vivo partial nephrectomy and autotransplantation for renal cell cancer after laparoscopic renal harvest.", "content": "Ex vivo partial nephrectomy and autotransplantation for renal cell cancer after laparoscopic renal harvest. Laparoscopic partial nephrectomy is an alternative to the open approach. For centrally located tumors, open extracorporeal partial nephrectomy has been used. We report 2 cases of laparoscopic nephrectomy for the purpose of extracorporeal partial nephrectomy and autotransplantation for renal cell cancer."}
{"id": "15170720", "title": "Concomitant coronary and subclavian steal caused by ipsilateral subclavian artery stenosis and arteriovenous fistula in a hemodialysis patient.", "content": "Concomitant coronary and subclavian steal caused by ipsilateral subclavian artery stenosis and arteriovenous fistula in a hemodialysis patient. Patients with chronic renal failure, because of concomitant conventional cardiovascular and uremia-associated risk factors, are at risk of developing diffuse and accelerated atherosclerosis involving both the coronary and peripheral territories. We report an end-stage renal failure patient with a history of coronary artery bypass surgery who developed both angina and dizziness during hemodialysis via a left forearm arteriovenous fistula. Magnetic resonance imaging diagnosed the presence of significant subclavian artery stenosis. The patient then underwent successful percutaneous stenting of the left subclavian artery. His angina and dizziness symptoms resolved subsequently."}
{"id": "15153089", "title": "Influence of high-dose leucovorin and 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy regimen on P wave duration and dispersion.", "content": "Influence of high-dose leucovorin and 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy regimen on P wave duration and dispersion. Although 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-related cardiotoxicity is well known, atrial arrhythmia, as a potentially serious complication has not been studied in detail. The aim of this study was to determine the P max and Pd in the electrocardiograms (ECG) of patients receiving 5-FU treatment. Twenty-five patients (mean age: 62 years) receiving a 5-FU bolus plus continuous infusion with calcium leucovorin over 48 h and with normal pre-treatment cardiac physical examinations, ECG and echocardiography were enrolled. P maximum (P max), P minimum (P min) and P dispersion (Pd) (maximum minus minimum P wave duration) were measured from the 12-lead ECG at the 0th and 48th hour of the first chemotherapy cycle. Echocardiography was also obtained in all patients at the same times. Clinical cardiotoxicity was observed in two patients. P max and Pd were both significantly longer after 5-FU treatment at the 48th hour (P < 0.001). P min did not change (P > 0.05). Treatment with 5-FU based regimens may increase Pd and prolong the P max in cancer patients. These alterations may be predictive of patients at risk of atrial arrhythmias during 5-FU treatment."}
{"id": "15151268", "title": "Inflammation and coronary calcification in renal patients--factors that may explain increased cardiovascular risk, and poorer results of coronary interventions?", "content": "Inflammation and coronary calcification in renal patients--factors that may explain increased cardiovascular risk, and poorer results of coronary interventions? Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is one of the major causes of mortality in patients with renal diseases, with increased odds ratio of mortality with risk factors as diverse as cholesterol, vascular stiffness, chronic inflammation and hyperhomocysteinemia. Several factors have been incriminated to explain the increase in coronary vascular calcification (CVC) in this particular population. Increased duration of dialysis, dyslipidemia, altered calcium-phosphorus metabolism, and chronic inflammation have all been associated with increased CVC. We present here four case reports illustrating the differences in the pathophysiology, therapy and prognosis of calcific coronary heart disease seen in uremic patients."}
{"id": "15126007", "title": "Mild renal insufficiency as a cardiovascular risk factor in non-proteinuric type II diabetes.", "content": "Mild renal insufficiency as a cardiovascular risk factor in non-proteinuric type II diabetes. To evaluate cardiovascular risk according to baseline renal function in a group of non-proteinuric type II diabetic patients. Prospective study with a follow-up of 423 non-proteinuric type II diabetic patients with creatinine <150 micromol/l for an average of 4.7 years (S.D. 1.55). Creatinine clearance (CC) was estimated using the Cockcroft-Gault formula and expressed in millilitre per minute. The hazard ratio (HR) associated with each millilitre per minute decrease in baseline CC on fatal or non-fatal cardiovascular events and total mortality was evaluated using the Cox regression model. Baseline creatinine was 89 micromol/l (S.D. 15.9) and CC was 69.5 ml/min (S.D. 20). There were 63 cardiovascular events (15 unstable angina, 10 non-fatal myocardial infarctions, 25 non-fatal strokes, two amputations, nine fatal myocardial infarctions and two fatal strokes) and 39 total deaths (11 for cardiovascular causes). The cardiovascular event rate was 31.7/1000 patient-years and the total mortality rate was 19.6/1000 patient-years. The independent predictors of cardiovascular events were: CC (HR=1.035; confidence interval (CI) 95% 1.02-1.05; P<0.0001), total cholesterol/HDL cholesterol ratio (HR=1.25; CI 95% 1.1-1.4; P=0.0008), baseline coronary heart disease (HR=2.05; CI 95% 1.07-3.9; P=0.04) and baseline microalbuminuria (HR=2.3; CI 95% 1.3-3.8; P=0.003). The independent total mortality predictors were: CC (HR=1.04; CI 95% 1.02-1.08; P<0.0001), male (HR=2.1; CI 95% 1.1-4; P=0.027) and baseline microalbuminuria (HR=2.1; CI 95% 1.1-4;P=0.03). Mild renal insufficiency increases cardiovascular risk in non-proteinuric patients with type II diabetes."}
{"id": "15120820", "title": "Renal artery stenosis: \"fortuitous diagnosis,\" problematic therapy.", "content": "Renal artery stenosis: \"fortuitous diagnosis,\" problematic therapy."}
{"id": "15120819", "title": "The profile of cardiac patients with renal artery stenosis.", "content": "The profile of cardiac patients with renal artery stenosis. We examined the prevalence and severity of renal artery stenosis (RAS) in patients undergoing cardiac catheterization who were deemed at risk for RAS based on clinical or laboratory criteria for study entry, but who had not previously been suspected of having RAS. The diagnosis of atherosclerotic RAS remains problematic because its clinical manifestations are nonspecific. Consecutive patients undergoing non-emergent cardiac catheterization at a single institution during a 12-month period were evaluated using standardized clinical, laboratory, and angiographic criteria. Patients exhibiting at least one of four predefined selection criteria (severe hypertension, unexplained renal dysfunction, acute pulmonary edema with hypertension, or severe atherosclerosis) were prospectively registered and underwent coincident diagnostic renal angiography. Renal angiography was performed in 851 patients and was diagnostic in 837. Angiographically evident renal atherosclerosis was present in 39% of the population, with RAS > or =50% in 120 (14.3%) and severe stenosis (> or =70%) in 61 (7.3%). Severe stenosis was present in 48 (7%) patients with severe atherosclerosis, 38 (16%) with renal dysfunction, 25 (9%) with hypertension, and 2 (22%) with acute pulmonary edema with hypertension. The prevalence was higher in those exhibiting multiple selection criteria. In a multivariate model, severe RAS was associated with age, female gender, reduced creatinine clearance, increased systolic blood pressure, and peripheral or carotid artery disease. In a population at risk of, but not previously suspected of having RAS, severe RAS is associated with simple and readily determined clinical and laboratory patient characteristics. These data facilitate focused application of diagnostic renal angiography."}
{"id": "15110601", "title": "Cardiac evaluation for simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation and incidence of cardiac perioperative complications: preliminary study.", "content": "Cardiac evaluation for simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation and incidence of cardiac perioperative complications: preliminary study. Type I diabetes mellitus (IDDM) is associated with an increased cardiovascular risk, and eligibility protocols for simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation (SPKT) are consequently accurate for preoperative cardiovascular assessment. According to our algorithm, coronary angiography in SPKT candidates is indicated for patients not only experiencing previous cardiac events or symptoms, but also those with long-standing diabetes (more than 25 years) and/or age over 45 years. Furthermore, a basal transthoracic echocardiographic exam (TTE) is performed to assess cardiac volumes, left ventricular mass, systolic function, and kinesis. The aims of this study were to evaluate perioperative cardiac morbidity and mortality in 18 SPKT-eligible patients, divided into two groups on the basis of the presence/absence of angiographically evident coronary artery disease (CAD), as well as to assess the impact of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) on cardiac complications. Cardiac intraoperative morbidity and mortality and postoperative mortality and major morbidity were absent; minor cardiac morbidity consisted only of silent ischemic ECG alterations, without significant differences between groups, although the incidence seemed to be higher in the CAD-positive population. LVH detected preoperatively by TTE exam also failed to correlate with the incidence of such complications. Selection of SPKT candidates by coronary angiography may have positive effects on perioperative cardiac morbidity and mortality. A larger sample size is needed to give the study statistical power. Medium- and long-term follow-up studies are warranted to evaluate the effects of preoperative selection on survival rates."}
{"id": "15067517", "title": "Impact of high coronary artery calcification score (CACS) on survival in patients on chronic hemodialysis.", "content": "Impact of high coronary artery calcification score (CACS) on survival in patients on chronic hemodialysis. Electron-beam computed tomography (EBCT) is a noninvasive measure of coronary artery calcification and, therefore, could be a marker of developing cardiovascular disease. Whether the coronary artery calcification score (CACS) is a prognostic marker in chronic dialysis patients is not known. In the present study, the mortality rate was observed in relation to the baseline CACS. EBCT was performed in 104 chronic hemodialysis patients (62 men and 42 women) in one dialysis unit. The mean (SD) duration of hemodialysis was 48.7 (62.6) months at the time of EBCT. The mean (SD) age at EBCT was 55.9 (13.6) years, ranging from 23 to 88 years. The duration of follow-up was 43.8 (19.3) months after the EBCT. Cox proportional hazard analysis was performed to examine the impact of CACS on survival after adjusting for age, sex, duration of dialysis, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, serum albumin, and dyslipidemia. The CACS was distributed from zero to 5896, with a median of 200. During the study period, 24 patients (15 men and 9 women) died, 7 in the low CACS group (<200) and 17 in the high CACS group (> or =200). The 5-year cumulative survival rate was 84.2% in the low CACS group and 67.9% in the high CACS group. The adjusted relative risk (95% confidence interval) of death was 1.001 (1.000-1.002); P = 0.0003, for the absolute value of CACS. The present study suggested that CACS was an independent predictor of death in patients on chronic hemodialysis. Patients with a high CACS should be carefully monitored and evaluated for reversible prognostic factors such as dyslipidemia and, probably, hyperphosphatemia and a high value for the calcium x phosphate product.Electron-beam computed tomography (EBCT) is a noninvasive measure of coronary artery calcification and, therefore, could be a marker of developing cardiovascular disease. Whether the coronary artery calcification score (CACS) is a prognostic marker in chronic dialysis patients is not known."}
{"id": "15059406", "title": "[Coronary stenting in patients with acute coronary syndrome and renal dysfunction].", "content": "[Coronary stenting in patients with acute coronary syndrome and renal dysfunction]. To evaluate the immediate and mid-term efficacy of coronary stenting in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and renal dysfunction. Sixty-three ACS patients with renal dysfunction were included (RD group) and 63 contemporaneous ACS patients with normal renal function served as a control group. The clinical characteristics, stenting procedure and follow-up information were compared between the two groups. Patients in the RD group had higher basic serum creatinine levels [(177 +/- 31) micro mol/L vs (98 +/- 21) micro mol/L, P < 0.001], lower left ventricular ejection fraction (0.45 +/- 0.10 vs 0.50 +/- 0.09, P < 0.05) and increased prevalence of multivessel coronary artery disease (84% vs 65%, P < 0.05) as well as > 50% renal artery stenosis (27% vs 8%, P < 0.05). There was no statistical difference in procedural success rate and major adverse cardiac events occurrence during a mean follow up time of 27 months (13% vs 8%, P = 0.38). In the RD group, the mean level of serum creatinine was significantly decreased [(177 +/- 31) micro mol/L vs (147 +/- 11) micro mol/L, P < 0.05] and 9 (69%) patients with renal artery stent implantation had normal creatinine levels during follow-up. Coronary stenting is a safe and effective therapy for ACS patients complicated with renal dysfunction, two thirds of patients receiving renal stent implantation had normal serum creatinine during follow-up."}
{"id": "15051932", "title": "Oral ADSORBENT AST-120 decreases carotid intima-media thickness and arterial stiffness in patients with chronic renal failure.", "content": "Oral ADSORBENT AST-120 decreases carotid intima-media thickness and arterial stiffness in patients with chronic renal failure. Intima media thickness (IMT) and stiffness of the carotid arteries is related to coronary artery disease, and chronic renal failure patients are at high risk for such diseases. An oral adsorbent, AST-120 (Kremezin; Kureha Chemical Industry, Tokyo, Japan), can delay the progression of chronic renal failure in undialyzed uremic patients. The aim of the present study was to determine whether AST-120 affects carotid artery IMT and pulse wave velocity (PWV) in patients with chronic renal failure not undergoing dialysis. Fifty patients with non-diabetic chronic renal failure were randomly divided into two groups: 30 patients (18 men and 12 women; mean age 53.5 years; mean serum creatinine 3.2 mg/dl) who were given AST-120 (6.0 g/day) and 20 patients (12 men and 8 women; mean age 52.0 years; mean serum creatinine 3.5 mg/dl) who were not given AST-120. Thirty healthy age-matched subjects (18 men and 12 women; mean age 51.5 years; mean serum creatinine 0.9 mg/dl) were also included. The treatment period was 24 months. IMT and arterial stiffness were measured before and after treatment. The slope of the reciprocal serum creatinine concentration over time became significantly less steep in the AST-120 group than in the non-AST-120 group (p < 0.001). Before treatment, carotid artery IMT differed little between the AST-120 group (0.90 +/- 0.22 mm) and the non-AST-120 group (0.88 +/- 0.20 mm). IMT in these two groups was significantly greater than IMT in the control group (0.64 +/- 0.14 mm) (p < 0.01). Carotid IMT in the AST-120 group decreased slightly but not significantly to 0.84 +/- 0.20 mm after 12 months and then significantly after 24 months to 0.78 +/- 0.18 mm (p < 0.05). Carotid IMT in the non-AST group showed little change throughout the experimental period. PWV differed little between the AST-120 group (1,980 +/- 330 cm/s) and the non-AST group (1,940 +/- 360 cm/s) before treatment. PWV values in these two groups were significantly greater than PWV in the control group (1,280 +/- 240 cm/s) (p < 0.01). After 12 and 24 months, PWV in the AST-120 group decreased significantly to 1,840 +/- 280 cm/s (p < 0.05) and to 1,780 +/- 260 cm/s (p < 0.05), respectively; however, PWV in the non-AST group showed a slight increase during the experimental period. The data suggest that AST-120 may reduce arterial stiffness and IMT in non-diabetic chronic renal failure patients before dialysis."}
{"id": "15041933", "title": "Emergent off-pump complete myocardial revascularization in dextrocardia.", "content": "Emergent off-pump complete myocardial revascularization in dextrocardia. Dextrocardia is a rare condition not spared by coronary artery disease. We report the case of a 72-year-old patient with dextrocardia associated with situs inversus totalis who presented to our Institution with acute myocardial infarction complicated by congestive heart failure. Due to the severe general conditions of the patient, an emergent off-pump complete myocardial revascularization was undertaken. The patient tolerated the procedure well and was asymptomatic at discharge. The technical aspects encountered in the setting of mirror-image anatomy and the advantages of off-pump myocardial revascularization in the critically ill patient are discussed."}
{"id": "15034154", "title": "A simple vascular calcification score predicts cardiovascular risk in haemodialysis patients.", "content": "A simple vascular calcification score predicts cardiovascular risk in haemodialysis patients. Cardiovascular morbidity and mortality are highly prevalent in haemodialysis (HD) patients and have been recently associated with vascular calcifications. The objective of our study was to assess the value of a simple vascular calcification score for the prediction of cardiovascular death, cardiovascular hospitalizations and fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events in HD patients, and to correlate this score with cardiovascular disease and with other known predictors of vascular disease. In this observational, prospective study 123 chronic HD patients (75 males and 48 females; 20% diabetic) were included, who were on low-flux HD treatment for 46.6+/-52 months (mean+/-SD). We set up a simple vascular calcification score based on plain radiographic films of pelvis and hands. Brachial pulse pressure and mean arterial pressure (MAP) were measured and cardiovascular events and hospitalization episodes were assessed. During an observational period of 37 months there were 17 cardiovascular deaths; 28 patients needed cardiovascular hospitalizations and 32 patients suffered fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events. Coronary artery disease was diagnosed in 43 patients (35%), peripheral arterial disease in 33 patients (26.8%), cerebrovascular disease in 16 patients (13%) and vascular disease (coronary artery disease or peripheral arterial disease or cerebral vascular disease) in 61 patients (49.6%). By binary logistic regression, diabetes (P = 0.01), male sex (P<0.001), age (P = 0.02), HD duration (P = 0.02) and MAP (P = 0.03) were independently associated with a vascular score > or =3. This score > or =3 was independently associated with coronary artery disease (P = 0.008), peripheral arterial disease (P<0.001) and vascular disease (P = 0.001). Patients with a vascular calcification score > or =3 had a 3.9-fold higher risk of cardiovascular mortality (P = 0.03), a 2.8-fold higher risk of cardiovascular hospitalizations (P = 0.02) and a 2.3-fold higher risk of fatal or non-fatal cardiovascular events (P = 0.04). The present vascular calcification scoring represents a simple tool for the assessment of cardiovascular risk related with vascular calcifications in chronic HD patients."}
{"id": "15031345", "title": "Carotid atherosclerosis is a predictor of coronary calcification in chronic haemodialysis patients.", "content": "Carotid atherosclerosis is a predictor of coronary calcification in chronic haemodialysis patients. Coronary artery calcification scores (CACS) calculated by electron beam computed tomography (EBCT) have been correlated with atherosclerotic burden in the non-uraemic population. However, the validity of this test in chronic haemodialysis patients (HD) is currently uncertain. In the present cross-sectional study, associations between carotid atherosclerosis and coronary calcification in HD patients are investigated. We studied 79 chronic HD patients (39 male, 40 female; mean age, 45+/-12 years). The mean time on HD was 68+/-54 months (range, 6-187 months). In these patients, we measured serum calcium, phosphorus, total cholesterol, cholesterol subgroups and iPTH levels. EBCT, echocardiography, and high-resolution B-mode carotid Doppler ultrasonography were also performed. Plaque-positive HD patients had significantly higher CACS than plaque-negative patients (851+/-199 vs 428+/-185, mean+/-SE, P = 0.006). Coronary calcification scores were correlated with serum phosphorus (r = 0.37; P = 0.001). Only 8 of the 24 HD patients without coronary calcification had carotid plaques (33%), whereas 34 of the 53 patients with coronary calcification had carotid plaques (64%) (P = 0.015). Carotid plaque scores were correlated with CACS (r = 0.40; P = 0.001). A stepwise linear regression (model r = 0.72; P<0.001) revealed that CACS (log-transformed data of CACS) was associated with age (P<0.001), time on dialysis (P = 0.004), serum phosphorus level (P = 0.016) and carotid plaque scores (P = 0.037). Atherosclerosis is independently associated with coronary artery calcification and with hyperphosphataemia in chronic HD patients. CACS appeared to be predictive of both coronary atherosclerosis and carotid atherosclerosis."}
{"id": "15013330", "title": "Characteristics of coronary heart disease in renal transplant recipients.", "content": "Characteristics of coronary heart disease in renal transplant recipients. The aim of this study was to identify the characteristics of coronary heart disease (CHD) in renal transplant recipients as well as to assess the impact of coronary angiography on allograft function. The 21 cases including 2 women and 19 men who underwent coronary angiography were retrospectively studied for age at transplantation and at diagnosis of coronary disease; risk factors; angio findings; serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) values before and after angio; and revascularization procedures. The mean ages at transplantation and at diagnosis were 40 +/- 7 years and 44 +/- 7 years, respectively. Eighteen patients (86%) had hypertension, 16 (76%) exhibited hyperlipidemia, and 5 (24%) diabetes mellitus. Coronary angiography revealed three-vessel disease in 10 patients, two-vessel disease in 3 patients, one-vessel disease in 4 patients, ectatic vessels in 2 patients, and normal coronary arteries in 2 patients. The mean serum creatinine and BUN levels after angio were not significantly different from the baseline values (pre creatinine and BUN 1.7 +/- 0.5 mg/dL and 33.8 +/- 8.6 mg/dL versus post 1.8 +/- 0.6 mg/dL and 32.8 +/- 10.0 mg/dL, respectively). Ten patients with three-vessel disease underwent coronary artery bypass surgery; 4 patients, coronary angioplasty. The other patients received medical therapy. The study showed an increased likelihood of three-vessel disease among recipients compared with the general population and confirmed that coronary artery bypass surgery may be performed successfully in these patients. In conclusion coronary angiography is a safe diagnostic procedure with respect to allograft function."}
{"id": "14997923", "title": "Is obesity a predictor of mortality, morbidity and readmission after cardiac surgery?", "content": "Is obesity a predictor of mortality, morbidity and readmission after cardiac surgery? Obesity has been described as a risk factor for the development of coronary artery disease, but it has not been determined whether obesity is associated with adverse outcomes after cardiac surgery. Therefore, we analyzed a large cohort of patients who had undergone cardiac surgery to determine whether obesity is a predictor of mortality, morbidity or early readmission to hospital. At the London Health Sciences Centre, an academic tertiary care centre, we prospectively entered data from the cardiac surgical database from July 1999 to April 2002. We collected data on 1310 consecutive, unselected patients who underwent cardiac surgery during that time. We assessed the degree of obesity using the body mass index (BMI), and we prospectively documented the occurrence of 10 major complications after surgery. They included stroke, reoperation for bleeding, life-threatening cardiac arrest or arrhythmia, new renal failure requiring dialysis, septicemia, mediastinitis, sternal dehiscence, respiratory failure, postoperative myocardial infarction and low cardiac output necessitating intra-aortic balloon pump use. Univariable and multivariable analyses were conducted to determine the factors associated with and predictive of postoperative death and major complications. An increased BMI did not increase the risk of early postoperative death. Furthermore, increased BMI was not a predictor of a patient experiencing any of the major complications, except sternal dehiscence. An increased BMI was associated with a higher likelihood of readmission to hospital within 30 days of discharge. Obesity was not associated with adverse outcomes after cardiac operations, aside from the increased risks of sternal dehiscence and early hospital readmission."}
{"id": "14993503", "title": "Prognostic value of stress myocardial perfusion imaging using adenosine triphosphate at the beginning of haemodialysis treatment in patients with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Prognostic value of stress myocardial perfusion imaging using adenosine triphosphate at the beginning of haemodialysis treatment in patients with end-stage renal disease. Non-invasive detection of coronary artery disease (CAD) remains difficult in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). This study evaluated the ability of pharmacologic stress myocardial perfusion imaging to predict cardiac events in patients with ESRD. A prospective study was carried out in 49 consecutive patients with ESRD. Thallium-201 single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) using high-dose adenosine triphosphate (ATP) was performed within 1 month of the beginning of haemodialysis. The study end-point was a cardiac event or the 1-year anniversary of the SPECT study. Twenty-four patients (17 diabetics, 57% and seven non-diabetics, 37%) had myocardial perfusion defects. The remaining 25 patients had normal perfusion images. Fifteen patients had non-fatal cardiac events and two patients died of a cardiac cause. All patients who had non-fatal cardiac events underwent myocardial revascularization and survived until the end of follow-up. The 1-year cardiac event-free survival rate was 34% among patients with perfusion defects and 96% among patients without perfusion defects (P<0.001). The presence of a myocardial perfusion defect was the only independent predictor of 1-year cardiac events both in overall (HR, 49.91; 95% CI, 5.15-484.00; P<0.001) and in diabetic patients (HR, 33.72; 95% CI, 2.96-383.5; P = 0.005). Diabetes and an increased C-reactive protein were associated with the progression of CAD. Normal myocardial perfusion imaging by stress thallium-201 SPECT using high-dose ATP performed within 1 month after the beginning of haemodialysis treatment is a powerful predictor of cardiac event-free survival in patients with ESRD."}
{"id": "14975472", "title": "The relative importance of vascular structure and function in predicting cardiovascular events.", "content": "The relative importance of vascular structure and function in predicting cardiovascular events. We sought to assess the prognostic utility of brachial artery reactivity (BAR) in patients at risk of cardiovascular events. Impaired flow-mediated vasodilation measured by BAR is a marker of endothelial dysfunction. Brachial artery reactivity is influenced by risk factors and is responsive to various pharmacological and other treatments. However, its prognostic importance is uncertain, especially relative to other predictors of outcome. A total of 444 patients were prospectively enrolled to undergo BAR and follow-up. These patients were at risk of cardiovascular events, based on the presence of risk factors or known or suspected cardiovascular disease. We took a full clinical history, performed BAR, and obtained carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) and left ventricular mass and ejection fraction. Patients were followed up for cardiovascular events and all-cause mortality. Multivariate Cox regression analysis was performed to assess the independent association of investigation variables on outcomes. The patients exhibited abnormal BAR (5.2 +/- 6.1% [mean +/- SD]) but showed normal nitrate-mediated dilation (9.9 +/- 7.2%) and normal mean IMT (0.67 +/- 0.12 mm [average]). Forty-nine deaths occurred over the median follow-up period of 24 months (interquartile range 10 to 34). Patients in the lowest tertile group of BAR (<2%) had significantly more events than those in the combined group of highest and mid-tertiles (p = 0.029, log-rank test). However, mean IMT (rather than flow-mediated dilation) was the vascular factor independently associated with mortality, even in the subgroup (n = 271) with no coronary artery disease and low risk. Brachial artery reactivity is lower in patients with events, but is not an independent predictor of cardiovascular outcomes in this cohort of patients."}
{"id": "14967833", "title": "Stress imaging in renal transplant candidates.", "content": "Stress imaging in renal transplant candidates."}
{"id": "14760327", "title": "Is systolic blood pressure recovery after exercise a predictor of mortality?", "content": "Is systolic blood pressure recovery after exercise a predictor of mortality? An attenuated systolic blood pressure recovery after exercise has been associated with the severity of atherosclerotic heart disease. For 6 years, we observed 12,379 patients who underwent symptom-limited exercise testing. We excluded patients receiving antihypertensive medication and patients with valvular disease, emphysema, end-stage renal disease, heart failure, left ventricular systolic dysfunction, and atrial fibrillation. Blood pressure recovery ratio was defined as the ratio of systolic blood pressure at 3 minutes into recovery to systolic blood pressure at peak exercise; this has been shown to correlate with angiographic severity of coronary disease. The blood pressure recovery ratios ranged from 0.36 to 1.62, with values for increasing quartiles of 0.72 +/- 0.05, 0.82 +/- 0.02, 0.88 +/- 0.02, and 0.99 +/- 0.07. During follow-up, there were 430 deaths (3%). Five-year Kaplan Meier survival rates were 0.975, 0.974, 0.969, and 0.966 in quartiles 1 to 4, respectively. Compared with patients in the lowest quartile of blood pressure recovery ratio, patients in the highest quartile were at somewhat increased risk (hazard ratio, 1.71; 95% CI, 1.31-2.24; P <.001). However, after adjusting for age, sex, body mass index, resting heart rate and blood pressure, peak systolic blood pressure, heart rate recovery, exercise chronotropic response, cardiac history, and standard risk factors, this association was no longer present (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.05; 95% CI, 0.8-1.38; P =.74). In this low-risk population, abnormal systolic blood pressure recovery after exercise was not independently predictive of mortality after correcting for differences in baseline and exercise characteristics."}
{"id": "14750098", "title": "Ability of non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and calculated intermediate-density lipoprotein to identify nontraditional lipoprotein subclass risk factors in dialysis patients.", "content": "Ability of non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and calculated intermediate-density lipoprotein to identify nontraditional lipoprotein subclass risk factors in dialysis patients. Non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C) and calculated intermediate-density lipoprotein cholesterol (IDL-C) have been proposed as surrogate markers to estimate apolipoprotein B-containing lipoproteins. The purpose of this study was to determine the validity of non-HDL-C and calculated IDL-C to predict nontraditional lipoprotein risk factors among dialysis patients and to compare the prevalence of these nontraditional risk factors between dialysis modalities. The authors performed a cross-sectional analysis comparing standard lipid profile with lipoprotein analysis via nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy among 186 hemodialysis (HD) and peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients on modern lipid-lowering therapy. The PD group had a significantly higher low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particle concentration (P < 0.005), higher large very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL; P < 0.001), greater small dense LDL (P < 0.001), and lower protective large HDL (P < 0.005). Forty-six (40%) of 118 subjects with LDL-C below goal had at least 1 nontraditional risk factor by NMR spectroscopy. The sensitivity of non-HDL-C method together with triglyceride (TG) value greater than 200 mg/dL (>2.26 mmol/L) to predict nontraditional risk was 13% and increased to 20% if TG values were excluded. A negative correlation was observed between LDL particle size and HDL-C (r2 = 0.269; P < 0.001); the sensitivity of HDL-C to predict LDL size was 92%. There was no relationship between measured IDL by NMR and calculated IDL-C (r2 = 0.005; P = 0.69). Non-HDL-C greater than 130 mg/dL (3.4 mmol/L) independent of TG values and HDL-C lower than 40 mg/dL (1.0 mmol/L) may predict nontraditional lipoprotein risk factors among dialysis patients. This is especially applicable to patients on PD, a modality associated with a more atherogenic lipoprotein profile."}
{"id": "14750097", "title": "Coronary artery calcification measured with electron-beam computerized tomography correlates poorly with coronary artery angiography in dialysis patients.", "content": "Coronary artery calcification measured with electron-beam computerized tomography correlates poorly with coronary artery angiography in dialysis patients. Coronary artery calcification measured by electron-beam computerized tomography (EBCT) correlates with plaque burden and vessel stenosis and is predictive of future cardiac events in the general population. Uremic vascular calcification is common and widespread, tends to be medial as well as intimal, and may not relate solely to atherosclerotic lesions. Despite this difference and in the absence of any direct evidence in uremic patients, it is generally implied that coronary artery calcification equates to occlusive atherosclerosis. We set out to compare the predictive value of coronary artery calcification assessed by EBCT with contemporaneous coronary angiography. We studied 18 patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing maintenance dialysis. Seventy-two coronary vessels were analyzed for angiographic evidence of stenotic disease and correlated with individual vessel calcification score. There was no significant correlation between degree of vessel stenosis and calcification score for individual vessels in patients with a positive calcium scan. Specificity was 48% and the positive predictive value was 53%. However, a calcification score <20 strongly correlated with the absence of significant luminal narrowing, and a 0 calcification score had a negative predictive value of 87.5%. Coronary artery calcification measured by EBCT is not an accurate marker of the degree of vessel stenosis in coronary artery disease in uremic patients and should not be used as a single screening test for atherosclerotic coronary disease."}
{"id": "14712426", "title": "The effect of long-term aggressive lipid lowering on ischemic and atherosclerotic burden in patients with chronic kidney disease.", "content": "The effect of long-term aggressive lipid lowering on ischemic and atherosclerotic burden in patients with chronic kidney disease. Cardiac mortality is the main cause of death in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). In this study, we sought the efficacy of long-term intensive lipid level lowering on atherosclerotic burden in patients with CKD. Patients with CKD (n = 38; age, 64 +/- 11 years) and a similar group of patients with coronary artery disease (CAD; n = 31) were treated prospectively with atorvastatin, up to 80 mg/d. Lipid profile, carotid intima-media thickness (IMT; a marker of atherosclerotic burden), and dobutamine echocardiography were measured at baseline and 2 years. Predictors of change in maximal IMT were sought in a linear model. Despite similar cholesterol level lowering, patients with CAD showed an improvement in maximum IMT, whereas those with CKD did not (mean between-group difference, 0.07 mm; 95% confidence interval, 0.01 to 0.12). Change in maximal IMT was associated with kidney disease (R2 = 0.09; P = 0.013), smoking (R2 = 0.083; P = 0.017), baseline low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) level (R2 = 0.064; P = 0.045), very low density cholesterol (VLDL-C) level (R2 = 0.084; P = 0.021), and calcium channel blocker use (R2 = 0.094; P = 0.01). In a multivariate model, kidney disease and baseline LDL-C and VLDL-C levels remained independent predictors of change in maximal IMT (model R2 = 0.24; P = 0.004). Only patients with CAD decreased their number of ischemic segments (2.5 +/- 1.4 to 1.2 +/- 1.5 segments; P = 0.002). Overall change in ischemic segment number correlated with change in maximal IMT (r = 0.32; P = 0.019). Patients with CKD undergoing intensive lipid level lowering do not show the same changes in atherosclerotic or ischemic burden as patients with CAD. Independent predictors of change in maximal IMT were CKD and baseline LDL-C and VLDL-C levels."}
{"id": "14712183", "title": "Measurement of coronary flow velocity reserve in the posterior descending coronary artery by contrast-enhanced transthoracic Doppler echocardiography.", "content": "Measurement of coronary flow velocity reserve in the posterior descending coronary artery by contrast-enhanced transthoracic Doppler echocardiography. Although the measurement of coronary flow velocity (CFV) reserve (CFVR) in the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) by transthoracic Doppler echocardiography has been established, its success rate in the posterior descending coronary artery (PD) is still limited. This study reports the feasibility and diagnostic accuracy of measuring CFVR in the PD by transthoracic Doppler echocardiography. CFVR in both the distal LAD and the PD was measured in 151 consecutive patients before coronary angiography. PD flow was investigated under the guidance of a nondirectional Doppler color flow map with harmonic imaging in the modified apical 2-chamber view. Intravenous contrast agent, Levovist, was injected to enhance the CFV envelope at baseline and during hyperemia. CFVR was obtained in 145 patients in the LAD and 126 patients in the PD (P <.001). The success rate of CFVR measurement in the PD was significantly higher in the last 50 patients (88%) than it was in the first 50 patients (72%) (P <.05). CFVR in the PD was significantly lower for patients with significant stenosis of the artery supplying the PD than it was in those without stenosis (1.58 +/- 0.59 vs 2.45 +/- 0.72, P <.001). CFVR in the distal LAD was 1.40 +/- 0.62 in patients with significant LAD stenosis and 2.45 +/- 0.80 in those without stenosis (P <.001). If a cut-off value of CFVR < 2 was used, sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy for the diagnosis of significant (>50%) stenosis of the artery supplying the PD were 84%, 83%, and 83%, respectively, whereas for the LAD they were 91%, 75%, and 80%, respectively. Noninvasive measurement of CFVR in the PD could be obtained in the majority of unselected patients using a nondirectional Doppler color flow map and contrast-enhanced harmonic imaging. The diagnostic accuracy of CFVR in the PD is similar to that of the LAD and, hence, has a potential clinical use."}
{"id": "14696151", "title": "Subclavian artery stenting: factors influencing long-term outcome.", "content": "Subclavian artery stenting: factors influencing long-term outcome. This study provides extended follow-up of a nonrandomized series of symptomatic patients who underwent subclavian stent-supported angioplasty (SSA) with emphasis on preprocedure factors that may have influenced outcome. The endpoints of mortality and restenosis were analyzed using backward stepwise logistic regression with the following clinical variables: coronary artery disease, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, smoking, diabetes mellitus, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic renal insufficiency/failure, and hypothyroidism. Restenosis is reported based on prospective serial noninvasive studies and/or angiography. Mortality was evaluated by retrospective database review and inquiry to the State Department of Health and Human Services' statistical registry in patients who were lost to follow-up. Over a 9-year period (mean follow-up, 36.1 +/- 30.4 months; maximum observation, 109.5 months), 101 stents were placed in 91 consecutive patients (37 male, 54 female). The mean age at intervention was 62.03 +/- 9.3. The procedure was technically successful in 89 patients 97% (mean pre- and postoperative stenosis and pressure gradients were 90.2% +/- 9.4% vs. 3.7% +/- 6.6%, P < 0.001, and 59.9 +/- 35.2 vs. 0 mm Hg, P < 0.001, respectively), with 13 minor complications and no immediate major complications. One patient died of unrelated causes within 30 days. Per Kaplan-Meier method, for years 1 through 5, the rates of overall patency were 96%, 91%, 86%, 77%, and 72%; likewise, overall patient survival was 93%, 88%, 8%4, 81%, and 76%. No clear predictors for restenosis were discovered, although a trend toward higher recurrence was noted in women (18.5% in female vs. and 8.6% in male; P > 0.05), but the same were less likely to die during follow-up (P > 0.001). Also, the presence of hypothyroidism (P = 0.004) and increasing age (P = 0.068) were positively correlated with all-cause mortality. This study suggests that SSA is predictable, safe, and durable. The diagnosis of symptomatic subclavian disease is of prognostic importance, with age and male gender representing important predictors of all-cause long-term mortality. The strong association of increased mortality with hypothyroidism is difficult to discard and raises the question of a yet to be described thyroid steal phenomena."}
{"id": "14695458", "title": "Increased expression of monocyte CD11a and intracellular adhesion molecule-1 in patients with initial atherosclerotic coronary stenosis.", "content": "Increased expression of monocyte CD11a and intracellular adhesion molecule-1 in patients with initial atherosclerotic coronary stenosis. Cell adhesion molecules have been implicated in the adhesion of leukocytes to endothelial cells and therefore play a role in atherosclerosis, which is a frequent cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) or undergoing hemodialysis (HD). The levels of expression of leukocyte adhesion molecules were evaluated in patients with CAD or HD. The expression of leukocyte (ie, neutrophil, monocyte and lymphocyte) surface CD11a, CD18, intracellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), very late antigen-4 alpha (VLA-4 alpha) and L-selectin was investigated by flow cytometry in 20 patients who were initially diagnosed with CAD (CAD group), 15 patients with coronary re-stenosed vessels (RESTE group), 20 undergoing HD (HD group) and 20 without CAD (CONT group). Monocyte surface expression of both CD11a and ICAM-1 in the CAD group was significantly higher than in the CONT group. Interestingly, when 15 patients with RESTE were analyzed, they showed monocyte CD11a and ICAM-1 expression levels comparable to those in the CONT group. On the other hand, there were no significant differences in the expression of CD11a, CD18, L-selectin or VLA-4 alpha between the HD group and CONT group, but monocyte L-selectin was increased in the CAD group compared with the CONT group. Because CD11a and CD18 are expressed on the cell surface as a heterodimer and ICAM-1 is a ligand for CD11a/CD18, this increased expression of CD11a and ICAM-1 may affect the development of initial atherosclerotic coronary stenosis, but not re-stenosis."}
{"id": "15199443", "title": "Troponins in acute coronary syndromes.", "content": "Troponins in acute coronary syndromes. Delivering superior clinical specificity and sensitivity for myocardial necrosis, cardiac troponin has replaced creatine kinase-MB as the preferred biomarker for establishing the diagnosis of myocardial infarction. On the basis of expert recommendations, present convention sets the diagnostic decision-limit for each assay at the 99th percentile of troponin levels in an apparently healthy reference population. Owing to a lack of standardization between different assays, this level, corresponding to the 99th percentile, will vary depending upon the manufacturer. Among patients presenting with an acute coronary syndrome (ACS), even low-level elevations of cardiac troponin T or I are associated with higher risk of death and recurrent ischemic events compared with patients with a troponin level below the appropriate decision limit. Renal failure does not appear to diminish the prognostic value of troponins among patients with a high clinical probability of ACS. In addition, patients with elevated levels of troponin appear to gain the most benefit from more aggressive medical therapy with antithrombin and antiplatelet medications as well as an early invasive management strategy. Cardiac troponins offer extremely high tissue specificity but do not discriminate between ischemic and nonischemic mechanisms of myocardial injury; thus, presently the clinician must assess whether a patient's presenting symptoms are consistent with ACS. It is possible that future generations of troponin assays will detect specific post-translational modifications of troponins that may increase the analytic sensitivity for myocardial damage and offer insight into the timing and mechanism of myocardial injury."}
{"id": "15072511", "title": "Angiographical severity of coronary atherosclerosis predicts death in the first year of hemodialysis.", "content": "Angiographical severity of coronary atherosclerosis predicts death in the first year of hemodialysis. Cardiac deaths and events tend to cluster within the early-phase after starting dialysis. Our goal is to clarify the influence of severity of coronary atherosclerosis on early-phase death after starting hemodialysis (HD) therapy. Eighty-three consecutive patients [mean age 62 years; male/female 64/19; diabetic nephropathy in 50 (54%)] with end-stage renal disease who admitted to our hospital to initiate regular HD treatment, and then received coronary angiography within 3 months after first dialysis therapy, were eligible for this study. Angiographical severity of coronary atherosclerosis was scored by numerically using Gensini scoring system. The patients who died within one year from starting HD were compared with those who survived as control by means of logistic regression analysis. Of 83 patients, 12 (14%) died less than one year after starting dialysis therapy. Of these 12 patients, nine died for cardiac causes. Confirmed predictors of death from cardiac cause were older age (>70 years), lower mean blood pressure (<100 mmHg), presence of ischemic heart disease (IHD), myocardial infarction (MI), angina pectoris (AP), chronic heart failure (CHF), poor cardiac function, abnormal wall motion of left ventricule (LV) and angiographical severity of coronary atherosclerosis by univariate model. Adjusting for confounding variables by multivariate model, only severity of coronary atherosclerosis (Gensini score >40 points) had a powerful influence, increasing risk for cardiac cause of early-phase death by about 17 times. Severity of coronary atherosclerosis predicts death in the first year of HD. These findings suggest that the strategy for prevention of coronary atherosclerosis should be instituted during the early phase of chronic renal failure."}
{"id": "15012725", "title": "Even moderate chronic renal failure is associated with impaired acute and long-term outcome after coronary angioplasty.", "content": "Even moderate chronic renal failure is associated with impaired acute and long-term outcome after coronary angioplasty. End-stage renal failure requiring maintenance haemodialysis is known to be a strong independent predictor of mortality and complications after coronary interventions. In contrast, data about the outcome of patients with moderate chronic renal failure is very limited and was therefore evaluated in this study in patients with coronary angioplasty (PTCA). This was a retrospective case-control study of 66 patients with moderate chronic renal failure who underwent PTCA, and who were matched to 66 PTCA patients with normal renal function and followed up by telephone interviews. In hospital, patients with renal failure suffered significantly more often from local complications (12.1 vs 0%, P = 0.004) and acute deterioration of renal function after PTCA (7.6 vs 0%, P = 0.023) than their matched controls. Angiographic success after PTCA was not significantly different (85 vs 83%, n.s.) as was the case with in-hospital mortality (6.1 vs 3.0%, n.s.). During follow up (100% complete), 18 patients (27.3%) with renal failure had died compared with seven controls (10.6%; OR 3.2, P = 0.015). Even if deaths from non-cardiac causes in three patients with renal failure were excluded, death after PTCA occurred significantly more often in the renal failure group (P = 0.015, log rang test). Multivariate analyses with stepwise logistic regression identified impaired left ventricular function (OR 2.24, 95%CI 1.33-3.77), elevated serum creatinine (OR 2.02, 95%CI 1.24-3.31) and smaller height (OR 0.91, 95%CI 0.86-0.98) to be independently associated with death. In conclusion, in this matched-pair study, patients with chronic renal failure suffered from more in-hospital complications and from markedly increased long-term mortality after PTCA."}
{"id": "14735034", "title": "Cardiac surgery in patients receiving long term hemodialysis. Short and long term results.", "content": "Cardiac surgery in patients receiving long term hemodialysis. Short and long term results. Cardiac surgery carries a high risk in hemodialysis patients and has been questioned for its results; the purpose of this study is to focus on the short and long term results in our institution. We retrospectively analyzed the data from 124 hemodialysis patients who underwent cardiac surgery in our unit between January 1980 and December 1998; 14.5% were diabetic; 46% had isolated coronary artery disease (group 1); 29.8% had valvular disease alone (group 2); 14.5% valve and coronary disease (group 3) and 9.6% miscellaneous disease at highest risk (group 4). We analyzed the relationship between several variables (age, sex, hypertension, diabetes, previous myocardial infarction, type of disease, preoperative ejection fraction) and operative mortality (30 days) and late survival. The overall operative mortality was 16.9%. The only risk factor was the type of cardiac disease: operative mortality was higher in groups 3 and 4 combined than in groups 1 and 2 combined (30% versus 12.7%, p=0.07). Ninety-nine patients were followed until January 2002. Late survival rate was 46.6+/-5% at 6 years for all patients, it was significantly better in groups 1 and 2 combined than in groups 3 and 4 combined. The only risk factor for late mortality was arterial hypertension. Fifty-seven patients are still alive, 46 in groups 1 and 2, 11 in groups 3 and 4. Progression of coronary lesions occurred in 6 patients and valvular lesions in 3 patients. The remainder are doing well. Cardiac surgery seems to be justified by the severity of the lesions. Its actual results can perhaps, be improved by earlier detection of cardiac disease and better prevention of myocardial hypertrophy and cardiac calcifications."}
{"id": "14733032", "title": "Diabetes mellitus related morbidity, risk of hospitalization and disability.", "content": "Diabetes mellitus related morbidity, risk of hospitalization and disability. To investigate the rates of complications, hospitalizations and disabilities attributable to type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) combined, unless otherwise noted. Risk assessment of DM-related morbidity, hospitalizations and disabilities using data from the medical literature and health statistics on the population. Calculation of morbidity, hospitalization, and disability ratios (MbR, HR, DR) will allow comparison of observed rates in people with DM to those reported in the nondiabetic population. MbRs vary according to the morbid condition studied: approximately 300% at age 45-64 years for ischemic heart disease, 533% for coronary heart disease or stroke, 226% to 388% for chronic heart failure, 560% for peripheral vascular disease, 380% for neuropathy at age 35-74 years, 890% to 2225% for lower limb amputations, 1458% to 3287% for end-stage renal disease. For ocular complications: cataracts, 165% to 232%; glaucoma 140% to 330%; trouble seeing, 180% to 231%; blindness at age > or = 65 years, 517%. Higher values are noted at younger ages. HR: 200% to 409%. DR: 217% to 328%. Among diseases, DM is one of the leading and growing causes of hospital admission and disability. Precise risk assessment of morbidity is essential for realistic underwriting of health and disability insurance."}
{"id": "14717425", "title": "Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting in two renal transplant patients.", "content": "Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting in two renal transplant patients. Coronary artery disease is a critical problem for a renal transplant patient. This paper reports off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (OPCABG) in two cases after renal transplantation. The first, a 65-year-old woman, experienced chest pain 5 years after a renal transplantation. Coronary angiography (CAG) revealed stenosis of the left anterior descending artery (LAD) and the first diagonal artery (DB1). OPCABG [left internal thoracic artery (LITA) to DB1 and LAD] was performed. The second, a 67-year-old man, underwent percutaneous coronary intervention in the LAD 10 years ago. He experienced chest pain 2 years after a renal transplantation. CAG revealed restenosis of LAD. OPCABG (LITA to LAD) was performed. The patients' postoperative course was uneventful. OPCABG for a renal transplant patient was safe and useful since it is a less invasive procedure and easily managed perioperatively."}
{"id": "14714345", "title": "[Precipitating factors associated with diastolic heart failure in the elderly].", "content": "[Precipitating factors associated with diastolic heart failure in the elderly]. Beside basal myocardial dysfunction, acute heart failure involves associated factors, which increase pulmonary capillary pressure or decrease colloid osmotic pressure. The aim of this study was to evaluate the prevalence of these precipitating factors in a population presenting with acute heart failure with preserved left ventricular systolic function. Forty-eight patients (25 men, 78 +/- 10 years) presenting pulmonary edema with a left ventricular ejection fraction > 45% were included. All had a Doppler echocardiography at the time of intravenous loop diuretics initiation. Patients with severe valve disease or symptomatic coronary disease were excluded. A history of heart failure, coronary disease, hypertension and diabetes was present in 62%, 42%, 64% and 33% of patients, respectively. On admission, mean left ventricular ejection fraction was 61 +/- 9% and 79% of patients had critical elevation in Doppler filling pressures. Associated factors were renal failure (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min) in 33% patients, silent myocardial ischemia (troponin I > 0.5 ng/ml) in 31%, atrial fibrillation in 29%, high systolic blood pressure (> or = 160 mmHg) in 27%, major sepsis in 25%, severe hypoalbuminemia (< or = 2.5 g/dl) in 23%, and severe anemia (< 10 g/dl) in 17%, respectively. Four patients had no aggravating factor, whereas 34 and 10 patients had 1-2 and 3-4 associated factors, respectively. Besides diastolic dysfunction, factors leading to a critical decrease in the oncotic pressure such as pulmonary capillary pressure gradient are found in most of the elderly patients presenting acute diastolic heart failure and must be checked systematically."}
{"id": "14713182", "title": "Acetylcysteine, coronary procedure and prevention of contrast-induced worsening of renal function: which benefit for which patient?", "content": "Acetylcysteine, coronary procedure and prevention of contrast-induced worsening of renal function: which benefit for which patient? This study was designed to determine whether acetylcysteine could provide a protective effect on renal function in a population of patients with normal renal function or mild to moderate chronic renal failure, usually referred for a coronary procedure. Contrast-induced nephropathy is a well-recognized complication of coronary angiography. Recent studies suggest that saline hydration and acetylcysteine reduce the incidence of contrast-induced worsening of renal function in patients with pre-existing chronic renal failure who are undergoing computed tomography examinations. One hundred eight patients were blindly and randomly assigned to receive either acetylcysteine or placebo before and after administration of contrast agent in association with a moderate hydration protocol. Serum creatinine and urea nitrogen were measured before and 24 hours after coronary procedure. The mean serum creatinine concentration remained unchanged 24 hours after contrast agent administration in both groups: from 1.04 +/- 0.26 to 1.03 +/- 0.29 mg/dl in the acetylcysteine group and from 1.16 +/- 1.1 to 1.06 +/- 0.41 mg/dl in the control group (p = 0.29, for the comparison between two groups, NS). We divided the population into 3 subgroups according to their creatinine clearance: no significant change of serum creatinine concentration was observed in patients with normal renal function nor in patients with pre-existing mild to moderate chronic renal failure in both groups. There was no significant difference for the incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy between both groups (2 of the 53 patients in the acetylcysteine group and 3 of the 51 patients in the placebo group, p = 0.98, NS). Our data do not support the systematic use of acetylcysteine before a coronary procedure in patients with normal renal function or mild to moderate chronic renal failure, to prevent contrast-induced nephropathy."}
{"id": "14697941", "title": "Plasma tissue-type plasminogen activator, fibrinogen, and time on dialysis prior to transplantation are related to carotid intima media thickness in renal transplant recipients.", "content": "Plasma tissue-type plasminogen activator, fibrinogen, and time on dialysis prior to transplantation are related to carotid intima media thickness in renal transplant recipients. The majority of deaths among patients after renal transplantation is attributed to cardiovascular disease (CVD). Intima media thickness (IMT) of the common carotid artery is related to coronary and cerebrovascular arterial disease. One of the major causes of death due to CVD is acute coronary syndrome, which is precipitated by coronary plaque rupture and subsequent thrombosis. The aim of the study was to evaluate associations between some fibrinolytic factors: antigens of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA), plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1), and thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor (TAFI), and IMT in a population of renal transplant recipients. The study was performed on 33 Caucasian, clinically stable kidney transplant recipients (11 women, mean age 43 years, range 26 to 62 years). All the patients were on triple immunosuppressive regimen (cyclosporine, prednisone, and azathioprine) and had stable graft function (serum creatinine 1.7 +/- 0.7 mg/dL). The mean time since transplantation was 49.9 months (range 4.1 to 131.8 months). In univariate analysis IMT correlated significantly with age (r =.5; P =.001), pulse pressure (PP) (r =.4; P =.05), time on dialysis prior to transplantation (r =.6; P =.001), fibrinogen (r =.4; P =.02), and t-PA (r =.6; P =.001). Multiple regression analysis showed that t-PA antigen concentration (P =.001), fibrinogen (P <.05), and time on dialysis prior to transplantation (P <.05) were positive independent predictors of IMT. These data support the concept of the coincidence of disturbances in fibrinolysis and arterial remodelling in patients after kidney transplantation. On the other hand the study shows that the duration of dialysis therapy before transplantation is detrimental to the arterial vasculature."}
{"id": "14688493", "title": "Physician-nurse team approaches to improve blood pressure control.", "content": "Physician-nurse team approaches to improve blood pressure control. Hypertension is an asymptomatic chronic disease that contributes to the development of serious health problems including coronary artery disease, chronic renal failure, and stroke. Despite published guidelines addressing goals for the treatment of hypertension, control rates (defined as a blood pressure <140/90 mm Hg) have not increased in recent years, and uncontrolled hypertension remains a serious public health issue. Both patient- and provider-related factors contribute to these poor control rates, and new approaches to the management of hypertension must be sought. In this review, we describe unique physician-nurse team approaches to improve the control of hypertension both in a subspecialty hypertension practice and in a primary care clinic setting. By implementing practice models that result in sustainable improvements in blood pressure control rates, the morbidity and mortality resulting from target organ damage and ensuing costs to society may be expected to decline as well."}
{"id": "14669861", "title": "Association of atherosclerotic coronary artery disease and pulse pressure with renal disease progression.", "content": "Association of atherosclerotic coronary artery disease and pulse pressure with renal disease progression. This study was performed to identify the association of atherosclerotic coronary artery disease (CAD) and pulse pressure with renal disease progression in patients with mild chronic renal disease. Eligibility criteria for enrollment in this study included age 18 to 70 years, mild chronic renal disease (CRD), undergoing thallium SPECT and echocardiography and followed longer than three years. Mild CRD was defined as serum creatinine level of 1.5 to 3.0 mg/dL in men and 1.4 to 3.0 mg/dL in women. Patients with serious illness, history of kidney transplantation, ejection fraction less than 40% on echocardiography and development of acute renal failure during follow-up were excluded. A total of 87 patients were included in this study. The underlying renal disease included diabetic nephropathy in 51 patients. Forty-five patients showed positive findings on thallium SPECT and they were classified as having CAD. Coronary angiography showed significant stenosis in 41 of 42 patients studied. Median duration of follow-up was 56 months. During the follow-up period, 40 patients required chronic dialysis therapy and 16 patients showed a doubling of baseline serum creatinine in three years. These 56 patients were classified as progressors. Comparison of clinical and laboratory parameters between progressors and nonprogressors showed a difference in the presence of diabetic nephropathy, mean arterial pressure, 24-h urine protein (p < 0.001), pulse pressure (p < 0.01), total cholesterol and presence of CAD (p < 0.05). There was no association between the progression of CRD and the results of CAD or treatment of CAD. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that the presence of diabetic nephropathy and mean arterial pressure > 100 mm Hg were independent predictors of CRD progression. Atherosclerotic coronary artery disease and pulse pressure were associated with renal disease progression."}
{"id": "14668778", "title": "Rest perfusion defects in patients with no history of myocardial infarction predict the presence of a critical coronary artery stenosis.", "content": "Rest perfusion defects in patients with no history of myocardial infarction predict the presence of a critical coronary artery stenosis. The rest/stress sequence in myocardial perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) (MPS) permits evaluation of rest images before stress testing, allowing the identification of unexpected perfusion defects (PDs). We sought to study the angiographic correlates of these resting PDs. This study comprised 139 consecutive patients with no history of myocardial infarction referred for MPS whose stress test was canceled because of the observation of unexpected resting PDs (rest group). Of these, 60 patients (43.2%) were referred for angiography after MPS (6.0 +/- 11.5 days). Angiographic referral rates and results were compared with those of a diagnostic population (n = 3565) who demonstrated stress-induced PDs (stress group) on rest/stress MPS. The mean age in the rest group was 73 +/- 12.5 years, and 73% were men. The frequency of referral for angiography was higher in the rest group (43.2% vs 19.8%, P <.0001). In addition, the rest group more frequently had significant coronary artery disease (CAD) (>/=70%) (95% vs 80%, P =.008) and critical CAD (>/=90%) (80% vs 66%, P =.038). The rest/stress sequence for MPS enables the identification of patients with unexpected resting PD, usually resulting from critical CAD, in whom unnecessary stress testing can be avoided."}
{"id": "14659847", "title": "Usefulness of technetium-99m sestamibi myocardial perfusion SPECT in detection of cardiovascular involvement in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus or systemic sclerosis.", "content": "Usefulness of technetium-99m sestamibi myocardial perfusion SPECT in detection of cardiovascular involvement in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus or systemic sclerosis. The main purpose of the study was to evaluate the utility of technetium-99m sestamibi myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography (Tc-99m sestamibi SPECT) in detection of cardiac involvement in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) or systemic sclerosis (SS) patients. Fifty SLE or SS female patients with cardiac symptom/sign such as chest discomfort and/or dyspnea and/or occasionally palpitation and 50 SLE or SS female patients without any cardiac symptom/sign were investigated using Tc-99m sestamibi SPECT during rest and stress after dipyridamole infusion. Twenty-five age- and sex-matched healthy females were also included as controls in this study. The results of Tc-99m sestamibi SPECT were classified into four types including normal, persistent perfusion defect (PD), reversible perfusion defect (RD), and reverse perfusion defect (RR). The results of Tc-99m sestamibi SPECT in the 25 healthy females were normal. Perfusion abnormalities were detected in 44/50 (88%) symptomatic SLE or SS patients. However, myocardial perfusion abnormalities were only detected in 19/50 (38%) asymptomatic SLE or SS patients (P value<0.05 by a chi2 test). However, for risk factor of coronary artery disease and abnormal resting EKG, the incidences were not significant between symptomatic and asymptomatic patients (P values >0.05 by a chi2 test). Tc-99m sestamibi SPECT is a useful noninvasive imaging modality to detect cardiac involvement in symptomatic or asymptomatic SLE or SS patients."}
{"id": "14645643", "title": "Case records of the Massachusetts General Hospital. Weekly clinicopathological exercises. Case 37-2003. A 79-year-old man with coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular disease, end-stage renal disease, and abdominal pain and distention.", "content": "Case records of the Massachusetts General Hospital. Weekly clinicopathological exercises. Case 37-2003. A 79-year-old man with coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular disease, end-stage renal disease, and abdominal pain and distention."}
{"id": "14638921", "title": "Association between renal insufficiency and inducible ischemia in patients with coronary artery disease: the heart and soul study.", "content": "Association between renal insufficiency and inducible ischemia in patients with coronary artery disease: the heart and soul study. Chronic renal insufficiency (CRI) is a predictor of stroke, cardiovascular, and all-cause mortality, but the mechanisms responsible for these associations are unclear. Whether CRI was associated with severity of coronary artery disease (CAD) as measured by exercise stress echocardiography among outpatients with stable CAD was evaluated. This study is a cross-sectional analysis of the Heart and Soul study, a prospective cohort of patients with known CAD. Renal function was assessed by 24-h urine collection, and CRI was defined as measured creatinine clearance < or =60 ml/min. Exercise stress echocardiography was used to identify inducible ischemia, defined as any wall motion abnormality seen at stress but not at rest. Logistic regression was used to evaluate the association of CRI with exercise-induced ischemia after adjustment for cardiovascular risk factors. Participants with CRI composed 97 (23%) of the 431 participants and were characterized by older age, worse CAD, lower ejection fraction, greater left ventricular mass and higher C-reactive protein values. The prevalence of exercise-induced ischemia was also substantially greater in the participants with CRI (42% versus 23%; odds ratio [OR], 2.3; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.4 to 3.8; P < 0.001). This association was minimally changed by adjustment for traditional cardiovascular risk factors and coronary disease history (OR, 2.0; 95% CI, 1.3 to 3.3; P < 0.01) and remained strong even after adjustment for C-reactive protein (OR, 2.3; 95% CI, 1.0 to 5.1; P = 0.04). CRI is strongly associated with exercise-induced ischemia in patients with CAD. The greater severity of atherosclerotic disease observed in patients with CRI may in part explain the association of CRI with increased cardiovascular risk among individuals with CAD."}
{"id": "14636911", "title": "Usefulness of tachycardic-stress perfusion imaging to predict coronary artery disease in high-risk patients with chronic renal failure.", "content": "Usefulness of tachycardic-stress perfusion imaging to predict coronary artery disease in high-risk patients with chronic renal failure. Uncertainty remains as to the most appropriate preoperative screening investigation to evaluate patient cardiac risk in prospective renal transplant recipients. We prospectively compared tachycardic-stress (exercise/pacing) scintigraphy with coronary angiography for the detection of significant coronary artery disease in this group. With a negative predictive value of 92%, tachycardic-stress scintigraphy may reduce the need for unnecessary coronary angiography in these patients."}
{"id": "14609589", "title": "Renal insufficiency is an independent predictor of mortality after percutaneous coronary intervention.", "content": "Renal insufficiency is an independent predictor of mortality after percutaneous coronary intervention. The present study was designed to evaluate whether the presence of renal disease during percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is associated with worse outcomes at 1 year in a multicenter study. The incidence of death, myocardial infarction, coronary artery bypass grafting, repeat PCI, and repeat revascularization were prospectively collected on 4,602 patients (6,542 lesions) in 2 waves of patients who underwent PCI in 17 centers between July 1997 and June 1999. Renal disease was defined as the presence of an increased creatinine level in a patient with a history or presence of renal failure treated with low protein diet or dialysis. Patients with renal disease (n = 192) were older and more likely to have diabetes, heart failure, reduced ejection fraction, known coronary disease, and multivessel disease than patients without renal disease (n = 4,410). Rates of stenting were equivalent (68.2% vs 73.0%, p = NS). Patients with renal disease had lower angiographic success (84.9% vs 92.8%, p <0.001) and higher mortality, both in-hospital (5.7% vs 1.2%, p <0.001) and at 1 year (19.7% vs 4.4%, p <0.0001). After adjusting for clinical, demographic, and angiographic differences, renal disease remained an independent predictor of in-hospital (odds ratio 3.81, 95% confidence interval 1.70 to 8.58) and 1-year (risk ratio 2.46, 95% confidence interval 1.64 to 3.68) mortality. Renal disease conferred additional mortality risk in established high-risk clinical subgroups. In conclusion, after adjusting for a higher frequency of co-morbidities, renal disease remains a strong and independent predictor of increased in-hospital and 1-year mortality after PCI and is additive to other clinical markers of worse outcome."}
{"id": "14603803", "title": "Successful direct stenting guided by intravascular ultrasound without contrast in a patient with renal dysfunction.", "content": "Successful direct stenting guided by intravascular ultrasound without contrast in a patient with renal dysfunction. We report a 60-year-old male with significant renal dysfunction who had a recent coronary angiography with mid coronary stenosis. To avoid worsening of his kidney failure, we performed primary stenting with a combination of intravascular ultrasound and a marker wire. No dye was used during the stenting procedure. Whereas this new technique needs to be validated in studies, it represents new hope for such patients."}
{"id": "14597932", "title": "Acute coronary syndromes in patients with prior cerebrovascular events: lessons from the Euro-Heart Survey of Acute Coronary Syndromes.", "content": "Acute coronary syndromes in patients with prior cerebrovascular events: lessons from the Euro-Heart Survey of Acute Coronary Syndromes. The aim of this study was to determine the frequency of prior cerebrovascular events (CE) among patients with an acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and to compare the clinical characteristics, clinical course, treatment, and outcomes of patients with ACS with and without a prior CE. We prospectively enrolled 10,484 patients with ACS in 103 hospitals in 25 countries across Europe and the Mediterranean basin. A prior CE was reported in 254 of 4338 patients (5.9%) with ST elevation, 420 of 5215 patients (8.1%) without ST elevation, and 92 of 663 patients (13.9%) with an undetermined electrocardiographic pattern. In general, patients with a prior CE were older, more likely to be females and nonsmokers, more commonly had prior myocardial infarction, heart failure, bypass surgery, and were more likely to have diabetes, hypertension, and renal failure. While in the hospital, they had more heart failure, and they were more likely to receive warfarin, digoxin, diuretics and calcium-channel blockers, and less likely to receive antiplatelet agents, beta-blockers, and statins. The inhospital mortality rates were 9.1% (with a prior CE) versus 6.4% (without a prior CE) for patients with ACS with ST elevation; 5.0% versus 2.0% for patients with ACS with non-ST elevation; and 14.1% versus 10.7% for patients with ACS with undetermined electrocardiographic results. The adjusted risk (95% CI) of inhospital death for patients with a prior CE was 1.12 (0.70, 1.81), 1.79 (1.06, 3.00), and 0.92 (0.44, 1.94) for ST-elevation ACS, non-ST-elevation ACS, and ACS with undetermined electrocardiogram, respectively. The P value for interaction between prior CE and the type of ACS on outcome was.10. Patients with a prior CE constitute 7.5% of patients with ACS and have high-risk features. A prior CE is associated with increased inhospital mortality, particularly in patients with with non-ST-elevation ACS."}
{"id": "14587658", "title": "Cholesterol crystal embolization (CCE) after cardiac catheterization: a case report and a review of 36 cases in the Japanese literature.", "content": "Cholesterol crystal embolization (CCE) after cardiac catheterization: a case report and a review of 36 cases in the Japanese literature. Cholesterol crystal embolization (CCE) is a complication of atherosclerosis. A 67-year-old Japanese man underwent coronary artery bypass grafting. After the surgery, he underwent coronary angiography via the right femoral artery. Twelve days later, he suddenly developed acalculous cholecystitis and was treated with antibiotics. Gradual deterioration in renal function, purplish discoloration of the distal portion of his toes, and eosinophilia were noted. We performed a skin biopsy and made a diagnosis of CCE. Cilostazol and intravenous heparin improved the symptoms and decreased the creatinine level. We retrospectively studied the clinical features of 36 cases registered with a diagnosis of CCE in the Japanese literature."}
{"id": "14583665", "title": "Combined assessment of cardiac systolic dysfunction and coronary atherosclerosis used to predict future cardiac deaths after starting hemodialysis.", "content": "Combined assessment of cardiac systolic dysfunction and coronary atherosclerosis used to predict future cardiac deaths after starting hemodialysis. Identification of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients at high risk for cardiac events is important for clinical dialysis management. The present study determined whether the combination of cardiac function and coronary atherosclerosis could predict future cardiac events after starting renal replacement therapy (RRT). We prospectively assessed left ventricle ejection fraction (EF) and Gensini score (GS) using angiographic severity of coronary atherosclerosis in 88 consecutive ESRD patients [mean age 62 years; 69 males (78%); 55 patients (64%) with diabetic nephropathy] at the initiation of RRT. EF was analyzed by echocardiogram, and GS was scored by coronary angiography within 3 months after starting RRT. The study end point was cardiac death. For analysis of the association between cardiac death and EF and GS measures, the univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazards model was used. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive value, and accuracy of event-free prediction were evaluated. Twenty-four patients (27%) had low cardiac function (EF <50%; low EF) and 44 patients (50%) had severe coronary atherosclerosis (GS >15; high GS). During a follow-up period of 3 years, cardiac death occurred in 21 patients (24%). The PPV of low EF and high GS was 42 and 39%, respectively; the highest PPV (53%) was obtained when low EF and high GS were combined. The cumulative survival rate at 5 years in patients with both low EF and high GS was significantly lower than those with high EF and low GS (91 vs. 22%, p < 0.0005). The combined assessment of cardiac function and coronary atherosclerosis at the initiation of RRT strongly predicts future cardiac events."}
{"id": "14569102", "title": "Association of high serum creatinine and anemia increases the risk of coronary events: results from the prospective community-based atherosclerosis risk in communities (ARIC) study.", "content": "Association of high serum creatinine and anemia increases the risk of coronary events: results from the prospective community-based atherosclerosis risk in communities (ARIC) study. Coronary heart disease (CHD) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with chronic kidney disease or anemia. The purpose of this study was to examine whether the association between renal function and risk of CHD is modified by hemoglobin (Hgb) status. Analyses were based on data from the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities study, a community-based study of risk factors for CHD in middle-aged people. People with known CHD at baseline were excluded from the analysis. Participants were followed for 9 yr for the occurrence of CHD. Anemia was defined as Hgb <13 g/dl in men and <12 g/dl in women. Cox proportional hazards models were used to assess the relative risk (RR) of CHD occurrence according to Hgb status, after adjusting for other risk factors (demographics, lipids, diabetes, hypertension, smoking, body mass index, and carotid intima-media thickness). A total of 13,329 participants were included. The interaction between Hgb concentration and serum creatinine (Scr) was significant (P = 0.02). Among people with anemia, a Scr >/=1.2 mg/dl in women or >/=1.5 mg/dl in men was associated with a higher risk of CHD (RR, 2.74; 95% confidence interval, 1.42 to 5.28) than those with normal Scr. In contrast, among those without anemia, this association was not noted (RR, 1.20; 95% confidence interval, 0.86 to 1.67). In conclusion, this study indicates that high Scr is associated with almost a threefold risk of CHD among middle-aged people with anemia, whereas no increased risk is found in people with high Scr in the absence of anemia."}
{"id": "14566766", "title": "Calcium-containing phosphate binder use associated with accelerated atherosclerotic coronary calcification.", "content": "Calcium-containing phosphate binder use associated with accelerated atherosclerotic coronary calcification. To report parameters and outcomes of phosphorus management in a maintenance hemodialysis patient who experienced atherosclerotic coronary calcification leading to myocardial infarction; to evaluate the role that high calcium intake over 6 years may have played in his coronary artery disease before the dangers of excess calcium intake in phosphorus management were recognized; and to describe an optimized therapeutic approach that provided improved mineral control. Case study. A large outpatient in-center hemodialysis treatment unit. Serum calcium, serum phosphorus, Ca x P product. The year before his cardiac event, the patient's mean serum calcium was 9.6 mg/dL, mean serum phosphorus was 5.9 mg/dL, and mean Ca x P product was 57 mg2/dL2. Serum calcium peaked at 10.8 mg/dL shortly before his cardiac event. Treatment phases included high-dose calcium acetate (10 g Ca/day), low-dose calcium acetate (4 g Ca/day), low-dose calcium acetate plus low-dose sevelamer hydrochloride (4 g Ca/day plus 2.4 to 4.8 g sevelamer/day), and low-dose calcium acetate plus higher-dose sevelamer hydrochloride (4 g Ca/day plus 4.0 to 12.0 g sevelamer/day). With calcium acetate and sevelamer doses optimized, serum phosphorus levels and Ca x P products continued decreasing, with mean values of 5.99 mg/dL and 50.7 mg2/dL2, respectively, and serum calcium remained stable at a mean of 8.5 mg/dL. The patient has had no further myocardial infarctions. This case illustrates how our growing understanding of phosphorus management and the addition of a calcium-free binder to our therapeutic armamentarium have improved phosphorus and calcium balance, reducing the risk of cardiovascular calcification."}
{"id": "14558338", "title": "[Coronary artery calcification in a patient in hemodialysis].", "content": "[Coronary artery calcification in a patient in hemodialysis]."}
{"id": "14551520", "title": "Significance of elevated cardiac troponin after percutaneous coronary interventions.", "content": "Significance of elevated cardiac troponin after percutaneous coronary interventions. Assays for cardiac troponin have become a standard for the diagnosis of myocardial damage. Due to their high sensitivity, minor myocardial injury can be frequently detected following percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI). Minor elevations in cardiac enzymes after apparently successful PCI are rather common and even modest increases in creatine kinase myocardial band (CK-MB) elevation identify a population with worse long-term prognosis compared to patients with no enzyme elevation. The significance of troponin elevation in acute coronary syndromes and its prognostic implications on short- and long-term clinical outcomes were previously demonstrated in several clinical studies. Conversely, data regarding troponin elevation after an apparently successful PCI is limited and their relevance in terms of predicting clinical outcomes remains unclear. Given the higher sensitivity of troponin essays, the incidence of troponin elevation after PCI is higher than that of CK-MB. In this review we discuss the significance and implications of post-procedural troponin elevation."}
{"id": "14517943", "title": "Screening renal artery angiography at the time of cardiac catheterization.", "content": "Screening renal artery angiography at the time of cardiac catheterization."}
{"id": "14514577", "title": "Relation of left ventricular hypertrophy to inflammation and albuminuria in adults with type 2 diabetes: the strong heart study.", "content": "Relation of left ventricular hypertrophy to inflammation and albuminuria in adults with type 2 diabetes: the strong heart study. To evaluate in adults with type 2 diabetes the extent to which the relation of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) to markers of systemic inflammation (fibrinogen and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein [hsCRP]) are affected by microangiopathy. We selected adults with type 2 diabetes using American Diabetes Association criteria from a population-based cohort, excluding those with medical history or electrocardiographic evidence of coronary heart disease or dialysis-dependent renal failure. LVH was assessed by echocardiogram. Of the 1299 eligible participants, 384 (29.6%) had LVH, which was associated with higher BMI, hsCRP, fibrinogen, and albuminuria in univariate analyses. After controlling for significant confounders, fibrinogen and albuminuria were higher in the presence of LVH (both P < 0.01), whereas hsCRP was not (P = 0.2), mostly because of the confounding effect of BMI. Adjustment for albuminuria abolished the relation of LVH to higher fibrinogen (P = 0.2). However, fibrinogen was significantly higher in participants with LVH among those without pathologic levels of albuminuria (<30 mg/g creatinuria), but not independent of BMI. Although hsCRP and fibrinogen were moderately correlated, fibrinogen, but not CRP, showed a significant relation with albuminuria. In adults with type 2 diabetes, echocardiographic LVH is associated with susceptibility to atherothrombosis and increased albuminuria, which is a marker of microangiopathy and endothelial dysfunction that appears in turn to be a relevant pathogenetic link between LVH and inflammation. However, in the absence of significant microalbuminuria, elevated BMI is a relevant pathogenetic factor in the relation of LVH to increased levels of markers of inflammation, potentially preceding development of significant albuminuria. In the presence of microangiopathy, we found that the atherothrombotic risk profile associated with LVH was independent of BMI and possibly reflected the association of LVH with a higher degree of endothelial dysfunction."}
{"id": "13679468", "title": "Interleukin-10 (IL-10): an update on its relevance for cardiovascular risk.", "content": "Interleukin-10 (IL-10): an update on its relevance for cardiovascular risk."}
{"id": "12975596", "title": "Multicenter prospective investigation on cardiovascular adverse effects of tacrolimus in kidney transplantations.", "content": "Multicenter prospective investigation on cardiovascular adverse effects of tacrolimus in kidney transplantations. To clarify the incidence and pathophysiological mechanism of cardiovascular adverse effects of tacrolimus, the present prospective study performed scheduled cardiovascular examinations at 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 20, and 24 weeks after starting the tacrolimus therapy in 68 consecutive kidney transplantation recipients enrolled from 26 institutes in Japan. Patients with previous coronary artery disease or congestive heart failure were excluded. The examinations included any subjective symptoms, changes in resting ECG, ambulatory Holter's dynamic ECG, two-dimensional echocardiography, and monitoring of serum drug concentrations and cardiac troponin T levels. Cardiac nuclear imaging and/or coronary angiography were performed in the case of suspicious coronary events. During the investigation, chest pain in 9 (13.2%) and palpitation in 6 patients (8.8%) were reported, both closely related to elevated blood drug concentrations (37.2 +/- 18.7 ng/mL, mean +/- SD). Cardiovascular examinations detected development of resting ECG abnormalities in 12 patients (17.6%), asymptomatic ST depression following increased heart rate in 11 (16.2%) and ventricular arrhythmias in 7 patients (10.3%) on Holter's dynamic ECG. Elevation of troponin T was detected in 3 patients (4.4%), which was also closely related to elevated drug concentrations and interpreted as myocardial damage associated with the therapy. Assessments by thallium(Tl)-201 myocardial scintigraphy and/or coronary angiography in patients with suspicious coronary events revealed only two patients (2.9%) were considered to be myocardial ischemia associated with coronary vasospasm or microcirculatory disturbance. Sequential evaluations on echocardiography revealed significant (p<0.05) decrease in LV end-diastolic dimension (4, 8, 18 and 24 weeks) and LV end-systolic dimension (from 1 to 24 weeks), and significant (p<0.05) increase in LV ejection fraction 1 to 4 weeks after the kidney transplantation. Thickening of LV wall (>2 mm compared with baseline) was detected in only one patient. The present prospective study detected totally 30.9% incidence of cardiovascular adverse events. Symptomatic events and troponin T elevation were closely related to elevated blood drug concentrations (>20 ng/ml). Coronary vasomotor dysfunction seemed to be related to these adverse events especially when the blood drug concentration was exceeding 20 ng/ml."}
{"id": "12972118", "title": "Comparison of short- and long-term outcomes of coronary angioplasty in patients with and without diabetes mellitus and with and without hemodialysis.", "content": "Comparison of short- and long-term outcomes of coronary angioplasty in patients with and without diabetes mellitus and with and without hemodialysis. In-hospital and long-term outcomes after coronary angioplasty in 28 dialysis diabetic and 84 dialysis nondiabetic patients were compared with clinical outcomes after coronary angioplasty in 28 nondialysis diabetic and 84 nondialysis, nondiabetic patients matched according to clinical and angiographic characteristics. The rate of angiographic success in diabetic dialysis patients was high and similar in the 4 groups. The risk of 4-year cardiac death and nonfatal myocardial infarction was higher in dialysis diabetics than in dialysis nondiabetics (odds ratio [OR] 1.88, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.01 to 2.75, p <0.05), nondialysis diabetics (OR 4.27, 95% CI 2.87 to 5.67, p <0.008), and nondialysis nondiabetics (OR 5.2, 95% CI 4.17 to 6.23, p <0.0001)."}
{"id": "12965309", "title": "Angiographic coronary diffuseness and outcomes in dialysis patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting surgery.", "content": "Angiographic coronary diffuseness and outcomes in dialysis patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting surgery. Pre-operative dialysis-dependent renal failure (DDRF) is a predictor of morbidity and mortality following coronary artery bypass grafting surgery (CABG). Whether this is due in part to a more diffuse coronary atherosclerotic burden in these patients is unknown. The purpose of this study was to compare coronary atherosclerotic disease burden in patients with and without pre-existing DDRF undergoing CABG. From a retrospective analysis of a single-centre cardiac surgical database, consecutive DDRF patients undergoing isolated CABG (n=35) were matched to 70 non-dialysis-dependent (NDD) patients without renal failure by procedure, age, sex, functional status, ejection fraction, number of diseased vessels, and diabetes. Pre-operative angiograms were analyzed by a single, blinded adjudicator using a modification of a previously published coronary diffuseness score (range: 0-45). Angiographic scores and baseline and outcome characteristics were compared using chi(2) tests, Fisher's Exact tests, and t-tests as appropriate. No statistical differences were found among pre-operative characteristics between the two groups. The mean angiographic coronary diffuseness scores for the dialysis and non-dialysis groups were 18.2 and 20.6, respectively (p=0.13). Transfusion was more frequent (77 vs. 23%, p<0.0001) and median length of stay longer (9 vs. 7 days, p=0.02) in the DDRF group. There were no differences in the number of distal anastomoses performed in the two groups. Low rates of peri-operative myocardial infarction, stroke, re-operation, and in-hospital mortality were observed in both groups. Objective quantification revealed that patients with DDRF undergoing CABG did not have a greater coronary artery atherosclerosis disease burden than matched controls who did not have pre-operative DDRF. This may be due to pre-operative patient selection bias. The increased morbidity and mortality of CABG in patients with DDRF is more likely to be due to the multiple adverse systemic effects of renal failure and dialysis on the cardiovascular system as opposed to diffuseness of distal coronary disease."}
{"id": "12960472", "title": "Does electron beam computer tomography provide added value in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease?", "content": "Does electron beam computer tomography provide added value in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease? Electron beam computer tomography (EBCT) is increasingly being used to diagnose coronary artery disease (CAD) in the asymptomatic patient. The aim of this review is to assess the current findings concerning EBCT in the diagnosis and prognostication of CAD. Review of the English language peer-reviewed medical literature for EBCT was done with emphasis on the diagnosis and prognosis of CAD. The goal of risk stratification is to limit aggressive and costly care to group of high-risk patients. EBCT has been used to track the progression of coronary atherosclerosis periodically. Studies have shown that the calcium score will increase from 18 to 22% per year and depends on the age, sex and renal function. Patients with end-stage renal disease have much higher counts. Because it is cheap and noninvasive, EBCT has been used to assess the effects of medications on velocity of increase in the calcium scores. There is concern about radiation for its use long term to assess the calcium score increase over a long period of time."}
{"id": "12947263", "title": "Emerging role of endovascular grafts in complex aortoiliac occlusive disease.", "content": "Emerging role of endovascular grafts in complex aortoiliac occlusive disease. Aortobifemoral bypass is the standard therapy for complex aortoiliac occlusive disease. The purpose of this study was to examine the use of endovascular grafts as an alternative to aortobifemoral bypass in patients with advanced aortoiliac occlusive disease at high risk. Endovascular grafts were placed in 23 limbs in 22 patients with TransAtlantic Inter-Society Consensus document (TASC) type C and D lesions. All procedures were performed in the operating room, and images were obtained with portable digital fluoroscopy. Surgical exposure of the ipsilateral common femoral artery was performed to enable safe closure of 9F to 12F sheath sites and to facilitate ipsilateral interventions in the distal external iliac artery. Concomitant infrainguinal outflow procedures were performed in 6 patients. Twenty of 22 patients were men; mean patient age was 63.2 +/- 3.2 years. Indications for intervention were rest pain in 12 of 23 limbs and tissue loss in 9 of 22 limbs. Risk factors included hostile abdomen or pelvis in 8 patients, coronary artery disease in 11 patients, end-stage renal disease in 3 patients, and severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in 3 patients. Each patient received a mean of 1.6 grafts. Initial technical success was 95.2%, with one technical failure. There was no 30-day mortality. All patients experienced at least one grade improvement per Society for Vascular Surgery reporting standards. Primary patency at 24 months was 84.2% +/- 8.0%, with a limb salvage rate of 95.3% +/- 5.0%. Mean (+/- SD) ankle brachial index improved from 0.49 +/- 0.22 to 0.87 +/- 0.26 (P <.001). Endovascular grafting to treat advanced aortoiliac occlusive disease can be accomplished with good clinical outcome and acceptable short-term patency. This endovascular technique can be a viable alternative to conventional surgical revascularization in patients with advanced aortoiliac occlusive disease at high risk."}
{"id": "12945083", "title": "Improved patient survival in recipients of simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplant compared with kidney transplant alone in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus and end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Improved patient survival in recipients of simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplant compared with kidney transplant alone in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus and end-stage renal disease. There are emerging data that simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplant (SPK) prolongs life compared with kidney transplant alone (KTA) in type 1 diabetics with end-stage renal disease. This study was a retrospective comparison of SPK with KTA in patients with type 1 diabetes. Between 1 January 1992 and 30 April 2002, 101 patients with type 1 diabetes were transplanted. Fifty-one of these patients received a KTA and 50 had a SPK. All patients underwent coronary angiography with surgical correction of any coronary artery disease before being listed. All patients who underwent SPK received quadruple immunosuppressive therapy consisting of antilymphocyte globulin, calcineurin inhibitor (tacrolimus or cyclosporin), azathioprine and steroids. Those who underwent KTA received calcineurin inhibitor (tacrolimus or cyclosporin), azathioprine and steroids. Patient survival at 1, 3, 5 and 8 years was 96, 93, 89 and 77 per cent respectively after SPK, and 93, 75, 57 and 47 per cent respectively after KTA (P = 0.018 at 8 years). The addition of pancreatic transplantation prolongs life in type 1 diabetic patients with renal failure compared with renal transplantation alone."}
{"id": "12928026", "title": "Improving feasibility of posterior descending coronary artery flow recording by transthoracic Doppler echocardiography.", "content": "Improving feasibility of posterior descending coronary artery flow recording by transthoracic Doppler echocardiography. Recording coronary arteries' flow by transthoracic Doppler echocardiography (TTDE) is a new task. Despite several studies concerning the left anterior descending artery (LAD) exist, the same for posterior descending coronary artery (PD) do not. Reported feasibility is not more than 76%. The aim of the study was to try to improve feasibility by using an additional two-dimensional view as a guide. PD flow recording was performed in 35 consecutive unselected patients under the guidance of the usual two-dimensional modified view [a two-chamber view (2-C)], and with a new four-chamber modified view (4-C). A semi-quantitative growing-quality score (from 0 to 3 points) to the trace was given. Contrast enhancement was used if PD was not visualized without it. The overall feasibility was 80%. A good or very good velocity signal (TTDE score > or = 2) was observed in 48% of patients without contrast enhancement. Time for first visualization of PD was short and significantly lower in 2-C than in 4-C (66 +/- 39 vs 90 +/- 70 s, respectively, P<0.05). TTDE recording of PD flow gained better feasibility being guided by two views. Maximal time for first visualization of PD was less than 3 min."}
{"id": "12913060", "title": "Coronary angiography is the best predictor of events in renal transplant candidates compared with noninvasive testing.", "content": "Coronary angiography is the best predictor of events in renal transplant candidates compared with noninvasive testing. Guidelines for the detection of coronary artery disease (CAD) and assess of risk in renal transplant candidates are based on the results of noninvasive testing, according to data originated in the nonuremic population. We evaluated prospectively the accuracy of 2 noninvasive tests and risk stratification in detecting CAD (>or=70% obstruction) and assessing cardiac risk by using coronary angiography (CA). One hundred twenty-six renal transplant candidates who were classified as at moderate (>or=50 years) or high (diabetes, extracardiac atherosclerosis, or clinical coronary artery disease) coronary risk underwent myocardial scintigraphy (SPECT), dobutamine stress echocardiography, and CA and were followed for 6 to 48 months. The prevalence of CAD was 42%. The sensitivities and negative predictive values for the 2 noninvasive tests and risk stratification were <75%. After 6 to 48 months, there were 18 cardiac events, 9 fatal. Risk stratification (P=0.007) and CA (P=0.0002) predicted the crude probability of surviving free of cardiac events. The probability of event-free survival at 6, 12, 24, 36, and 48 months were 98%, 98%, 94%, 94%, and 94% in patients with <70% stenosis on CA and 97%, 87%, 61%, 56%, and 54% in patients with >or=70% stenosis. Multivariate analysis showed that the sole predictor of cardiac events was critical coronary lesions (P=0.003). Coronary angiography may still be necessary for detecting CAD and determining cardiac risk in renal transplant candidates. The data suggest that current algorithms based on noninvasive testing in this population should be revised."}
{"id": "12902086", "title": "The effect of left internal mammary artery utilization on short-term outcomes after coronary revascularization.", "content": "The effect of left internal mammary artery utilization on short-term outcomes after coronary revascularization. The purpose of this study was to determine whether use of the left internal mammary artery (LIMA) during coronary revascularization influences short-term morbidity in all patients undergoing revascularization, as well as in patients over the age of 75 years, female patients, and patients with diabetes. The study also explored variability in the utilization of LIMA grafts across an entire state. Using the Clinical Outcomes Assessment Program (COAP) of the state of Washington, procedural outcomes were compared for patients receiving and patients not receiving LIMA grafts as part of revascularization procedures from January 1, 1999 to December 31, 2000. Mortality and major complications were examined, both as unadjusted rates and after adjusting for baseline patient risk factors. A total of 16 centers performed 8,797 nonemergent coronary artery revascularizations, including 81.7% with LIMA grafts. The use of a LIMA graft was associated with a significantly lower mortality (3.7% No LIMA vs 1.6% LIMA), as well as decreases in ventricular arrhythmias, need for postoperative dialysis, need for transfusions, ventilator dependence, and length of hospital stay. These trends were true for the population as a whole as well as for all subgroups analyzed, and they persisted after correcting for differences in comorbid conditions. In addition, there was wide variability in the use of LIMA grafts from center to center in the state. The use of LIMA grafts for coronary revascularization is associated with decreased mortality and morbidity. Despite these advantages, there is great variability in its application across the state of Washington."}
{"id": "12900820", "title": "Effects of exercise training on coronary heart disease risk factors in renal transplant recipients.", "content": "Effects of exercise training on coronary heart disease risk factors in renal transplant recipients. Multiple risk-factor interventions that include lifestyle changes have been proved to be effective in reducing risk profile in persons at high risk for developing coronary heart disease (CHD). There have not been similar studies involving transplant recipients. The purpose of this study is to examine effects of exercise training on cardiovascular risk profile during the first year after renal transplantation. We used traditional CHD risk factors and the Framingham CHD prediction methods. Ninety-six transplant recipients were randomly assigned to 2 groups at 1 month posttransplantation: the exercise training (EX group; n = 51) and usual care groups (UC group; n = 45). Testing was performed at baseline and 12 months posttransplantation and included maximal exercise testing and evaluation of CHD risk factors and risk-factor categories, determined by means of the Framingham equations. Overall 10-year CHD risk score did not change in either group. All patients showed increases in total cholesterol (TC) level, high-density lipoprotein fraction of cholesterol (HDL-C), and body mass index over time. No differences were observed between groups, except for a trend toward greater improvement in HDL cholesterol levels in the EX group (P = 0.07). Significantly more patients in the EX group moved out of the high-risk category in TC-HDL ratio. All patients remained in the high-risk category for physical fitness. There was a significant negative correlation of CHD risk and maximal exercise capacity (r = -0.406; P < 0.001). Exercise training alone does not reduce CHD risk during the first year after transplantation. Research to determine the effects of multiple risk interventions during a longer period in transplant recipients is warranted."}
{"id": "12891206", "title": "Safety of abciximab in patients with chronic renal insufficiency who are undergoing percutaneous coronary interventions.", "content": "Safety of abciximab in patients with chronic renal insufficiency who are undergoing percutaneous coronary interventions. Patients with chronic renal insufficiency (CRI) have worse outcomes during and after percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI). Abciximab reduces complications, but may cause excessive bleeding in patients with CRI. Therefore, we sought to determine the safety of abciximab in patients with CRI. Patients (n = 4158) undergoing PCI at the Mayo Clinic since abciximab became available were analyzed according to their estimated creatinine clearance (> or =70, 50-69, or <50 mL/min) or need for dialysis. Major bleeding was defined as a cerebrovascular bleed or a decrease in the hematocrit level >15%. Minor bleeding was defined as a decrease in the hematocrit level of 10% to 15% with an identifiable site of bleeding. CRI was associated with increased bleeding in patients who received abciximab and patients who did not. However, there was only a trend toward an interaction between creatinine clearance and major bleeding with abciximab (odds ratio [OR], 1.18; P =.06) and no interaction with minor bleeding (OR, 1.01; P =.94) or any bleeding (OR, 1.10; P =.15). CRI is associated with an increased risk of bleeding complications after PCI. Although abciximab increases the risk of bleeding in all patients, the increase in relative risk is not significantly greater in patients with CRI. Thus, abciximab may be given safely in patients with CRI who are undergoing PCI."}
{"id": "12878555", "title": "Total arterial revascularization on beating heart: experience in 803 cases.", "content": "Total arterial revascularization on beating heart: experience in 803 cases. To avoid the deleterious effects of cardiopulmonary bypass, total arterial revascularization was performed on the beating heart, using an Octopus stabilizer, in this prospective study of 803 patients without selection bias. Single-vessel disease was present in 71 (9%) patients, double-vessel disease in 204 (25%), and triple-vessel disease in 528 (66%). An ejection fraction < 30% was found in 127 (16%) cases. Angiography was carried out before discharge in 204 (25%) patients. Grafts included left and right internal mammary arteries and the radial artery. There were 2,661 grafts placed with a mean of 3.31 grafts per patient (range, 1 to 6). Operative mortality was 0.5%. There was no postoperative stroke and few incidences of renal impairment, even in patients with chronic renal failure. Blood transfusion was not required in 558 (69%) patients. Mean hospital stay was 5.6 days. Overall angiographic patency was 98.6%. Total arterial revascularization on the beating heart was found to be safe, effective, and reproducible in almost all patients, with excellent short-term patency rates and minimal morbidity."}
{"id": "12865376", "title": "Cardiac troponin T and C-reactive protein for predicting prognosis, coronary atherosclerosis, and cardiomyopathy in patients undergoing long-term hemodialysis.", "content": "Cardiac troponin T and C-reactive protein for predicting prognosis, coronary atherosclerosis, and cardiomyopathy in patients undergoing long-term hemodialysis. Cardiac troponin T (cTnT) and C-reactive protein (CRP) are prognostic markers in acute coronary syndromes. However, for patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) the ability of combinations of these markers to predict outcomes, and their association with cardiac pathology, are unclear. To investigate the association between levels of cTnT and CRP and long-term risk of cardiac pathology and death in patients with ESRD. A prospective cohort study initiated February through June 1998 and enrolling 224 patients with ESRD from 5 hemodialysis centers in the Houston-Galveston region of Texas. Levels of cTnT and CRP were analyzed at study entry in patients without ischemic symptoms. All-cause mortality during a mean follow-up of 827 (range, 29-1327) days. Secondary outcomes in predefined substudies were coronary artery disease (CAD), decreased (< or =40%) left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), and presence of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH). One hundred seventeen (52%) patients died during follow-up. For levels of cTnT and CRP, progressively higher levels predicted increased risk of death compared with the lowest quartile (for cTnT quartile 2: unadjusted hazard ratio [HR], 2.2; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.2-4.1; quartile 3: HR, 2.7; 95% CI, 1.5-4.9; quartile 4: HR, 3.0; 95% CI, 1.6-5.3. For CRP quartile 2: HR, 0.9; 95% CI, 0.5-1.6; quartile 3: HR, 1.8; 95% CI, 1.1-3.1; quartile 4: HR, 1.8; 95% CI, 1.1-3.2). Both cTnT and CRP remained independent predictors of death after adjusting for a number of potential confounders. The combination of cTnT and CRP results provided prognostic information when patients were divided into groups at or above and below the biomarker medians (high cTnT/high CRP levels vs low cTnT/low CRP levels for risk of death: HR, 2.5; 95% CI, 1.5-4.0). Elevated levels of cTnT, but not CRP, were strongly associated with diffuse CAD (n = 67; 0%, 25%, 50%, and 62% prevalence of multivessel CAD across progressive cTnT quartiles, P<.001). An LVEF of 40% or less was identified in 4 (9%), 3 (8%), 10 (27%), and 7 (19%) of patients across cTnT quartiles (P =.07). No trend for cTnT levels was found among patients with LVH (P =.45); similarly, no trend for CRP was found among patients with LVH (P =.65) or an LVEF of 40% or less (P =.75). Among stable patients with ESRD, increasing levels of cTnT and CRP are associated with increased risk of death. Furthermore, higher levels of cTnT may identify patients with severe angiographic coronary disease."}
{"id": "12860215", "title": "Prognostic value of myocardial perfusion imaging in predicting outcome after renal transplantation.", "content": "Prognostic value of myocardial perfusion imaging in predicting outcome after renal transplantation. Cardiovascular disease is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality after renal transplantation. Pretransplant screening in a subset of these patients for occult coronary artery disease (CAD) may improve outcome. The objective of this study was to examine the outcome of 600 patients after renal transplantation for end-stage renal disease. Prospective outcome data were collected on 600 consecutive patients who had renal transplantation between 1996 and 1998 at our institution at 42 +/- 12 months after surgery. Stress single-photon emission computed tomographic (SPECT) myocardial perfusion imaging was performed in 174 patients before surgery, 136 (78%) of whom had diabetes mellitus. There were a total of 59 events: 17 cardiac deaths, 14 nonfatal myocardial infarctions, and 28 noncardiac deaths. There were 12 cardiac events and 11 noncardiac deaths among those who had SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging. In a multivariate analysis that included important risk factors, age (p = 0.03 and 0.003, respectively) and diabetes (p = 0.02 and 0.005, respectively) were the predictors of total events and cardiac events in patients who did not undergo stress SPECT perfusion imaging. In the subgroup who had stress perfusion imaging, an abnormal perfusion SPECT study was the only predictor of cardiac events (p = 0.006). The 42-month cardiac event-free survival rate was 97% in patients with normal SPECT images and 85% in patients with abnormal SPECT images (RR 5.04, 95% confidence interval 1.4 to 17.6, p = 0.006). Thus, there is a 2.8% event rate per year after renal transplantation, and approximately 50% of these events are noncardiac. In high-risk patients (most of whom had diabetes) with preoperative stress perfusion imaging, those with normal images had significantly lower cardiac events than those with abnormal images. These results have important implications in patient screening and postoperative management."}
{"id": "12859533", "title": "Cardiovascular risk factors and estimated risk for CAD in a randomized trial comparing calcineurin inhibitors in renal transplantation.", "content": "Cardiovascular risk factors and estimated risk for CAD in a randomized trial comparing calcineurin inhibitors in renal transplantation. Cardiovascular morbidity and mortality is high in patients following renal transplantation. The present analysis assessed major cardiovascular risk factors and estimated the risk of coronary artery disease in the largest present-day comparative trial of tacrolimus vs. microemulsified cyclosporine A. In this 6-month study, 557 patients were randomly allocated to therapy with tacrolimus (n = 286) or cyclosporine A (n = 271) concomitantly with azathioprine and corticosteroids. The primary endpoint was the incidence of and time to acute rejection. Blood pressure, serum cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and blood glucose were measured at baseline, and at months 1, 3, and 6. Ten-year risk of coronary heart disease was estimated according to the Framingham risk algorithm. Tacrolimus resulted in significantly lower summary measures (time-weighted average) of serum cholesterol (p = 0.0004) and mean arterial blood pressure (p = 0.0156), but in a higher summary measure of blood glucose (p = 0.0028) than cyclosporine. The summary measure of serum triglycerides was not different between treatment groups (p = 0.368). The mean 10-year coronary artery disease risk estimate was significantly lowered in men (p = 0.0032) treated with tacrolimus, but was unchanged in women. Tacrolimus and cyclosporine A microemulsion exert a compound-specific impact on cardiovascular risk factors and appear to affect the predicted rate of cardiovascular morbidity in different manners."}
{"id": "12859361", "title": "Noninvasive assessment of significant right coronary artery stenosis based on coronary flow velocity reserve in the right coronary artery by transthoracic Doppler echocardiography.", "content": "Noninvasive assessment of significant right coronary artery stenosis based on coronary flow velocity reserve in the right coronary artery by transthoracic Doppler echocardiography. Coronary flow velocity reserve (CFVR) measured by transthoracic Doppler echocardiography (TTDE) has been reported to be useful for the noninvasive assessment of coronary stenosis in the left anterior descending artery. However, the measurement of CFVR in the right coronary artery by TTDE has not yet been validated in a clinical study. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether CFVR by TTDE can detect significant stenosis in the right coronary artery. We studied 50 patients who underwent coronary angiography. Coronary flow velocity in the posterior descending branch of the right coronary artery (PD) was measured by TTDE both at baseline and during hyperemia induced by the intravenous infusion of adenosine triphosphate. CFVR was calculated as the hyperemia/baseline (average diastolic peak velocity). Adequate spectral Doppler recordings in the PD were obtained in 36 patients including 26 patients who were given an echocardiographic contrast agent to improve Doppler spectral signals. The study population was divided into 2 groups with (Group A;n = 11) and without (Group B;n = 25) significant stenosis in the right coronary artery. CFVR in Group A was significantly smaller than that in Group B (1.6+/-0.3versus2.5+/-0.4; P < 0.0001). The sensitivity of a CFVR of <2.0 for predicting the presence of significant stenosis in the right coronary artery was 91%, and the specificity was 88%. The measurement of CFVR in the PD by TTDE is useful for the noninvasive assessment of significant stenosis in the right coronary artery."}
{"id": "12853047", "title": "Effect of avoiding cardiopulmonary bypass in non-elective coronary artery bypass surgery: a propensity score analysis.", "content": "Effect of avoiding cardiopulmonary bypass in non-elective coronary artery bypass surgery: a propensity score analysis. Non-elective coronary artery surgery (emergent/salvage or urgent) carries an increased risk in most risk-stratification models. Off-pump coronary surgery is increasingly used in non-elective cases. We aimed to investigate the effect of avoiding cardiopulmonary bypass on outcomes following non-elective coronary surgery. Of the 3771 consecutive coronary artery bypass procedures performed by five surgeons between April 1997 and March 2002, 828 (22%) were non-elective and 417 (50.4%) of these patients had off-pump surgery. Multivariate logistic regression was used to assess the effect of off-pump on in-hospital outcomes, while adjusting for treatment selection bias. Treatment selection bias was controlled for by constructing a propensity score from core patient characteristics, which was the probability of avoiding cardiopulmonary bypass. The C statistic for this model was 0.8. Off-pump patients were more likely to be hypertensive, stable, had less extensive disease and better left ventricular function. The left internal mammary artery was used in 91.8% (n=383) of off-pump patients compared to 79.3% (n=326) of on-pump cases (P<0.001). After adjusting for the propensity score, no difference in in-hospital mortality was observed between off-pump and on-pump (adjusted odds ratio (OR) 0.83 (95% confidence intervals (CI) 0.36-1.93); P=0.667). Off-pump patients were less likely to require intra-aortic balloon pump support (adjusted OR 0.44 (95% CI 0.21-0.96); P=0.039), less likely to have renal failure (adjusted OR 0.44 (95% CI 0.22-0.90); P=0.025), and have shorter lengths of stay (adjusted OR 0.51 (95% CI 0.37-0.70); P<0.001). Other morbidity outcomes were similar in both groups. In this experience, off-pump coronary surgery in non-elective patients is safe with acceptable results. Non-elective off-pump patients have a significantly reduced incidence of renal failure, and shorter post-operative stays compared to on-pump coronary artery bypass surgery."}
{"id": "12849660", "title": "Do associations with C-reactive protein and extent of coronary artery disease account for the increased cardiovascular risk of renal insufficiency?", "content": "Do associations with C-reactive protein and extent of coronary artery disease account for the increased cardiovascular risk of renal insufficiency? We sought to determine whether the association of higher C-reactive protein levels (CRP) and more extensive coronary artery disease (CAD) explains the high cardiovascular risk of renal insufficiency (RI). Renal insufficiency and renal failure (RF) have been associated with increased cardiovascular risk in several studies, and it has been suggested that this association may be due to higher CRP levels and greater extent of CAD. To what extent CRP or severity of CAD explains this risk is uncertain. A total of 1,484 patients without myocardial infarction (MI) undergoing angiography were entered and followed for 3.0 +/- 1.6 years; RI and RF were defined as estimated glomerular filtration rates (GFR) of 30 to 60 and <30 ml/min; CRP was measured by immunoassay and > or = 1.0 mg/dl defined as elevated. A CAD score was determined by extent and severity of angiographic disease. Multivariate Cox regressions were performed using seven standard risk factors, homocysteine, GFR, CRP, and CAD score. Mean age was 64 years, and 67% were men; CAD was absent in 24%, mild in 11%, and severe (> or =70% stenosis) in 60%; CRP and CAD scores increased with declining renal function (median CRP: 1.2, 1.4, 2.2 mg/dl, p < 0.001 and CAD score: 8.1, 8.7, 9.3, p = 0.008 for no-RI, RI, and RF). During follow-up, 208 patients (15%) died or had nonfatal MI. Unadjusted hazard ratio (HR) for death/MI was 2.3 for RI and 5.1 for RF (p < 0.0001). Adjustment for CRP (HR, 2.2, 4.5), CAD score (HR, 2.1, 5.1), and all other risk factors (HR, 1.7, 4.5) had minimal or modest impact on RI and RF risk; HR increased to 5.4 (p < 0.001) for presence of both elevated CRP and RI/RF. Renal insufficiency, CRP, and angiographic CAD, although correlated, are largely independent predictors of cardiovascular risk, suggesting the importance of both inflammation and as yet undefined RI-related risk factors."}
{"id": "12846761", "title": "Prognostic value of nonlinear heart rate dynamics in hemodialysis patients with coronary artery disease.", "content": "Prognostic value of nonlinear heart rate dynamics in hemodialysis patients with coronary artery disease. Although altered nonlinear heart rate dynamics predicts death in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD), its prognostic value in chronic hemodialysis patients with CAD is unknown. We analyzed 24-hour electrocardiogram for nonlinear heart rate dynamics and heart rate variability in a retrospective cohort of 81 chronic hemodialysis patients with CAD. During a follow-up period of 31 +/- 20 months, 19 cardiac and 8 noncardiac deaths were observed. Cox hazards model, including diabetes, left ventricular ejection fraction, and the number of diseased coronary arteries, revealed that abnormal alpha2 (defined as both increase and decrease in alpha2 because of its J curve relationship with cardiac mortality), decreased approximate entropy and decreased heart rate variability (triangular index and ultra-low frequency power) were significant and independent predictors of cardiac death. No significant and independent predictive power for noncardiac death was observed in either the heart rate dynamics or the heart rate variability measures. The predictive power of alpha2 and approximate entropy was independent of that of triangular index and ultra-low frequency power. Combinations of two categories of measures improved the predictive accuracy; overall accuracy of approximate entropy + ultra-low frequency power for cardiac death was 87%. Altered nonlinear heart rate dynamics are independent predictors of cardiac death in chronic hemodialysis patients with CAD and their combinations with decreased heart rate variability provide clinically useful markers for risk stratification."}
{"id": "12842520", "title": "Aortic root replacement with composite valve graft.", "content": "Aortic root replacement with composite valve graft. Composite valve graft replacement is currently the treatment of choice for a wide variety of lesions of the aortic root and the ascending aorta. In this study we report our experience with aortic root replacement using a composite graft. Between October 1978 and May 2001, 274 patients (79.6% male and 20.4% female) with a mean age of 53.5 years underwent composite graft replacement of the aortic root. One hundred sixty-one patients (70.8%) had annuloaortic ectasia and 46 (16.8%) aortic dissection. The classic Bentall technique was used in 94 patients (34.3%), the \"button technique\" in 172 patients (62.8%), and the Cabrol technique in 8 patients (2.9%). The early mortality rate was 6.9% (19 of 274 patients). Cardiopulmonary bypass time longer than 180 minutes and associated coronary artery bypass grafting were found to be independent risk factors of early mortality. The actuarial survival rate was 77.7% at 5 years and 63% at 10 years. The independent risk factors for late mortality were coronary artery disease, chronic renal failure, and postoperative dialysis. The actuarial freedom from reoperation on the remaining aorta was higher among patients without Marfan syndrome (94.6% versus 79.6% at 10 years, p = 0.008). Composite valve graft replacement can be performed with low hospital mortality and morbidity. The button technique offers some advantages and should be used whenever possible. In case of acute aortic dissection root replacement is usually not necessary. Marfan patients should be treated with early root replacement before dissection occurs."}
{"id": "12823672", "title": "Prevalence and predictors of renal artery stenosis in Chinese patients with coronary artery disease.", "content": "Prevalence and predictors of renal artery stenosis in Chinese patients with coronary artery disease. Ischaemic nephropathy is currently a major public health issue in atherosclerotic populations. Although atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease in Asia has reached epidemic proportions over the last two decades, there is little published data on the prevalence of atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis (ARAS) in Oriental subjects. Because ARAS may be clinically silent until end-stage renal failure sets in, it is important to identify patients with significant but clinically unsuspected ARAS. ARAS and coronary artery disease (CAD) often coexist. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the prevalence and predictors of ARAS among Chinese patients with CAD. A total of 230 consecutive Chinese patients with CAD confirmed by coronary angiography underwent an abdominal aortogram in the same sitting to screen for ARAS. Patient demographics and comorbidities were analysed for any association with ARAS. A total of 34 (14.8%) patients was found to have significant ARAS. Age and multivessel CAD were independent predictors of ARAS. Hypertension, renal insufficiency, extracranial cerebrovascular disease and female gender were also associated with a higher risk of ARAS but did not independently predict ARAS. Clinically silent yet angiographically significant ARAS is common among CAD patients. The prevalence and predictors of ARAS among Chinese patients with CAD are similar to those reported for Caucasian subjects. Underlying ARAS should be suspected in CAD patients with such comorbidities as hypertension, renal insufficiency, extracranial cerebrovascular disease, and more so in the elderly and those with multivessel disease."}
{"id": "12822153", "title": "Percutaneous coronary intervention-associated nephropathy foreshadows increased risk of late adverse events in patients with normal baseline serum creatinine.", "content": "Percutaneous coronary intervention-associated nephropathy foreshadows increased risk of late adverse events in patients with normal baseline serum creatinine. In patients with chronic renal insufficiency, further decline in renal function (DRF) after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is accompanied not only by adverse in-hospital events but also by increased risk of mortality and myocardial infarction at 1 year. This analysis was undertaken to determine if patients with normal renal function who develop DRF after PCI have a comparable increase in risk of death and myocardial infarction at 1 year, and whether this risk is independent of in-hospital complications (death, myocardial infarction, urgent coronary artery bypass grafting). We performed a retrospective analysis of all patients from a single center who underwent successful PCI with no major in-hospital complications who had pre-PCI serum creatinine (SCr) </= 1.2 mg/dl and no history of renal insufficiency. One-year follow-up was obtained by mail or telephone. There were 5,967 consecutive patients who met the inclusion criteria. Of these, 208 (3.5%) developed DRF (an increase in SCr >/= 50% of baseline). They were more likely to be older, female, non-Caucasian, diabetic and/or hypertensive. They reported more prior cerebral or peripheral vascular events. They had undergone more complex PCI and were exposed to more radiographic contrast than the 96.5% who did not develop DRF. After adjustment for baseline variables, DRF remained an independent predictor of 1-year mortality, myocardial infarction, and target vessel revascularization. In patients without prior renal impairment, DRF post-PCI is rare but is associated with an increased risk of late adverse cardiac events similar to that in chronic renal insufficiency patients."}
{"id": "12819248", "title": "Is a single time point C-reactive protein predictive of outcome in peritoneal dialysis patients?", "content": "Is a single time point C-reactive protein predictive of outcome in peritoneal dialysis patients? C-reactive protein is the prototype marker of inflammation and has been shown to predict mortality in hemodialysis patients. However, it remains uncertain as to whether a single C-reactive protein level has similar prognostic significance in peritoneal dialysis patients. A single high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) level was measured in 246 continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis patients without active infections at study baseline together with indices of dialysis adequacy, echocardiographic parameters (left ventricular mass index, left ventricular dimensions, and ejection fraction), nutrition markers (serum albumin, dietary intake, and subjective global assessment) and biochemical parameters (hemoglobin, lipids, calcium, and phosphate). The cohort was then followed-up prospectively for a median of 24 mo (range, 2 to 34 mo), and outcomes were studied in relation to these parameters. Fifty-nine patients died (36 from cardiovascular causes) during the follow-up period. The median hs-CRP level was 2.84 mg/L (range, 0.20 to 94.24 mg/L). Patients were stratified into tertiles according to baseline hs-CRP, namely those with hs-CRP < or = 1.26 mg/L, 1.27 to 5.54 mg/L, and > or = 5.55 mg/L. Those with higher hs-CRP were significantly older (P < 0.001), had greater body mass index (P < 0.001), higher prevalence of coronary artery disease (P = 0.003), and greater left ventricular mass index (P < 0.001). One-year overall mortality was 3.9% (lower) versus 8.8% (middle) versus 21.3% (upper tertile) (P < 0.0001). Cardiovascular death rate was 2.7% (lower) versus 5.2% (middle) versus 16.2% (upper tertile) (P < 0.0001). Multivariable Cox regression analysis showed that every 1 mg/L increase in hs-CRP was independently predictive of higher all-cause mortality (hazard ratio [HR], 1.02; 95% CI, 1.01 to 1.04; P = 0.002) and cardiovascular mortality (HR, 1.03; 95% CI, 1.01 to 1.05; P = 0.001) in peritoneal dialysis patients. Other significant predictors for all-cause mortality included age (HR, 1.07; 95% CI, 1.04 to 1.10), gender (HR, 0.49; 95% CI, 0.27 to 0.90), atherosclerotic vascular disease (HR, 2.65; 95% CI, 1.46 to 4.80), left ventricular mass index (HR, 1.01; 95% CI, 1.00 to 1.01) and residual GFR (HR, 0.53; 95% CI, 0.38 to 0.75). Age (HR, 1.06; 95% CI, 1.02 to 1.10), history of heart failure (HR, 3.31; 95% CI, 1.36 to 8.08), atherosclerotic vascular disease (HR, 3.20; 95% CI, 1.43 to 7.13), and residual GFR (HR, 0.57; 95% CI, 0.38 to 0.86) were also independently predictive of cardiovascular mortality. In conclusion, a single, random hs-CRP level has significant and independent prognostic value in PD patients."}
{"id": "12809394", "title": "Use of off-pump and on-pump CABG strategies in current clinical practice: the Clinical Outcomes Assessment Program of the state of Washington.", "content": "Use of off-pump and on-pump CABG strategies in current clinical practice: the Clinical Outcomes Assessment Program of the state of Washington. The purpose of this study is to assess clinical outcomes and regional differences in the use of on-pump and off-pump CABG in current clinical practice. Between January 1, 1999, and December 31, 2000, there were 10,429 CABG procedures performed in 16 Washington state hospitals, all of which participate in Clinical Outcomes Assessment Program database. This analysis excluded patients with a history of prior CABG as well as those who underwent emergent surgery. After applying these exclusion criteria, 8402 patients (7169 on-pump and 1233 off-pump CABG procedures) were evaluated and presented as both unadjusted and risk-adjusted outcomes. Off-pump CABG constituted 14.7% of all surgical revascularization procedures. These varied enormously among individual centers from an incidence of 0% to 68.9%. The use of off-pump CABG was not associated with a decreased risk of risk-adjusted hospital mortality or stroke, but was associated with a reduction in hospital stay > 7 days (OR 0.62, CI 0.51-0.76), ventilator > 24 hours (OR 0.52, CI 0.34-0.81), dialysis (OR 0.34, CI 0.14-0.86), and RBC transfusion (OR 0.5, CI 0.40-0.61). Despite its highly variable use, off-pump CABG seems to be judiciously used in current clinical practice in the State of Washington and is associated with a decrease in morbidity in appropriately selected patients."}
{"id": "12806187", "title": "Atheroembolic renal failure requiring dialysis: potential for renal recovery? A review of 43 cases.", "content": "Atheroembolic renal failure requiring dialysis: potential for renal recovery? A review of 43 cases. Our objectives were to review the characteristics of patients who developed atheroembolic renal disease requiring dialysis as well as their renal function recovery and survival rates. All cases of atheroembolic disease with renal failure severe enough to require dialysis were reviewed from January 1984 to December 2000 in two centers. The diagnosis of atheroemboli was based on clinical presentation and/or biopsy. Acute renal failure was defined as a serum creatinine >200 micromol/l if normal at baseline or doubling from baseline if chronic renal failure, whereas renal function recovery was the ability to discontinue renal replacement therapy for >or=3 months. Forty-three cases were identified (37 males and 6 females; mean age 67 +/- 5 years); the average time to acute renal failure and to diagnosis was similar at 36 days. The majority of patients had at least one precipitating factor identified (58% coronary angiography, 26% angiography, 16% vascular surgery, 2% anticoagulation); 1 had a spontaneous presentation whereas 7 had more than one factor. More than 90% had underlying hypertension and chronic renal dysfunction with a baseline creatinine of 195 +/- 81 micromol/l, approximately 80% had coronary artery disease, 80% were smokers, 60% had a history of abdominal aorta aneurysm, >50% presented with intermittent claudication, and 56% were anticoagulated at the time of the event. Most patients were nonoliguric (80%), had increased hypertension (71%), blue toes (67%), livedo reticularis (52%), whereas abdominal pain and central nervous system symptoms were present in 33 and 7% of the cases, respectively. Eosinophilia was found in 88%, while hypocomplementemia was present in less than 15%. When compared to the 12 patients with recovery of renal function (after a mean delay of 409 +/- 336 days), the 31 patients who did not recover function presented with more severe intermittent claudication and underlying chronic renal dysfunction (p < 0.05). Indeed, the only variable found to unfavorably influence renal function recovery was the presence of intermittent claudication. Patients were mainly treated by intermittent hemodialysis except for 5 (2 on CRRT and 3 on peritoneal dialysis). Renal function recovery was associated with a higher chance of survival; 33% of patients died in the first year after diagnosis. Atheroembolic renal disease carries a high mortality rate reflective of the extensive cardiovascular disease of affected patients; nevertheless, the potential for renal function recovery appears greater than for other vascular causes of renal failure."}
{"id": "12787418", "title": "Coronary artery, aortic wall, and valvular calcification in nondialyzed individuals with type 2 diabetes and renal disease.", "content": "Coronary artery, aortic wall, and valvular calcification in nondialyzed individuals with type 2 diabetes and renal disease. Individuals with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) have highly prevalent and severe vascular and valvular calcification. We undertook this study to test the hypothesis that vascular and valvular calcification begins and is often severe long before diabetic renal disease progresses to ESRD. A total of 32 nondialyzed individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus and diabetic renal disease (albumin excretion rate>30 microg/min) [mean glomerular filtration rate (GFR), 49.8 +/- 6.1 mL/min/1.73 m2] were identified and compared with a group of 18 normoalbuminuric diabetics. We used 3:1 matching to identify 95 nondiabetic controls without renal disease, matched for age, gender, ethnicity, and the presence/absence of dyslipidemia, hypertension, and known coronary artery disease (CAD). Using electron beam computed tomography (CT), the prevalence of coronary artery calcification was significantly greater among diabetic renal disease individuals (prevalence, 94% vs. 59%, P < 0.001; median score, 238 vs. 10, P < 0.001) than the nondiabetic controls. The coronary artery calcification scores were significantly more severe among diabetic renal disease individuals than either the diabetic or nondiabetic controls. Among individuals with diabetic renal disease, the coronary artery calcification and aortic wall calcification scores were several-fold greater among those with known CAD than among those without. There was also a significantly greater prevalence of aortic and mitral valve calcification among diabetic renal disease individuals than nondiabetic controls (aortic, 23% vs. 6%, P = 0.03; mitral, 25% vs. 2%, P < 0.001). Multivariate analysis using all three groups reproduced these findings and also consistently identified age and diabetic renal disease as additional predictors for the presence or severity of coronary artery and aortic wall calcification. In this first, systematic analysis among nondialyzed individuals with diabetic renal disease, these data demonstrate that vascular and valvular calcification is present and often severe long before the disease progresses to ESRD. The data also suggest that the coronary artery and aortic wall calcification may represent atherosclerosis."}
{"id": "12762280", "title": "Massive coronary artery calcification in a young adult with end-stage renal disease undergoing hemodialysis.", "content": "Massive coronary artery calcification in a young adult with end-stage renal disease undergoing hemodialysis."}
{"id": "12757335", "title": "Predictors of early outcome after coronary artery surgery in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction.", "content": "Predictors of early outcome after coronary artery surgery in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction. The surgical survival in patients with severe myocardial dysfunction is critically dependent on the selection of patients. The present study was undertaken to identify the prognostic factors in such patients. We analyzed the data of 176 consecutive patients (161 men, 15 women), aged 29 to 88 years (mean 58.43), with a left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) < 30% who underwent isolated coronary artery bypass grafting. The LVEF ranged from 15% to 30% (mean 27.18%). Preoperatively, 33% had angina, 19.9% had recent myocardial infarction, and 21.6% had congestive heart failure. The mean number of grafts was 2.5/patient. The intra-aortic balloon was used prophylactically in 20.5% of patients and therapeutically in 4.0% of patients. The hospital mortality was 2.3%. The complications occurred as follows: perioperative myocardial infarction in two (1.1%), intractable ventricular arrhythmias in two (1.1%), prolonged ventilation in four (2.3%) and peritoneal dialysis in 1 (0.6%). The mean ICU and hospital stay were 2.46 +/- 0.76 and 7.57 +/- 2.24 days, respectively. The predictors of survival on univariate analysis were New York Heart Association (NYHA) class (x2 = 14.458, p < 0.001), recent myocardial infarction (x2 = 5.852, p = 0.016), congestive heart failure (CHF) (x2 = 5.526, p = 0.019), and left ventricular end-systolic volume index (LVESVI) (x2 = 25.833, p < 0.001). However, on multivariate analysis, left ventricular end-systolic volume index was the only independent left ventricular function measurement predictive of survival (x2 = 10.228, p = 0.001). Left ventricular end-systolic volume index is the most important predictor of survival after coronary artery bypass surgery in patients with severe myocardial dysfunction."}
{"id": "12756161", "title": "Risks of using internal thoracic artery grafts in patients in chronic hemodialysis via upper extremity arteriovenous fistula.", "content": "Risks of using internal thoracic artery grafts in patients in chronic hemodialysis via upper extremity arteriovenous fistula. In patients in chronic hemodialysis via upper extremity arteriovenous fistula in whom ipsilateral internal thoracic artery graft was used for myocardial revascularization, hemodynamic interference between the fistula and the graft during dialysis can be hypothesized. In 5 patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis via upper extremity arteriovenous fistula, ipsilateral to an internal thoracic to left anterior descending graft mammary flow was studied by means of transthoracic echo-color Doppler at baseline and during hemodialysis. Flow in the contralateral mammary artery was used as control. Transthoracic echocardiography was performed in concomitance with flow evaluation to assess eventual modifications of left ventricular segmental wall motion. Immediately after hemodialysis pump start there was a marked reduction of peak systolic and end-diastolic velocities and time average mean velocity and flow in the ITA ipsilateral to the fistula, whereas no substantial hemodynamic modification was evident in the contralateral artery. Dialysis-induced reduction of ipsilateral ITA flow was accompanied by evidence of hypokinesia of the anterior left ventricular wall. Three cases also experienced clinical angina. Hemodynamically evident flow steal and consequent myocardial ischemia develop during hemodialysis in patients with upper extremity arteriovenous fistula and ipsilateral internal thoracic artery to coronary graft. These data have major implications for patients' management, both for nephrologists and cardiac surgeons."}
{"id": "12749391", "title": "Detection of acute myocardial ischemia during pharmacological stress in graded coronary artery stenosis: analysis of left ventricular asynchrony using Fourier phase imaging in pigs.", "content": "Detection of acute myocardial ischemia during pharmacological stress in graded coronary artery stenosis: analysis of left ventricular asynchrony using Fourier phase imaging in pigs. Stress echocardiography is increasingly used to identify coronary artery disease, but quantitative techniques are required to improve the accuracy of this method. Current algorithms used to analyze wall motion usually neglect motion asynchrony that is found in acute ischemia. Fourier phase imaging of echocardiographic images may offer the possibility to detect asynchrony, but its feasibility with dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) is undefined. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the extent of left ventricular asynergy can be used to quantify the severity of regional myocardial dysfunction and to detect functionally significant coronary artery stenoses during DSE. Regional wall motion abnormalities were induced by graded coronary stenoses (mild and severe) of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) in seven open-chest anesthetized pigs. DSE (10-40 microg/kg/min) was performed under control conditions and during sustained ischemia. Coronary flow was measured under resting conditions and during maximal hyperemic response due to intravenous infusion of adenosine. Functional significance of stenoses was defined as mild when coronary flow reserve (CFR) was reduced but > 1.5 and severe when CFR was < or = 1.5. Echocardiographic cine loops were mathematically transformed using a first-harmonic Fourier algorithm displaying the sequence of wall motion as phase angles in parametric images and regional phase histograms. The phase difference (PD) of the first Fourier harmonic of posterior vs. anterior myocardial wall motion was calculated as an index of left ventricular asynchrony. Segmental fractional area shortening (FAS) and wall thickening (WT) as ratio of stress to rest served as a reference method of regional wall motion. The increase in FAS (1.62 +/- 0.6 vs. 0.42 +/- 0.2, p = 0.0002) and WT (1.92 +/- 0.5 to 0.3 +/- 1.1; p = 0.004) in anterior regions during DSE was significantly higher in the control group compared to severe ischemia but not compared to mild ischemia. During graded ischemia, profiles of phase angles were consistently modified, showing a delayed onset in regional contraction. The mean PD during DSE in the control group was 10.4 +/- 7 degrees. PD rose in mild ischemic segments (CFR > 1.5) to 28.9 +/- 10 degrees (p = 0.003) and to 89.6 +/- 25 degrees (p = 0.0002) in severely ischemic segments (CFR < or = 1.5). There was a significant inverse correlation between the PDs and WT (r = -0.87, p < 0.0001). Normal WT ratios yielded low phase angles while segmental phase angles increased with decreased WT. The intraobserver variability of phase analysis was 2.7 +/- 24 degrees (mean +/- 2SD). These results suggest that left ventricular asynchrony is an indicator of acute ischemia. Echocardiographic Fourier phase imaging is feasible to quantify wall motion displaying contraction sequence in a simple and objective format and is a promising approach for the clinical interpretation of stress echocardiograms."}
{"id": "12748349", "title": "Assessment of vascular calcification in ESRD patients using spiral CT.", "content": "Assessment of vascular calcification in ESRD patients using spiral CT. Dialysis patients have increased vascular calcification of the coronary arteries and aorta by electron beam CT scan. The purpose of the present study was to utilize an alternative machine, spiral CT, to assess calcification in end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients. Two groups of patients with ESRD were evaluated: group 1, those receiving a renal transplant (n=38); and group 2, those remaining on dialysis (n=33). All patients underwent quad-slice spiral CT with retrospective gating to evaluate coronary artery and aorta calcification scores. Both area (Agatston method) and volume calculations were utilized, with retrospective gating in all but 16 subjects. Laboratory tests, medications and clinical characteristics were analysed. Using spiral CT, the intra-reader variability for coronary artery calcification (after correction for very low scores) was 0.9% mean / 0% median using the area (Agatston method) and 2.9% mean / 0% median using volume calculations. Group 1 patients were younger, more likely to be Caucasian and on peritoneal dialysis, had lower serum calcium and higher C-reactive protein levels than group 2. In patients without vs those with coronary artery calcification, only longer duration of dialysis (34+/-64 vs 55+/-50 months, P=0.004; r=0.39, P=0.005) and increasing age (39+/-13 vs 54+/-10 years, P<0.001; r=0.29, P=0.039) were associated, whereas only increasing age was associated with aorta calcification. In ESRD patients, the factors correlating with coronary calcification were duration of dialysis and advancing age, whereas only age correlated with aorta calcification. Spiral CT offers an alternative technique for the assessment of these changes."}
{"id": "12748330", "title": "C-reactive protein and cardiovascular risk: an update on what is going on in cardiology.", "content": "C-reactive protein and cardiovascular risk: an update on what is going on in cardiology."}
{"id": "12742493", "title": "Safety and efficacy of sirolimus in kidney transplant patients and in patients with coronary artery disease undergoing angioplasty.", "content": "Safety and efficacy of sirolimus in kidney transplant patients and in patients with coronary artery disease undergoing angioplasty. We show the key results of our 4-year experience with sirolimus in kidney transplant patients and in nontransplanted patients undergoing coronary angioplasty. Recipients of one-haplotype living-related kidney allografts were randomized to receive sirolimus (2 mg/d, n = 35) or azathioprine (2 mg/kg per day, n = 35). Recipients of fully mismatched living kidney allografts (n = 55) received sirolimus (2 mg/day). High-risk recipients of black ethnicity (n = 68) were randomized to target whole-blood trough sirolimus concentrations between 8 and 12 ng/mL or 15 to 20 ng/mL. All kidney transplant patients received cyclosporine and prednisone. Sirolimus/cyclosporine pharmacokinetic studies were performed in 40 patients receiving 2 mg (n = 20) or 5 mg (n = 20) of sirolimus 7 days after transplantation. In the coronary intervention study, 12 patients at high risk for in-stent restenosis received sirolimus for 28 days after angioplasty. The incidence of biopsy-confirmed acute rejection was 11.4% in recipients of one-haplotype living-related kidney allografts, 16.4% in recipients of fully mismatched living kidney allografts, and 15% (8 to 12 ng/mL) and 4% (15 to 20 ng/mL) in high-risk recipients of black ethnicity. Cyclosporine exposure was higher after morning administration compared to evening administration. There were poor correlations between sirolimus and cyclosporine exposures. The 4-month follow-up angiography revealed no restenosis (stenosis diameter > 50%), a late loss of 0.56 +/- 0.40 mm, and a loss index of 0.33 +/- 0.30. The follow-up 3D-intravascular ultrasound restudy showed an in-stent relative volumetric obstruction of 9.9 +/- 5.5%. Sirolimus in highly effective in preventing kidney allograft acute rejection and in-stent coronary restenosis."}
{"id": "12739835", "title": "LV mass index significantly impacts on patient and renal outcomes in patients with coronary artery bypass grafting and poor left-ventricular function.", "content": "LV mass index significantly impacts on patient and renal outcomes in patients with coronary artery bypass grafting and poor left-ventricular function. A recent report demonstrated that the presence of left ventricular hypertrophy was an independent predictor of mortality in patients with coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) severely depressed left ventricular function. However, the impact of left ventricle (LV) mass index on the renal and patient outcomes in such patients with CABG has previously not been addressed. The present study thus considers this group of patient and uses LV mass index to assess renal and patient outcomes for these patients. All patients who arrived at the emergency room with severe cardiac dysfunction (EF < 60%), triple vessel disease, and required CABG and LV hypertrophy (LVH) (LV mass index gamma110 g/m2 in women, gamma134 g/m2 in men) were admitted preoperatively to the intensive care unit (ICU) for supportive intervention from January 1, 1998 to January 1, 2001. Of all LVH patients, 44 underwent CABG, and were divided into two groups according to LV mass index. Of all patients, 72.7% had severe echocardiographic LVH. The echocardiographic data of both dialysis and non-dialysis groups showed no difference with respect to echocardiographic findings. Histories of myocardial infarction were more frequent in the severe LVH group that in the mild LVH group. As for pre-operative systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure, mean systolic and diastolic blood pressure values were significantly lower in the severe LVH group. Ejection fraction was also significantly lower in the severe LVH group than in the mild LVH group. The patients in the severe LVH group were significantly more likely to have received hemodialysis following CABG surgery (62.5% vs. 33.4%, p < 0.05). Mortality was higher in the higher LV mass index group that in the lower LV mass index group (56.2% vs. 25%, p < 0.05). CONCLUSION; Patients with a significantly higher LV mass index usually manifest lower pre-operative blood pressure and poor cardiac function. Consequently, these patients will have a poor renal outcome and higher mortality."}
{"id": "12722036", "title": "Correlates of subclinical left ventricular dysfunction in ESRD.", "content": "Correlates of subclinical left ventricular dysfunction in ESRD. Abnormalities of the left ventricle are common in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) both before and after the start of renal replacement therapy. The purpose of this study is to identify possible causes of subclinical left ventricular (LV) dysfunction in patients with ESRD. In particular, we sought to determine whether the presence of ESRD was itself associated with dysfunction independent of LV hypertrophy and coronary artery disease. Assessment of cardiovascular risk factors and dialysis adequacy was completed in 145 unselected patients with ESRD who were recruited from the renal dialysis unit and compared with age- and sex-matched controls. Among the 68 patients with ESRD who had undergone a dobutamine stress echocardiogram with normal findings, regional cardiac function was quantified by myocardial Doppler velocity, LV volumes and mass were measured using three-dimensional echocardiography, and vascular function was assessed using brachial artery reactivity (BAR). LV diastolic velocity was impaired in patients with ESRD, but there was no significant difference in systolic velocity compared with control patients of similar age. Age, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and LV mass were independent predictors of diastolic velocity (model R2 = 0.45; P < 0.001), whereas age and risk factor number were predictors of systolic velocity (model R2 = 0.19; P = 0.002). Increasing risk factor number had no significant relationship with LV mass or volume. There was no detected association between BAR and incremental risk factors (P = 0.51). Subclinical LV dysfunction occurs in patients with ESRD, but is evidenced as abnormal myocardial diastolic, rather than systolic, function. Correlates of abnormal function are age, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and LV mass, rather than ESRD alone, dialysis adequacy, or abnormal endothelial function."}
{"id": "12715142", "title": "Prognostic value of troponin T, troponin I, and CK-MBmass in patients with chronic renal failure.", "content": "Prognostic value of troponin T, troponin I, and CK-MBmass in patients with chronic renal failure. In patients with chronic renal failure undergoing long-term hemodialysis, ischemic heart disease accounts for up to 50% of mortality. Cardiac troponins T (TnT) and I (TnI) are frequently elevated in this patient group, but data on the prognostic relevance of these markers, especially TnI, are controversial. The aim of this study was to investigate the prognostic power of a new, sensitive TnI assay in comparison with TnT and other cardiac markers. 104 ambulatory and in-hospital patients (41 women, median age: 65 years, interquartiles: 48-72.5 years; 63 men, median age: 63 years, interquartiles: 51.3-72.5 years) undergoing long-term hemodialysis were investigated. Patients were followed up for 6 months for all kinds of fatal events and nonfatal cardiac events. Serum levels of cardiac TnT, two TnI assays (ACS:180 and Stratus II), CK (creatine kinase), and CK-MB were measured pre- and post-dialysis. Pre- and post-dialysis results were not different for TnT and TnI, while CK and CK-MB levels were significantly lower post-dialysis. Elevated (pre-)dialysis levels were found in 65.7% of patients for TnT (> 0.1 microg/l), in 32.4% for TnI (ACS:180, > 0.15 microg/l), in 2.9% for TnI (Stratus II, > 0.4 microg/l), in 5.7% for CK (> 170 U/l), and in 2.8% for CK-MB (> 1.0 microg/l). 6-month events were observed in 42 patients (40.4%; 20 fatal, 22 nonfatal). The relative risk for 6-month events was calculated to be 16.0-fold for TnT and 8.5-fold for a known coronary heart disease, while both TnI and CK-MB did not predict 6-month events independently. TnT and a known coronary heart disease are relevant, independent risk factors in patients with chronic renal failure undergoing long-term hemodialysis."}
{"id": "12714145", "title": "Renal function and risk stratification in acute coronary syndromes.", "content": "Renal function and risk stratification in acute coronary syndromes. In this prospective cohort study we analyzed the impact of admission renal function on the hospital course of 2,503 patients with unstable angina pectoris (UAP) and acute myocardial infarction (AMI). The patients were stratified into quartile groups (Q1 to Q4) defined by baseline corrected creatinine clearance (cCrCl) values of 51.4, 63.8, and 76.8 mg/min/72 kg. The proportions of patients with a discharge diagnosis of AMI increased with declining cCrCl, from 35.5% in Q4 to 46.0% in Q1 (p <0.0001). The frequency of left ventricular (LV) failure (Q4 4.5%, Q1 31.0%, p <0.0001) and cardiac death (Q4 0.5%, Q1 9.5%, p <0.0001) also increased linearly with decreasing cCrCl, with no evidence that the prognostic impact of renal dysfunction was different in AMI or UAP (p for interaction 0.15). Logistic regression analysis confirmed the independent effects of cCrCl on outcome, with odds of LV failure and cardiac death for patients in Q4 being 0.34 (95% confidence intervals 0.16 to 0.72) and 0.14 (95% confidence intervals 0.03 to 0.74), respectively, relative to patients in Q1. No threshold was detected for the adverse effects of renal dysfunction on outcomes; the log odds of LV failure and cardiac death against quartiles of cCrCl both showed significant linear trends (p <0.0001) with each change in quartile, resulting in risk reductions of 55% (odds [SE] 0.45 [0.03]) and 65% (odds [SE]: 0.35 [0.05]), respectively. In conclusion, renal function showed a graded association with LV failure and hospital death that was independent of diagnosis (UAP or AMI) and other baseline variables. There was no detectable threshold of renal dysfunction for these adverse prognostic effects."}
{"id": "12713716", "title": "Six selected cases from a year's experience as advisory doctor to a commercial mountaineering expedition company.", "content": "Six selected cases from a year's experience as advisory doctor to a commercial mountaineering expedition company. A review of six patients requiring medical assessment prior to joining commercial mountaineering trips. Medical problems encountered include malaria risk with immunosuppression, renal transplant recipients climbing at altitude, coronary artery disease risk at altitude, cardiac pacemaker function at altitude, and diabetes with remote-area travel. Cases also illustrate personal and commercial risk assessment and potential international differences in legal duty of care. It is hoped that these cases will stimulate debate and thought regarding the preventive aspects of altitude-related medical problems. This can be achieved by education of the general mountaineering population in altitude- and expedition-related medical matters, combined with individual pretrip advice for patients."}
{"id": "12703884", "title": "Relationship between diabetes mellitus and degree of coronary artery disease in uraemic patients investigated with coronary angiography.", "content": "Relationship between diabetes mellitus and degree of coronary artery disease in uraemic patients investigated with coronary angiography. Prevalence of cardiovascular disease is high in diabetic patients on renal replacement therapy (RRT); therefore we examined the role of diabetes mellitus on determining the degree of coronary artery stenosis. Twenty-five patients underwent coronary angiography, 12 were awaiting kidney transplantation and the examination was performed regardless of cardiac symptoms, 13 were affected by ischaemic heart disease (IHD). Diabetic and nondiabetic status together with the other risk factors for cardiovascular disease such as age, sex, length of time on RRT, smoking and elevated phosphorus levels history, clinical diagnosis of IHD, cerebrovascular and peripheral vascular disease, mean blood pressure, cholesterol, triglycerides, calcium, phosphate, albumin, haemoglobin, haematocrit and weekly dose of erythropoietin were derived from clinical records. All investigated parameters were matched in diabetic (group 1, n=10) and nondiabetic patients (group 2, n=15) and showed no differences. Clinical evidence of IHD was detected in 80% of patients in group 1 and 46% in group 2 and the percentage of patients on the renal transplant waiting list was not statistically different in the two groups (30 vs 60%). In 60% of patients in group 1 there were 3 or more stenotic lesions equal or greater than 75% of normal reference segment in the major coronary arteries, whilst in 53% in group 2 there were no haemodynamically significant narrowings. Narrowing percentage of the coronaries in group 1 and 2 were: right coronary artery 83 +/- 30 vs 32 +/- 41 (p<0.05), left anterior descending artery 80 +/- 25 vs 44 +/- 34 (p<0.05), left circumflex artery 46 +/- 37 vs 18 +/- 29 (p=0.05) respectively. Our study confirms that IHD is a clinical feature of uraemic diabetic patients and that diabetes is the main cardiovascular risk factor for determining the degree of coronary stenosis."}
{"id": "12694344", "title": "Cardiovascular risk factors in predialysis patients: baseline data from the Chronic Renal Impairment in Birmingham (CRIB) study.", "content": "Cardiovascular risk factors in predialysis patients: baseline data from the Chronic Renal Impairment in Birmingham (CRIB) study. Patients with end-stage kidney failure have a greatly increased risk of developing premature cardiac and vascular disease. However, little is known about the evolution of cardiovascular diseases in individuals with less severely impaired kidney function. The prevalence of cardiovascular diseases and of suspected cardiovascular risk factors was studied in a group of 369 individuals (median age, 63 years, 67% male) with various degrees of impaired kidney function (calculated creatinine clearances 6 to 105 mL/min), in 103 patients with angiographically proven coronary artery disease, and in 103 apparently healthy individuals. These patients are being followed prospectively. Of those patients with kidney disease, 34% had a history of vascular disease and 21% had left ventricular hypertrophy on electrocardiogram at baseline. Traditional risk factors were prevalent, with a history of hypertension in 76% of kidney disease patients, diabetes in 15%, and dyslipidemia with reduced low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, elevated serum triglycerides, and decreased high-density lipoprotein (HDL) levels. Other possible cardiovascular risk factors include elevated concentrations of plasma homocysteine, as well as low serum albumin and hemoglobin levels. Patients with more severely impaired renal function had lower diastolic blood pressures, lower LDL and HDL cholesterol levels, were more anemic, and had higher plasma homocysteine concentrations. Vascular disease and left ventricular hypertrophy are prevalent among patients with chronic kidney disease not requiring dialysis. In addition to traditional risk factors, other features of the uremic syndrome such as anemia, hyperhomocysteinemia, and inflammation (suggested by hypoalbuminemia) may contribute."}
{"id": "12694342", "title": "Cardiovascular risk in patients with mild renal insufficiency.", "content": "Cardiovascular risk in patients with mild renal insufficiency. We reviewed the evidence linking mild renal insufficiency (MRI) to an increased cardiovascular risk. A number of cardiovascular risk factors become prevalent with MRI, including night-time hypertension, increase in lipoprotein(a), in homocysteine, in asymmetric dimethyl-arginine (ADMA), markers and mediators of inflammation, and insulin resistance. Also, an epidemiologic association between coronary artery disease and nephrosclerosis, a frequent cause of mild renal insufficiency in the elderly, is documented. In the middle-aged, general population MRI, found in 8% of women and 9% of men, was not associated with cardiovascular disease. However, in a representative sample of middle-aged British men, the risk of stroke was 60% higher for the subgroup of people with MRI; in people at high cardiovascular risk (mostly coronary disease), the HOPE study found a 2-fold (unadjusted), or 1.4-fold (adjusted), higher incidence of cardiovascular outcomes with MRI. The incidence of primary outcome increased with the level of serum creatinine. Several studies determined the cardiovascular risk associated with MRI in hypertension. In HDFP, as in HOPE, cardiovascular mortality increased with higher serum creatinine (five-fold difference in cardiovascular mortality between the lowest and the highest creatinine strata). The risk associated with renal insufficiency was independent from other classic cardiovascular risk factors. In hypertensives with low risk, the HOT, and a small Italian trial found about a doubling in cardiovascular outcomes in MRI. However, in MRFIT, increase in follow-up creatinine predicted future cardiovascular disease, not baseline creatinine. These observational data suggest that MRI, independent of etiology, is a strong predictor of cardiovascular disease, present in 10% of a population at low risk, and up to 30% at high cardiovascular risk. No prospective therapeutic trials, aimed at reducing the cardiovascular burden in people with MRI, are available. Subgroup analyses of the HOPE study indicate that ACE inhibition with ramipril is beneficial without an increased risk for side effects like acute renal failure or hyperkalemia. Thus, the frequent practice of withholding ACE inhibitors from patients with mild renal insufficiency is unwarranted, especially since this identifies a group at high risk that appears to benefit most from treatment. In addition, there is evidence that ACE inhibitors improve renal outcomes in renal insufficiency. Prospective studies should test the predictive power of MRI for cardiovascular disease and therapeutic options."}
{"id": "12694316", "title": "Morphology of the heart and arteries in renal failure.", "content": "Morphology of the heart and arteries in renal failure. In patients with renal failure, cardiovascular complications are a major clinical problem; cardiac death is the main cause of death in these patients. Cardiac risk is increased by a factor of 20 in uremic patients, compared with matched segments of the general population. It has been known for a long time that atherosclerosis, particularly plaque in the epicardiac coronary conduit arteries, are more frequent in patients with chronic renal failure. Recently, however, clinical studies showed that myocardial infarction is responsible for only 30% to 50% of all cardiac deaths. In contrast, 30% to 40% of patients with renal failure and ischemic heart disease show patent coronary arteries on coronary angiogram. Thus, it is very likely that in uremic patients myocardial ischemia tolerance is markedly reduced even in the absence of classical atherosclerosis (i.e., relevant stenosis of coronary arteries). This finding in uremic patients can be at least partially explained by structural and metabolic abnormalities of the myocardium, and in part by alterations of the extracardiac vasculature. The present paper focuses on structural changes of the heart and the vasculature, in particular on atherosclerosis of cardiac and extracardiac arteries, and its potential repercussions for cardiovascular function. In 1827 Richard Bright already pointed to the common presence of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) and thickening of the aorta in patients with end-stage renal failure (ESRF). At present, cardiovascular complications account for 45% of all deaths in uremic patients [1]. The recent report of Herzog, Ma, and Colins [2] documented a 59.3% 1-year mortality rate in dialyzed patients who survived myocardial infarction (i.e., mortality was significantly higher than in the general population). It is widely acknowledged that several specific structural and nonstructural alterations of the heart and the extracardiac vasculature are present in patients with renal failure, which presumably contribute to the markedly increased cardiovascular risk in these patients [3]."}
{"id": "12686669", "title": "Cardiac troponin I (2nd generation assay) in chronic haemodialysis patients: prevalence and prognostic value.", "content": "Cardiac troponin I (2nd generation assay) in chronic haemodialysis patients: prevalence and prognostic value. Elevated serum cardiac troponin T (cTnT) levels are frequently observed in chronic dialysis patients and have been shown to be associated with increased morbidity and mortality. The aim of this study was to determine whether cardiac troponin I (cTnI), which is less frequently elevated, has similar clinical significance. We studied 101 asymptomatic patients with no clinical evidence of coronary artery disease who were undergoing chronic dialytic treatment. We measured their serum cTnI levels immediately before the start of their dialysis sessions by a second-generation assay (OPUS-DADE). Our study included a year-long follow-up with trimestrial cTnI assays as well as clinical, X-ray and echocardiographic surveillance. We considered patients with serum cTnI > or =0.15 ng/ml as positive and those with levels <0.15 ng/ml as negative. Among the 14 patients with high serum cTnI levels, nine (64%) suffered acute cardiac events during the 12-month follow-up. In contrast, among the 72 patients with low cTnI levels only seven (9.7%) had acute events. In another group of 15 patients with variable cTnI levels, three patients (20%) had cardiac events. Based on these results, serum cTnI appears to be a valuable predictive marker of cardiovascular events in asymptomatic dialysis patients. For those patients who might benefit from thorough cardiac investigation and treatment, information on cTnI could be useful in preventing cardiac events."}
{"id": "12677766", "title": "[Stent PTA in secondary symptomatic proximal subclavian artery obstruction].", "content": "[Stent PTA in secondary symptomatic proximal subclavian artery obstruction]. Stent-PTA of secondary symptomatic proximal subclavian artery stenosis In comparison with conventional surgical revascularisation, percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) is an alternative treatment for short stenoses or occlusions involving the origin of the subclavian artery. If there is clinical suspicion of subclavian artery obstruction (e.g. blood pressure difference in both arms), digital subtraction angiography of the aortic arch and upper limb should be performed prior to creating radial haemodialysis shunts or coronary bypass crafting involving the internal mammary artery. PTA and stenting can be successfully carried out in symptomatic secondary proximal subclavian artery stenosis, e.g. in radial haemodialysis fistulas with distal ischaemia."}
{"id": "12668522", "title": "Intracoronary and intravenous adenosine 5'-triphosphate, adenosine, papaverine, and contrast medium to assess fractional flow reserve in humans.", "content": "Intracoronary and intravenous adenosine 5'-triphosphate, adenosine, papaverine, and contrast medium to assess fractional flow reserve in humans. Inducing both maximal and steady-state coronary hyperemia is of clinical importance to take full advantage of fractional flow reserve measurements. The present study compares different dosages and routes of administration of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP), adenosine, contrast medium, and papaverine regarding their potential to achieve both maximal and steady-state hyperemia. In 21 patients with an isolated coronary stenosis, coronary vasodilation was induced successively by papaverine (20 mg intracoronary), adenosine (20 and 40 microg intracoronary), ATP (20 and 40 microg intracoronary), iohexol (6 mL intracoronary), adenosine or ATP through an antecubital vein (140 and 180 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1)), or adenosine or ATP through a femoral vein (140 and 180 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1)). Because vessel dimensions did not change, the ratio of distal coronary pressure (Pd) to aortic pressure (Pa) was used as an index of myocardial resistance. Pd/Pa was 0.77+/-0.21 at rest and decreased to 0.61+/-0.21 after papaverine. Pd/Pa decreased to a similar level with all other vasodilators, except with contrast medium (0.68+/-0.21; P<0.01 versus papaverine). Steady-state hyperemia could only be obtained by intracoronary papaverine and by intravenous ATP or adenosine. In another 23 patients, an intravenous infusion of ATP was varied from 0 to 280 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1). At doses >140 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1), there was neither a further decrease in Pd/Pa ratio nor a further increase in coronary flow velocities. Provided sufficient dosages are used, ATP, adenosine, and papaverine (but not contrast medium) induce maximal hyperemia and are therefore suitable to assess fractional flow reserve. Only intracoronary papaverine and intravenous ATP or adenosine induce steady-state hyperemia enabling a pressure pullback maneuver that is useful in assessing diffuse coronary atherosclerosis."}
{"id": "12660678", "title": "Impact of renal function on morbidity and mortality after percutaneous aortocoronary saphenous vein graft intervention.", "content": "Impact of renal function on morbidity and mortality after percutaneous aortocoronary saphenous vein graft intervention. Percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with chronic renal insufficiency (CRI) and native coronary artery disease is often problematic, marred by increased morbidity and mortality rates and a high incidence of restenosis and revascularization. However, little is known about the effect of CRI in patients who have undergone prior coronary artery bypass graft surgery and then undergo saphenous vein graft (SVG) intervention. We analyzed the inhospital and 1-year outcomes of 1265 consecutive patients with normal renal function and varying degrees of renal insufficiency who underwent percutaneous SVG intervention and divided them into 4 groups on the basis of the calculated creatinine clearance (CrCl): group 1, CrCl > or =70 mL per minute (n = 626); group 2, CrCl 50 to 69 mL per minute (n = 357); group 3, CrCl 30 to 49 mL per minute (n = 228); and group 4, CrCl <30 mL per minute (n = 54). Patients undergoing dialysis replacement therapy were excluded from the study. Patients with lower CrCl more often were older, female, had diabetes mellitus, and had worse left ventricular function. Angiographic baseline characteristics were comparable among the 4 groups. Overall immediate procedural success was similar for all groups. Patients with a low CrCl had significantly higher inhospital overall and cardiac mortality rates (P <.001), including a significantly higher incidence of myocardial infarction, vascular complications, pulmonary edema, and renal function deterioration. At 1-year follow-up, the overall mortality rates remained significantly higher in patients with decreased CrCl, with an incremental rise in overall mortality rate associated with lower renal function (P <.001). This study suggests that renal function is a primary determinate of short- and long-term survival in patients undergoing percutaneous SVG intervention and that there is a clear relationship between CrCl and cardiovascular outcome."}
{"id": "12649530", "title": "New markers of accelerated atherosclerosis in end-stage renal disease.", "content": "New markers of accelerated atherosclerosis in end-stage renal disease. Over the last two decades, several studies have reported a high prevalence of cardiovascular disease in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). This population usually presents both the traditional and non-traditional risk factors for atherosclerosis. Inflammation as well as impaired nitric oxide production are pivotal, throughout the whole process of development of atherosclerotic lesions from the very start. C-reactive protein (CRP), a marker of systemic inflammation and an independent predictor of cardiovascular mortality in the general population, and asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), an endogenous inhibitor of NO synthase, are important risk factors for cardiovascular disease and mortality in the ESRD population. Increased CRP levels have been described in hemo-dialysis and peritoneal dialysis patients, probably due to concomitant diseases, recurrent infections and chronic dialytic therapy. CRP levels, however, are elevated even in predialysis patients, implying that factors related to uremia per se can promote CRP synthesis. Recent reports raise the question whether CRP could be more than just a sensitive marker of inflammation and may contribute actively to the development of the atherosclerotic lesion. ADMA accumulation in the ESRD population is a consequence of reduced renal excretion and impaired enzymatic degradation and is related to the progression of atherosclerosis. Both CRP and ADMA have been shown to be associated with increases in the incidence and progression of atherosclerotic lesions in carotid arteries, as evaluated by high-resolution Doppler ultrasonography."}
{"id": "12641882", "title": "Management of heart failure and coronary artery disease in patients with chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Management of heart failure and coronary artery disease in patients with chronic kidney disease. Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a major contributor to the mortality and morbidity of patients who suffer from chronic kidney disease (CKD). Heart failure and ischemic heart disease (IHD) are both highly prevalent in this population. The diagnosis of myocardial dysfunction is usually based on echocardiography. As in the general population, systolic dysfunction is treated with a combination of diuretics, renin-angiotensin system blockade, and beta-receptor antagonists. Diastolic dysfunction is best managed by eliminating the cause. Non-invasive tests for coronary artery disease (CAD) may be less reliable in patients with renal disease compared with nonuremic patients. Medical therapy of IHD in this population is generally similar to that for other patient groups, but surgical revascularization appears to carry a higher risk of complications with poorer clinical outcomes. The choice of revascularization procedure (coronary artery bypass grafting versus percutaneous transluminal angioplasty) should be based on the specific coronary anatomy of a given patient as well as a consideration of other comorbid factors."}
{"id": "12637626", "title": "Why is coronary heart disease of uraemic patients so frequent and so devastating?", "content": "Why is coronary heart disease of uraemic patients so frequent and so devastating? On September 6, 2001, Professor Fernando Valderrabano (Hospital Gregorio Mara\u00f1on, Madrid) died at the age of 59 years. He was a leading figure in Spanish nephrology, a full professor of Medicine/Nephrology at the University Complutense of Madrid, and an outstanding scientist who published more than 300 articles in medical journals. He was a very intelligent and cultured person, and a man of great style who enjoyed a wide range of hobbies and interests in addition to his medical work. All his colleagues and friends mourn his passing."}
{"id": "12617333", "title": "Relationship between elevated serum troponin values in end-stage renal disease patients and abnormal isotopic cardiac scans following stress.", "content": "Relationship between elevated serum troponin values in end-stage renal disease patients and abnormal isotopic cardiac scans following stress. One hundred asymptomatic high-risk renal transplant candidates were screened for asymptomatic coronary artery disease using stress cardiac isotopic imaging. The cardiac markers, serum cTnT, cTnI, and CKMB, were collected pre and post stress testing. Of the 99 patients whose cardiac scans were technically satisfactory, 32 were normal, 49 had a definite imaging abnormality and the scan was indeterminate in the remaining 18 patients. Based on these results, patients were stratified into either normal, indeterminate or abnormal scan groups. They then were analyzed to detect any correlations between cardiac perfusion defects and either elevated pre-stress cardiac markers or consistent changes 24h after stress testing. While the mean pre-stress serum values for both cardiac troponin T (0.117 +/- 0.12 microgram/L) and cardiac troponin I (0.235 +/- 0.89 microgram/L) were increased in the abnormal cardiac scan group, only the cTnT value proved to differ significantly from the normal group (p < 0.01). For the indeterminate group neither marker was different from the normal scan group. Only an elevated serum cTnT > 0.1 microgram/L (OR 3.042, p = 0.030) proved to discriminate an abnormal scan in this population. It is concluded that the increase in pre-stress serum cTnT encountered in patients with chronic renal failure, with or without evidence of overt, symptomatic coronary artery disease, may represent a combination of subclinical myocardial damage and a prolonged half-life of the marker in the serum. Because of the frequency of elevated serum concentrations of cTnT and, to a lesser degree cTnI, the physician should exercise caution when interpreting a single elevated Troponin value during the evaluation of chest pain in patients with end-stage renal disease. A cTnT > 0.1 microgram/L increases the likelihood of finding significant coronary artery disease three fold in high-risk ESRD patients being evaluated for renal transplantation."}
{"id": "12594702", "title": "Gadolinium-based percutaneous coronary intervention in a patient with renal insufficiency.", "content": "Gadolinium-based percutaneous coronary intervention in a patient with renal insufficiency. We report the first case of using gadolinium as a contrast agent to perform percutaneous coronary intervention in a patient with an acute coronary syndrome and a history of renal insufficiency. The procedure was well tolerated without any complications or nephrotoxicity. The images obtained with gadolinium were of good quality."}
{"id": "12584280", "title": "Non-dipping is a potent predictor of cardiovascular mortality and is associated with autonomic dysfunction in haemodialysis patients.", "content": "Non-dipping is a potent predictor of cardiovascular mortality and is associated with autonomic dysfunction in haemodialysis patients. Lack of nocturnal blood pressure (BP) fall (non-dipping) is common among haemodialysis (HD) patients, but much less is known regarding its association with cardiovascular (CV) disease morbidity and mortality. Eighty HD patients initially underwent 24 h ambulatory BP monitoring (ABPM), and then they were defined as either 'dippers' (n=24, nocturnal BP fall > or = 10%) or 'non-dippers' (n=56, fall <10%). Coronary angiography was performed in the patients who had signs and/or symptoms of coronary artery disease (CAD). Twenty-four hour ambulatory ECG was recorded in 20 dippers and 20 non-dipper HD patients, and in 20 normal subjects. All patients were followed for up to 5.8 years (33.0+/-19.1 months). The outcome events studied were the hospitalisations due to CV diseases and CV death. Compared with dippers, non-dippers initially had a higher incidence of coronary artery stenosis (P<0.05) along with left ventricular asynergy (both Ps<0.01). The circadian rhythm of autonomic function was impaired in non-dippers. The incidences of CV events and CV deaths were 3.5 and 9 times higher in non-dippers than in dippers. The cumulative CV event-free survival and CV survival rates were lower in non-dippers than in dippers (P=0.02 and P=0.005, respectively). Based on Cox analysis, non-dipping was associated positively with CV events and CV mortality [hazard ratio (HR) 2.46, 95% CI 1.02-5.92, P=0.038 and HR 9.62, 95% CI 1.23-75.42, P=0.031, respectively]. Meanwhile, nocturnal systolic BP fall, diurnal systolic BP and diurnal pulse pressure were negatively associated with CV event/death. The clinic BP was not associated with CV event/death. The non-dipping phenomenon is closely related to a high incidence of CV diseases, a poor long-term survival and profound autonomic dysfunction. ABPM is useful in predicting long-term CV prognosis in HD patients."}
{"id": "12569339", "title": "Detection of pericardial effusion during Tc-99m sestamibi cardiac imaging.", "content": "Detection of pericardial effusion during Tc-99m sestamibi cardiac imaging."}
{"id": "12547989", "title": "Noninvasive coronary artery imaging by multislice spiral computed tomography.", "content": "Noninvasive coronary artery imaging by multislice spiral computed tomography. Although the excellent spatial resolution of multislice spiral computed tomography (MSCT) enables the coronary arteries to be visualized, its limited temporal resolution results in poor image reproducibility because of cardiac motion artifact (CMA) and hence limits its widespread clinical use. A novel retrospectively ECG-gated reconstruction method has been developed to minimize CMA. In 88 consecutive patients, the scan data were reconstructed using 2 retrospectively ECG-gated reconstruction methods. Method 1: the end of the reconstruction window (250 ms) was positioned at the peak of the P wave on ECG, which corresponded to the end of the slow filling phase during diastole immediately before atrial contraction. Method 2 (conventional method): relative retrospective gating with 50% referred to the R-R interval was performed so that the beginning of the reconstruction window (250 ms) was positioned at the halfway point between the R-R intervals of the heart cycle. The quality of the coronary artery images was evaluated according to the presence or absence of CMA. The assessment was applied to the left main coronary artery (LMCA), the left anterior descending artery (LAD, segments #6, #7 and #8), the left circumflex artery (LCx, segments #11 and #13) and the right coronary artery (RCA, segments #1, #2 and #3). The first diagonal artery (#9-1), the obtuse marginal artery (#12-1), the posterior descending artery (#4-PD), the atrioventricular node branch (#4-AV) and the first right ventricular branch (RV) were also evaluated. Of the 88 patients, 85 were eligible for image evaluation. Method 1 allowed visualization of the major coronary arteries without CMA in the majority of patients. The LCA system (segments #5-7, #11 and #13) and the proximal portion of the RCA were visualized in more than 94% of patients. Artifact-free visualization of the distal portion of the LAD (segment #8) and RCA (#4PD and #4AV), and side branches (#9-1, #12-1 and RV) was also achieved in more than 80% of patients. On the other hand, CMA occurred frequently on images obtained by Method 2. The LCx and RCA systems were the most affected by CMA, revealing only 41% artifact-free visualization of the segment #13, 39% of #1, 15% of #2 and 32% of #3. Thus, Method 1, which avoids the ventricular motion occurring during the rapid filling and atrial contraction phases, gives superior image quality over the conventional ECG-gated reconstruction method."}
{"id": "12538744", "title": "Prognostic value of myocardial perfusion studies in patients with end-stage renal disease assessed for kidney or kidney-pancreas transplantation: a meta-analysis.", "content": "Prognostic value of myocardial perfusion studies in patients with end-stage renal disease assessed for kidney or kidney-pancreas transplantation: a meta-analysis. The prognostic utility of myocardial perfusion studies (MPS) such as thallium scintigraphy and dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) for stratifying cardiac risk among candidates for kidney or kidney-pancreas transplantation is uncertain. This study is a meta-analysis to determine the prognostic significance of MPS results on future myocardial infarction (MI) and cardiac death (CD) in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) assessed for kidney or kidney-pancreas transplantation. MEDLINE was searched using combinations of MeSH headings and text words for transplantation, coronary artery disease, prognosis, end-stage renal disease, and noninvasive cardiac testing (nuclear scintigraphy and DSE) for primary studies. Studies were included if they reported MPS results and cardiac events in patients assessed for kidney or kidney-pancreas transplantation. Methodologic study quality and outcome data were independently abstracted in duplicate by two researchers. The relative risks (RR) of MI and CD were calculated using a random effects model. Twelve articles met all inclusion criteria; 12 studies reported CD, and 9 reported MI. In eight studies, thallium scintigraphy was used (four with pharmacologic stress, four with exercise stress), whereas four used DSE. When compared with negative tests, positive tests had a significantly increased RR of MI (2.73 [95% CI, 1.25 to 5.97]; P = 0.01) and CD (2.92 [95% CI, 1.66 to 5.12]; P < 0.001). Subgroup analyses of studies of diabetic patients indicated that positive tests were associated with a RR of CD 3.95 (95% CI, 1.48 to 10.5; P = 0.006) and a RR of MI 2.68 (95% CI, 0.95 to 7.57; P = 0.06) when compared with negative tests. In studies evaluating mixed populations of diabetic and nondiabetic patients, positive tests were associated with a RR of CD 2.52 (95% CI, 1.25 to 5.08; P = 0.01) and with a RR of MI 2.79 (95% CI, 0.85 to 9.21; P = 0.09) when compared with a negative test. The presence of reversible defects was associated with an increased risk of MI in diabetic patients and of CD in both subgroups; fixed defects were associated with an increased risk of CD but not MI. It is concluded that positive MPS are useful in identifying patients with significantly increased risk of future MI and CD in both diabetic and nondiabetic ESRD patients."}
{"id": "12522700", "title": "Optimal operative strategies in repair of juxtarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms.", "content": "Optimal operative strategies in repair of juxtarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms. In an effort to identify preoperative and perioperative factors impacting outcome in repair of juxtarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm (JRAAA), hospital records and CT scans (for calcification, intraluminal thrombus, and aortic diameter) of all patients undergoing JRAAA repair over the past 10 years were reviewed. The 87 men and 25 women had a mean age of 72, and a mean maximal aortic diameter of 6.2 cm. Renal artery stenosis (RAS) and iliac disease were present in 13 (11%) and 40 patients (35%), respectively. Comorbidities included coronary artery disease (n = 49, 44%), COPD (n = 28, 25%), diabetes mellitus (n = 10, 9%), and preoperative renal insufficiency (PRI; Cr >1.4 mg/dL; n = 14, 12%). A midline incision was used in most of the patients (n = 98, 88%). The proximal aortic clamp was placed in the supraceliac (SC) position in 92 (82%) patients, and directly above one or both renal arteries in 20 (18%) patients. The overall mortality was 6% (n = 7). Cardiac complications occurred in 26 patients (23%); pulmonary, in 22 (20%); renal, in 14 (12%); and gastrointestinal, in 10 (9%). No patient experienced mesenteric ischemia. Mean elevation in creatinine was greater in patients with PRI (1.8 mg/dL vs. 0.13 mg/dL, p = 0.04). Mean blood loss (EBL) was 2701 +/- 189 cc, and mean LOS was 16.1 +/- 1.7 days. Age >70 was associated with increased length of stay (LOS) (12.1 days vs. 18.6 days, p = 0.05) and higher mortality (0 vs. 10%, p = 0.02); otherwise there were no significant relationships between pre- and perioperative parameters and any of the measured outcomes including death, postoperative RI, and LOS. Preferential SC clamping may substantially reduce complications of JRAAA repair (such as mesenteric and renal ischemia) related to proximal cuff disease, but cannot overcome the deleterious affects of advanced age and PRI."}
{"id": "12500238", "title": "An association between coronary artery calcification score, lipid profile, and selected markers of chronic inflammation in ESRD patients treated with peritoneal dialysis.", "content": "An association between coronary artery calcification score, lipid profile, and selected markers of chronic inflammation in ESRD patients treated with peritoneal dialysis. Chronic uremia is considered a proinflammatory state associated with high cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The aim of the present study is to evaluate the potential relationship between the prevalence of coronary artery calcification (CAC) and selected factors that may be involved in the process of atherogenesis (lipid profile, acute-phase reactants, growth factors, and cytokines). The study group consisted of 43 patients (19 women, 24 men) with a mean age of 50.6 +/- 13.4 years treated with peritoneal dialysis (PD) for a median period of 15 months (range, 2 to 96 months). Only patients with sinus rhythm were included. CAC score (CaSc) was measured using multirow spiral computed tomography (MSCT). As parameters of lipid profile, total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, and triglycerides were assayed. C-reactive protein (CRP) and fibrinogen represented the level of acute-phase activation. Proinflammatory cytokines (interleukin-6 [IL-6] and tumor necrosis factor-alpha [TNF-alpha]), leptin, and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) also were measured. Median CaSc equaled 17.9 Agatston units (range, 0 to 5,502 Agatston units). No calcification was detected in 20 subjects (46.5%; CaSc < 10 Agatston units). CaSc correlated with age (R = 0.57; P < 0.0001), body mass index (R = 0.42; P < 0.005), and serum leptin (R = 0.3; P < 0.05) and CRP levels (R = 0.38; P < 0.05). The correlation with PD therapy duration was borderline statistically significant (P = 0.063). Patients with the greatest values for CaSc (> 400 Agatston units) were characterized by significantly greater levels of IL-6, bFGF, and CRP compared with subjects with a CaSc less than 10 Agatston units (P < 0.05 for all). Patients with history of coronary artery disease (CAD) had significantly greater CaSc values (median, 778.6 versus 3.3 Agatston units; P < 0.001) compared with those without CAD. Serum triglyceride levels were significantly greater and HDL cholesterol levels were significantly lower in patients with CAD. The first group also was characterized by significantly greater serum TNF-alpha (P < 0.01) and CRP levels (P < 0.005). In multiple regression analysis, only age was independently associated with CaSc (beta = 0.45; P = 0.002). Our results may suggest an association between CAC and chronic inflammation activity in the mentioned group of patients. To our knowledge, this is the first study reporting the prevalence of CAC in PD patients using the MSCT method. The association between CaSc results and classic, as well as inflammatory, risk factors for CAD found in this study should be interpreted with caution because of its method limitations (cross-sectional design, heterogeneity of study population, and small number of studied patients)."}
{"id": "12481147", "title": "Effects of an acute dose of L-arginine during coronary angiography in patients with chronic renal failure: a randomized, parallel, double-blind clinical trial.", "content": "Effects of an acute dose of L-arginine during coronary angiography in patients with chronic renal failure: a randomized, parallel, double-blind clinical trial. Contrast media (CM) are nephrotoxic and might further worsen renal function in patients with chronic renal failure. L-Arginine, the substrate of nitric oxide, protects kidney function and may improve endothelial function in patients with coronary artery disease. Acute administration of L-arginine in a subset of patients with combined coronary artery disease and impaired kidney function during coronary angiography might prevent superimposed acute renal failure. A double-blind study of patients with mild/moderate chronic renal failure (Cr >1.7 mg/dl) undergoing coronary angiography (meglumine ioxaglate) was conducted. Patients received either L-arginine (300 mg/kg) or placebo and were followed for 48 h. Cardiac hemodynamic parameters, renal function and nitric oxide production were sequentially recorded. RESULTS--PRIMARY AND SECONDARY: Both groups experienced a decrease of creatinine clearance 48 h following the procedure (p < 0.05). Creatinine levels slightly increased following the administration of L-arginine (p < 0.05) but not in the placebo treated group. No changes of systemic and cardiac pressures, total peripheral resistance or cardiac output were recorded within and between the treatment and placebo groups. CM injection causes an impairment of renal function. Addition of intravenous L-arginine during cardiac catheterizations in patients with chronic renal failure does not prevent CM-induced nephrotoxicity and does not affect endothelial dysfunction in the particular population studied by the authors, i.e. patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) of various degrees, or suspicion of CAD and chronic mild renal failure."}
{"id": "12731367", "title": "[Hyperhomocysteinemia and advancement of atherosclerosis in patients with chronic renal failure on maintenance hemodialysis].", "content": "[Hyperhomocysteinemia and advancement of atherosclerosis in patients with chronic renal failure on maintenance hemodialysis]. Cardiovascular diseases connected with atherosclerosis are the main factor of morbidity and mortality in patients with end-stage renal failure. Hyperhomocysteinemia is a known and independent risk factor of atherosclerosis, occurring in 85-95% patients treated with hemodialysis. The aim of this study was to analyse relation between plasma level of homocysteine and chosen indicators of atherosclerosis development and also examined retrospectively cardiovascular complications in these patients. The study was carried out in 100 patients on hemodialysis who were divided into two groups: 72 patients with mild (20.74 mumol/l +/- 3.75) and 28 patients with moderate hyperhomocysteinemia (38.81 mumol/l +/- 9.81). Ultrasonographic examinations of Carotid Communis Artery Intima-Media Thickness (IMT), Ankle-Arm Blood Pressure Index (AABPI), echocardiographic parameters and biochemical examinations such as: PTH, folic acid and Vitamin B12, total protein, albumin, fibrinogen, glucose, total, LDL and HDL cholesterol, transferring, apolipoprotein B, lipoprotein (a), sodium potassium, calcium, phosphate, magnesium, iron, ferritin, urea, creatinine, uric acid and value of Hb, Ht, total iron binding capacity and transferring saturation, were performed. Patients with hypertension were divided into groups according to the number of taken anti-hypertensive drugs. Hyperhomocysteinemia was confirmed in 96% of patients. Frequency and type of acute cardiovascular complications were not related with the level of hyperhomocysteinemia. Statistically significant difference between IMT and level of hyperhomocysteinemia was observed. In patients with mild hyperhomocysteinemia IMT was 0.68 mm +/- 0.24 whereas in patients with moderate hyperhomocysteinemia 0.80 mm +/- 0.25, p < 0.036). Positive correlation between level of homocysteine and IMT (r = 0.22, p < 0.03) was noted. Based on this study, we concluded, that measurement of intima-media thickness is a good indicator of atherosclerosis development and correlates with hyperhomocysteinemia in patients on maintenance hemodialysis. It clearly confirms the role of hyperhomocysteinemia as significant risk factor of atherosclerosis in those patients."}
{"id": "12688148", "title": "[Cardiovascular stress in laparoscopic surgery].", "content": "[Cardiovascular stress in laparoscopic surgery]. To evaluate response of cardiovascular system in laparoscopic surgery. The main aim was: 1--comparison of healthy subjects and morbid obese population, 2--comparison of healthy subjects and cohort of patients with organic cardiopathy. Secondly we compared the influence of the operation position. Patients (n = 17) were divided into 3 subgroups:--Control group of \"normal\" subjects: mean age 36.8 +/- 11.2 years; BMI 25.33 +/- 3.62; BSA 1.84 +/- 0.21 m2; two men and four women; op. diagnosis: 3x cholecystectomy, 1x appendectomy, 1x inguinal herniotomy, 1x hiatal hernia operation. --Group of patients with morbid obesity: mean age 38 +/- 8.1 years; BMI 45.82 +/- 7.54!; BSA 2.66 +/- 0.32 m2; one man and five women; all of them were operated for obesity (laparoscopic gastric banding).--Group of patients with severe cardiopathy: mean age 64.0 +/- 11.55; BMI 26.4 +/- 4.09; BSA 1.89 +/- 0.23; three men and two women; card. diagnosis: 2x aortic stenosis, 1x combined aortic valvulopathy, 1x aortic stenosis with secondary mitral regurgitation, 1x secondary mitral regurgitation (both caused by coronary artery disease); op. diagnosis: 4x cholecystectomy; 1x extraction of catheter for peritoneal dialysis. The method of our examination was transesophageal echocardiography with use of omni planar sond with continual monitoring of each patient. Our data are based on repeated measurements (3x minimal for each state and each patient) before and after peritoneal cavity insufflation and third after positioning of patient (in Trendelenburg or Fowler position). Examinations were recorded and data analysed off-line. Following parameters were analysed: mean age, BMI, BSA, heart rate, mean arterial pressure (MAP), ejection fraction of left ventricle (EF), E/A ratio of transmitral flow, cardiac output (CO), cardiac index (CI), systemic (peripheral) vascular resistance (SVR) and pressure-rate-product (PRP). For statistical analysis were used: ANOVA tests, t-tests with Benforroni correction and Friedman's tests. In comparison of normal and obese patients statistically significant differences were found (after exclusion of BMI and BSA) in cardiac output values, after recalculation on body surface (cardiac index) remained only non-significant trend to fall. Differences between control group and group of cardiacs were also non significant with exclusion of E/A ratio of transmitral flow. This result we explain by pseudonormalization. All 17 operations were successfully done without any complication. Our data were obtained on relatively small cohort of patients but the number of patients was respected by statistics and results might be borderline but significant. Laparoscopic gastric band (operation is done in semi-sitting position) in morbid obese patients is well tolerated without any differences in comparison to healthy population. The population of patients with severe organic cardiopathy needs careful approach. Our data are favourable but significant change in the left ventricle filling together with non-significant hemodynamic disadvantageous trends in EF, CI and MAP requires care. Further investigations are needed and with intraoperative monitoring (transesophageal echocardiography is preferred) can be considered as safe."}
{"id": "12630534", "title": "Redo off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting for high risk hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Redo off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting for high risk hemodialysis patients. The number of reoperative (redo) coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) for patients with long-term hemodialysis has been increasing. Off-pump CABG (OPCAB) may decrease risks associated with redo CABG. Two patients on chronic hemodialysis with calcification of the ascending aorta underwent redo double coronary OPCAB for the left anterior descending artery (LAD) and the posterior descending artery (PDA) via median sternotomy. The LAD was bypassed with the left internal thoracic artery (LITA). The PDA was exposed with minimum dissection and bypassed with a composite graft of the right internal thoracic artery (RITA) and the saphenous vein (SV). Both patients made a quick recovery with no complications and one had postoperative angiography that showed the patent grafts. Both patients were free from angina pectoris at follow-up of 6 months and 3 months, respectively. Redo OPCAB of the LAD and PDA can be performed with minimal dissection via median sternotomy using the LITA and a composite graft of the RITA and SV."}
{"id": "12584890", "title": "[Hyperhomocysteinemia--a risk factor for development of occlusive vascular diseases].", "content": "[Hyperhomocysteinemia--a risk factor for development of occlusive vascular diseases]. Occlusive vascular diseases take the first places on lists of diseases in general population today. In spite of this, all risk factors which contribute to development of these diseases are not yet known. Recent studies have shown that homocysteine plays a critical role in it and is established as a new risk factor. WHAT IS HOMOCYSTEINE?: Homocysteine is a sulfur containing amino acid formed in the metabolism of methionine. Reference values of homocysteine in circulation and different forms in plasma are described. HYPERHOMOCYSTEINEMIA--A RISK FACTOR: Homocysteine was associated with atherosclerosis and occlusive vascular disease in 1960s for the first time. Since then, many studies--prospective and retrospective, have confirmed the role of hyperhomocysteinemia as a risk factor in 42% of patients with cerebrovascular disease, 28% with peripheral vascular and 30% with coronary artery disease. The Physician's Health Study, a prospective study in which 15,000 male physicians took part, revealed that increase in homocysteine concentration of 1.7 mumol/l above normal values was associated by threefold higher risk for myocardial infarction. The risk for carotid artery stenosis also increases with elevation of homocysteine concentration. Hyperhomocysteinemia is associated with poor prognosis in patients with angiographically established coronary disease. Stroke, venous thromboembolism, and atherosclerosis in chronic renal failure are some of the complications of hyperhomocysteinemia. Hyperhomocysteinemia has numerous genetic and nongenetic etiologic factors. Cystathionine synthase deficiency, methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase deficiency and defects in the synthesis of cobalamin cofactors are genetically determined. Nutritional factors such as B12, folate or B6 vitamin deficiency, cofactors in homocysteine metabolism, lead to hyperhomocysteinemia. Atherogenic propensity of homocysteine is related to endothelial dysfunction, blood thrombocyte aggregation changes in factors of coagulation. Oxidative stress is involved, but the exact mechanism is still unknown. Hyperhomocysteinemia is established as an important risk factor for occlusive vascular diseases. Reduction in homocysteine concentration can be achieved by supplementation of B-group vitamins, cofactors in homocysteione metabolism. Is it going to be effective in reducing cardiovascular risks remains to be seen."}
{"id": "12561095", "title": "Coronary artery bypass grafting to a calcified right coronary artery.", "content": "Coronary artery bypass grafting to a calcified right coronary artery. A severely calcified coronary artery demands a special technique in coronary artery bypass surgery. We have successfully developed a \"punch-out\" technique for a calcified right coronary artery in a dialysis patient. After an incision into the target coronary artery, the calcified arterial wall was resected using a punch to make an oval hole for anastomosis. Limited endarterectomy, which consisted of dissection and removal of the calcified endothelium and media around this hole, preserving the adventitia, enabled the anastomosis. This technique can be used for a severely calcified coronary artery that is unamendable to conventional coronary artery bypass grafting."}
{"id": "12515377", "title": "Electron beam tomography to image cardiovascular calcifications in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Electron beam tomography to image cardiovascular calcifications in hemodialysis patients. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in western countries and it is especially frequent in dialysis patients. Though for a long time physicians have been mainly focused on the severity of luminal coronary stenosis, atherosclerosis starts and expands in the contest of the arterial wall much before it extends into the vessel lumen. Indeed, most acute coronary events occur in patients with non-obstructive luminal disease. On pathological examination patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD) show larger and more extensively calcified atherosclerotic lesions than non-uremic patients. Recent evidence shows that even very young dialysis patients show premature calcification of the coronary arteries. Therefore, early detection of atherosclerotic disease with a non-invasive imaging technology such as electron beam tomography (EBT) may provide an opportunity to modify the disease course and reduce the related event rate."}
{"id": "12491833", "title": "[Mesenteric angina: infrequent cause of chronic pain in hemodialysis patient].", "content": "[Mesenteric angina: infrequent cause of chronic pain in hemodialysis patient]. We report a 73 years old male undergoing chronic hemodialysis with a history of seven years of abdominal pain and weight loss. A mesenteric angiography disclosed a critical stenosis of the celiac artery and a partial stenosis of the superior mesenteric artery. Other causes of abdominal pain were excluded. The patient was subjected to a successful angioplasty with stent placement that resulted in a complete relief of the pain."}
{"id": "12469955", "title": "A common sense approach to perioperative evaluation.", "content": "A common sense approach to perioperative evaluation."}
{"id": "12451678", "title": "[Discrepancies in the measurement of serum pancreatic lipase activities by non-enzymatic and enzymatic assays, and relationships to pseudohyperlipasemia].", "content": "[Discrepancies in the measurement of serum pancreatic lipase activities by non-enzymatic and enzymatic assays, and relationships to pseudohyperlipasemia]. I have observed discrepancies in the measurement of serum pancreatic lipase(LIP, Triacylglycerol acylhydrolase, EC 3.1.1.3) activities by non-enzymatic and enzymatic methods using diglyceride(1,2-dilinoleoyl-2-palmitoyl-glycerol, DLPG) as a substrate. The greatest discrepancies were seen in the post-heparin sera of patients with acute coronary syndrome(ACS). It is well-known that serum levels of lipoprotein lipase(LPL, EC 3.1.1.34) and hepatic triglyceride lipase(HTL, EC 3.1.1.3) show a significant increase after the administration of heparin in hemodialysis patients, and even larger quantities of heparin are administered before cardioangiography for ACS. Moreover, inhibitors of LPL and HTL induce almost complete reduction of increased LIP activity in post-heparin serum as measured by enzymatic assays. Pseudohyperlipasemia and positive interference from post-heparin serum LIP activity in enzymatic assays are considered to largely reflect LPL and HTL activities. Therefore, enzymatic reagent kits need improvement."}
{"id": "12446066", "title": "Transthoracic Doppler assessment of coronary flow velocity reserve in children with Kawasaki disease: comparison with coronary angiography and thallium-201 imaging.", "content": "Transthoracic Doppler assessment of coronary flow velocity reserve in children with Kawasaki disease: comparison with coronary angiography and thallium-201 imaging. The purpose of this study was to determine the feasibility of coronary flow velocity reserve (CFVR) measurement by transthoracic Doppler echocardiography (TTDE) in children with Kawasaki disease (KD). Doppler-derived CFVR is a reliable marker predicting the presence of myocardial ischemia. We studied 49 patients (median age 11 years) with KD. The CFVR was calculated as the ratio of hyperemic to basal peak (peak CFVR) and mean (mean CFVR) diastolic flow velocities in the posterior descending coronary artery (PD) and left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD). The CFVR measurements by TTDE were compared with the results of coronary angiography, thallium-201 (Tl-201) single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), and intracoronary Doppler study. The CFVR measurements by TTDE were obtained in 92 (94%) of 98 vessels of the PD and LAD in 49 study patients. Both peak and mean CFVRs for 21 stenotic vessels were significantly smaller than those for 35 normal vessels and for 20 vessels with aneurysmal lesions (p < 0.0001). Peak and mean CFVR <2.0 predicted significant coronary stenosis, as determined by coronary angiography, with sensitivities and specificities of 89% and 96% and 89% and 97%, respectively. Also, both peak and mean CFVRs were correlated with reversible perfusion defects on Tl-201 SPECT (agreement 80%; kappa 0.4). The correlation between peak and mean CFVRs determined by the TTDE and intracoronary Doppler studies in 36 vessels of 23 patients were 0.76 and 0.80, respectively. The CFVR measured by TTDE predicts the presence of significant coronary stenosis of either the right coronary artery or LAD, as well as myocardial ischemia of these territories in children with KD."}
{"id": "12437406", "title": "Emergency evaluation of chest pain in patients with advanced kidney disease.", "content": "Emergency evaluation of chest pain in patients with advanced kidney disease. Increased rates of myocardial infarction, heart failure, arrhythmias, and death occur in patients with chronic kidney disease. We sought to evaluate the processes of care and outcomes in patients with chronic kidney disease presenting to an emergency department with chest discomfort. We enrolled 817 consecutive patients who underwent evaluation for a possible acute myocardial infarction in a prospective study of cardiac biomarkers. Renal dysfunction did not exclude patients from this study, and baseline renal function and 30-day outcomes were available in 808. Patients were stratified by corrected creatinine clearance rate into quartiles, with those undergoing dialysis (n = 51) as a fifth comparison group. Those patients with advanced renal dysfunction (corrected creatinine clearance rate, <47.0 mL/min [<0.8 mL/s] per 72 kg) or who underwent dialysis had higher rates of diabetes, hypertension, and prior coronary disease. More than 99% of all patients were admitted to a chest pain observation unit or to the hospital. Rates of stress testing were lower as renal dysfunction worsened. Rates of revascularization, however, were similar for all groups. The most frequent in-hospital complication was the development of heart failure, which occurred in 36.5% of those with a corrected creatinine clearance rate of less than 47.0 mL/min per 72 kg. At 30 days, this group had the highest rates of cumulative myocardial infarction, development of heart failure, and death (40.2%). Chronic kidney disease is a marker for in-hospital and 30-day outcomes in patients presenting to the emergency department with chest discomfort."}
{"id": "12427146", "title": "A randomized controlled trial of N-acetylcysteine to prevent contrast nephropathy in cardiac angiography.", "content": "A randomized controlled trial of N-acetylcysteine to prevent contrast nephropathy in cardiac angiography. Contrast nephropathy (CN) is a common cause of renal dysfunction after cardiac angiography. Recently, N-acetylcysteine (NAC) has been found to reduce the risk of CN after CT imaging with contrast enhancement. The purpose of the current study was to evaluate the efficacy of NAC for the prevention of CN in the setting of cardiac angiography. Eligible patients were those undergoing cardiac angiography with serum creatinine>1.7 mg/dL. Patients were randomized to one of two groups: Group 1, IV hydration and NAC, 1200 mg one hour before angiography, and a second dose 3 hours after; Group 2, IV hydration and placebo. CN was defined as an increase of 0.5 mg/dL in serum creatinine. Seventy-nine patients completed the study. There were no significant differences between the groups in baseline characteristics, duration of angiography, mean volume of dye infused or mean IV hydration. Contrast nephropathy developed in 24.0% of subjects, 26.3% NAC, and 22.0% placebo (P = NS). Among subjects with diabetes mellitus, there was no significant difference in the rate of CN between the groups (42.1% NAC, 27.8% placebo; P = 0.09). The independent predictors of CN risk were diabetes mellitus and preexisting chronic renal insufficiency. NAC was not effective for the prevention of CN after cardiac angiography."}
{"id": "12410860", "title": "Cardiovascular calcification in patients with end-stage renal disease: a century-old phenomenon.", "content": "Cardiovascular calcification in patients with end-stage renal disease: a century-old phenomenon. The mortality risk from cardiovascular disease is increased in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). This is due to both traditional and dialysis-specific factors. Recently, a number of the dialysis-specific risk factors have been implicated in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular calcification. These include: hyperphosphatemia, high calcium-phosphate (Ca x P) product, elevated parathyroid hormone levels, duration of dialysis, and treatment with calcium-containing phosphate binders and vitamin D analogs. The recent availability of electron beam computed tomography (EBCT) has triggered increased awareness of the occurrence of cardiovascular calcification in ESRD patients. Given the development of transient hypercalcemia with calcium-containing binders, a link between calcium load from use of calcium-containing phosphate binders and development coronary calcification has been proposed. However, a causal relationship between use of these agents and cardiovascular calcification has not been established. Moreover, this phenomenon had been recognized over a century ago, long before these phosphate binders became available. Although its pathogenesis is likely to be multifactorial, available data strongly implicate elevated serum phosphorus as the primary culprit. Furthermore, the risk of calcification may be aggravated by vitamin D therapy, particularly in patients with severe secondary hyperparathyroidism. Therefore, achieving vigorous control of serum phosphorus, Ca x P product and parathyroid hormone level might decrease cardiovascular calcification and improve survival of patients on maintenance hemodialysis. Since calcium acetate is the most cost-effective phosphate binder available, we recommend that it should remain the first line treatment of hyperphosphatemia in patients with ESRD."}
{"id": "12395219", "title": "The heart in Anderson Fabry disease.", "content": "The heart in Anderson Fabry disease. Anderson Fabry disease is a life threatening, X-linked inborn metabolic defect of the lysosomal enzyme \u00e1alpha-galactosidase A. The deficiency of alpha-galactosidase A leads to a progressive accumulation of globotriaosylceramide (Gb(3)), the major glycosphingolipid substrate of the enzyme, within vulnerable cells, tissues, and organs, including the cardiovascular system. Cardiac involvement is frequent and patients with cardiac affection develop progressive hypertrophic infiltrative cardiomyopathy, valvular abnormalities, arrhythmias, and conduction abnormalities and may develop coronary heart disease. Hemizygous male patients have no detectable alpha-galactosidase A activity, while affected heterozygous females may have normal level of alpha-galactosidase A activity. Death occurs in male patients at 45 to 50 years, about 15 to 20 years earlier than in female patients due to a vicious circle from chronic renal insufficiency, arterial hypertension, atherosclerotic lesions and cerebrovascular hemorrhage or insults, and cardiomyopathy. Cardiac involvement in hetero- and hemizygotes will be discussed as well as the influence of enzyme replacement of alpha-galactosidase A."}
{"id": "12392825", "title": "Acetylcysteine protects against acute renal damage in patients with abnormal renal function undergoing a coronary procedure.", "content": "Acetylcysteine protects against acute renal damage in patients with abnormal renal function undergoing a coronary procedure. We sought to evaluate the efficacy of the antioxidant acetylcysteine in limiting the nephrotoxicity after coronary procedures. The increasingly frequent use of contrast-enhanced imaging for diagnosis or intervention in patients with coronary artery disease has generated concern about the avoidance of contrast-induced nephrotoxicity (CIN). Reactive oxygen species have been shown to cause CIN. We prospectively studied 121 patients with chronic renal insufficiency (mean [+/-SD] serum creatinine concentration 2.8 +/- 0.8 mg/dl) who underwent a coronary procedure. Patients were randomly assigned to receive either acetylcysteine (400 mg orally twice daily) and 0.45% saline intravenously, before and after injection of the contrast agent, or placebo and 0.45% saline. Serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen were measured before, 48 h and 7 days after the coronary procedure. Seventeen (14%) of the 121 patients had an increase in their serum creatinine concentration of at least 0.5 mg/dl at 48 h after administration of the contrast agent: 2 (3.3%) of the 60 patients in the acetylcysteine group and 15 (24.6%) of the 61 patients in the control group (p < 0.001). In the acetylcysteine group, the mean serum creatinine concentration decreased significantly from 2.8 +/- 0.8 to 2.5 +/- 1.0 mg/dl (p < 0.01) at 48 h after injection of the contrast medium, whereas in the control group, the mean serum creatinine concentration increased significantly from 2.8 +/- 0.8 to 3.1 +/- 1.0 mg/dl (p < 0.01). Prophylactic oral administration of the antioxidant acetylcysteine, along with hydration, reduces the acute renal damage induced by a contrast agent in patients with chronic renal insufficiency undergoing a coronary procedure."}
{"id": "12382405", "title": "Simultaneous off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting and in vivo heterogenous renal transplantation. Considering results and indications.", "content": "Simultaneous off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting and in vivo heterogenous renal transplantation. Considering results and indications. Complications of arterial sclerosis lesions are found in patients in dialysis for end-stage chronic renal failure. We present a case of simultaneous coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and renal transplantation. A 64-year-old man was to undergo in vivo heterogenous renal transplantation for chronic renal failure. Angiography was undertaken for preoperative abnormal electrocardiography, which showed severe long segmental stenosis of the left anterior descending coronary artery. We discussed the possibility of simultaneous surgery, conducting off-pump CABG and renal transplantation at the same time. Postoperative management of the implanted kidney was easy despite high infusion. His postoperative course went well, without cardiac events. Simultaneous off-pump CABG and in vivo heterogenous thus provide a viable option for patients with comorbid disease."}
{"id": "12371979", "title": "Impact of renal failure on the risk of myocardial infarction and death.", "content": "Impact of renal failure on the risk of myocardial infarction and death. It is unclear whether pre-existing cardiovascular disease or predisposition of the uremic state leads to the high cardiovascular morbidity and mortality associated with renal failure. We examined whether renal failure independently increases the risk of myocardial infarction and death. A total of 8600 patients with variable glomerular filtration rate (GFR) at the time of coronary angiography participated in the Intermountain Heart Study. Coronary disease was defined as >or=70% stenosis. Modification of Diet in Renal Disease formula was used to calculate glomerular filtration rate (GFR). Cox regression models were used to compare outcomes. The mean GFR was 71 +/- 24 mL/min. There were 1320 (15%) deaths, 657 (9%) myocardial infarctions and 1776 (21%) death or myocardial infarctions over 3.2 +/- 1.9 years. Compared to the highest GFR quartile, the lowest GFR quartile (mean GFR 41 +/- 14 mL/min) was associated with higher risk for myocardial infarction (RR 1.43, 95% CI 1.15 to 1.78), death (RR 2.77, 95% CI 2.32 to 3.30) and death/myocardial infarction (RR 2.13, 95% CI 1.85 to 2.45) in multivariable models adjusted for age, sex, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, smoking, family history of coronary disease and diabetes. Even after further adjustment for coronary angiographic data and the choice of initial therapy, lowest GFR quartile was associated with increased risk of myocardial infarction (RR 1.51, 95% CI 1.21 to 1.88), death (RR 2.60, 95% CI 2.18 to 3.10) and death/myocardial infarction (RR 2.08, 95% CI 1.80 to 2.39). Even moderate renal failure increases the risk of myocardial infarction and death independent of clinical variables, baseline angiographic evidence of coronary disease and therapy."}
{"id": "12358138", "title": "Prevalence and outcome of renal artery stenosis in atherosclerotic patients with renal dysfunction.", "content": "Prevalence and outcome of renal artery stenosis in atherosclerotic patients with renal dysfunction. We investigated the prevalence of renal artery disease and outcome in a cohort of atherosclerotic patients with renal dysfunction. We studied 44 consecutive patients who were older than 50 years of age, who had renal dysfunction and in whom one or more of the following atherosclerotic diseases was confirmed: cerebral infarction, coronary artery disease or peripheral vascular disease. Renal artery stenosis was assessed by gadolinium-enhanced magnetic-resonance angiography. Patients who were treated medically were prospectively followed up in our outpatient clinic and the impact of renal artery stenosis on survival was evaluated. Renal artery stenosis was found in 22 (50%) of the 44 patients. Difference in kidney length and carotid artery stenosis were identified as independent predictors of renal artery stenosis. Among the patients who were treated medically (n=42), rates of mortality were 4.4, 12.7 and 18.1 per 100 patient-years in those without renal artery stenosis, those with unilateral renal artery stenosis and those with bilateral renal artery stenosis, respectively. The mortality and renal survival curves were significantly different among these three groups. These findings indicate that renal artery stenosis is common in patients with renal dysfunction and concomitant cardiovascular disease, especially in those with carotid artery stenosis, and that a substantial difference in the length of kidneys may be a predictor of renovascular disease. Patients with renal dysfunction resulting from renal artery stenosis are at risk of death from cardiovascular disease and end-stage renal failure."}
{"id": "12324908", "title": "Combined dipyridamole-exercise stress echocardiography for detection of myocardial ischemia in hemodialysis patients: an alternative to stress nuclear imaging.", "content": "Combined dipyridamole-exercise stress echocardiography for detection of myocardial ischemia in hemodialysis patients: an alternative to stress nuclear imaging. Stress nuclear imaging is the noninvasive technique currently used to detect coronary artery disease (CAD) in dialysis patients. Stress echocardiography is recognized as an alternative to stress nuclear imaging for the general population. The aim of this study is to assess the diagnostic accuracy of stress echocardiography for detecting myocardial ischemia in hemodialysis patients. Stress echocardiography and stress technetium-99m-tetrofosmin (Myoview; Amersham International Plc) imaging were performed simultaneously for 66 asymptomatic hemodialysis patients in a single session, using a combination of high-dose dipyridamole and symptom-limited exercise. Coronary angiography was performed in 44 patients with at least one abnormal noninvasive test result or who were considered high-risk despite normal noninvasive test results. Results for stress echocardiography were abnormal in 15 patients (22%); stress Myoview, in 14 patients (21%); and coronary angiography, in 12 patients (18%). The sensitivity of stress echocardiography for detecting myocardial ischemia (defined as stress Myoview defect) was 86%; specificity, 94%; positive predictive value, 80%; negative predictive value, 96%; and overall accuracy, 92%. The sensitivity of stress echocardiography for detecting CAD (defined as abnormal coronary angiography result) was 83%; specificity, 84%; positive predictive value, 67%; negative predictive value, 93%; and overall accuracy, 84%. Stress echocardiography and stress Myoview did not differ significantly in overall accuracy for detecting CAD (84% versus 91%; P = not significant). In hemodialysis patients, combined dipyridamole-exercise echocardiography is an accurate method to detect both myocardial ischemia and CAD and represents an alternative to stress nuclear imaging."}
{"id": "12270460", "title": "Detection and treatment of coronary artery disease in renal transplantation candidates.", "content": "Detection and treatment of coronary artery disease in renal transplantation candidates."}
{"id": "12195401", "title": "[Coronary angiography in uraemic patients awaiting kidney transplantation].", "content": "[Coronary angiography in uraemic patients awaiting kidney transplantation]. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in uraemia. Coronary angiography (CA) in patients awaiting kidney transplantation (PAKT) is still a matter of debate. In order to evaluate atherosclerotic coronary damage in PAKT, CAs of 12 PAKT were matched with those of 13 dialysis patients (P) affected by ischaemic heart disease IHD. Age sex, length of time on renal replacement therapy, diabetes, smoking and hyperphosphataemia history, clinical diagnosis of IHD, cerebrovascular (CV) and peripheral vascular (PV) disease, mean blood pressure (BP), cholesterol, triglycerides, calcium, phosphate, albumin, haemoglobin, haematocrit and weekly dose of erythropoietin (EPO-dose) were derived from clinical records. PAKT were younger (48 9 vs 63 9 years, p < 0.01) and had higher diastolic BP values (86+/-10 vs 79+/-4 mmHg, p < 0.05) than IHD P. On the contrary all the other parameters investigated were not different in the two groups of P. Prevalence of IHD in PAKT was 16% while frequency of CV and VP disease were not different in the two groups. In 9 of IHD P stenotic lesions >/=75% of normal reference segment were diagnosed in 3 or more vessels whilst in PAKT there were atherosclerotic lesions in right coronary artery, left anterior descending artery and left circumflex artery in 41, 66 and 33% respectively. Narrowing percentage of the coronaries in PAKT and IHD P were: right coronary artery 27+/-42 vs 75+/-35, p < 0.05, left anterior descending artery 29+/-25 vs 86+/-15, p < 0.001, left circumflex artery 11 16 vs 47+/-38, p < 0.05 respectively. Our study shows that atherosclerotic coronary damage is present in PAKT and, although not hemodynamically significant, it could be an important risk factor for clinical expression of IHD. We conclude that CA should be performed in PAKT especially in those over 45 years."}
{"id": "12165941", "title": "[Renal atheroembolic disease: evaluation of the efficacy of corticosteroid therapy].", "content": "[Renal atheroembolic disease: evaluation of the efficacy of corticosteroid therapy]. Even though many organs may be involved and clinical manifestations are extremely variable, a sudden worsening of renal function after vascular surgery or invasive angiographic manoeuvres is a clue for the diagnosis of renal cholesterol crystal embolization. In rare cases the disease may also occur spontaneously during anticoagulant or thrombolytic therapy. Renal atheroembolism is becoming increasingly recognized as an important cause of renal failure particularly in elderly men, and is often associated with a bad outcome. To date there is no specific and proven useful treatment apart from a few anecdotal reports on the benefits of corticosteroids. We report a group of seven patients with cholesterol atheroembolic disease presenting acute renal failure; in six patients the disease appeared after coronary arteriography and PTCA performed in the last four months, and in one patient in an apparently spontaneous form. All the patients presented cutaneous lesions, livedo reticularis, purpuric rush, necrosis of the toes; laboratory data showed an increase of acute phase proteins and eosinophilia. Results. Treatment with prednisolone was begun at a dose of 40 mg/day i.v. for four days; the dose was reduced to prednisone 0.4-0.5 mg/kg/day for 1 week, than gradually reduced further and stopped within a month. Following therapy renal function rapidly improved; clinical symptoms of malaise and abdominal discomfort subsided, with amelioration of skin lesions and cyanosis of toes. Despite the small number of patients studied, our experience suggests that corticosteroid treatment is an effective therapeutic option in cholesterol renal atheroembolic disease, especially in the more severe cases of acute renal failure."}
{"id": "12164883", "title": "Cardiovascular disease risk status in elderly persons with renal insufficiency.", "content": "Cardiovascular disease risk status in elderly persons with renal insufficiency. Renal insufficiency has been independently associated with incident cardiovascular disease events in some, but not all, prospective studies. We determined the prevalence of elevated cardiovascular disease risk status among elderly persons with renal insufficiency. This study is a cross-sectional analysis using data collected at the baseline visit of the Cardiovascular Health Study, which enrolled 5888 community dwelling adults aged 65 years or older from four clinical centers in the United States. Renal insufficiency was defined as a serum creatinine level > or =1.3 mg/dL in women and > or =1.5 mg/dL in men. The outcomes of this study included prevalent cardiovascular disease [prior coronary heart disease (CHD) or stroke], subclinical cardiovascular disease (abnormal values of ankle-arm index, carotid ultrasound, and echocardiography) and elevated cardiovascular risk based upon a diagnosis of diabetes and the Framingham equations. The association between renal insufficiency and cardiovascular risk status was estimated with and without adjustment for other cardiovascular predictors. Among the 5808 participants with creatinine levels measured at entry, 15.9% of men (N = 394), and 7.6% of women (N = 254) had renal insufficiency. The prevalence of either clinical or subclinical cardiovascular disease was 64% in persons with renal insufficiency compared with 43% in those without it [odds ratio (OR) 2.34; 95% confidence interval (95% CI), 1.96, 2.80]. After adjustment for other cardiovascular risk factors, renal insufficiency remained significantly associated with clinical and subclinical cardiovascular disease (adjusted OR 1.43; 95% CI, 1.18, 1.75), but the magnitude of association was substantially reduced. After combining clinical and subclinical cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and an estimated risk>20% by the Framingham equations, 78% of men and 61% of women with renal insufficiency had elevated cardiovascular risk status. Renal insufficiency is a marker for elevated cardiovascular disease risk in community dwelling elderly adults."}
{"id": "12161224", "title": "Usefulness of rotational spin for coronary angiography in patients with advanced renal insufficiency.", "content": "Usefulness of rotational spin for coronary angiography in patients with advanced renal insufficiency. Coronary angiography in patients with advanced renal insufficiency is typically restricted to cases of life-threatening circumstances such as acute myocardial infarction and unstable angina. To gather a large amount of visual information with a minimum number of cine runs, and consequently, with a minimum volume of contrast medium, we rotated the gantry at 40 degrees /s throughout an angle of 120 degrees, from the right toward the left anterior oblique positions. This technique of rotational spin during cinegraphic runs has not yet become established in invasive cardiology. Three experienced cardiologists independently evaluated all coronary segments in rotational versus standard coronary angiography modes for 15 patients, on the basis of an 11-point scale (0 = cardiac spin far better to 10 = standard mode far better). A score of 5 signified that there was no difference in quality between the 2 modes. The arithmetic mean of the assessment values was 4.9 +/- 0.3 for coronary segments, 5.4 +/- 1.3 for coronary lesions, 5.1 +/- 1.4 for bifurcations, and 5.0 +/- 0.1 for coronary flow. The arithmetic means for the volume of contrast medium (25 +/- 4 ml), for the overall dose area product (8.6 +/- 4.5 Gy x cm(2)), and for the number of cine graphic frames (203 +/- 65) for a diagnostic cardiac spin were significantly below published typical values in standard mode. Cardiac spin enables 3-dimensional coronary impression under conditions of adequate image quality and represents a new, useful, and beneficial method in invasive cardiology for applications involving the special indication of advanced renal insufficiency."}
{"id": "12151856", "title": "Non-invasive measurement of coronary heart disease using electron beam computed tomography.", "content": "Non-invasive measurement of coronary heart disease using electron beam computed tomography. Electron beam computed tomography is a non-invasive investigation that can quantify calcification within the walls of coronary arteries. Coronary arteries remodel to maintain luminal integrity, so that significant plaque may be present before the development of luminal stenoses. This has led to interest in techniques that assess the coronary artery wall, rather than the lumen. This review examines the power of coronary calcification detected by electron beam computed tomography to predict coronary heart disease events, and outlines recent studies in which it has been used as a surrogate marker for coronary heart disease. The predictive power of coronary calcification has been shown to exceed that of traditional coronary heart disease risk factors and possibly also coronary angiography. This may justify the use of coronary calcification as a surrogate marker for coronary heart disease, and studies have thus examined cross-sectional associations between coronary calcification and potential risk factors in healthy individuals and patients with diabetes, end-stage renal failure and familial hypercholesterolaemia. Intervention studies can use the rate of change of coronary calcification detected by serial electron beam computed tomography imaging as an end-point, rather than relying on coronary heart disease events. As every participant reaches an end-point, sufficient power can be attained with smaller numbers at substantially less cost. Coronary calcification detected by electron beam computed tomography may prove an invaluable tool in the selection of at-risk individuals suitable for primary prevention, and a useful surrogate marker for coronary heart disease in clinical trials."}
{"id": "12118900", "title": "Effects of sirolimus on lipids in renal allograft recipients: an analysis using the Framingham risk model.", "content": "Effects of sirolimus on lipids in renal allograft recipients: an analysis using the Framingham risk model. This report describes the effects of sirolimus on plasma lipids, and uses the Framingham risk model to assess the clinical importance of these effects. Lipid data from two large controlled studies of 1295 renal transplant patients were analyzed retrospectively. Sirolimus 2 mg/day and 5 mg/day were compared with placebo or azathioprine, and administered concomitantly with steroids and cyclosporine over 12 months. Hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia occurred in all treatment groups and were maximal at 2-3 months. The sirolimus groups evidenced higher lipid levels than the controls, but the elevations diminished over time. At 1 year, the patients given sirolimus 2 mg/day had a mean cholesterol level 17 mg/dL greater and a mean triglyceride level 59 mg/dL greater than the controls. Among the patients given sirolimus 5 mg/day, mean cholesterol was 30 mg/dL greater and mean triglycerides were 103 mg/dL greater than the controls. Treatment with statins and fibrates was effective in reducing cholesterol and triglyceride levels, respectively, in the sirolimus-treated patients. The Framingham risk model predicted that the 17 mg/dL elevation in cholesterol would increase the incidence of coronary heart disease (CHD) by 1.5 new cases per 1000 persons per year and CHD death by 0.7 events per 1000 persons per year. Lipid elevations observed in the sirolimus-treated patients were manageable, improved over time, and responded to lipid-lowering therapy. Based on the Framingham risk model, the CHD risks associated with these cholesterol elevations are small compared with the baseline risks of the transplant population."}
{"id": "12105388", "title": "Phosphorus restriction and control of coronary calcification as assessed by electron beam tomography.", "content": "Phosphorus restriction and control of coronary calcification as assessed by electron beam tomography. Patients suffering from end-stage renal disease and undergoing dialysis demonstrate extremely elevated cardiovascular morbidity and mortality rates. Though the prevalence of traditional risk factors is very high, the extent and severity of cardiovascular complications seem disproportionate to the underlying risk profile. A growing body of evidence indicates that abnormalities of calcium and phosphorus metabolism may play an important role in the morbidity and mortality of end-stage renal disease patients. Calcification of several cardiovascular structures, a likely complication of hyperphosphatemia and excessive calcium load, is both highly prevalent and extensive in end-stage renal disease patients and carries a negative prognostic weight. The extent of calcification can be accurately quantified with noninvasive radiological techniques such as electron beam tomography. Utilizing electron beam tomography in patients undergoing dialysis it has been possible to demonstrate the rapid progression of cardiovascular calcification and to gauge the effect of treatment provided to slow such process. The presence of deleterious cardiovascular calcification in end-stage renal disease can be diagnosed accurately and noninvasively with electron beam tomography. This technology also allows precise assessment of the effect of medical treatment for hyperphosphatemia on calcification of cardiovascular structures."}
{"id": "12093777", "title": "Advanced coronary and carotid arteriopathy in young adults with childhood-onset chronic renal failure.", "content": "Advanced coronary and carotid arteriopathy in young adults with childhood-onset chronic renal failure. Cardiovascular mortality is excessive in young adults with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). The factors contributing to ESRD-related vascular disease are incompletely understood. Young adults with childhood-onset chronic renal failure (CRF) are uniquely suited for risk factor assessment because of their long-term exposure at an age when vascular pathology in the general population is still minimal. We used novel noninvasive technologies to screen for coronary and carotid artery disease in 39 patients with ESRD aged 19 to 39 years with childhood-onset CRF presently treated by dialysis or renal transplantation. Coronary artery calcification burden was assessed by CT scan with ECG gating and the intima-media thickness (IMT) of the carotid arteries by high-resolution ultrasound. Coronary artery calcifications were present in 92% of patients; calcium scores exceeded the 95th age- and sex-specific percentiles >10-fold on average. Carotid IMT was significantly increased compared with matched control subjects. Both coronary calcium scores and IMT were associated with cumulative dialysis and ESRD time and the cumulative serum calcium-phosphate product. Coronary calcium scores were strongly correlated with C-reactive protein and Chlamydia pneumoniae seropositivity, time-averaged mean serum parathyroid hormone, and plasma homocysteine. C-reactive protein and parathyroid hormone independently predicted coronary calcium accumulation. Smoking, obesity, and HbA1c were correlated with IMT in the control subjects but not in the patients. Young adults with childhood-onset CRF have a high prevalence of arteriopathy associated with indicators of microinflammation, hyperparathyroidism, calcium-phosphate overload, and hyperhomocysteinemia but not traditional atherogenic risk factors. These risk factors persist even after successful renal transplantation."}
{"id": "12086233", "title": "Noninvasive quantification of coronary artery calcification: methods and prognostic value.", "content": "Noninvasive quantification of coronary artery calcification: methods and prognostic value."}
{"id": "12086231", "title": "Coronary artery calcification and end-stage renal disease: vascular biology and clinical implications.", "content": "Coronary artery calcification and end-stage renal disease: vascular biology and clinical implications."}
{"id": "12083536", "title": "Periodontal assessment of patients undergoing angioplasty for treatment of coronary artery disease.", "content": "Periodontal assessment of patients undergoing angioplasty for treatment of coronary artery disease. The purpose of this cross-sectional study was to assess the periodontal condition of patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) in order to verify the association between CAD and certain periodontal parameters. Eighty patients (48 males and 32 females) were recruited from the Cleveland University Hospitals, Division of Cardiology (aged 23 to 83, median age 54 years). Upon cardiac catheterization, 50 were diagnosed with severe CAD (experimental group) and 30 with no angiographic evidence of CAD (control group). Patients with CAD were divided into 3 subgroups according to the clinical diagnosis of acute infarction (Al) (n = 20), stable angina (SA) (n = 20), and unstable angina (UA) (n = 10). The following dental, medical, and social histories were recorded: number of dental visits/year, frequency of brushing/day and flossing/week, tobacco use, presence/absence of hypertension, diabetes, total cholesterol level, and the highest level of education completed. The following periodontal parameters were also assessed for each subject: plaque index (PI), gingival index (GI), bleeding on probing (BOP), probing depth (PD), clinical attachment level (CAL), and number of missing teeth. Logistic regression analysis was used to determine whether there was a significant correlation between these periodontal parameters and CAD. The significant confounding factors for the present study were found to be age and gender. The periodontal condition of the 80 subjects was clinically diagnosed as gingivitis and/or mild periodontitis. Analysis of the data after adjusting for age and gender demonstrated a statistically significant association between BOP and GI and CAD in patients with Al; and facial/lingual CAL in patients with UA. No significant associations were found between PD, interproximal CAL, number of missing teeth, or dental/medical histories and CAD. Based on the results of this study, gingival inflammation may be considered a more significant risk factor for CAD than previously reported."}
{"id": "12081584", "title": "Sevelamer attenuates the progression of coronary and aortic calcification in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Sevelamer attenuates the progression of coronary and aortic calcification in hemodialysis patients. Cardiovascular disease is frequent and severe in patients with end-stage renal disease. Disorders of mineral metabolism may contribute by promoting cardiovascular calcification. We conducted a randomized clinical trial comparing sevelamer, a non-absorbed polymer, with calcium-based phosphate binders in 200 hemodialysis patients. Study outcomes included the targeted concentrations of serum phosphorus, calcium, and intact parathyroid hormone (PTH), and calcification of the coronary arteries and thoracic aorta using a calcification score derived from electron beam tomography. Sevelamer and calcium provided equivalent control of serum phosphorus (end-of-study values 5.1 +/- 1.2 and 5.1 +/- 1.4 mg/dL, respectively, P = 0.33). Serum calcium concentration was significantly higher in the calcium-treated group (P = 0.002), and hypercalcemia was more common (16% vs. 5% with sevelamer, P = 0.04). More subjects in the calcium group had end-of-study intact PTH below the target of 150 to 300 pg/mL (57% vs. 30%, P = 0.001). At study completion, the median absolute calcium score in the coronary arteries and aorta increased significantly in the calcium treated subjects but not in the sevelamer-treated subjects (coronary arteries 36.6 vs. 0, P = 0.03 and aorta 75.1 vs. 0, P = 0.01, respectively). The median percent change in coronary artery (25% vs. 6%, P = 0.02) and aortic (28% vs. 5%, P = 0.02) calcium score also was significantly greater with calcium than with sevelamer. Compared with calcium-based phosphate binders, sevelamer is less likely to cause hypercalcemia, low levels of PTH, and progressive coronary and aortic calcification in hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "12077492", "title": "Mean platelet volume and coronary heart disease in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Mean platelet volume and coronary heart disease in hemodialysis patients. Mean platelet volume (MPV) has been shown to be an independent risk factor for myocardial infarction in the general population. In the present cross-sectional study it was examined whether MPV may be associated with coronary heart disease (CHD) in patients in chronic hemodialysis treatment (n = 518). CHD was diagnosed if there was a history of myocardial infarction, coronary artery bypass grafting, or critical stenosis on coronary angiography. Mean platelet volume in hemodialysis patients was 8.22 +/- 0.06 fl. As compared with hemodialysis patients with a MPV <7.168 fl (the lower quintile limit), significantly more hemodialysis patients with a MPV >9.172 fl (the upper quintile limit) had CHD (odds ratio, 1.29; 95% confidence interval, 1.02-1.64). In a stepwise multiple logistic regression analysis MPV appeared to be an independent factor of CHD together with age, smoking, predialysis systolic blood pressure and serum triglyceride concentration. In a stepwise multiple linear regression model, MPV significantly depended on platelet count, volume of ultrafiltrate removed in one hemodialysis session, white blood cell count, treatment with beta blockers, heart rate, serum sodium and serum potassium concentrations. Additional measurements in 30 patients showed that MPV after a single hemodialysis session was not significantly different compared to predialysis values. From the present study it is concluded that MPV may be associated with CHD in hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "12077491", "title": "Comparison of dialysis and clinical characteristics of patients with frequent and occasional hemodialysis-associated hypotension.", "content": "Comparison of dialysis and clinical characteristics of patients with frequent and occasional hemodialysis-associated hypotension. Symptomatic dialysis hypotension (DH) continues to be a common problem. By comparing patients prone and resistant to DH, several dialysis session and patient related characteristics have been identified that confer susceptibility to DH. Less is known, however, about the comparison of patients with frequent and only occasional DH. The aim of the study was to compare clinical and dialysis-session- (complicated by hypotension) related data between those with frequent (fDH) and those with occasional dialysis hypotension (oDH). Nine hundred and fifty-eight patients at 11 dialysis units were followed for 10 months and characteristics of patients with fDH (> or = 10 hypotensive events necessitating medical intervention) (n = 96) were compared to that of patients with oDH (1 or 2 events/10 months) (n = 130). Significant and independent predictors of fDH were obtained by multivariate logistic regression. Significant differences between fDH vs. oDH patients were older age (64.4 vs. 56.9 years, p < 0.001), more females (66 vs. 46%, p < 0.005) in fDH. More fDH patients had diabetes (27 vs. 15%, p < 0.05) and less had glomerulonephritis (15 vs. 35%, p < 0.001) as the cause for ESRD. Coronary artery disease (68 vs. 50%, p < 0.01) and long-acting nitrate treatment (51 vs. 30%, p < 0.001) was more frequent while treatment with ACEI (33 vs. 48%, p < 0.05) or Ca-channel blockers (40 vs. 53%, p < 0.05) were less frequent in patients with fDH. Patients with fDH had higher serum phosphorus levels (1.99 vs. 1.79 mmol, p < 0.005). Dialysis session related data were similar but the hypotensive episode occurred earlier during dialysis in fDH (136 vs. 156 min, p < 0.01). In multivariate analysis, significant independent predictors of fDH were older age (OR = 1.04 [1.02-1.07]), lack of glomerulonephritis as renal diagnosis (2.63 [1.18-5.87]), high phosphorus levels (5.0 [2.45-10.0]), lack of use of Ca-channel blockers (2.09 [1.12-3.91]), and the use of nitrates (2.38 [1.24-4.55]). Features of the dialysis sessions complicated by DH seem to be similar between patients with fDH and oDH, while patient characteristics such as older age, renal diagnosis other than glomerulonephritis, higher serum phosphorus levels, use of nitrates, and lack of use of calcium channel blockers are significantly and independently associated with fDH."}
{"id": "12070108", "title": "Mild renal insufficiency is associated with angiographic coronary artery disease in women.", "content": "Mild renal insufficiency is associated with angiographic coronary artery disease in women. Mild renal insufficiency is associated with an increased risk for cardiovascular events in women with coronary artery disease (CAD). However, the relationship between mild renal insufficiency and atherosclerotic CAD in women is not known. Methods and Results- Women with chest pain who were referred for coronary angiography in the NHLBI Women's Ischemia Syndrome Evaluation (WISE) study underwent quantitative coronary angiography, blood measurements of creatinine, lipids, and homocysteine, and assessment of CAD risk factors. Fifty-six women had mild renal insufficiency (serum creatinine 1.2 to 1.9 mg/dL), and 728 had normal renal function (creatinine <1.2 mg/dL). Creatinine correlated with angiographic CAD severity score (r=0.11, P<0.004) and maximum coronary artery stenosis (r=0.11, P<0.003). Compared with women with normal renal function, those with mild renal insufficiency were more likely to have significant angiographic CAD (>/=50% diameter stenosis in >/=1 coronary artery) (61% versus 37%; P<0.001) and CAD in multiple vessels (P<0.001 for association) and had greater maximum percent diameter coronary stenosis (59+/-35% versus 38+/-36%; P<0.001). Mild renal insufficiency was associated with significant angiographic CAD independent of age and risk factors (OR=1.9, 95%CI=1.1 to 3.5). After controlling for homocysteine in 509 women, mild renal insufficiency remained predictive of CAD (OR=3.2, 95%CI=1.4 to 7.2). In women with chest pain, mild renal insufficiency is an independent predictor of significant angiographic CAD. Mildly increased serum creatinine is probably a marker for unmeasured proatherogenic factors."}
{"id": "12048904", "title": "[Pulmonary pseudosequestration receiving arterial supply from the right coronary artery: a case report].", "content": "[Pulmonary pseudosequestration receiving arterial supply from the right coronary artery: a case report]. A 66-year-old female had been treated by hemodialysis since 1996. She was admitted to our hospital with acute pneumonia in January 2001. During admission, ischemic heart disease was identified. Her condition deteriorated and organic pneumonia of the right middle lobe progressed. She recovered after 6 months and coronary arteriography was performed. A 90% stenosis was detected at the ostium of the right coronary artery. An aberrant tortuous artery arose from the distal sinus node artery, and drained into the lung network, but also partially drained to the right segmental pulmonary artery branch. The diagnosis was significant stenosis of the right coronary artery, and pulmonary pseudosequestration or pulmonary sequestration receiving arterial supply from the sinus node artery. Surgical revascularization, ligation of the aberrant artery, and partial resection of the right middle lobe were performed. However, intraoperative findings did not identify the pulmonary sequestration. This rare case of pulmonary pseudosequestration received the arterial supply from the sinus node artery, originating from the right coronary artery with a significant stenotic lesion, and developed without recurrent pneumonia."}
{"id": "12021221", "title": "Benefits and safety of tirofiban among acute coronary syndrome patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency: results from the Platelet Receptor Inhibition in Ischemic Syndrome Management in Patients Limited by Unstable Signs and Symptoms (PRISM-PLUS) trial.", "content": "Benefits and safety of tirofiban among acute coronary syndrome patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency: results from the Platelet Receptor Inhibition in Ischemic Syndrome Management in Patients Limited by Unstable Signs and Symptoms (PRISM-PLUS) trial. The role of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor antagonists for the treatment of patients with acute coronary syndrome and renal insufficiency remains undefined. Patients from the Platelet Receptor Inhibition in Ischemic Syndrome Management in Patients Limited by Unstable Signs and Symptoms (PRISM-PLUS) trial were stratified by creatinine clearance (CrCl) and assessed with respect to treatment assignment to tirofiban/heparin versus heparin alone for the risk of adverse outcomes and bleeding. Patients with severe renal insufficiency (defined as a serum creatinine > or = 2.5 mg/dL) were excluded from PRISM-PLUS as a whole. Patients with the lowest CrCl (< 30 mL/min) were more likely to present with high-risk clinical features. Decreasing renal function was strongly associated with adverse outcome, increasing the risk for ischemic complications at all time points examined (all P < 0.002). Irrespective of CrCl, therapy with tirofiban reduced the odds of the composite end point of death, myocardial infarction, or refractory ischemia at 48 hours (odds ratio [OR], 0.68; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.46 to 1.0; P=0.05), 7 days (OR, 0.68; 95% CI, 0.52 to 0.88; P= 0.003), 30 days (OR, 0.78; 95% CI, 0.63 to 0.98; P=0.03), and 6 months (OR, 0.81; 95% CI, 0.68 to 0.98; P=0.03). The risk of myocardial infarction/death was also significantly decreased to a similar magnitude at all time points examined. There was no evidence of treatment-by-CrCl interaction. The presence of declining renal function independently increased the risk for bleeding (OR, 1.57; P < 0.001 for trend across categories), as did therapy with tirofiban, but no unexpected incremental risk of bleeding due to tirofiban was observed among lowest CrCl categories. Among patients with mild-to-moderate renal insufficiency in PRISM-PLUS, tirofiban was well tolerated and effective in reducing ischemic acute coronary syndrome complications."}
{"id": "12010906", "title": "Outcomes of patients with chronic renal insufficiency in the bypass angioplasty revascularization investigation.", "content": "Outcomes of patients with chronic renal insufficiency in the bypass angioplasty revascularization investigation. Although severe chronic kidney disease (CKD) is an independent predictor of mortality among patients with coronary artery disease, the impact of mild CKD on morbidity and mortality has not been fully defined. Morbidity and mortality for the 3608 patients with multivessel coronary artery disease enrolled in the Bypass Angioplasty Revascularization Investigation randomized trial and registry were compared on the basis of the presence and absence of CKD, defined as a preprocedure serum creatinine level of >1.5 mg/dL. Seventy-six patients had CKD. Patients with renal insufficiency were older and more likely to have a history of diabetes, hypertension, and other comorbidities. Among patients undergoing PTCA, patients with CKD had a greater frequency of in-hospital death and cardiogenic shock (P<0.05 and 0.01, respectively). There was a trend toward a larger proportion of patients with CKD experiencing angina at 5 years (P=0.079). Patients with CKD had more cardiac admissions (P=0.003 and <0.0001 for patients undergoing PTCA and CABG, respectively) and a shorter time to subsequent CABG after initial revascularization than patients without CKD (P=0.01). CKD was associated with a higher risk of death at 7 years, both of all causes (relative risk 2.2, P<0.001) and of cardiac causes (relative risk 2.8, P<0.001). CKD is associated with an increased risk of recurrent hospitalization, subsequent CABG, and mortality. This increased risk of death is independent of and additive to the risk associated with diabetes."}
{"id": "12005213", "title": "Comparison of plasma cardiac troponins T and I in chronically hemodialyzed patients in relation to cardiac status and age.", "content": "Comparison of plasma cardiac troponins T and I in chronically hemodialyzed patients in relation to cardiac status and age. Cardiac troponins (cTnT and cTnI) are useful tools for risk stratification in patients with unstable angina. However, their value in patients with renal failure has been questioned. In this study, we determined cTnT and cTnI at 3-month intervals during 9 months in 97 chronic renal failure (CRF) patients treated with hemodialysis. cTnT was measured using a third generation immunoassay and cTnI by fluorimetric immunoassay with a detection limit similar to that of cTnT (0.01 microg/l). In the renal patients without coronary heart disease (CHD(-) group), cTnT was more frequently elevated above cut-off for acute myocardial infarction (AMI) (up to 21.6%) than cTnI (no patient). In the absence of CHD, cTnT levels were positively correlated to age, and more than half of the CHD(-) patients aged over 60 years had cTnT levels above the upper reference limit (URL) of 0.04 microg/l (0.059+/-0.042 microg/l). cTnI increased with age in parallel to cTnT but mean levels did not exceed the URL of 0.08 microg/l in the CHD(-) patients aged over 60 years (0.036+/-0.031 microg/l). In the patients with documented cardiac events (CHD(+)) we found higher troponin levels than in the CHD(-) patients of the corresponding age, but for cTnl the differences between CHD(+) and CHD(-) patients were significant in the patients aged < or =60 years only (0.049+/-0.054 vs. 0.019+/-0.018 microg/l, p<0.05). For cTnT, the differences between patients with and without coronary events also tended to be less important in the eldest patients. There was a significant correlation between cTnI and cTnT levels in the CHD(-) and in the CHD(+) groups. Changes in the plasma levels of cardiac troponins are common in hemodialysis patients in the absence of CHD, and advanced age appears to amplify these changes. The reason could be that most hemodialysis patients with advanced age have subclinical lesions and demonstrate release characteristics of troponins that compare to those in patients with symptomatic coronary events. Therefore, it will be important to analyze troponin elevations above the URL or above the cut-off concentration for AMI in asymptomatic renal patients in relation to prognosis."}
{"id": "12001177", "title": "Platelet activation and secretion in patients with major depression, thoracic aortic atherosclerosis, or renal dialysis treatment.", "content": "Platelet activation and secretion in patients with major depression, thoracic aortic atherosclerosis, or renal dialysis treatment. Relatively little is known concerning the magnitude of alterations of platelet activation and secretion markers of patients with major depression when compared to patients at increased risk for, or with current, clinically significant atherosclerosis. Markers of in vivo platelet stimulation and secretion were measured under basal conditions in normal comparison subjects (n = 12) and three patient groups: patients diagnosed with DSM-IV major depression (n = 15), dialysis-dependent patients (n = 12), and patients with severe thoracic aortic atherosclerosis (n = 10). In comparison to normal comparison subjects, depressed patients and patients with thoracic aortic atherosclerosis exhibited the greatest platelet stimulation as detected by increased anti-LIBS platelet binding. Dialysis-dependent patients exhibited the highest plasma concentrations of the renally-excreted platelet-specific secretion protein, beta-thromboglobulin. This study extends previous observations of increased platelet activation in patients with major depression and documents similar alterations in patients with transesophageal echocardiography (TEE)-documented thoracic aortic atherosclerosis. Future studies will determine whether the magnitude of platelet stimulation and secretion in patients with comorbid depression and atherosclerotic aortic disease is greater than that observed in nondepressed patients with atherosclerotic aortic disease or major depression alone. These findings provide further evidence for either increased platelet activation and/or intrinsic heightened platelet reactivity as one of the biological substrates underlying the increased risk of depressed patients for cardiovascular disease."}
{"id": "11999668", "title": "Dobutamine stress radionuclide ventriculography reveals silent myocardial dysfunction in Kawasaki disease.", "content": "Dobutamine stress radionuclide ventriculography reveals silent myocardial dysfunction in Kawasaki disease. Dobutamine (DOB) stress radionuclide ventriculography (RVG) is proposed for evaluating left ventricular performance in patients with Kawasaki disease (KD). Dobutamine stress RVG, up to 15 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1), was performed in 40 patients with a history of KD, some of whom had a perfusion defect (PD group) on dipyridamole stress thallium-201 myocardial imaging, some of whom had no perfusion defects (NPD group), and some of whom had no coronary artery lesions (C group). No significant differences in either systolic or diastolic indices of the left ventricle at rest were observed between the 3 groups. Although hemodynamic responses were similar in all patients after DOB stress, early diastolic index of the first third filling fraction decreased only in the PD group and was significantly lower in this group compared with the C group (p<0.01). The asynchrony index increased significantly in those patients with coronary stenosis after DOB stress (p<0.05). No serious side-effects were observed during the study. Even late after onset, patients with myocardial ischemia as a result of KD still had impaired early diastolic filling and asynchronous relaxation of the left ventricle. As an alternative to exercise testing, DOB stress RVG is a safe and promising means for serially evaluating left ventricular performance in patients with KD."}
{"id": "11995323", "title": "[Lateral femoral circumflex artery for coronary artery bypass surgery in a patient receiving hemodialysis: report of a case].", "content": "[Lateral femoral circumflex artery for coronary artery bypass surgery in a patient receiving hemodialysis: report of a case]. A 59-year-old man receiving hemodialysis had a 2-vessel coronary disease. We performed double coronary artery bypass grafting with the left internal thoracic artery to the left anterior descending artery, and the composite graft of right internal thoracic artery and lateral femoral circumflex artery to the right coronary artery. Postoperative coronary angiogram showed that the LFCA bypass graft was widely patent and supplied sufficient blood to the anastomosed vessel. There was no stenosis at the anastomotic site. He had no postoperative complication. Long-term follow-up and more cases is necessary to establish the usefulness of LFCA as an arterial free graft for coronary revascularization in patients receiving hemodialysis."}
{"id": "11978689", "title": "Impact of simultaneous pancreas and kidney transplantation on progression of coronary atherosclerosis in patients with end-stage renal failure due to type 1 diabetes.", "content": "Impact of simultaneous pancreas and kidney transplantation on progression of coronary atherosclerosis in patients with end-stage renal failure due to type 1 diabetes. Mortality in type 1 diabetic patients with end-stage renal failure is high and dominated by coronary atherosclerotic events. With regard to prognosis, simultaneous transplantation of pancreas and kidney (SPK) may be superior to kidney transplantation alone (KTA) in type 1 diabetic patients, because normalization of blood glucose levels may reduce progression of coronary atherosclerosis and because it is well known that progression of coronary atherosclerosis is one of the major factors that determines clinical prognosis. However, no data are available on progression of coronary atherosclerosis after SPK. We performed an observational angiographic study comparing progression of coronary atherosclerosis, analyzed with quantitative coronary angiography, in patients with (n = 26) and those without (n = 6) a functioning pancreas graft after SPK, to test the hypothesis that normalization of blood glucose levels by SPK may indeed reduce progression of coronary atherosclerosis in type 1 diabetic patients and thereby improve prognosis. Mean follow-up was 3.9 years. Average glucose control was significantly worse for the patients without a pancreas graft than for patients with a functioning pancreas graft: 11.3 (SD 3.5) vs. 5.9 mmol/l (SD 1.1) (P = 0.03). Mean segment diameter loss (progression of diffuse coronary atherosclerosis) was 0.024 mm/year (SD 0.067) in patients with a functioning pancreas graft, compared with 0.044 mm/year (SD 0.038) in patients in whom the pancreas graft was lost. Minimum obstruction diameter loss (progression of focal coronary atherosclerosis) was 0.037 mm/year (SD 0.086) in patients with a functioning pancreas graft compared with 0.061 mm/year (SD 0.038) in patients in whom the pancreas graft was lost. Regression of atherosclerosis occurred in 38% of patients with a functioning pancreas graft compared with 0% of patients of whom the pancreas graft was lost (P = 0.035). Our study provides, for the first time, evidence that in patients who have undergone SPK, progression of coronary atherosclerosis in patients with a functioning pancreas graft is reduced compared with patients with pancreas graft failure. Our observation is an important part of the explanation for the observed improved mortality rates reported in type 1 diabetic patients with end-stage renal failure after SPK compared with KTA. In light of these findings described above, SPK must to be carefully considered for all diabetic transplant candidates."}
{"id": "11947918", "title": "Increased level of advanced oxidation protein products in patients with coronary artery disease.", "content": "Increased level of advanced oxidation protein products in patients with coronary artery disease. Witko-Sarsat et al. previously reported that advanced oxidation protein products (AOPP), which were determined by measurements of optical density (OD) at 340 nm under acidic conditions, were present at high levels in the plasma of uremic patients. We measured AOPP in the plasma of 392 patients who underwent coronary angiography because of suspected coronary artery disease (CAD) and examined the association between plasma AOPP levels and CAD. We also collected plasma from hemodialysis patients and healthy volunteers for AOPP assay. Plasma fractionation by size-exclusion chromatography was performed to determine the weights of the molecules involved in the AOPP activity. The elution patterns obtained after plasma fractionation by size-exclusion chromatography were the similar in both CAD and hemodialysis patients, but differed from those of the healthy volunteers, whose AOPP levels were low. We also found that, the severity score of CAD obtained by the Gensini scoring system had good correlation with AOPP quartiles. Multivariable regression models revealed that the plasma AOPP level was significantly related to CAD status. This is the first report of an association between AOPP and CAD. AOPP was an independent risk factor for CAD. Oxidative stress is speculated to be associated with the pathogenesis of CAD."}
{"id": "11936426", "title": "Predicting cardiac events with Tl201 dipyridamole myocardial scintigraphy in renal transplant recipients.", "content": "Predicting cardiac events with Tl201 dipyridamole myocardial scintigraphy in renal transplant recipients. Renal transplant recipients should be screened for coronary artery disease. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of thallium-201 dipyridamole myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) to predict major cardiac events in these patients. Eighty-two consecutive patients (61 males) in hemodialysis (HD) treatment, awaiting renal transplantation, underwent dipyridamole Tl-201 SPECT for pretransplant risk stratification. SPECT semiquantitative analysis showed a normal perfusion pattern in 52 patients (group A) and fixed defects in 9 (group B). Reversible perfusion defects were found in 21 (group C). Cardiac death, myocadial infarction, and unstable angina were sought as cardiac events. During a follow-up lasting 28.3 +/- 21.6 months, three patients of group A died for a non-cardiac cause. In group C, six patients (28.6%) had a cadiac event: one had a non-q wave myocardial infarction after renal transplantation; five were admitted with unstable angina. No cardiac events were observed in groups A and B (p = 0.0001). SPECT semiquantitative analysis showed that a summed difference score > or = 3 significantly increased the risk of cardiac events (odds ratio 4.5, C.I. 2.5-8.1). Cardiac events were only observed in HD patients with Tl-201 SPECT dipyridamole reversible defects (group C). A normal pattern or a fixed defect in Tl-201 dipyridamole SPECT in HD patients identified a good long-term prognosis."}
{"id": "11904814", "title": "Lower extremity revascularization without preoperative contrast arteriography: experience with duplex ultrasound arterial mapping in 485 cases.", "content": "Lower extremity revascularization without preoperative contrast arteriography: experience with duplex ultrasound arterial mapping in 485 cases. This study reviews our experience with duplex ultrasound arterial mapping (DUAM) for preoperative evaluation in 466 patients (262 men) who underwent 485 lower extremity revascularization procedures from January 1, 1998 to May 30, 2001. Preoperative imaging consisted of DUAM alone in 449 procedures and DUAM and contrast angiography (CA) in 36. An attempt to image from the distal aorta to the pedal arteries was made in all the patients. The selection of optimal inflow and outflow bypasses anastomotic sites was based on a schematic drawing following DUAM examination. Inflow disease was also assessed by intraoperative pressure gradient (IPG) between the distal anastomosis and radial arteries, and completion arteriography of the runoff vessels was obtained, which was correlated with the preoperative findings. Indications for surgery were severe claudication in 91 (19%) limbs, tissue loss in 197 (40%), rest pain in 113 (23%), acute ischemia in 46 (10%), popliteal aneurysm in 18 (4%), superficial femoral artery aneurysm in 1, abdominal aortic aneurysm with claudication in 1, and failing graft in 18 (4%). Age ranged from 30 to 97 years (mean 72 +/- 12 (SD) years) and risk factors such as diabetes, hypertension, use of tobacco, coronary artery disease, and end-stage renal disease were present in 45%, 45%, 44%, 44%, and 13% of the patients, respectively. One hundred twenty-one (25%) limbs had at least 1 previous ipsilateral revascularization. The mean DUAM time was 66 +/- 20 (SD) min (30-150 min). Additional preoperative imaging was deemed necessary in 36 cases due to extensive ulcers, edema, severe arterial wall calcification, and very poor runoff. The distal anastomosis was to the popliteal artery in 173 cases and to the tibial and pedal arteries in 255. Inflow procedures to the femoral arteries, embolectomy, thrombectomy, balloon angioplasty, and patch angioplasty accounted for the remaining 57 cases. Overall, 6-, 12-, and -24- month secondary patency rates were 86%, 80%, and 66%, respectively. This early experience shows that high-quality arterial ultrasonography performed by a highly skilled vascular technologist may represent an alternative to conventional arteriography for patients in need of lower extremity revascularization. Because of limitations inherent to the technique and very poor runoff observed on ultrasonographic examination, additional preoperative imaging procedure's are needed for certain patients."}
{"id": "11865839", "title": "Ischemic renal disease in Kuwait.", "content": "Ischemic renal disease in Kuwait. Ischemic renal disease (IRD) is a frequent cause of end-stage renal disease. Its prevalence is mainly known from autopsy or retrospective arteriographic studies. This prospective study was conducted in 115 subjects selected from 732 patients with advanced chronic renal failure (CRF). Only patients with clinical features suggestive of IRD were selected for this study. In addition to detailed clinical and laboratory evaluation, captopril renal scintigraphy was performed in selected cases. All subjects underwent renal arteriography and all were followed up for 18.4 +/- 11.4 months. Renovascular disease was seen in 15 patients and significant bilateral renal artery disease leading to IRD was observed in 13 (11.3%). Hence the prevalence of IRD in the advanced CRF patients was 1.7%. The majority of patients with IRD (8 [61%]) were above 46 years of age and there were more men than women (10:3). Atherosclerotic renovascular disease was the most common (10 [77%]), even though arthritis (1 [7.6%]), and fibromuscular dysplasia (2 [15.3%]) were also observed. Serum creatinine at time of presentation was significantly higher in patients with IRD (784 +/- 292, p = 0.043) compared to those who did not have IRD (359 +/- 126). Corrective procedures were performed in 5 patients. After treatment the improvement in serum creatinine in patients with IRD at 3 and 6 months (166 +/- 32 and 173 +/- 47, respectively) was significantly different (p < or = 0.05) compared to those who were not treated (610 +/- 194 and 645 +/- 220, respectively). Hyperlipidemia, coronary artery disease and peripheral vascular disease were more prevalent in patients who had IRD compared to those with renal failure. The incidence of diabetes mellitus were similar in both groups. This study denotes a lower prevalence of IRD in the advanced CRF population; they had more severe renal failure at presentation but specific corrective treatment delayed progression of renal disease significantly."}
{"id": "11849871", "title": "Cardiac calcification in adult hemodialysis patients. A link between end-stage renal disease and cardiovascular disease?", "content": "Cardiac calcification in adult hemodialysis patients. A link between end-stage renal disease and cardiovascular disease? We sought to determine clinical and laboratory correlates of calcification of the coronary arteries (CAs), aorta and mitral and aortic valves in adult subjects with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) receiving hemodialysis. Vascular calcification is known to be a risk factor for ischemic heart disease in non-uremic individuals. Patients with ESRD experience accelerated vascular calcification, due at least in part to dysregulation of mineral metabolism. Clinical correlates of the extent of calcification in ESRD have not been identified. Moreover, the clinical relevance of calcification as measured by electron-beam tomography (EBT) has not been determined in the ESRD population. We conducted a cross-sectional analysis of 205 maintenance hemodialysis patients who received baseline EBT for evaluation of vascular and valvular calcification. We compared subjects with and without clinical evidence of atherosclerotic vascular disease and determined correlates of the extent of vascular and valvular calcification using multivariable linear regression and proportional odds logistic regression analyses. The median coronary artery calcium score was 595 (interquartile range, 76 to 1,600), values consistent with a high risk of obstructive coronary artery disease in the general population. The CA calcium scores were directly related to the prevalence of myocardial infarction (p < 0.0001) and angina (p < 0.0001), and the aortic calcium scores were directly related to the prevalence of claudication (p = 0.001) and aortic aneurysm (p = 0.02). The extent of coronary calcification was more pronounced with older age, male gender, white race, diabetes, longer dialysis vintage and higher serum concentrations of calcium and phosphorus. Total cholesterol (and high-density lipoprotein and low-density lipoprotein subfractions), triglycerides, hemoglobin and albumin were not significantly related to the extent of CA calcification. Only dialysis vintage was significantly associated with the prevalence of valvular calcification. Coronary artery calcification is common, severe and significantly associated with ischemic cardiovascular disease in adult ESRD patients. The dysregulation of mineral metabolism in ESRD may influence vascular calcification risk."}
{"id": "11849407", "title": "Medial artery calcification in ESRD patients is associated with deposition of bone matrix proteins.", "content": "Medial artery calcification in ESRD patients is associated with deposition of bone matrix proteins. In non-ESRD patients, recent studies have demonstrated that the process of vascular calcification resembles developmental osteogenesis. Patients with ESRD are known to have excessive vascular calcification, but this has previously been attributed to the non-cell-mediated process of metastatic calcification. To determine if the calcification observed in patients with ESRD is related to a cell-mediated process, we removed a piece of inferior epigastric artery at the time of renal transplant. Calcium content of the entire vessel was quantified with spiral computed tomography (CT). The vessel was then examined histologically for calcification and the presence of bone matrix proteins by immunohistochemistry, and medial and intimal thickness quantified by histomorphometry. These findings were correlated with demographic, clinical and laboratory values. The proximal inferior epigastric artery was obtained from 41 patients undergoing renal transplantation, but two were inadequate for histologic examination. Twenty-seven of the remaining vessels had no evidence of calcification by MacNeal's or Alizarin red pH 4.2 staining, five vessels had mild/moderate calcification, and seven had severe calcification, all in the medial layer. Calcification assessed histologically was closely correlated with calcification score as assessed by spiral CT, normalized for vessel weight (P=0.027). Positive immunostaining for the bone matrix proteins osteopontin, type I collagen, bone sialoprotein, and alkaline phosphatase was strongly correlated with calcification (all P < or = 0.001), as was a history of coronary artery disease (P < 0.001), and diabetes (P=0.034). The calcification score by spiral CT correlated with these same factors and the serum phosphorus and calcium x phosphorus product (P=0.032 and 0.037). The location of immunostaining for the bone proteins was strongly associated with the presence of calcification. However, positive immunostaining also was observed in association with disorganization of the vascular smooth muscle cells in the medial layer due to deposition of a matrix-like substance, prior to overt calcification. In patients with ESRD undergoing renal transplantation, vascular calcification of the medial layer of the inferior epigastric artery is common (44%), can be detected by spiral CT, and is associated with deposition of bone matrix proteins. This implies an active cell-mediated process, raising hope that directed intervention can arrest this process."}
{"id": "11840363", "title": "Hemodialysis-associated hypertension: pathophysiology and therapy.", "content": "Hemodialysis-associated hypertension: pathophysiology and therapy. The majority of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients are hypertensive. Hypertension in the hemodialysis patient population is multifactorial. Further, hypertension is associated with an increased risk for left ventricular hypertrophy, coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, cerebrovascular complications, and mortality. Antihypertensive medications alone do not adequately control blood pressure (BP) in hemodialysis patients. There are, however, several therapeutic options available to normalize BP in these patients, often without the need for additional drug therapy (eg, long, slow hemodialysis; short, daily hemodialysis; nocturnal hemodialysis; or, most effectively, dietary salt and fluid restriction in combination with reduction of dialysate sodium concentration). Optimal BP in dialysis patients is not different from recommendations for the general population, even though definite evidence is not yet available. Predialysis systolic and diastolic BPs are of particular importance. Left ventricular mass correlates with predialysis systolic BP. Survival is better in hemodialysis patients with a mean arterial pressure below 99 mm Hg as compared with those with higher BP. Low predialysis systolic BP (<110 mm Hg) and low predialysis diastolic BP (<70 mm Hg) are associated with increased mortality, primarily because of severe congestive heart failure or coronary artery disease. Patients that experience repeated intradialytic hypotensive episodes should also be viewed with caution, and predialytic BP values should be reevaluated. A possible treatment option for these patients may be slow, long hemodialysis; short, daily hemodialysis; or nocturnal hemodialysis. Among the antihypertensive agents currently available, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors appear to have the greatest ability to reduce left ventricular mass. Pressure load can be satisfactorily determined by using the average value of predialysis BP measurements over 1 month. In selected hemodialysis patients, interdialytic ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) may help to determine if the patient is in fact hypertensive. In addition, ABPM provides important information about the change in BP between day and night. Regular home BP monitoring, yearly echocardiography, and treatment of traditional risk factors for cardiovascular disease are recommended."}
{"id": "11793497", "title": "Clinical outcome following percutaneous coronary interventions in patients with chronic renal failure.", "content": "Clinical outcome following percutaneous coronary interventions in patients with chronic renal failure. The clinical outcome of patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) who undergo percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has not been systematically evaluated in a large cohort of patients. We retrospectively analyzed the in-hospital and 1-year clinical outcomes of 10,076 consecutive patients who underwent PCI between January 1994 and December 1997. A total of 95 patients (0.9%) had end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on dialysis, 786 patients (7.8%) had CRF, and 9,125 patients (90.6%) had normal renal function. Despite an angiographic success rate of 97% in all three groups, in-hospital mortality was significantly higher among patients with renal disease, whether they were on dialysis or not, when compared to patients without renal dysfunction (6.8% vs. 4.2% vs. 0.9%; P < 0.0001). At 1-year follow-up, mortality rate was 48.8% for ESRD, 25.7% for patients with CRF, and 5.5%, for patients without renal dysfunction (P < 0.0001). By multivariate analysis, high left ventricular ejection fraction and creatinine clearance were associated with decreased late mortality (OR = 0.84 and 0.95; P < 0.0001), whereas ESRD (OR = 3.65; P = 0.0002), non-Q-wave myocardial infarction (OR = 2.21; P < 0.0001), diabetes mellitus (OR = 1.99; P < 0.0001), and CRF (OR = 1.74; P = 0.003) were independent correlates of increased late mortality. Therefore, PCI in patients with impaired renal function, whether on dialysis or not, is associated with poor in-hospital and 1-year survival."}
{"id": "11788408", "title": "Inhibition of ERK attenuates force development by lowering myosin light chain phosphorylation.", "content": "Inhibition of ERK attenuates force development by lowering myosin light chain phosphorylation. Phosphorylation of the actin-associated protein caldesmon (CaD) by extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1/2) is purported to participate in force maintenance by vascular smooth muscle. We examined the interrelationship among ERK1/2 activity, phosphorylation of the high molecular weight isoform of CaD (h-CaD) and the 20-kDa myosin light chain (LC(20)), and isometric force in strips of porcine carotid artery stimulated with endothelin-1 (ET-1; 50 nM). After an initial delay, ERK1/2 activity increased in parallel with ET-1-mediated force; h-CaD phosphorylation increased modestly. 2-(2'-Amino-3'-methoxyphenyl)-ox-anaphthalen-4-one (PD-098059; 50 microM), an ERK1/2 kinase inhibitor, significantly reduced basal ERK1/2 activity within 1 h, but only partially attenuated h-CaD phosphorylation at 3 h. The mechanisms underlying the temporal dissociation of ERK1/2 activity from h-CaD phosphorylation are unknown, but include the possibility that a kinase other than ERK1/2 phosphorylates h-CaD or, more likely, that phosphate turnover in h-CaD is very slow. PD-098059 partially inhibited the development of ET-1-stimulated force only in Ca(2+)-replete physiological saline solution, primarily by reducing LC(20) phosphorylation, yet had no effect on myosin light chain kinase in vitro. These inhibitory effects were most evident during the early phase of force production. The inhibitory effect of PD-098059 on force could not be correlated with a corresponding effect on ERK1/2-mediated h-CaD phosphorylation because force in arterial strips stimulated with ET-1 in the absence or presence of PD-098059 tended to approximate each other over time despite significant differences in the level of h-CaD phosphorylation. Force and LC(20) phosphorylation in response to KCl depolarization were unaffected by PD-098059. These results show that ERK1/2 may regulate force in arterial smooth muscle, but suggest that the mechanism for this effect is by inhibiting LC(20) phosphorylation."}
{"id": "11773471", "title": "Favourable long-term outcome by repeated percutaneous coronary revascularization in diabetic haemodialysis patients.", "content": "Favourable long-term outcome by repeated percutaneous coronary revascularization in diabetic haemodialysis patients. Diabetic haemodialysis patients have a high prevalence of coronary events and very high mortality rates. Percutaneous coronary intervention has become a well-established and routine procedure for coronary revascularization. This study investigated the long-term outcome of multiple repeated interventions in diabetic haemodialysis patients with coronary artery disease. A retrospective study compared 37 type II diabetic haemodialysis patients with coronary artery disease and 26 non-diabetic patients matched for age, angiographic morphology, and devices of percutaneous intervention. All patients had undergone successful percutaneous intervention prior to enrollment. Percutaneous interventions were repeated in the event of restenosis or the development of a de novo lesion. Diabetic and non-diabetic patients were similar in terms of the number of follow-up angiograms (2.3+/-1.6 vs 2.4+/-1.5/patient) and interventions (2.2+/-1.4 vs 2.2+/-1.5/patient), incidence of target lesion revascularization (85 vs 82%), and number of de novo lesions (15 vs 17%). The cumulative survival rates after the initial percutaneous intervention were similar in the groups (42% vs 31% at 80 months). Cardiac death occurred in 33% of diabetic patients and 42% of non-diabetic patients. Repeated intervention (regression coefficient=16.0, P<0.001) and a lower left ventricular ejection fraction (regression coefficient=-12.9, P=0.047) were determined for the important clinical factors associated with the survival duration after initial coronary intervention. Multiple repeated percutaneous interventions reduce the long-term mortality of diabetic and non-diabetic haemodialysis patients with coronary artery disease similarly. Multiple repeated percutaneous coronary interventions are a viable option for controlling myocardial ischaemia and improving the long-term outcome in high-risk diabetic haemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "12601961", "title": "[Pediatric renal transplantation from related living donor].", "content": "[Pediatric renal transplantation from related living donor]. Living related donor (LRD) provides significant advantages when compared with cadaveric donor (CAD) in term of improved patient and graft survival and shorten waiting time. From 1985, 176 kidney transplants were performed at our Center. Of these, 156 (89%) were from CAD and 20 (11%) were from LRD, first degree. The purpose of this paper is to show our experience at 5 years with use of LRD. All donors underwent standardized metabolic workup, angiography assessed and renal function test. Twelve children received their first transplant and 8 were retransplant (6-second, 1-third and 1-fourth). Immunosuppressive therapy consisted of globulin antithymocyte, azathioprine, cyclosporine and prednisolone, using FK506 and mycophenolate mofetil in some of them. Four kidneys with multiple renal arteries were reconstructed ex vivo with microsurgical technique before transplantation. The most significant morbidity was due to FK506-associated thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) with graft lost. All patients (donor and recipient) survived. Five years graft survival rate is 95% and mean glomerular filtration rate is 81.33 ml/min/1.73 m2."}
{"id": "11885754", "title": "The E4 allele of apolipoprotein E is associated with increased restenosis after coronary angioplasty.", "content": "The E4 allele of apolipoprotein E is associated with increased restenosis after coronary angioplasty. The aim of this study is to investigate the influence of the E4 allele of apolipoprotein E (apo E) on restenosis after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). The subjects were 171 male patients with more than 75% luminal diameter stenotic lesions of the coronary artery who had undergone an elective initial PTCA. The PTCA was successful in 164 patients, 157 of whom completed a prospective 5 month coronary angiography (CAG) follow up to assess the degree of restenosis after their surgery. Patients with previous coronary artery bypass grafting surgery (CABG), 3 vessel disease, complete obstruction or calcified lesions of the coronary artery, cerebro-vascular disease (CVD), arteriosclerosis obliterans (ASO), and renal failure with hemodialysis were excluded, leaving 105 patients in the analysis. Subjects carrying the E4 allele (n = 22, Phenotype E4/2 = 2, E4/3 = 19, E4/4 = 1: E4 group) were well matched with non-carriers (n = 83, Phenotype E2/2 = 0, E3/2 = 4, E3/3 = 79: E3 group) for clinical, and pre-and post-PTCA angiographic features. The restenosis rates were significantly higher in the E4 group than in the E3 group (patient restenosis rate : 59.1 vs 33.7% p < 0.05, lesion restenosis rate: 51.8 vs 30.9% p < 0.05). These results suggest that the E4 allele is associated with a higher restenosis rate after PTCA."}
{"id": "11833703", "title": "Off-pump Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting in patients on chronic hemodialysis.", "content": "Off-pump Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting in patients on chronic hemodialysis. Off-pump Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting(CABG) has gained much support but has been scarcely reported in patients on chronic hemodialysis (HD). The details of CABG for such patients on chronic HD are presented. Between January 1998 and December 1999, off-pump CABG was performed in 5 patients on chronic HD. All patients presented with unstable angina pectoris. The indication for off-pump CABG was suitable coronary anatomy (N = 5) and expected high risks associated with cardiopulmonary bypass due to reoperation (N = 1) and impaired cerebral blood flow (N = 2). The approach was median sternotomy (N = 4) and left anterior short thoracotomy (N = 1). The mean graft number was 2.0 +/- 1.0 (range, 1-3). In situ arterial grafts were mainly used: the in situ left internal thoracic artery was used in four patients, the in situ right gastroepiploic artery in two, the in situ right internal thoracic artery in two, and the saphenous vein in two patients. There were no deaths or complications. Nine of 10 grafts were confirmed fully patent by postoperative angiography before hospital discharge. In a mean follow-up of 17.2 months, no patients had developed recurrence of angina or any cardiac symptom. Off-pump CABG using in situ arterial grafts can be performed on patients on chronic hemodialysis subject to suitable anatomy of the target coronary arteries."}
{"id": "11831587", "title": "Electron beam computed tomography evaluation of the rapid progression of coronary artery calcification in chronic hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Electron beam computed tomography evaluation of the rapid progression of coronary artery calcification in chronic hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "11777319", "title": "Predictors of coronary disease in patients with end stage renal disease.", "content": "Predictors of coronary disease in patients with end stage renal disease. Patients with end stage renal disease have a high prevalence of cardiovascular disease and coronary arteriography is often routinely performed prior to kidney transplantation. However, the value of the conventional risk factors and non-invasive markers of coronary artery disease (CAD) in triaging patients for coronary arteriography has not been fully examined. 116 patients with end stage renal disease were evaluated. Coronary arteriography was performed in all patients either for a suspicion of CAD or as part of a routine pre-transplant evaluation. Lesions causing > or = 50% luminal diameter stenosis in any of the three major coronary artery systems were considered significant. The mean age was 53.3 +/- 9.3 years. Significant CAD was present in 69 patients (60%). Increasing age, family history of premature ischemic heart disease, the presence of angina, abnormal Q waves on the ECG or abnormal ST segment depression and the presence of coronary calcification were significant markers of coronary artery disease. However male gender, diabetes mellitus and obesity did not correlate with coronary disease. Even though hypertension, hypercholesterolemia and smoking were also not useful predictors these could have been modified by the renal failure. In conclusion increasing age, a family history of premature ischemic heart disease and some non-invasive markers were useful predictors of coronary disease."}
{"id": "11758004", "title": "Chlamydia pneumoniae infection and accelerated development of coronary artery disease in patients with chronic renal failure.", "content": "Chlamydia pneumoniae infection and accelerated development of coronary artery disease in patients with chronic renal failure. This study examined the relationship between Chlamydia pneumoniae (C. pneumoniae) infection and the accelerated development of coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients with chronic renal failure (CRF). Two-hundred and fourteen patients undergoing coronary angiography, including 67 controls and 147 patients with CAD (97 without CRF and 50 with CRF), were enrolled in this study. Anti-C. pneumoniae specific IgG and IgA antibodies were measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Coronary artery disease (expressed as CAD score) was more severe in patients with than without CRF (14.9 +/- 6.0 vs. 11.3 +/- 6.0, p < 0.01). Seropositive rates of IgG and IgA antibodies against C. pneumoniae were higher in all CAD patients than in the controls (76.2% vs. 44.8%, p < 0.001 for IgG; 59.9% vs. 40.3%, p < 0.01 for IgA). In both CAD subgroups, IgG seropositive rates were similarly elevated (82.0% and 73.2% vs. 44.8% for control, p < 0.001, respectively), whereas those of IgA were significantly elevated only in CAD with CRF (68.0% vs. 55.7% for control, p < 0.01). The mean antibody index of IgG was elevated in all CAD patients compared with the controls (1.9 +/- 1.0 vs. 1.3 +/- 0.9, p < 0.0001), but that of IgA was not (1.5 +/- 1.0 vs. 1.2 +/- 0.9). Levels of IgG were elevated in all patients with CAD compared with the control (2.4 +/- 1.1 and 1.8 +/- 1.0 vs. 1.3 +/- 0.9, p < 0.001 and p < 0.001, respectively), whereas those of IgA were elevated only in CAD with CRF (1.8 +/- 1.1 vs. 1.2 +/- 0.9, p < 0.05). Stepwise logistic regression analysis revealed that the elevated IgG antibody index was an independent risk factor for CAD regardless of CRF (odds ratios 1.9, 1.8, and 2.3), whereas the IgA index was a risk factor only in CAD with CRF (odds ratio 1.7). Chlamydia pneumoniae infection may be related to the accelerated CAD in patients with CRF, which was specifically suggested by an elevated IgA level. In other words, the prevalence of active C. pneumoniae infection is higher in patients with CAD and CRF than that in those with CAD without CRF."}
{"id": "11747174", "title": "Reliability of fractional flow reserve measurements in patients with associated microvascular dysfunction: importance of flow on translesional pressure gradient.", "content": "Reliability of fractional flow reserve measurements in patients with associated microvascular dysfunction: importance of flow on translesional pressure gradient. Fractional flow reserve (FFR) has been applied with success as a lesion-specific functional indicator of stenosis severity, at least in patients with normal microcirculation. This study sought to assess the reliability of FFR calculations in patients with associated microvascular dysfunction (e.g., post myocardial infarction, or post-MI). First, the effect of coronary flow changes on translesional pressure gradient was assessed. Therefore, intracoronary pressure and flow was recorded simultaneously across 19 non-infarct-related lesions (both pre- and postinterventional lesions with a mean diameter stenosis of 47% +/- 12%). Measurements were performed by means of a pressure and Doppler wire during maximal hyperemia and also during submaximal hyperemia induced by low-dose adenosine. The drop of coronary flow from 48 +/- 23 ml/min during maximal hyperemia to 36 +/- 18 ml/min during submaximal hyperemia was associated with a small decrease in translesional pressure gradient (from 22 +/- 12 mm Hg to 19 +/- 12 mm Hg; P = 0.02) and a small increase in the mean distal/arterial pressure ratio (Pd/Pa) going from 77% +/- 11% to 81% +/- 11% (P = 0.003). Then, intracoronary pressure and flow measurements were compared across 21 non-infarct-related lesions vs. 22 matched infarct-related lesions. For a similar angiographic stenosis severity (% DS = +/- 44%), maximal flow was 48 +/- 22 ml/min in the non-infarct arteries and 37 +/- 26 ml/min in the infarct arteries (P = 0.03), confirming the presence of severe microvascular dysfunction in infarct regions. Similar to the earlier findings, this hyperemic flow reduction in MI patients was associated with a small increase of FFR (= Pd/Pa): 79% +/- 12% in no MI vs. 83% +/- 12% in MI patients (P = 0.3). A reduction of hyperemic flow by +25%, [correction] such as can be found in patients with severely impaired microvascular function, has a limited effect on FFR calculations (+ 5%). This finding allows the application of standard FFR calculations in a more general population of ischemic heart disease, including patients with recent MI."}
{"id": "11733629", "title": "Independent predictors of restenosis after percutaneous coronary revascularization in haemodialysis patients.", "content": "Independent predictors of restenosis after percutaneous coronary revascularization in haemodialysis patients. Percutaneous balloon angioplasty has become a well-established and routine procedure for coronary revascularization of haemodialysis patients with coronary artery disease. However, the incidence of restenosis after balloon angioplasty is significantly higher in haemodialysis patients than in the general population. We performed a retrospective study comparing balloon angioplasty with coronary stenting in haemodialysis patients. We evaluated the long-term clinical and angiographic outcome after successful percutaneous coronary revascularization in haemodialysis patients. A total of 103 consecutive haemodialysis patients (123 lesions) underwent procedurally and clinically successful percutaneous revascularization. Patients were treated with three different strategies: (i) balloon angioplasty in 55 patients (69 lesions); (ii) coronary stenting with balloon angioplasty in 23 patients (25 lesions); and (iii) coronary stenting with rotational atherectomy in 25 patients (29 lesions) who had severely calcified stenotic coronaries. The rates of in-hospital mortality were similar in the three groups. The 1-year incidence of overall events and major adverse cardiac events (MACE) were significantly higher in the balloon group than in the stent with/without rotational atherectomy groups (75% vs 36 and 28%, P<0.01; 71% vs 32 and 28%, P<0.01). Use of coronary stenting (relative risk=0.006, P<0.001) and the presence of calcified coronary lesion (relative risk=68.2, P<0.001) were independent predictors of the 1-year MACE-free survival after percutaneous revascularization. The 3-year MACE-free survival rate was significantly lower in the balloon group than in the stent with/without rotational atherectomy groups (11% vs 33 and 47%, P<0.005 and P<0.001). This study shows that coronary stenting reduces the incidence of MACE in haemodialysis patients with/without calcified coronary lesions. Moreover, coronary stenting reduces the restenosis rate of both complex and restenotic lesions, and rotational atherectomy prior to coronary stenting reduces the restenosis rate of the severely calcified coronary lesions. These results suggest that coronary stenting with/without rotational atherectomy has led to an improved long-term outcome in the haemodialysis patients with coronary artery disease."}
{"id": "11728948", "title": "Determinants of delayed nephrologist referral in patients with chronic kidney disease.", "content": "Determinants of delayed nephrologist referral in patients with chronic kidney disease. Late referral to nephrologists of patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a major public health problem because it is prevalent and associated with increased morbidity, mortality, and greater healthcare costs. To identify factors associated with delayed nephrologist referral (first nephrologist visit < 90 days before the onset of renal replacement therapy), we identified a cohort of patients with preexisting CKD that progressed to end-stage renal failure. We developed a logistic regression model to measure the association of specific demographic and clinical covariates with delayed nephrologist referral. Delayed referral was highly associated with older age (P < 0.001), race other than white or black (P = 0.002), and the absence of certain comorbidities: hypertension (P < 0.001), coronary artery disease (P < 0.001), malignancy (P = 0.005), and diabetes (P = 0.02). Associations of late referral with male sex (P = 0.07) and lower socioeconomic status (P = 0.09) were of borderline significance. Patients who were predominantly cared for by a general internist were more likely to be referred late to a nephrologist compared with those cared for by a family or primary care practitioner (P = 0.002) or another subspecialist (P = 0.019). These findings suggest that several factors increase the risk that patients with CKD will have the first nephrologist consultation excessively late in the course of their disease. Although timely access to nephrologist services is important for all patients with advanced CKD, this is of particular concern in older patients, those in certain minority populations, and those in whom the absence of comorbidity may provide a false sense of true risk status."}
{"id": "11725913", "title": "Coronary artery disease among diabetic and non-diabetic patients with end stage renal disease.", "content": "Coronary artery disease among diabetic and non-diabetic patients with end stage renal disease. Cardiovascular disease is the major cause of death among patients with end stage renal disease and accounts for about half the deaths among the dialysis population. Several researchers have reported a high prevalence of coronary artery disease among diabetic patients with renal failure and coronary arteriography is often considered an integral part of the pre-transplant evaluation of diabetic patients with end stage renal disease. However, very few reports have addressed the question of coronary disease in non-diabetic patients, and the pattern and prevalence of coronary artery disease in non-diabetic patients with end stage renal disease are not well defined. We evaluated the clinical and coronary angiographic findings in 158 consecutive patients (84 diabetic and 74 non-diabetic) with end stage renal disease. The coronary arteries were divided into 16 segments and each segment was analyzed for the presence of coronary disease, which was defined as the presence of > or = 50% luminal diameter stenosis. Diabetic patients had more adverse risk factors for coronary artery disease, yet there was no significant difference in the prevalence of coronary artery disease between the diabetic and non-diabetic patients (67% vs. 55%, p = 0.15), or in the number of affected coronary artery segments (2.0 vs. 1.4, p = 0.05). Triple vessel coronary artery disease was however, significantly more common among the diabetic subjects (27% vs. 12%, p = 0.005). Non-diabetic patients with end stage renal disease also have a high prevalence of coronary artery disease and may merit as careful investigation of their coronary status as their diabetic counterparts."}
{"id": "11718051", "title": "[The prevalence of renal artery stenosis in patients with coronary artery disease].", "content": "[The prevalence of renal artery stenosis in patients with coronary artery disease]. To understand the prevalence of renal artery stenosis(RAS) in patients with coronary artery disease(CAD) and the relations among coronary artery disease, renal artery stenosis, hypertension and renal insufficiency. 280 patients with coronary artery disease or suspected coronary disease were carried out renal artery angiography after coronary angiography over 1 year period. Of the total patient cohort, 43(15.3%) had significant RAS (> or = 50%), 3(1.0%) were obstructed and 14 (5.0%) were bilateral. 36 (19.1%) were diagnosed as having significant RAS among 188 CAD patients. 7 patients with significant RAS were found among 92 patients without significant coronary artery stenosis, all of them were found in the group of 22 patients with mild coronary artery atheroscloresis. The prevalence of significant RAS was 19.6% and 7.9% as referred to with or without hypertension, P < 0.05. 10 patients (55.6%) had significant RAS in 18 patients with mild renal insufficiency as compared to 33 patients (12.6%) had significant RAS in 262 patients with normal renal function, P < 0.05. In the subgroup of CAD, the prevalence of significant RAS were 15.3%, 17.1%, 25.4% in single vessel disease, two vessel disease and triple vessel disease patients, P < 0.05. 35 patients (81.4%) had hypertension among these 43 patients with RAS with 24 (56.0%) patient's blood pressure difficult to control. RAS is a frequent finding in patients with CAD, especially in triple vessel disease patients. Hypertension is closely related to RAS, it should be the risk factor of RAS, and can be the clinical manifestation of RAS. CAD patients with renal insufficiency but without history of chronic glomerulonephritis may indicate RAS."}
{"id": "11683822", "title": "Pre-transplant cardiac testing for kidney-pancreas transplant candidates and association with cardiac outcomes.", "content": "Pre-transplant cardiac testing for kidney-pancreas transplant candidates and association with cardiac outcomes. Coronary artery disease is a major cause of mortality following renal transplantation, especially in those patients with diabetes. The accurate prediction of cardiac risk is therefore a major focus of the pre-transplant evaluation. The objective of this study was to retrospectively evaluate the ability of non-invasive cardiac testing (standard echocardiography, stress echocardiography, exercise tolerance testing, and nuclear myocardial perfusion) performed within 1 yr of kidney-pancreas transplant to predict post-transplant myocardial infarction. Clinical history and pre-transplant cardiac testing performed within 1 yr prior to transplantation were reviewed in a non-blinded fashion for 165 kidney-pancreas transplantation patients receiving allografts between June 1990 and May 1998. The predictive values of clinical symptoms and cardiac testing for cardiac events (fatal and non-fatal myocardial infarctions) up to 1 yr post-transplant were calculated. Clinical history had a negative predictive value of 98% for cardiac events occurring within 1 yr following testing and 97% within 1 yr post-transplant. Collectively, non-invasive testing had a negative predictive value of 97% for 1 yr post-testing and 1 yr post-transplant. Clinical history alone is highly suggestive but not sufficient for the prediction of post-kidney-pancreas transplant myocardial infarction. Although a useful supplement, cardiac testing does not predict all cardiac events out to 1 yr post-testing. In this high-risk patient population with diabetes and renal failure, other methods of risk assessment are needed to more accurately predict long-term cardiac outcome for patients awaiting transplantation."}
{"id": "11679096", "title": "Cardiac biomarkers in the new millennium.", "content": "Cardiac biomarkers in the new millennium. Cardiac disease is the major cause of death in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), accounting for about 45% of all deaths. In dialysis patients about 20% of cardiac deaths are attributed to acute myocardial infarction (AMI). The survival of dialysis patients after AMI is poor, with nearly three-quarters of patients dead at 2 years after AMI. The definition of AMI is based on symptoms, electrocardiography, and cardiac biomarkers. In the non-ESRD population, it has been recognized that sensitive markers of myocardial injury (cardiac troponin I and troponin T) define a group of patients who are increased risk for adverse cardiac outcomes and who are more likely to benefit from treatment. Elevated cardiac troponin levels in nonhospitalized ESRD patients without other evidence of ongoing myocardial ischemia may also prospectively identify a subgroup of ESRD patients at increased risk for death. This editorial is an overview of cardiac biomarkers (specifically troponin I and troponin T) in the management of acute coronary syndromes in ESRD patients. A potential role of cardiac troponin testing for risk stratification in the outpatient dialysis unit is also presented."}
{"id": "11601190", "title": "Ocular ischemic syndrome.", "content": "Ocular ischemic syndrome. The purpose of this study was to investigate the clinical features and management of ocular ischemic syndrome (OIS) and factors influencing its development. Ten patients (12 eyes) with OIS underwent detailed medical and ocular histories, complete ophthalmic evaluation including fluorescein angiography, internal carotid artery evaluation by duplex ultrasonography, and management. The following outcome measures were considered: visual acuity, anterior segment neovascularization, lens status, retinal and choroidal changes, and carotid artery stenosis or occlusion. The mean age of the patients was 63 +/- 8 years. Presenting visual symptoms included gradual (82.5%) or sudden (17.5%) onset of vision loss. At initial visit, eyes with OIS had visual acuity less than or equal to counting fingers in 50%, iris neovascularization in 58%, and neovascular glaucoma in 42%. Initially associated systemic diseases in these patients included arterial hypertension (60%), diabetes mellitus (40%), coronary artery disease (20%), previous stroke (30%) and hemodialysis (10%). Complete occlusion or severe occlusion (70-99%) of the internal carotid artery was seen in 75% on the side of OIS. Panretinal photocoagulation did not prevent OIS from progressing but vitreous hemorrhage and rubeosis iris regressed. Carotid endarterectomy had some benefit in stabilizing or improving vision in patients with OIS. OIS has a poor visual prognosis. It is imperative that the clinician be aware of the signs and symptoms of carotid disease in order to facilitate prompt diagnosis and appropriate referral, because OIS may be the presenting sign of serious ischemic cerebrovascular and ischemic heart disease."}
{"id": "11583881", "title": "The effect of intracoronary radiation for the treatment of recurrent in-stent restenosis in patients with chronic renal failure.", "content": "The effect of intracoronary radiation for the treatment of recurrent in-stent restenosis in patients with chronic renal failure. This study was designed to analyze the in-hospital and six-month clinical and angiographic outcomes of patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) treated with intracoronary radiation for the prevention of recurrence of in-stent restenosis. Patients with CRF are at a higher risk than the general population for accelerated atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and for restenosis after percutaneous coronary intervention. Previous studies have shown the effectiveness of both beta and gamma radiation in preventing recurrent restenosis in patients with in-stent restenosis. We studied the in-hospital and six-month clinical and angiographic outcomes of 118 patients with CRF and 481 consecutive patients without CRF who were treated with intracoronary radiation for the prevention of recurrence of in-stent restenosis in native coronaries and saphenous vein grafts. Patients with CRF were usually older, women, hypertensive and diabetic, with multivessel disease and with reduced left ventricular function. In-hospital outcome for patients with CRF was marred by a higher incidence of death, non-Q-wave myocardial infarction and major vascular and bleeding complications. At six-month follow-up, the mortality rate was higher in patients with CRF, 7.6% compared with 1.9% in non-CRF patients (p = 0.003). Restenosis, target lesion revascularization (TLR) and target vessel revascularization (TVR) rates were similar in the two groups. In patients with CRF, radiation therapy compared to placebo reduced restenosis (53.8% vs. 22.6%, p = 0.04), TLR (71.4% vs. 15.3%, p < 0.0001) and TVR (78.6% vs. 23.7%, p = 0.0002). Intracoronary radiation for the prevention of recurrence of in-stent restenosis achieved similar rates of restenosis and revascularization procedures in patients with and without CRF. Despite this benefit, patients with renal dysfunction continued to have significantly higher in-hospital and six-month adverse outcomes."}
{"id": "11576954", "title": "Hemodialysis in diabetic patients.", "content": "Hemodialysis in diabetic patients. Diabetic nephropathy is a leading cause of end-stage renal disease, and its prevalence and incidence vary greatly from country to country, being highest in the United States and Japan. In the United States, diabetic nephropathy accounts for approximately 40% of patients beginning renal replacement therapy. Type 2 diabetes is the largest and fastest-growing single disease that requires dialytic therapy. Most patients succumb to cardiovascular causes, including coronary artery disease and myocardial infarction, sudden death, cardiac failure, and stroke. The survival from cardiovascular complications is relatively better in East Asian countries and to a lesser extent in Mediterranean countries compared with countries that traditionally have higher cardiovascular death rates. Peripheral vascular disease and sepsis contribute to increased morbidity and mortality. Amputation of limbs secondary to peripheral vascular disease in particular has adverse effects on rehabilitation. Asymptomatic hypoglycemia may develop in hemodialysis patients. Such hypoglycemia is not associated with a hormonal balance but is postulated to be due to blunted hormonal response to hypoglycemia. Diabetic muscle infarction is another rare complication attributable to diabetic microangiopathy; magnetic resonance imaging may help in the diagnosis. Risk factors for increased mortality include advanced age, poor glycemic control before starting dialysis, smoking, left ventricular hypertrophy, hypoalbuminemia, and neuropathy, in particular, autonomic dysfunction. In addition to adequate dialysis, it is advisable to achieve tight blood pressure control (at least <140/90 mm Hg and preferably much lower), better blood glucose control (hemoglobin A(1c), <7%), correction of nutritional status, and appropriate foot care."}
{"id": "11576920", "title": "The heart in uremia: role of hypertension, hypotension, and sleep apnea.", "content": "The heart in uremia: role of hypertension, hypotension, and sleep apnea. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in end-stage renal disease. Causes include those usually found in the general population, those related to the uremic status, and those related to dialytic treatment. Hypertension, hypotension, anemia, hypoalbuminemia, malnutrition, dyslipidemia, reactive C protein, calcium-phosphate product, dialysis modalities, and hyperhomocysteinemia are discussed extensively. Special emphasis is put on hyperparathyroidism as a traditional toxin. The emergent role of sleep apnea has been confirmed in animal models as well as in humans studied using polysomnography. There are difficulties in diagnosing coronary disease, because angiography is not risk-free, is expensive, and should be reserved for patients having symptoms of heart failure and/or patients having diabetes mellitus, and/or patients entering a transplantation list. This allows patients with coronary disease to undergo coronary artery bypass (preferably) or percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. Patients for whom surgery is not appropriate should be treated using more traditional medical procedures."}
{"id": "11568034", "title": "Coronary artery bypass with only in situ bilateral internal thoracic arteries and right gastroepiploic artery.", "content": "Coronary artery bypass with only in situ bilateral internal thoracic arteries and right gastroepiploic artery. With the rapid advance of catheter intervention, the direction taken by surgeons is not only to make conventional CABG less invasive but also to pursue better long-term results by using more arterial conduits. Between July 1989 and April 2000, 239 patients (218 men, 21 women) with a mean age of 59.7 (range 39 to 79) years underwent CABG with exclusive use of both internal thoracic arteries (ITAs) and the right gastroepiploic artery (RGEA). ITA grafts were harvested by using the skeletonization technique. Most patients (96%) had either triple-vessel or left main disease. Fifty percent of the patients were diabetic, and 16 were being treated with insulin. The left ventricular ejection fraction was </=40% in 46 patients (19%). Eleven patients (5%) had chronic renal failure and were on hemodialysis. Follow-up was completed in 235 patients (98%). Postoperative follow-up averaged 43 (range 1 to 129) months. Sequential grafting was performed in 64 patients, and the mean number of anastomoses was 3.3. One patient (0.4%) died of mediastinitis on the 53rd postoperative day. Graft patency was confirmed angiographically in 230 patients (96%) 2 to 3 weeks after surgery. The patency rate was 97.1% for the left ITA, 99.6% for the right ITA, and 95.5% for the RGEA. Five-year actuarial survival rate was 92.9%, and the cardiac death-free rate was 97.8%. Complete arterial grafting with both ITAs and RGEA was associated with minimal operative risk, a high early graft patency rate, and excellent long-term results."}
{"id": "11567589", "title": "The effect of kidney transplant on cardiac function: an echocardiographic perspective.", "content": "The effect of kidney transplant on cardiac function: an echocardiographic perspective. Kidney transplant (KT) resolves many of the cardiac abnormalities associated with chronic kidney failure (CKF). This study analyzed cardiac alterations of kidney failure and their modification with transplant. Thirteen patients in CKF underwent conventional echocardiograms, dobutamine stress echocardiograms, and injection of contrast to examine perfusion before KT and 3 months after transplant. Nine patients had evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy and six had evidence of diastolic dysfunction. Wall thickness, left ventricular mass, and mass index diminished after KT; only two patients continued to manifest hypertrophy. Left ventricular systolic diameters and volumes diminished at 3 months, and diastolic diameters after 4 months. Left ventricular fractional shortening and ejection fraction increased 3 months after transplant. At the end of the study, only two patients continued to show diastolic dysfunction. Dobutamine echocardiograms showed no segmental wall-movement abnormalities. Myocardial perfusion was normal before and after transplant. The results suggest that KT diminishes hypertrophy and improves left ventricular systolic and diastolic function. Echocardiography provides valuable information for detection and follow-up of cardiac abnormalities in patients with kidney disease. Evaluation of segmental wall movement and myocardial perfusion aid in demonstrating that our studied patients with CKF had no indirect signs of coronary artery disease."}
{"id": "11562412", "title": "Association of elevated serum PO(4), Ca x PO(4) product, and parathyroid hormone with cardiac mortality risk in chronic hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Association of elevated serum PO(4), Ca x PO(4) product, and parathyroid hormone with cardiac mortality risk in chronic hemodialysis patients. Hyperphosphatemia is highly prevalent among patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and is associated with increased mortality risk in hemodialysis (HD) patients. The mechanism through which this mortality risk is mediated is unclear. Data from two national random samples of HD patients (n = 12,833) was used to test the hypothesis that elevated serum PO(4) contributes mainly to cardiac causes of death. During a 2-yr follow-up, the cause-specific relative risk (RR) of death for patients was analyzed separately for several categories of cause of death, including coronary artery disease (CAD), sudden death, and other cardiac causes, cerebrovascular and infection. Cox regression models were fit for each of the eight cause of death categories, adjusting for patient demographics and non-cardiovascular comorbid conditions. Time at risk for each cause-specific model was censored at death that resulted from any of the other causes. Higher mortality risk was seen for patients in the high PO(4) group (>6.5mg/dl) compared with the lower PO(4) group (< or =6.5mg/dl) for death resulting from CAD (RR 1.41; P < 0.0005), sudden death (RR 1.20; P < 0.01), infection (RR 1.20; P < 0.05), and unknown causes (RR 1.25; P < 0.05). Patients in the high PO(4) group also had non-significantly increased RR of death from other cardiac and cerebrovascular causes of death. The RR of sudden death was also strongly associated with elevated Ca x PO(4) product (RR 1.07 per 10 mg(2)/dl(2); P < 0.005) and serum parathyroid hormone levels greater than 495 pg/ml (RR 1.25; P < 0.05). This study identifies strong relationships between elevated serum PO(4), Ca x PO(4) product, and parathyroid hormone and cardiac causes of death in HD patients, especially deaths resulting from CAD and sudden death. More vigorous measures to reduce the prevalence of these factors in HD patients may result in improved survival."}
{"id": "11527621", "title": "Renal insufficiency and cardiovascular events in postmenopausal women with coronary heart disease.", "content": "Renal insufficiency and cardiovascular events in postmenopausal women with coronary heart disease. This study sought to determine the independent association of renal insufficiency with cardiovascular risk among women with known coronary heart disease (CHD). Although patients with end-stage renal disease and proteinuria are at high risk for cardiovascular events, little is known about the cardiovascular risk associated with moderate renal insufficiency. The Heart and Estrogen/progestin Replacement Study (HERS) was a clinical trial among 2,763 women with coronary disease who were randomized to conjugated estrogen plus progestins or identical placebo and followed for a mean of 4.1 years. Women were categorized as having normal renal function (creatinine < 1.2 mg/dl; n = 2,012), mild renal insufficiency (1.2 mg/dl to 1.4 mg/dl; n = 567) and moderate renal insufficiency (>1.4 mg/dl; n = 182). We examined the independent association of renal function with incident cardiovascular events including CHD death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, hospitalization for unstable angina, stroke and transient ischemic attacks. Compared with women with normal renal function, those with mild and moderate renal insufficiency were older, more likely to be black, have a history of hypertension and diabetes and have higher serum levels of triglycerides and lipoprotein(a). After multivariate adjustment, both mild (relative hazards [RH] = 1.24; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.0 to 1.5) and moderate renal insufficiency (RH = 1.57; 95% CI: 1.2 to 2.1) were independently associated with increased risk for cardiovascular events compared with women with normal renal function. Renal insufficiency is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular events in postmenopausal women with known coronary artery disease. Renal function may add helpful information to CHD risk stratification."}
{"id": "11479472", "title": "Primary renal artery stenting: characteristics and outcomes after 363 procedures.", "content": "Primary renal artery stenting: characteristics and outcomes after 363 procedures. Stenting improves the acute results of percutaneous balloon angioplasty for atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis. Predictors of benefit and angiographic restenosis are not well understood. We describe the technical and clinical success of renal artery stenting in a large consecutive series of patients with hypertension or renal insufficiency. We identify clinical, procedural, and anatomic factors that might influence outcome, restenosis, and survival. Primary renal artery stenting was performed in 300 consecutive patients who underwent 363 stent procedures in 358 arteries. Angiograms were analyzed quantitatively. Clinical and angiographic follow-up data are available after a median of 16.0 months. At baseline, 87% of patients had hypertension, and 37% had chronic renal insufficiency. The mean age was 70 years (interquartile range 63.1-74.6) years. The stenosis was unilateral in 49% and bilateral in 48% and involved a solitary functioning kidney in 3.6%. The stenting procedure was successful in all attempts. There were no procedural deaths or emergency renal surgical procedures. Postprocedure azotemia was seen in 45 of 363 (12%) procedures but persisted in only 6 patients (2%), all of whom had baseline renal insufficiency. Systolic and diastolic blood pressures were significantly reduced (systolic blood pressure from 164.0 +/- 28.7 to 142.4 +/- 19.1 mm Hg, P <.001). At follow-up, 70% of patients had improved blood pressure control regardless of renal function. In patients with baseline renal insufficiency, 19% had improvement in serum creatinine levels at follow-up, 54% had stabilization, and 27% had deterioration. Follow-up mortality was 10% and was predicted by baseline creatinine levels (odds ratio 1.72 for each 1 mg/dL creatinine increment, 95% confidence interval 1.13-2.49) and extent of coronary artery disease (odds ratio 1.66 for each diseased coronary artery, 95% confidence interval 1.03-2.67). Angiographic restenosis was found in 21% of 102 patients overall and was less common (12%) in arteries with a reference caliber >4.5 mm (P <.01 vs caliber <4.5 mm). Neither poststenotic dilation nor severity of angiographic stenosis predicted clinical outcome. Primary renal artery stenting can be performed safely with nearly uniform technical success. The majority of patients with hypertension or renal insufficiency derive benefit. Follow-up mortality is 5-fold higher in patients with baseline renal insufficiency. Clinical and angiographic features did not predict blood pressure or renal functional outcome. Restenosis is more common in renal arteries with a reference caliber less than 4.5 mm."}
{"id": "11457742", "title": "Simple bedside additive tool for prediction of in-hospital mortality after percutaneous coronary interventions.", "content": "Simple bedside additive tool for prediction of in-hospital mortality after percutaneous coronary interventions. Risk-adjustment models for percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) mortality have been recently reported, but application in bedside prediction of prognosis for individual patients remains untested. Between July 1, 1997 and September 30, 1999, 10 796 consecutive procedures were performed in a consortium of 8 hospitals. Predictors of in-hospital mortality were identified by use of multivariate logistic regression analysis. The final model was validated by use of the bootstrap technique. Additional validation was performed on an independent data set of 5863 consecutive procedures performed between October 1, 1999, and August 30, 2000. An additive risk-prediction score was developed by rounding coefficients of the logistic regression model to the closest half-integer, and a visual bedside tool for the prediction of individual patient prognosis was developed. In this patient population, the in-hospital mortality rate was 1.6%. Multivariate regression analysis identified acute myocardial infarction, cardiogenic shock, history of cardiac arrest, renal insufficiency, low ejection fraction, peripheral vascular disease, lesion characteristics, female sex, and advanced age as independent predictors of death. The model had excellent discrimination (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, 0.90) and was accurate for prediction of mortality among different subgroups. Near-perfect correlation existed between calculated scores and observed mortality, with higher scores associated with higher mortality. Accurate predictions of individual patient risk of mortality associated with PCI can be achieved with a simple bedside tool. These predictions could be used during discussions of prognosis before and after PCI."}
{"id": "11455525", "title": "Factors influencing access to cardiovascular procedures in patients with chronic kidney disease: race, sex, and insurance.", "content": "Factors influencing access to cardiovascular procedures in patients with chronic kidney disease: race, sex, and insurance. Blacks and women are less likely to undergo invasive cardiac procedures than whites and men in patients with chronic renal disease. We determined the relationship between ethnic and sex differences in access to cardiac procedures as patients progress to ESRD and acquire Medicare insurance. We performed a cohort study of a nationwide random sample of 4,987 patients who progressed to ESRD in 1986 to 1987 and were followed up for 7 years was used. Data were collected from medical charts and Medicare administrative records. Pre-ESRD, the odds of cardiac procedure use were much lower for white women (adjusted odds 0.67 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.49-0.92]), black men (adjusted odds 0.32 [95% CI 0.20-0.49]), and black women (adjusted odds 0.30 [95%CI 0.18-0.50]) compared with white men. After initiating dialysis therapy, the ethnic and sex differences decreased with odds of receiving a cardiac procedure compared with white men 0.88 (95% CI 0.63-1.21) for white women, 0.66 (95% CI 0.47-0.92) for black men, and 0.75 (95% CI 0.53-1.08) for black women. Patients uninsured pre-ESRD had the largest increase in procedure rates at follow-up. The wide pre-ESRD disparities in cardiac procedure use between white women, black men, and black women compared with white men narrowed substantially with acquisition of Medicare and entry into comprehensive dialysis care. Health insurance contributed to the narrowing of differences. Procedure use for black men still lagged behind the other groups, suggesting the need for closer examination of health needs in this potentially vulnerable group."}
{"id": "11453576", "title": "Imaging of the posterior descending coronary artery. The last frontier in echocardiography.", "content": "Imaging of the posterior descending coronary artery. The last frontier in echocardiography. Non-invasive color Doppler imaging of the left anterior descending coronary artery has been described, but imaging of the posterior descending coronary artery (PD) has never been reported. The aim of this paper was to describe color Doppler imaging and flow reserve of the PD, regardless of its origin from the right or circumflex coronary artery, in different settings such as acute myocardial infarction or coronary stenting. A C256 Acuson Sequoia ultrasound system connected to a standard 3.5 MHz transducer was used. Neither a contrast agent nor harmonic or power Doppler imaging was used. However, the Nyquist limit of color Doppler was reduced to 12 cm/s. Patients were examined in the apical 2-chamber view, with the coronary sinus ostium imaged in the short axis until a diastolic flow signal close to the epicardial layer was detected. Pulsed Doppler confirmed an anterograde, doming systolic and monophasic decrescendo diastolic flow. Adenosine was intravenously infused at the standard dose of 140 microg/kg/min over 90 s in order to elicit maximal microcirculatory dilation. The resting and hyperemic peak diastolic flow velocities were measured and the coronary flow reserve was calculated as the ratio between hyperemic and resting peak diastolic flow velocities. This simple bedside technique provided crucial information about several important issues: 1) arterial patency after thrombolysis; 2) evaluation of the physiologic impact of a coronary stenosis, with implications on the detection of a critical stenosis; 3) reperfusion imaging of perforating branches after myocardial infarction; 4) post-stent assessment of coronary flow reserve. This paper shows, for the first time, that non-invasive imaging of the PD by non-contrast transthoracic Doppler is feasible and that the coronary flow reserve is measurable even in critical conditions. More studies are needed to assess the feasibility of PD imaging in different clinical settings and the potential benefit of contrast agents in improving the evaluation of coronary flow."}
{"id": "11431183", "title": "Significant association between the progression of coronary artery calcification and dyslipidemia in patients on chronic hemodialysis.", "content": "Significant association between the progression of coronary artery calcification and dyslipidemia in patients on chronic hemodialysis. Quantification of coronary artery calcification (CAC) determined by electron-beam computed tomography (EBCT), known as the CAC score (CACS), correlates with total plaque amount and coronary risk factors and strongly associates with maximal stenosis in the epicardial arteries. However, data are limited concerning the CACS in chronic dialysis patients, although atherosclerotic vascular disease is the most frequent complication. We examined the relation between coronary risk factors, metabolic factors of calcium and other minerals, and CACS progression in 24 dialysis patients. The mean patient age was 53 +/- 14 (SD) years, and mean duration of dialysis was 64 +/- 69 months. In each patient, the CACS was measured twice, with a mean interscan period of 17 +/- 3 months. The mean CACS progressed from 449 +/- 605 to 669 +/- 894 overall, and the mean change in CACS (DeltaCACS) was 220 +/- 78. Patients were divided into two groups: slow progressors, with DeltaCACS of 7.5 +/- 31 (n = 12), and rapid progressors, with DeltaCACS of 432 +/- 458 (n = 12). Triglyceride concentrations (198 +/- 65 versus 103 +/- 50 mg/dL; P < 0.001) were high, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) concentrations (46 +/- 11 versus 60 +/- 18 mg/dL; P < 0.05) were low in rapid progressors. Rapid progression of CAC was associated with high triglyceride and low HDL-C concentrations. The clinical significance of these observations remains to be determined."}
{"id": "11423581", "title": "Prevalence and clinical correlates of coronary artery disease among new dialysis patients in the United States: a cross-sectional study.", "content": "Prevalence and clinical correlates of coronary artery disease among new dialysis patients in the United States: a cross-sectional study. Despite the high prevalence of coronary artery disease (CAD) among patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), few studies have identified clinical correlates using national data. The purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence and clinical associations of CAD in a national random sample of new ESRD in the United States in 1996/1997 (n = 4025). Data on demographic characteristics and comorbidities were obtained from the Dialysis Morbidity and Mortality Study, Wave 2. The principal outcome was CAD, defined as the presence of a previous history of CAD, myocardial infarction, or angina, coronary artery bypass surgery, coronary angioplasty, or abnormal coronary angiographic findings. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was used to assess the relationship of conventional factors and proposed uremic factors to the presence of CAD. CAD was present in 38% of patients. Of the total cohort, 17% had a history of myocardial infarction and 23% had angina. Several conventional risk factors, including advancing age, male gender, diabetes mellitus, and smoking, were significantly associated with CAD. Of the proposed uremic factors, lower serum albumin levels but higher residual renal function and higher hematocrit values were significantly associated with the presence of CAD. Vascular comorbid conditions, structural cardiac abnormalities, white race, and geographic location were also strongly correlated with the presence of CAD. This national study suggests that several conventional CAD risk factors may also be risk factors for CAD among the ESRD population. This study identifies nonconventional factors such as serum albumin levels, vascular comorbid conditions, and structural cardiac abnormalities as important disease correlates. Future logitudinal studies are required to explore the relative importance of the relationships observed here."}
{"id": "11406912", "title": "Aetiology and treatment of hyperhomocysteinaemia causing ischaemic stroke.", "content": "Aetiology and treatment of hyperhomocysteinaemia causing ischaemic stroke. Recent studies have shown that hyperhomocysteinaemia is a common, independent and easily modifiable risk factor for atherosclerotic and thromboembolic diseases such as cerebrovascular disease, coronary artery disease and venous thrombosis. The vascular risk rises continuously across the spectrum of elevated plasma homocysteine concentrations. It is at least as important as cholesterol, lipoprotein abnormalities and hypertension and should be part of risk assessment, especially those at high risk. Moderately elevated plasma homocysteine concentration is readily correctable by folic acid, betaine, or vitamin B12 supplementation. It seems logical to assume that a reduction in homocysteine concentration will reduce the risk of ischaemic stroke, but there are as yet no published data to prove this. This review will discuss the aetiology and possible treatment of hyperhomocysteinaemia causing ischaemic stroke."}
{"id": "11397353", "title": "Creatine kinase-MB fraction elevation after percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with chronic renal failure.", "content": "Creatine kinase-MB fraction elevation after percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with chronic renal failure. We evaluated the short- and long-term clinical outcomes of 326 consecutive patients with chronic renal failure, not on dialysis, who had creatine kinase (CK)-myocardial band (MB) fraction elevation after successful percutaneous coronary intervention in a native coronary artery. Based on peak CK-MB levels measured after intervention, patients were divided into 3 groups: no elevation (group 1, n = 184), 1 to 3 x upper normal levels (group 2, n = 72), and >3 x upper normal levels (group 3, n = 70). Baseline clinical and angiographic characteristics were similar among the 3 groups. Angiographic success was similar among the 3 groups, although there was a significantly higher use of intra-aortic balloon pump in patients who had postprocedural CK-MB >3 x normal values and a higher rate of in-hospital complications, i.e., repeat catheterization, repeat target lesion intervention, pulmonary edema, renal function deterioration, emergency dialysis, and major bleeding complications. At 1-year follow-up, mortality rates were significantly higher in these patients (35.4% vs 22.0% for patients with CK-MB 1 to 3 x normal values and 16.7% for patients without CK-MB elevation, p = 0.007). Multivariate analysis showed that CK-MB >3 x normal (odds ratio 3.04; 95% confidence interval 1.41 to 6.57, p = 0.005) and intra-aortic balloon pump (odds ratio 1.49; confidence interval 1.15 to 1.93, p = 0.002) were independent predictors of late mortality. Therefore, patients with chronic renal failure who had CK-MB elevation >3 x the upper normal limit after a successful percutaneous coronary intervention had a higher incidence of in-hospital complications and a significantly higher mortality rate at 1-year follow-up than patients without CK-MB elevation or with <3 x normal CK-MB elevation."}
{"id": "11390723", "title": "Rate dependence of acute PTH release and association between basal plasma calcium and set point of calcium-PTH curve in dialysis patients.", "content": "Rate dependence of acute PTH release and association between basal plasma calcium and set point of calcium-PTH curve in dialysis patients. In vivo, the control of calcium-mediated acute PTH release during induced hypo- or hypercalcaemia is linked not only to plasma calcium concentration per se but also to the rate and direction of calcium change. In fact, during induced hypocalcaemia, the predominant mechanism that causes PTH to be released is the reduction of plasma Ca(2+) irrespective of the absolute starting concentration of ionized calcium. This mechanism, which is rate-dependent and even activated in conditions of hypercalcaemia, may be involved in the association, reported in several papers, between the basal Ca(2+) and the set point of the calcium-PTH curve. The calcium-PTH relationship was studied in 12 dialysis patients under conditions of induced low and high predialysis plasma Ca(2+). At each level of basal Ca(2+), dynamic tests were conducted using two methodological approaches. In method A patients underwent low (0.5 mmol/l) calcium dialysis in the stimulation test and high (2 mmol/l) calcium dialysis in the inhibition test, while the dialysate calcium (CaD) was kept constant during each test. In this way a higher but variable rate of change in plasma Ca(2+) was achieved. In method B, CaD was progressively decreased (stimulation test) and increased (inhibition test) during the tests in order to obtain a lower but more constant rate of change in plasma Ca(2+). Consequently, for each patient, four calcium-PTH curves were produced: low basal Ca(2+) with methods A and B, and high basal Ca(2+) with methods A and B. Basal plasma Ca(2+) was similar in A and B at low (1.16+/-0.02 vs 1.15+/-0.02 mmol/l) and high (1.25+/-0.02 vs 1.26+/-0.02 mmol/l) basal plasma Ca(2+). The set point was higher in A than in B both at low (1.12+/-0.02 vs 1.10+/-0.02 mmol/l, P=0.01) and high (1.20+/-0.02 vs 1.16+/-0.02 mmol/l, P=0.03) basal Ca(2+) as was the slope (542+/-41 vs 426+/-44%/mmol, P=0.02; 615+/-73 vs 389+/-25%/mmol, P=0.01). No significant difference was found between A and B as regards minimal PTH and plasma Ca(2+) at minimal PTH (Camin) in both calcaemic states. Maximal PTH was slightly higher in B at low (510+/-97 vs 548+/-107 pg/ml, P=NS) and high basal plasma Ca(2+) (410+/-97 vs 464+/-108 pg/ml, P=0.02). Plasma calcium at maximal PTH (Camax) was significantly higher in A (1.1+/-0.03 vs 0.99+/-0.02 mmol/l, P=0.001) at high basal plasma Ca(2+). The set point was strictly related to basal plasma Ca(2+) in both methods, but the slope of the linear regression was significantly steeper with method A. The set point was predicted to increase by 0.881 (CI 0.772-0.990) mmol/l for each mmol/l of increase in basal plasma Ca(2+) with method A and by 0.641 (CI 0.546-0.737) mmol/l for each mmol/l of increase in basal plasma Ca(2+) with method B. (i) Higher and variable rates of change in plasma Ca(2+) produce a higher set point value and a steeper slope of the calcium-PTH curve when compared to lower and more constant rates of calcium change. (ii) The different slope of the linear correlations between basal plasma Ca(2+) and set point in the two methods suggests that the rate-dependent mechanism of acute PTH release plays a significant role in the association between set point and basal plasma Ca(2+). (iii) The significance of the set point is questionable when the calcium-PTH curve is carried out in vivo."}
{"id": "11390720", "title": "Angiographic progression of coronary artery disease in patients with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Angiographic progression of coronary artery disease in patients with end-stage renal disease. Patients with end-stage renal disease have an increased risk of developing coronary artery disease (CAD). The cardiovascular mortality of dialysis patients is 10-15 times higher compared with the general population. The aim of our study was to evaluate the morphological progression of coronary arteriosclerosis in this cardiovascular high-risk group by visual assessment and quantitative coronary angiography. Methods and results. In 26 patients with chronic renal failure (age, 47+/-11 years; 15 male; duration of dialysis, 23+/-25 months) the severity of CAD and degree of coronary stenoses were assessed in two coronary angiograms after a mean follow-up interval of 30+/-15 months (12-60). Baseline angiography revealed CAD in 13/22 patients (59%). The second angiography was performed as screening procedure prior to renal transplantation (n=20) and/or as follow-up angiography after coronary angioplasty (n=10). Visual assessment showed a progression defined by the development of haemodynamically relevant stenosis of >50% luminal diameter in 13 patients. Quantitative angiographic evaluation was performed in a total of 45 segments showing >25% narrowing at the second angiogram. A progression (>15% luminal reduction) was found in 17 of 45 segments, a new lesion (initial luminal diameter <20%) was detected in nine segments, resulting in progression or new lesion in 16 patients (62%). Patients with or without progression did not differ in age, duration of dialysis treatment, number of cardiovascular risk factors, or serum total cholesterol and fibrinogen levels. After percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) a restenosis was seen in seven of 16 primarily successfully dilated segments. After the second angiography, myocardial revascularization was performed in eight patients (1 PTCA, 7 coronary artery bypass graft). Patients with end-stage renal disease have a high prevalence of CAD. In line with the clinical course, CAD patients on maintenance dialysis undergo rapid angiographic progression of CAD, which results in a high rate of subsequent myocardial revascularizations."}
{"id": "11382689", "title": "Plasma brain natriuretic peptide levels in chronic hemodialysis patients: influence of coronary artery disease.", "content": "Plasma brain natriuretic peptide levels in chronic hemodialysis patients: influence of coronary artery disease. A noninvasive biochemical testing method for early detection and monitoring the condition of cardiac complications in hemodialysis (HD) patients would be useful and might lead to improved survival. The aim of this study is to clarify the pathophysiological significance of plasma brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels in HD patients with and without coronary artery disease (CAD). We measured plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and BNP levels on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday before and after HD in 28 consecutive patients who underwent HD three times weekly. In addition, we measured plasma ANP and BNP levels in 21 HD patients with CAD and 27 HD patients without CAD and studied the relationships between BNP levels and cardiac function and clinical variables. Plasma ANP levels significantly decreased after HD on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, and predialysis plasma ANP levels on Monday were significantly greater than those on other days. Plasma BNP levels did not change after HD on Monday; however, they significantly decreased after HD on Wednesday and FRIDAY: Predialysis plasma BNP levels on Monday were greater than those on other days, and postdialysis plasma BNP levels on Monday were greater than predialysis plasma BNP levels on WEDNESDAY: Plasma BNP levels in HD patients with CAD were significantly greater than those in HD patients without CAD and significantly correlated with left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (r = -0.69), end-diastolic volume index (r = 0.59), and end-systolic volume index (r = 0.84) determined by left ventriculography. Conversely, plasma BNP levels in HD patients without CAD significantly correlated with LV mass index (r = 0.54) determined by echocardiography and mean systolic blood pressure (r = 0.72) determined by 48-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring. These results suggest the following: (1) plasma BNP levels before and after HD in chronic HD patients directly correlate with the degree of body fluid retention, and the day of the week on which the sample is obtained should be considered for its evaluation; (2) plasma BNP levels reflect LV function in HD patients with CAD; and (3) plasma BNP levels reflect LV mass and blood pressure in HD patients without CAD."}
{"id": "11369827", "title": "Clinical characteristics of ischaemic renal disease.", "content": "Clinical characteristics of ischaemic renal disease. Longer life expectancy has favoured the ever more frequent development of ischaemic nephropathy characterized by the presence of atherosclerotic stenosis in both renal arteries. This is an observational and multicentre study carried out during a 14-month follow-up period in 20 hospitals in SPAIN: Inclusion criteria were the presence of bilateral renal artery stenosis > 50% and a creatinine level of > or = 1.5 mg/dl. The diagnosis should be made by arterial digital angiography in every case. A total of 156 patients were included. Their mean age was 68.7+/-9 years, and 78.5% were male. The mean creatinine value of the group was 2.9+/-1.7 mg/dl. Arterial hypertension (BP) with a duration of 12+/-9 years was present in 97.4% of the cases, smoking habits in 69.8%, hypercholesterolaemia (> or = 240 mg/dl) in 62.9% and diabetes in 32.1%. Only 8% of the patients had a body mass index > or = 30 kg/m(2). Associated cardiovascular disease was very frequent: peripheral arteriopathy in 67.5% of the cases, ischaemic cardiopathy in 44.8%, cardiac insufficiency in 32.6% and stroke in 27.3%. In 94.4% of the patients, the lesion affected both renal arteries, with complete obstruction in 23% of the cases. Diagnostic suspicion of ischaemic nephropathy can be established in non-obese elderly males with chronic renal insufficiency, long-term BP evolution and cardiovascular disease at other levels, above all, peripheral arteriopathy."}
{"id": "11351774", "title": "Coronary artery disease in patients with renal failure.", "content": "Coronary artery disease in patients with renal failure. Cardiovascular disease is prevalent in patients with advanced renal failure or on dialysis treatment, and after renal transplantation. The risk factors for the cardiovascular problems are a mixture of conventional and novel ones. Inflammation and oxidation may be especially important in the acceleration of atherosclerosis in chronic renal failure. This article discusses these factors and gathers together the evidence for cardiovascular intervention and treatment in a group of patients whose overall mortality is high."}
{"id": "11318755", "title": "Coronary artery bypass grafting in 105 patients with hemodialysis-dependent renal failure.", "content": "Coronary artery bypass grafting in 105 patients with hemodialysis-dependent renal failure. This study was proposed to define early and long-term results of coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in dialysis-dependent renal failure (RF) patients, and preoperative patient characteristics. This study included 105 patients (87 males and 18 females; mean age 60.0 +/- 9.0 years, range 39-79) with RF on maintenance dialysis (hemodialysis 100, peritoneal dialysis 5) who underwent isolated CABG between August 1985 and April 2000. Postoperative follow-up was completed in 100% and averaged 3.1 years. There were 22 emergency and 2 re-CABG cases. Previous myocardial infarction (MI) was found in 55 patients (52%), and unstable angina was noted in 53 patients (50%). Diabetes mellitus was the cause of RF in 50 patients (48%; 24 patients required insulin). There was 1 case of single vessel disease, 31 cases of double vessel disease, 54 cases of triple vessel disease, and 19 cases of left main disease. Preoperative left ventriculography was performed in 92 patients (88%). Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was 48.3 +/- 15.8% (range 11-74%) and was 40% or less in 25 patients (27%). The mean number of distal anastomoses was 2.5 (range 1-5). Three patients received only vein grafts, but all were cases of emergency CABG. The remaining 102 patients (97%) received at least 1 arterial conduit. Among them, 64 patients received only arterial conduits, and 72 patients received 2 or more distal anastomoses with arterial conduits. Five patients (4.8%) died within 30 days after CABG (2 cardiac deaths and 3 noncardiac deaths), and 8 patients (7.6%) died beyond 30 days after CABG before discharge (all noncardiac deaths). The cause of 2 cardiac deaths was abrupt circulatory collapse during or after hemodialysis in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction (LVEF; 11% and 28%) in the early postoperative period. The causes of 8 noncardiac deaths included infection in 4 and rupture of aortic aneurysm, stroke, sleep apnea syndrome, and mesenteric infarction. During the follow-up period, there were 29 late deaths (8 cardiac, 13 noncardiac, and 8 sudden death), 6 MIs, 13 percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, and 1 re-CABG. The 5-year actuarial survival rate was 59.8%, the cardiac death-free rate was 83.0%, and the cardiac event-free rate was 62.4%. Although CABG in patients on hemodialysis is associated with high early and long-term mortality in terms of both cardiac and noncardiac deaths in proportion to the severity of the preoperative condition, long-term survival was still better than that of general dialysis patients. Meticulous perioperative management may be the key factor in the improvement of early results."}
{"id": "11318751", "title": "Immediate and long-term results of coronary artery bypass operation in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Immediate and long-term results of coronary artery bypass operation in hemodialysis patients. This study evaluated the early and late results of coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in patients on long-term maintenance hemodialysis (chronic HD) at Teikyo University Ichihara Hospital between January 1996 and June 2000. Thirty-six patients on chronic HD underwent CABG. There were 26 males (72%) and 10 females (28%) ranging from 41 to 81 years (mean +/- SD, 61.8 +/- 9.2 years) of age. Twenty-one patients (58%) had unstable angina, 14 (39%) stable angina, and 1 acute myocardial infarction. Eleven patients (31%) had urgent or emergency CABG. The average graft number was 2.5 +/- 0.8 (arterial graft 1.3 +/- 0.7/patient). Six patients had concomitant cardiac operations. Three patients underwent re- or a second re-CABG. Five patients underwent off-pump CABG. Principally, HD was performed during cardiopulmonary bypass and was followed by continuous hemodiafiltration in the early postoperative period. The early mortality was 11%; 25% in emergency and urgent CABG and 4% in elective CABG. In the follow-up period between 1 and 53 months (mean +/- SD 21.9 +/- 15.1 months), 4 patients died, and 9 patients developed recurrence of angina pectoris (6, occlusion of saphenous vein graft and 3, native coronary progression). Six patients had coronary intervention. The postoperative angiogram showed that all arterial grafts were patent, but the patency of the vein grafts was only 61.5%. The early results of CABG in patients on chronic HD was satisfactory. The late recurrence of angina pectoris mostly was caused by occlusion of the saphenous vein graft. In conclusion, the aggressive use of arterial grafts is crucial in CABG for patients on chronic HD."}
{"id": "11315400", "title": "[Electron beam computed tomography of the heart before kidney transplantation. Severe coronary disease in a 21-year old woman with nephrocalcinosis due to infantile hypercalcemia syndrome].", "content": "[Electron beam computed tomography of the heart before kidney transplantation. Severe coronary disease in a 21-year old woman with nephrocalcinosis due to infantile hypercalcemia syndrome]. Cardiovascular diseases are very common in patients with end-stage renal disease and are the underlying cause of approximately half the deaths in dialysis patients. In those patients vascular calcifications are typically seen in the tunica media and therefore represent histopathological changes different to those in atherosclerosis. For the evaluation of cardiovascular risk in chronic dialysis patients, a method is needed to reliably identify patients who have to undergo invasive diagnostics. Coronary artery calcium assessed by electron beam computed tomography (EBT) has been suggested to measure the extent of coronary atherosclerosis in patients with normal renal function. It might also be of value in the stratification of cardiovascular risk in patients with renal failure. We report the case of a 21-year-old female with end-stage renal disease as a result of idiopathic infantile hypercalcemia with nephrocalcinosis and extensive vascular calcification. Due to a total atrioventricular block, a 2-chamber pacemaker had been implanted in 1998. Because of a very high calcium score in EBT, depressed left ventricular function in echocardiography, and limited physical strength she was sent to coronary angiography. Severe 2-vessel coronary artery disease was found and successfully treated by balloon angioplasty. She was then listed for renal transplantation. Angiographic 6-month follow-up showed an excellent long-term result. This case demonstrates that coronary artery disease can also be present in young dialysis patients. Discrimination of atherosclerotic vascular calcification and tunica media sclerosis typical in dialysis patients without hemodynamic effects is difficult. EBT allows for the direct detection of coronary calcium. Its extent correlates with coronary atherosclerosis and the probability of acute coronary syndromes in patients with normal renal function. This evidence has not been proved for dialysis patients, yet. However, EBT may be of value in the stratification of cardiovascular risk for patients awaiting renal transplantation."}
{"id": "11303010", "title": "Clinical outcome following coronary angioplasty in dialysis patients: a case-control study in the era of coronary stenting.", "content": "Clinical outcome following coronary angioplasty in dialysis patients: a case-control study in the era of coronary stenting. Balloon coronary angioplasty has been reported to be ineffective in patients treated for end stage renal disease because of a high restenosis rate. To compare the clinical outcome following coronary angioplasty with provisional stenting in dialysis versus non-dialysis patients. A case-control study. Of 1428 consecutive patients who underwent coronary angioplasty, 100 (7%) were being treated for end stage renal disease. These were compared with 100 control patients matched for age, sex, coronary lesions, presence of diabetes mellitus, and rate of coronary stenting (40%). In-hospital and one year clinical outcome. The rates of procedural success (90% v 93%), in-hospital mortality (1% v 0%), stent thrombosis (0% v 0%), and Q wave myocardial infarction (0% v 1%) were similar in dialysis and non-dialysis patients. One year clinical outcome after coronary angioplasty was similar in the two groups in terms of clinical restenosis (31% v 28%) and myocardial infarction (6% v 2%), but cardiac death was more common in dialysed patients (11% v 2%, p < 0.03). Dialysis does not increase the risk of clinical restenosis after coronary angioplasty with provisional stenting. Coronary angioplasty is a safe and effective therapeutic procedure in selected dialysis patients with culprit lesions accessible to stenting. However, the one year survival is reduced in this high risk population."}
{"id": "11287755", "title": "Ventricular arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death in end-stage renal disease patients on chronic hemodialysis.", "content": "Ventricular arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death in end-stage renal disease patients on chronic hemodialysis."}
{"id": "11274940", "title": "Effectiveness of and adverse events after percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with mild versus severe renal failure.", "content": "Effectiveness of and adverse events after percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with mild versus severe renal failure. Patients with renal failure undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) experience reduced procedural success rates and increased in-hospital and long-term follow-up major adverse cardiac events. This study was designed to determine whether the severity of preprocedural renal failure influences the outcomes of patients with renal failure undergoing PCI. We compared the immediate and long-term outcomes of 192 patients with mild renal failure (creatinine 1.6 to 2.0 mg/dl, mean 1.76) with those of 131 patients with severe renal failure (creatinine >2.0 mg/dl, mean 2.90), selected from 3,334 consecutive patients undergoing PCI between 1994 and 1997. Although the overall population with renal failure represents a high-risk group, the severe renal failure cohort had a higher incidence of hypertension, multivessel disease, prior coronary bypass surgery, vascular disease, and congestive heart failure (all p values <0.05), yet had similar angiographic characteristics. Procedural success was higher in the group with severe renal failure (93.7% vs 87.7%, p = 0.04). There were no statistically significant differences in in-hospital mortality (11.5% vs 9.9%, p = 0.7), Q-wave myocardial infarction (0.5% vs 0%, p = 0.4), emergent bypass surgery (0% vs 0%, p = 1.0), and in-hospital major adverse cardiac events (11.5% vs 9.9%, p = 0.7) between the mild and severe renal groups, respectively. Kaplan-Meier analyses showed no statistically significant difference in long-term survival (log rank test, p = 0.1) or event-free survival (log rank test, p = 0.3) between the 2 groups. Finally, creatinine was not identified as an independent predictor of in-hospital or long-term follow-up major adverse cardiac events. In our high-risk population, patients with mild renal insufficiency undergoing PCI experience major adverse outcomes in the hospital and at long-term follow-up similar to those of patients with severe renal failure."}
{"id": "11274279", "title": "C-reactive protein and chronic Chlamydia pneumoniae infection--long-term predictors for cardiovascular disease and survival in patients on peritoneal dialysis.", "content": "C-reactive protein and chronic Chlamydia pneumoniae infection--long-term predictors for cardiovascular disease and survival in patients on peritoneal dialysis. Accelerated arteriosclerosis with cardiovascular disease is the main cause of death in end-stage renal disease patients. Increased, levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) and evidence of chronic Chlamydia pneumoniae infection have been identified as risk factors for cardiovascular disease in the general population. We tested the hypothesis that elevation of CRP, indicating chronic inflammation, and positive serum antibody titres for C. pneumoniae are associated with an increased cardiovascular mortality in patients on chronic peritoneal dialysis. We measured CRP and antibodies to C. pneumoniae in 34 patients on peritoneal dialysis. CRP was measured by a sensitive ELISA and C. pneumoniae antibodies by microimmunofluorescence. In addition, risk factors such as lipids, smoking status and hypertension were assessed. Coronary artery disease (CAD) was defined by cardiac stress testing and/or angiography. Patients showing clinical evidence of systemic or peritoneal dialysis-associated infection during the investigation period of 6 months (between 1990 and 1991) were excluded. The incidence of CAD was significantly increased in patients with CRP values >1.5 mg/l (odds ratio 7.0, P<0.022) during 72 months of follow-up. In addition, in patients seropositive for IgA C. pneumoniae antibodies, the incidence of CAD was significantly increased (odds ratio 7.2, P<0.014). These findings resulted in an increased risk of death in patients with mean CRP values >1.5 mg/l at the start of the study (odds ratio 20.0, P<0.001). Furthermore, in patients seropositive for IgA C. pneumoniae antibodies, the risk of death (odds ratio 10.2, P<0.005) was significantly increased. There was a highly significant correlation between CRP and seropositivity for IgA C. pneumoniae antibodies (r=0.445, P<0.01). Increased circulating CRP and seropositivity for C. pneumoniae in patients on chronic peritoneal dialysis are associated with reduced survival due to cardiovascular complications. CRP and C. pneumoniae antibodies may indicate a chronic inflammatory process as an underlying cause and/or result of arteriosclerosis."}
{"id": "11269673", "title": "Coronary artery disease as a definitive risk factor of short-term outcome after starting hemodialysis in diabetic renal failure patients.", "content": "Coronary artery disease as a definitive risk factor of short-term outcome after starting hemodialysis in diabetic renal failure patients. Cardiovascular disease is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with diabetes who are receiving dialysis. It is known that cardiac mortality is high in the first year of hemodialysis (HD). The purpose of this study was to clarify the prevalence of coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients with diabetes at the initiation of HD, and to investigate the relationship between short-term outcomes after starting hemodialysis and CAD. We performed coronary angiography (CAG), whether or not patient had angina, within one month of initiation of maintenance HD in 17 of 34 consecutive unselected diabetic patients. We studied the two-year survival rate of those with CAD. Eleven patients (65%) were classified CAD-positive. Nine (82%) of these 11 had multivessel disease. Clinical and hematologic factors did not differ significantly between the groups with and without CAD. During the two-year follow-up period, 28 (82%) of 34 patients survived. In patients with CAD the two-year survival rate was 60%. None of the patients without CAD died within 2 years after starting HD. These results suggest that the presence of CAD at the initiation of HD may play a critical role in short-term outcomes after starting HD. We believe that an evaluation of CAD should be performed at the initiation of HD."}
{"id": "11251260", "title": "Outcome of non-elective coronary artery bypass grafting without cardio-pulmonary bypass.", "content": "Outcome of non-elective coronary artery bypass grafting without cardio-pulmonary bypass. There is limited experience in the use of beating heart coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in emergency and urgent cases. The aim of this study was to retrospectively assess the safety and efficacy of this technique when used in a non-elective setting. We retrospectively reviewed all urgent and emergency cases of coronary artery bypass grafting performed without cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) from July 1999 to February 2000. There were 35 patients in total. The mean age was 64.8+/-11.9. Twenty-six (74.3%) patients had Canadian Cardiovascular Society grade 4 angina. Twenty-six patients (74.3%) had triple vessel disease. Eleven patients (31.4%) were on preoperative IV nitrates and nine patients (25.7%) had a preoperative IABP (intra aortic balloon pump). Three patients (8.6%) had suffered a preoperative cardiac arrest during coronary angiography. Other associated significant risk factors were smoking (60%), hypertension (40%), hypercholesterolemia (57.1%) and previous Q wave myocardial infarction (31.4%). Twenty-two patients (62.9%) were classified as being urgent and 13 patients (37.1%) were classified as emergencies. The mean number of anastomoses performed were 2.8+/-0.8 (range 1-4) with 68.6% of patients under going triple or quadruple vessel grafting. All patients (100%) received at least one arterial graft. There was no conversion to cardiopulmonary bypass. The main postoperative complications were--supraventricular arrhythmias eight (22.9%), low cardiac output seven (20%) and postoperative HF/dialysis two (5.7%). The median postoperative intensive care unit (ICU) stay was 27.5 h. The mean postoperative hospital stay was 8.3+/-3.1 days. One patient died (2.9%) at the eighth day after surgery due to postoperative myocardial infarction, multi-organ failure secondary to the septicaemia and ventricular arrest. Non-elective CABG without CPB is feasible and safe with modern cardiac stabilization devices."}
{"id": "11231428", "title": "Prognostic implications of left ventricular hypertrophy.", "content": "Prognostic implications of left ventricular hypertrophy. To date there has been no comprehensive review of the association between left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) at baseline and subsequent adverse clinical events. A total of 20 studies (with 48,545 participants) published between January 1960 and January 2000, identified through MEDLINE and other sources, related baseline electrocardiographic (ECG) or echocardiographic data on LVH to subsequent cardiovascular morbidity and all-cause mortality. The prevalence of baseline LVH was higher in echocardiographic studies than in ECG studies (16%-74% vs 1%-44%, respectively). The adjusted risk of future cardiovascular morbidity associated with baseline LVH ranged from 1.5 to 3.5, with a weighted mean risk ratio of 2.3 for all studies combined. The adjusted risk of all-cause mortality associated with baseline LVH ranged from 1.5 to 8.0, with a weighted mean risk ratio of 2.5 for all studies combined. There was a trend toward a worse prognosis among women with baseline LVH compared with men. These findings persisted in the various population and ethnic groups studied. With the exception of one study in dialysis patients, LVH consistently predicted high risk, independently of examined covariates, with no clear difference in relation to race, presence or absence of hypertension or coronary disease, or between clinical and epidemiologic samples. These results clarify the strong relation between LVH and adverse outcome and emphasize the clinical importance of its detection."}
{"id": "11226084", "title": "Predicting the risk of death from heart failure after coronary artery bypass graft surgery.", "content": "Predicting the risk of death from heart failure after coronary artery bypass graft surgery. Heart failure is the most common cause of death among coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) patients. In addition, most variation in observed mortality rates for CABG surgery is explained by fatal heart failure. The purpose of this study was to develop a clinical risk assessment tool so that clinicians can rapidly and easily assess the risk of fatal heart failure while caring for individual patients. Using prospective data for 8,641 CABG patients, we used logistic regression analysis to predict the risk of fatal heart failure. In multivariate analysis, female sex, prior CABG surgery, ejection fraction <40%, urgent or emergency surgery, advanced age (70-79 yr and >80 yr), peripheral vascular disease, diabetes, dialysis-dependent renal failure and three-vessel coronary disease were significant predictors of fatal postoperative heart failure. A clinical risk assessment tool was developed from this logistic regression model, which had good discriminating characteristics (receiver operating characteristic clinical source = 0.75, 95% confidence interval: 0.71, 0.78). In contrast to previous cardiac surgical scoring systems that predicted total mortality, we developed a clinical risk assessment tool that evaluates risk of fatal heart failure. This distinction is relevant for quality improvement initiatives, because most of the variation in CABG mortality rates is explained by postoperative heart failure."}
{"id": "11216736", "title": "The impact of chronic renal failure on atherosclerosis of the internal thoracic arteries.", "content": "The impact of chronic renal failure on atherosclerosis of the internal thoracic arteries. Little is known about the impact of renal failure on atherosclerotic changes in the internal thoracic artery (ITA). A total of 20 consecutive patients on chronic dialysis who underwent coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) during April 1998 through September 1999 were investigated. The 20 control patients were selected from the same interval to rigorously match risk factors. Atherosclerosis of the ITA collected from each patient was analyzed using the subjective evaluation proposed by Kay and colleagues. There were no cases of greater than 25% atherosclerotic luminal narrowing among a total of 35 ITA specimens from dialysis patients. The degree of atherosclerosis was not significantly different from that of the specimens from matched patients (p = 0.18). No calcification was found in ITA grafts either microscopically or macroscopically. The number of elastic lamellae, an index of the elasticity of the ITA graft, was not significantly different from those obtained from the matched patients. Analysis of preoperative coronary angiography revealed that coronary calcification was significantly more frequent in dialysis patients (15 patients, 75%) than in matched patients (p < 0.05). By analysis of postoperative angiography in dialysis patients, no evidence of atherosclerotic changes was found in 28 opacified ITAs. In addition, despite the presence of calcification in the native coronary, no calcification was evident along the entire length of the ITAs. This study revealed the minimal impact of chronic renal failure on atherosclerotic changes in the ITA. The results of this study support the continued use of ITA grafting in dialysis patients."}
{"id": "11172558", "title": "Risk and benefit of coronary revascularization in renal transplant candidates.", "content": "Risk and benefit of coronary revascularization in renal transplant candidates. The field of transplantation along with all of medicine has made tremendous progress in the past 30 years. Patients with end-stage renal disease are managed more effectively despite increasing chronic multisystemic comorbidities, particularly involving their cardiovascular system. These same patients are also undergoing renal transplant surgery with better short- and long-term results than any era previous. We will present some of the changing demographics encountered in today's renal transplant candidates along with the processes our institution is undertaking to optimize the patient's success with the renal allograft, particularly with respect to the diagnosis and therapeutics used to manage coronary artery disease."}
{"id": "11172556", "title": "Medical and revascularization management in acute coronary syndrome in renal patients.", "content": "Medical and revascularization management in acute coronary syndrome in renal patients. Despite the high incidence of coronary artery disease in patients with renal impairment, its diagnosis and management remains difficult. The treatment of acute coronary syndrome in this particular group of patients is more complex than in patients with normal renal function. They have a high prevalence of asymptomatic cardiac ischemia. Abnormal baseline electrocardiogram (ECG) findings and nonspecific elevation of cardiac enzymes may be present. Studies are lacking regarding their management mainly because they have been excluded or were not studied as a subgroup in the clinical trials. Thrombolytics are underused during acute myocardial infarction. Heparin, mainly low-molecular weight heparin, for unstable angina and non-Q wave myocardial infarction, should be used with caution because the higher risk for bleeding. Other medications, such as aspirin, metoprolol, and nitroglycerin should be used as in the general population. The newer platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors may need renal dose adjustment. Revascularization should be pursued if necessary by percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass grafting. However, the prognosis and risk of revascularization versus medical therapy have not been determined yet."}
{"id": "11172555", "title": "Diagnostic tools and management strategies for coronary artery disease in patients with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Diagnostic tools and management strategies for coronary artery disease in patients with end-stage renal disease. Patients with renal disease often have coexistent coronary artery disease (CAD). The 5-year survival rates are < 50% and cardiovascular disease accounts for nearly half of the deaths in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on maintenance dialysis. Renal disease is often caused by hypertension or diabetes mellitus, both very strong risk factors for the development of CAD. Other patients develop hypertension after the onset of their renal disease. These coexistent diseases partially contribute to the increased incidence of CAD in the renal patient. Managing physicians must maintain a high index of suspicion and interpret the results of diagnostic studies with this high pretest probability in mind. Consideration should be given for screening for the presence of ischemic heart disease in patients with ESRD and no symptoms, especially if being considered as renal transplant recipients. It remains most important to adequately treat the associated risk factors and specifically, aggressively control the blood pressure. This report discusses the known and suspected reasons for the highly associated coexistent CAD, methods for diagnosing and risk-stratifying CAD, and renal-specific guidelines for appropriate treatment."}
{"id": "11158864", "title": "Imaging of cardiovascular calcifications with electron beam tomography in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Imaging of cardiovascular calcifications with electron beam tomography in hemodialysis patients. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in Western countries and it is especially frequent in dialysis patients. Although for a long time physicians have been mainly focused on the severity of luminal coronary stenosis, atherosclerosis starts and expands in the thickness of the arterial wall much before it extends into the vessel lumen. Indeed, most acute coronary events occur in patients with non-obstructive luminal disease. On pathologic examination, patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) show larger and more extensively calcified atherosclerotic lesions than non-dialysis patients. Recent evidence shows that even very young dialysis patients show premature calcification of the coronary arteries. Therefore, early detection of atherosclerotic disease with a non-invasive imaging technology, such as electron beam tomography (EBT), may provide an opportunity to modify the disease course and reduce the related event rate."}
{"id": "11146683", "title": "Clinical outcomes of PTCA in chronic renal failure: a case-control study for comorbid features and evaluation of dialysis dependence.", "content": "Clinical outcomes of PTCA in chronic renal failure: a case-control study for comorbid features and evaluation of dialysis dependence. We compared clinical outcomes following percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) for 77 chronic renal failure (CRF) (dialysis and nondialysis) patients and a control group matched for history of myocardial revascularization, specific revascularization procedure, gender, age, diabetes, number of native vessels diseased, number of vessels dilated, and the specific vessel(s) dilated. CRF patients had a higher incidence of peripheral vascular disease, hypertension, and more complex PTCA target lesion types than controls: 5% vs. 16% Type A, 12% vs. 28% Type B1, 44% vs. 41% Type B2, 39% vs. 15% Type C (p < 0.001). The primary success rate for PTCA in CRF patients and controls was 89% and 97% (p < 0.05). Survival analysis 24 months following PTCA showed a lower composite cardiac event-free survival (angiographic restenosis, myocardial infarction, coronary artery bypass surgery, and cardiac death) for those with CRF than controls, 54% vs. 69% (p = 0.002). Over the study period, 26 CRF patients died (11 from cardiac causes) compared to only 3 control patients (one from a cardiac cause); p < 0.001 for all cause and p < 0.003 for cardiac mortality. We also compared PTCA results between two categories of CRF patients. The first consisted of 49 end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients on dialysis and the second included 28 patients not on dialysis (13 with creatinine > 2. 0 mg/dL and 15 with ESRD post-renal transplant). Both subgroups had similar coronary anatomy, including PTCA, target lesion type, and acute and long-term outcomes. In conclusion, we observed acceptable primary success and complication rates for PTCA in CRF patients compared with controls matched for comorbid features despite more complex target lesion morphology. Poorer long-term outcomes, however, were apparent for those with CRF regardless of dialysis dependence and likely relate to more extensive atherosclerosis and complex target coronary lesions at index PTCA as well as other features related to CRF."}
{"id": "11136168", "title": "Informational contribution of noninvasive screening tests for coronary artery disease in patients on chronic renal replacement therapy.", "content": "Informational contribution of noninvasive screening tests for coronary artery disease in patients on chronic renal replacement therapy. The prevalence of coronary artery disease (CAD) is high in patients on renal replacement therapy; therefore, reliable noninvasive screening tests are needed. We retrospectively determined the sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative likelihood ratios (LRs) for a history of chest pain, resting and exercise electrocardiography (ECG), thallium dipyridamole scintigraphy, and echocardiography in 42 patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis and 42 patients after renal transplantation who also underwent coronary angiography. In addition, the prognostic power of each test for the occurrence of a cardiovascular event after angiography (therapeutic intervention, myocardial infarction, or cardiovascular death) was evaluated during a follow-up of 37 months. Forty-three patients had significant CAD on angiography. Angina pectoris had a sensitivity of 65% and specificity of 66%, corresponding to a positive LR of 1.9 and a negative LR of 0.5. A variable number of patients underwent noninvasive tests before angiography. Results were similar in patients undergoing hemodialysis and after renal transplantation and in patients with or without angina pectoris. Exercise ECG could not be performed in the majority of patients, and resting ECG (sensitivity, 67%; specificity, 52%; corresponding to a positive LR of 1.4 and negative LR of 0.6) and scintigraphy (sensitivity, 80%; specificity, 37%; positive LR, 1.3; negative LR, 0.5) in patients on renal replacement therapy were not useful for the diagnosis of CAD. Angina also markedly increased the relative odds for the occurrence of a cardiovascular event during follow-up (relative odds, 4.6) compared with other noninvasive tests. Angina pectoris had the best informational and prognostic value of noninvasive screening methods, but angiography seems to be the only method to clearly document CAD in patients on renal replacement therapy."}
{"id": "11232976", "title": "Endovascular repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm in a renal transplant patient.", "content": "Endovascular repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm in a renal transplant patient. A 65-year-old man presented with an asymptomatic infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm of 6 cm in transverse diameter. Five years before he received a cadaveric renal transplant. The patient also had the following risk factors and associated diseases: arterial hypertension, coronary artery disease, previous myocardial infarction, coronary angioplasty and stent, ileal resection secondary to Chron disease, hepatopathy, hyperlipidemia and hepato-renal cystic disease. The ASA classification was III, IV. Considering previous abdominal operations and risk factors, we decided to repair the aneurysm with a minimal aggression. The aneurysm was successfully approached by an endovascular route implanting a 22x10 bifurcated aorto-iliac endovascular prosthesis. The patient died 13 months later after being diagnosed of enterocolitis by cytomegalovirus complicated with sepsis and lung infection. We consider this less invasive modality of treatment a valid and useful alternative in this high-risk group of patients."}
{"id": "11178293", "title": "Clinical outcome of patients with and without renal impairment undergoing a minimally invasive LIMA-to-LAD bypass operation.", "content": "Clinical outcome of patients with and without renal impairment undergoing a minimally invasive LIMA-to-LAD bypass operation. Patients with renal impairment undergoing conventional coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) have a significant risk of postoperative deterioration of kidney function. We investigated the outcome of patients with and without renal impairment treated by off-pump coronary artery surgery. From January 1997 until January 2000, 158 consecutive patients (mean age 63 +/- 9.8 years, 126 male, 32 female) underwent minimally LIMA-to-LAD bypass operations. The patients were divided into three groups: group I patients (n = 133) had a preoperative creatinine of < 1.3 mg/dL, group II patients (n = 21) had a creatinine of > 1.3 mg/dL, and patients of group III (n = 4) required chronic dialysis due to terminal kidney dysfunction. Monitoring of the blood creatinine was performed during the entire hospital stay. A postoperative angiogram was performed in 113 of the 158 patients. All operations were performed without intraoperative complications. Postoperative angiograms revealed a patent LIMA-to-LAD bypass in all but one patient, who demonstrated a dissection of the left internal mammary artery (LIMA) graft. Mean creatinine value on admission was 1.0 +/- 0.1 mg/dL in group I and 2.7 +/- 1.9 mg/dL in group II. The maximal postoperative creatinine value was 1.1 +/- 0.4 mg/dL in group I and 2.9 +/- 2.7 mg/dL in group II. Neither hemofiltration nor hemodialysis was necessary in any patient of group I or group II during the postoperative course. Minimally invasive LIMA-to-LAD bypass is a safe and effective procedure with low morbidity and no mortality in the first 158 patients. Preoperative renal impairment had no adverse effect on outcome or residual kidney function. Thus, higher doses of diuretics and hemofiltration/dialysis were not used, resulting in a cost reduction. Therefore, this approach may be worthwhile to consider in patients with significant renal impairment who have to undergo CABG."}
{"id": "11127308", "title": "Effect of homocysteine on carotid intima-media thickness after renal transplantation.", "content": "Effect of homocysteine on carotid intima-media thickness after renal transplantation. The common carotid intima-media thickness (CC IMT) is a strong predictor for cardiovascular disease in patients with end-stage renal failure. However, little is known about possible associations between potential cardiovascular risk factors such as serum total homocysteine concentrations (tHcy) and the CC IMT. Thus, we investigated (a) the course of tHcy levels after renal transplantation (RTX) and (b) the relationship between CC IMT and tHcy in 53 renal allograft recipients with chronic renal failure before transplantation and 3, 6, and 12 months after transplantation. Exclusion criteria were volume overload, symptomatic coronary artery disease, symptomatic cerebrovascular disease, peripheral artery disease, heart failure, valvular heart disease, diabetes mellitus, severe hypercholesterolemia, and blood pressure above 159/89 mmHg at the time of the investigation. In all renal allograft recipients, a carotid high-resolution B-mode ultrasound measurement of the CC IMT was performed. Eighteen patients had normal ( < 20 micromol/L) pre-transplant (U0) tHcy, 25 had moderately elevated (20-40 micromol/L) pre-transplant (U0) tHcy, and 10 had severely elevated (> 40 micromol/L) pre-transplant (U0) tHcy. After 12 months of follow-up time (U12), no statistically significant differences concerning the tHcy levels could be detected between the groups (average serum tHcy 16.4 micromol/L +/- 1.1 micromol/L). The CC IMT did not differ significantly between the three tHcy groups at any time within the present follow-up. This was also true for the 'wall-to-lumen ratio'. A multiple forward stepwise regression analysis showed that the reduction of the CC IMT was positively correlated with gender (p < 0.01), glucose levels at U12 (p < 0.05; r2 = 0.96), systolic arterial blood pressure at U12 (p < 0.05; r2 = 0.97), and with the intact parathyroid hormone levels at U0 (p < 0.01; r2 = 0.98). In conclusion, (a) tHcy decreases significantly after RTX, but (b) does not influence the CC IMT thickness independently."}
{"id": "11113047", "title": "Are patients with renal failure good candidates for percutaneous coronary revascularization in the new device era?", "content": "Are patients with renal failure good candidates for percutaneous coronary revascularization in the new device era? Patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing conventional balloon angioplasty have reduced procedural success and increased complication rates. This study was designed to determine the immediate and long-term outcomes of patients with varying degrees of renal failure undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention in the current device era. We compared the immediate and long-term outcomes of 362 renal failure patients (creatinine >1.5 mg/dL) with those of 2972 patients with normal renal function who underwent percutaneous coronary intervention between 1994 and 1997. Patients with renal failure were older and had more associated comorbidities. They had reduced procedural success (89.5% versus 92.9%, P:=0.007) and greater in-hospital combined major event (death, Q-wave myocardial infarction, emergent CABG; 10.8% versus 1.8%; P:<0.0001) rates. Renal failure was an independent predictor of major adverse cardiac events (MACEs) (OR, 3.41; 95% CI, 1.84 to 6.22; P:<0.00001). Logistic regression analysis identified shock, peripheral vascular disease, balloon angioplasty strategy, and unstable angina as independent predictors of in-hospital MACEs in the renal group. Compared with 362 age- and sex-matched patients selected from the control group, patients with renal failure had a lower survival rate (27.7% versus 6.1%, P:<0.0001) and a greater MACE rate (51% versus 33%, P:<0.001) at long-term follow-up. Cox regression analysis identified age and PTCA strategy as independent predictors of long-term MACEs in the renal group. Finally, within the renal failure population, the dialysis and nondialysis patients experienced remarkably similar immediate and long-term outcomes. Although patients with renal failure can be treated with a high procedural success rate in the new device era, they have an increased rate of major events both in hospital and at long-term follow-up. Nevertheless, utilization of stenting and debulking techniques improves immediate and long-term outcomes."}
{"id": "11111956", "title": "Preoperative dobutamine stress echocardiography versus cardiac arteriography for risk assessment prior to renal transplantation.", "content": "Preoperative dobutamine stress echocardiography versus cardiac arteriography for risk assessment prior to renal transplantation. Because coronary artery disease is the leading cause of death in patients with end-stage renal disease, we prospectively studied the prognostic value of dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) compared to coronary angiography (CA) as an evaluative tool. Thirty-three patients at high risk for coronary artery disease were selected from a cohort of 133 renal transplant candidates and underwent both DSE and CA. In this study, the value of DSE was found to exist in its strong negative predictive value (92%). A negative DSE coupled with a negative clinical cardiac evaluation was found to practicably exclude the necessity for CA. DSE can thus serve as a non-invasive, low cost screening test."}
{"id": "11107078", "title": "Pedal branch artery bypass: a viable limb salvage option.", "content": "Pedal branch artery bypass: a viable limb salvage option. We reviewed our experience with pedal branch artery (PBA) bypass to confirm the role of these target arteries for limb salvage and to identify patient and technical factors that may be associated with graft patency and limb salvage. In this retrospective study we analyzed 24 vein grafts to PBAs performed from 1988 to 1998 for limb salvage in 23 patients who had no suitable tibial, peroneal, or dorsal pedal target arteries. These PBA grafts were compared with 133 perimalleolar posterior tibial, defined at or below the ankle, or dorsalis pedis bypass grafts performed contemporaneously; the Kaplan-Meier life table was used in the analysis of graft patency and limb salvage. Life table analyses and logistic regression analysis of prognostic patient variables were also performed. The PBA bypass represented 3% of infrainguinal revascularizations for chronic critical limb ischemia at our institution over the study period. Patients who received PBA bypasses were more likely to be male (92% vs. 69%, P =.02) with lower incidences of overt coronary artery disease (33% vs. 50%, P =.12) and stroke (0% vs 15%, P =.04), and a higher incidence of end-stage renal disease (21% vs 8%, P =.06) than those undergoing perimalleolar bypass. Seventeen percent of PBA bypasses were performed with the anterior lateral malleolar artery, a vessel not previously described as a common bypass target. Two-year primary patency and limb salvage for PBA versus perimalleolar bypass was 70% versus 80% (P =.16) and 78% versus 91% (P = .28), respectively. Patency and limb salvage rates were no different in bypasses with above-knee or below-knee inflow arteries. An autogenous vein bypass to the PBA, though rarely required, provides acceptable primary patency and limb salvage when compared with perimalleolar tibial artery bypass when no suitable, more proximal target arteries are available. The PBA bypass should be considered before major amputation is undertaken."}
{"id": "11083330", "title": "Disease severity and health-related quality of life across different chronic conditions.", "content": "Disease severity and health-related quality of life across different chronic conditions. Measurements of health-related quality of life (HRQL) are an essential component in overall assessment of health status, particularly in older patients. Nevertheless, how measures of HRQL relate to measures of disease severity is largely unexplored. This study was carried out to explore the relationship between a measure of HRQL and measures of severity of ischemic stroke, Parkinson's diseases (PD), or chronic coronary heart disease (CHD). Cross-sectional analysis of three groups (54 subjects each) of patients aged > or = 65 years consecutively referred to outpatient clinics for stroke, PD, or CHD, excluding those with cognitive impairment and severe comorbidity. Severity of stroke, PD, and CHD assessed by Fugl-Meyer Scale (FMS), Webster Rating Scale (WBRS), and total work capacity (TWC, from graded exercise test), respectively. HRQL was determined by the Sickness Impact Profile (SIP). In PD, WBRS correlated linearly with SIP global score, whereas a significant linear relationship between measures of disease severity and SIP score was limited to the least severely diseased stroke (FMS score>160) and the most severely diseased CHD (TWC <700 Kg x m) patients. In some disease, the relationship between clinical measures of disease severity and HRQL is nonlinear. Thus, depending on initial severity, similar changes in disease severity may have different impacts on HRQL. These findings may help in identifying patients most likely to improve their SIP score substantially, after even small changes in disease severity. However, studies examining the metric properties of SIP across the whole score range are needed to verify whether such improvement really translates into a better HRQL."}
{"id": "11079656", "title": "The prognostic implications of further renal function deterioration within 48 h of interventional coronary procedures in patients with pre-existent chronic renal insufficiency.", "content": "The prognostic implications of further renal function deterioration within 48 h of interventional coronary procedures in patients with pre-existent chronic renal insufficiency. Acute deterioration in renal function is a recognized complication after coronary angiography and intervention. The goal of this study was to determine the impact on acute and long-term mortality and morbidity of contrast-induced deterioration in renal function after coronary intervention. We studied 439 consecutive patients who had a baseline serum creatinine > or = 1.8 mg/dL (159.1 /micromol/L) who were not on dialysis who underwent percutaneous coronary intervention in a tertiary referral center. All patients were hydrated before the procedure, and almost all received ioxaglate meglumine; 161 (37%) patients had an increase in serum creatinine > or = 25% within 48 h or required dialysis and 278 (63%) did not. In-hospital and out-of-hospital clinical events (death, myocardial infarction, repeat revascularization) were assessed by source documentation. Independent predictors of renal function deterioration were left ventricular ejection fraction (p = 0.02) and contrast volume (p = 0.01). In-hospital mortality was 14.9% for patients with further renal function deterioration versus 4.9% for patients with no creatinine increase (p = 0.001); other complications were also more frequent. Thirty-one patients required hemodialysis; their in-hospital mortality was 22.6%. Four patients were discharged on chronic dialysis. The cumulative one-year mortality was 45.2% for those who required dialysis, 35.4% for those who did not require dialysis and 19.4% for patients with no creatinine increase (p = 0.001). Independent predictors of one-year mortality were creatinine elevation (p = 0.0001), age (p = 0.03) and vein graft lesion location (p = 0.08). For patients with pre-existing renal insufficiency, renal function deterioration after coronary intervention is a marker for poor outcomes. This is especially true for patients who require dialysis."}
{"id": "11071992", "title": "Coronary artery calcifications in children and young adults treated with renal replacement therapy.", "content": "Coronary artery calcifications in children and young adults treated with renal replacement therapy."}
{"id": "11052267", "title": "Noninvasive assessment of cardiac risk in type I diabetic patients being evaluated for combined pancreas-kidney transplantation using dipyridamole-MIBI perfusion tomographic scintigraphy.", "content": "Noninvasive assessment of cardiac risk in type I diabetic patients being evaluated for combined pancreas-kidney transplantation using dipyridamole-MIBI perfusion tomographic scintigraphy. This study was performed to determine the value of dipyridamole-99m Tc-methoxy-isobutyl isonitrile perfusion (99mTC-MIBI) tomographic scintigraphy in the assessment of cardiac risk in patients being evaluated prior to combined pancreas-kidney transplantation (PKT). We performed perfusion tomographic scintigraphy using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) on 77 patients. The tomographic images did not show clinically relevant findings in 65 patients. In the remaining 12 patients, coronary arteriography was performed: 2 showed normal results, 4 showed no stenosis, and 6 showed significant stenosis ( > or = 70%). Seventy-two patients underwent PKT. During the follow-up (6-48 months), there were seven cardiac events, 4 patients with significant stenosis, and 3 with nonsignificant stenosis upon coronary arteriography, and all had pathological tomographic images. 99mTc-MIBI tomographic scintigraphy may be useful in identifying patients at low risk of incurring cardiac events after PKT and may, in a large group of patients, obviate the need for routine coronary angiography."}
{"id": "11022652", "title": "[Increased incidence of coronary artery disease and cardiac death in elderly diabetic nephropathy patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis therapy].", "content": "[Increased incidence of coronary artery disease and cardiac death in elderly diabetic nephropathy patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis therapy]. The incidence of coronary artery disease and cardiac death was investigated in elderly diabetic patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis therapy. Three hundred thirty-five patients who began hemodialysis therapy since 1992 were followed up by echocardiography and treadmill exercise testing. Coronary angiography was also performed in patients with angina pectoris. Angina pectoris was defined as clinical symptoms > Canadian Cardiovascular Society classification II, and asynergy findings by echocardiography or ST depression > 0.1 mV during the treadmill exercise test. Coronary artery stenosis was defined as narrowing > or = 75%. Patients were divided into 4 groups: diabetic nephropathy (DN) > or = 65 years old (Group O/DN, n = 56), DN < 65 years old (Group Y/DN, n = 84), non-DN > or = 65 years old (Group O/non-DN, n = 76) and non-DN < 65 years old (Group Y/non-DN, n = 119). Between 1992 and 1998, there were 137 patients with angina pectoris (40.9%), 79 with coronary artery stenosis (23.6%) and 37 with cardiac death (11.0%). Cumulative incidences of angina pectoris, coronary artery stenosis and cardiac death were significantly higher in the following order of groups; O/DN > Y/DN > O/non-DN > Y/non-DN. Five-year cumulative incidences of angina pectoris, coronary artery stenosis and cardiac death in Groups O/DN vs Y/non-DN were 72.2% vs 38.6%, 53.7% vs 12.2% and 50.6% vs 3.5%, respectively. Relative risks of aging and diabetic nephropathy for angina pectoris, coronary artery stenosis and cardiac death were 3.8, 7.9 and 22.4, respectively (p < 0.0001). Aging and the presence of diabetes are strong risk factors for coronary artery disease and cardiac death in hemodialysis patients. Therefore, diagnosis and treatment of coronary artery disease should be achieved at the early stage of hemodialysis therapy."}
{"id": "11018687", "title": "Analytical and diagnostic performance of troponin assays in patients suspicious for acute coronary syndromes.", "content": "Analytical and diagnostic performance of troponin assays in patients suspicious for acute coronary syndromes. The controversy whether there is a clinically significant difference between troponin T (cTnT) and troponin I (cTnI) in regard to predictive value and cardiac specificity is still ongoing. We evaluated enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay systems for cTnI and cTnT in patients with acute coronary syndromes and multiple control groups to define threshold values for risk stratification and compare their predictive value. In 312 patients with noncardiac chest pain, cTnI levels were below the detection limit of 0.2 microg/L and cTnT levels were 0.011 [0.010-0. 013] microg/L. In patients with end-stage renal failure (n = 26) and acute (n = 38) or chronic (n = 16) skeletal muscle damage, median concentrations were 0.20 [0.20-0.35], below the detection limit, and 0.20 [0.20-0.25] for cTnI, and 0.04 [0.01-0.10], 0.011 [0.005-0.025], and 0.032 [0.009-0.054] microg/L for cTnT. In patients with acute coronary syndromes (n = 1130), maximized prognostic value for 30-day outcome (death, infarction) was observed at a threshold level of 1.0 microg/L for cTnI (29.0% positive) and at 0.06 microg/L for cTnT (35. 0% positive). Significant differences in the area-under-the-curve values were observed between cTnI and cTnT (0.685 vs. 0.802; p = 0. 005). For both markers, the area-under-the-curve values did not increase with the second (within 24 h after enrollment) or third (48 h) blood draw. CTnI showed a less strong association with 30-day outcome than cTnT. When cTnI was put in a logistic multiple-regression model first, cTnT did add significant information. By using the defined threshold values and the employed test systems, single testing for cTnI and cTnT within 12 h after symptom onset was appropriate for risk stratification. Despite the lower cardiac specificity for cTnT, it appears to have a stronger association with the patients' outcome, whereas, as previously shown, the ability to identify patients who benefit from treatment with a GP IIb/IIIa receptor antagonist is similar."}
{"id": "11009262", "title": "Impact of end-stage renal disease on clinical and angiographic outcomes after coronary stenting.", "content": "Impact of end-stage renal disease on clinical and angiographic outcomes after coronary stenting. Although patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) are at high risk for restenosis that requires repeat revascularization after balloon angioplasty, their restenosis rate after coronary stenting is still unknown. Over a 4-year period, we performed coronary stenting on 40 lesions in 34 patients with ESRD. We compared these lesions with 80 lesions from patients without renal disease who underwent coronary stenting in the STARS and WINS clinical trials, matched for treatment site, diabetes, lesion length, and reference vessel diameter. Quantitative coronary angiography was performed on all lesions and clinical outcomes were assessed at 9-month follow-up. Clinical and angiographic characteristics were well matched between the 2 groups and acute clinical success rates were similar. Despite comparable initial angiographic results over the 9-month follow-up period, repeat target lesion revascularization was twice as frequent in the ESRD group compared with the control group (35% vs 16%, p <0.05). After adjusting for differences in postprocedural minimum lumen diameter and other angiographic and clinical characteristics, ESRD remained the most important predictor of late target lesion revascularization (relative risk = 2.3, p = 0.04). In addition, overall 9-month mortality was higher for ESRD patients than for the control population (18% vs 2%, p <0.01). Thus, despite similar angiographic results, patients with ESRD are at higher risk for target lesion revascularization after coronary stenting than controls. Nonetheless, most patients with ESRD do not develop restenosis after stent placement, suggesting an important role for stenting in the management of this challenging population."}
{"id": "11007854", "title": "Morphology of coronary atherosclerotic lesions in patients with end-stage renal failure.", "content": "Morphology of coronary atherosclerotic lesions in patients with end-stage renal failure."}
{"id": "10977792", "title": "Prediction of coronary artery disease and cardiac events using electrocardiographic changes during hemodialysis.", "content": "Prediction of coronary artery disease and cardiac events using electrocardiographic changes during hemodialysis. Hemodialysis (HD) patients have a high rate of cardiac morbidity and mortality. Both symptomatic and silent ischemic heart disease may occur frequently during HD because HD simultaneously reduces coronary artery oxygen delivery while increasing myocardial oxygen demand. The purpose of the present study is to prospectively evaluate the usefulness of a significant ST depression induced by HD for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease (CAD) and as the predictor of subsequent cardiac events in HD patients. Sixty-one patients undergoing chronic HD (50 men, 11 women; mean age, 61 years) admitted for such cardiac symptoms as chest pain (n = 43), arrhythmia (n = 5), or heart failure (n = 13) were studied; 38 patients had CAD by coronary angiography. Electrocardiograms performed during HD showed an additional depression (>/=1.0 mV) of the ST segment in 18 patients (positive-ST group), but not in 43 patients (negative-ST group). The incidence of CAD was significantly greater in the former (100%) than in the latter group (46%). A prospective follow-up was performed for 21 +/- 2 months, and cardiac events occurred in all positive-ST group patients and in 21 negative-ST group patients. Event-free survival was poorer in the positive-ST group (P < 0.0001). A Cox proportional hazards model identified the significant ST depression as an independent risk factor for cardiac morbidity (P < 0.05), but not for all-cause mortality. ST depression during HD is useful to diagnose CAD in symptomatic patients and is considered an important prognosticator of subsequent cardiac events."}
{"id": "10975031", "title": "[Coronary angioplasty in hemodialysis patients].", "content": "[Coronary angioplasty in hemodialysis patients]. The results of balloon coronary angioplasty are very disappointing in haemodialysis patients because of the high restenosis rate. On the other hand, the use of stents in this population had not previously been assessed. This retrospective study compared 63 coronary patients on haemodialysis with a r\u00e9f\u00e9rence group of 63 paired patients with respect to gender, age, and the necessity or not of stent implantation. There was a higher frequency of hypertension (79 vs 39%) and of hypertriglyceridaema (22 vs 8%) in the haemodialysis group than in the controls. However, there was no significant difference with respect to primary success rate of angioplasty (92 and 89% respectively), nor to the development of early cardiovascular complications (4% and 1.9% respectively). After a two-year follow-up, there was no significant difference in the restenosis rate in the haemodialysis patients (33%) compared with the controls (25%). Nevertheless, the mortality rate at 2 years was higher in the dialysis group (15%) compared with the reference group (3.5%, p = 0.03). However, this mortality rate was lower than that reported in the literature in haemodialysis patients after balloon angioplasty. Therefore, haemodialysis does not increase the risk of restenosis when an optimal angiographic results is obtained either by balloon angioplasty or by angioplasty with stenting. Coronary angioplasty is a safe and effective method of revascularisation in coronary haemodialysis patients when the lesions are accessible to stenting."}
{"id": "10970980", "title": "Detection of cardiac calcinosis in hemodialysis patients by whole-body scintigraphy with 99m-technetium methylene diphosphonate.", "content": "Detection of cardiac calcinosis in hemodialysis patients by whole-body scintigraphy with 99m-technetium methylene diphosphonate. A noninvasive method for the diagnosis of cardiac calcinosis, a life-threatening complication in hemodialysis patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), has not, as yet, been firmly established. We tested whether whole body scanning with 99m-technetium methylene diphosphonate (MDP) might visualize cardiac calcinosis. In 19 consecutive chronic hemodialysis ESRD patients (13 males and 6 females, aged 40-81, mean 63 +/- 8 years) with cardiovascular disease [mitral annular calcinosis and/or calcified aortic valve (n = 4), hemodialysis cardiomyopathy (n = 1), coronary artery disease (n = 9) and peripheral artery atherosclerotic disease (n = 6)], MDP uptake in the heart was compared to that in 7 non-ESRD controls with hyperparathyroidism due to adenoma. Cardiac and lung field MDP uptake was confirmed in only 3 (16%) and 5 (26%) of the 19 ESRD subjects, respectively, but was absent in controls. Positive cardiac uptake was related to cardiac calcified complications (mobile intracardiac calcinosis, myocardial calcinosis and mitral annular calcification) and the duration of hemodialysis (p = 0.015). While it was statistically insignificant, subjects showing MDP uptake were elder and had higher serum Ca or Ca x P product and lower intact parathyroid hormone levels. These results suggest that cardiac calcinosis in ESRD patients can be detected noninvasively by myocardial scintigraphy with 99m-technetium MDP."}
{"id": "10955252", "title": "[Coronary artery bypass grafting without cardiopulmonary bypass in 200 patients].", "content": "[Coronary artery bypass grafting without cardiopulmonary bypass in 200 patients]. To evaluate the efficacy of off pump coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), results in the initial consecutive 200 patients were reviewed. Between October 1996 and December 1999, 200 patients underwent CABG without cardiopulmonary bypass. There were 146 men and 54 women aged from 27 to 89 years (mean 68 years). Single, double, triple and left main disease were noted in 94, 55, 33 and 18 patients, respectively, with a mean ejection fraction of 51%. Preoperative complications were previous stroke in 34 patients, chronic renal failure in 22 patients, previous CABG in 18 patients, and aortoiliac aneurysm or occlusive disease in 14 patients. Fifty-five patients (28%) were 75 years or older. Surgical approach was made through a midsternal incision including lower half small sternotomy in 105 patients, left anterior small thoracotomy in 92 and small epigastric incision (gastroepiploic-right coronary anastomosis) in 3. Mean number of distal anastomoses was 1.3 (range 1-4). Anastomosis was performed in 189 left anterior descending, 13 diagonal, 27 circumflex and 41 right coronary arteries. The conduits were 174 internal thoracic, 10 internal thoracic-inferior epigastric composite, 22 right gastroepiploic and 5 radial arteries, and 50 saphenous vein grafts. Four patients underwent combined off pump CABG and transmyocardial laser revascularization, and 36 patients underwent hybrid (off pump CABG and angioplasty) revascularization. Four patients (2.0%) died in the hospital due to intestinal necrosis in 2 patients, postoperative aortic dissection in one, and multiorgan failure with stroke in one. No serious ventricular tachyarrhythmia or use of intraaortic balloon pump occurred. Perioperative myocardial infarction was noted in one patient. Stroke occurred in 4 patients (2.0%) but 3 patients recovered in a short period. Three-year survival and cardiac event free rate were 90.3% and 81.1% by the Kaplan-Meier method. Postoperative angiographic study showed excellent patent graft in 92% of grafts (192/209), stenosed (> or = 50%) graft in 5% (10/209) and occlusion in 3% (7/209). Off pump CABG can be performed safely and effectively in both high risk and low risk patients with coronary artery disease. Refinement of surgical technique and equipment will make this procedure more useful."}
{"id": "10953259", "title": "The role of C-reactive protein in cardiovascular disease risk.", "content": "The role of C-reactive protein in cardiovascular disease risk. Over the past few years, a flurry of data in the medical literature has strongly implicated C-reactive protein (CRP) as a marker of inflammation in coronary artery disease (CAD). Recognizing the likely integral role that inflammation plays in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis, many hospital laboratories have tests to measure CRP concentration in the clinical setting. However, the clinical use of these tests still need definition. To date, of the plasma-based markers investigated, CRP provides the strongest risk prediction for cardiovascular disease in men and women. Questions remain regarding the degree to which CRP can improve risk stratification beyond that of the traditional risk factors of CAD."}
{"id": "10946031", "title": "Outcome of coronary revascularization in patients on renal dialysis.", "content": "Outcome of coronary revascularization in patients on renal dialysis. Previous retrospective studies showed high periprocedure mortality rate and poor outcome after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) or coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) among renal dialysis patients. The purpose of this study was to compare mortality and clinical event rates in renal dialysis patients after PTCA or CABG. We identified 252 patients from the Emory Cardiovascular Database who were on dialysis and who received PTCA (122 patients) or CABG (130 patients) at Emory University Hospital and Crawford W. Long Hospital between March 1987 and December 1997. Baseline and angiographic characteristics, in-hospital, and 1-year outcome were compared between the 2 groups. Left main disease and 3-vessel coronary artery disease were significantly more common in the CABG group. There was a higher periprocedure and in-hospital mortality in the CABG group (6.9% vs 1.6%, p = 0.04). Patients in the PTCA group underwent repeat revascularization 11 times more frequently within 1 year (22% vs 2%). At 1 year, mortality was 23% in the PTCA group and 27% in the CABG group, with no statistical difference between the 2 groups. This nonrandomized comparison reveals that PTCA and CABG can be performed in selected renal dialysis patients with an acceptable in-hospital major complication rate; however, 1-year mortality remains high in dialysis patients after coronary revascularization. Therefore, attempts at improving outcome in dialysis patients should focus on the prevention and treatment of coronary artery disease before they require coronary revascularization."}
{"id": "10933155", "title": "Increased incidence of cardiac complications in kidney transplant recipients with cytomegalovirus disease.", "content": "Increased incidence of cardiac complications in kidney transplant recipients with cytomegalovirus disease. The transplant literature has not shown cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease to be a significant risk factor for posttransplant cardiac complications. A large number of nontransplant studies have, however, reported an association between coronary heart disease (CHD) and CMV disease. Pathology studies have demonstrated a high incidence of CMV in atheromatous plaques from the coronary circulation. We performed multivariate analysis to determine if posttransplant CMV disease was a significant risk factor for cardiac complications in kidney transplant recipients. We also performed univariate analysis to determine which cardiac complications were more common in the recipients with CMV disease. Between January 1, 1984 and June 30, 1997, 1859 adults underwent kidney transplants at our institution. Of these, 377 developed one of the following cardiac complications posttransplant: myocardial infarction, angina, arrhythmia, congestive heart failure, and angiographic vessel occlusion. By multivariate analysis, significant risk factors for one of the above cardiac complications were recipient age >50 years [odds ratio (OR)=2.5, P=0.0001], diabetes (OR=1.99, P=0.0001), a history of cardiac disease pretransplant (OR= 1.34, P=0.04), and CMV disease (OR=1.5, P=0.01). Univariate analysis demonstrated that recipients with CMV disease had a higher overall incidence of cardiac complications. Arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, and vessel occlusion were more common in those with CMV disease. The incidence of myocardial infarction, angina, and cardiac arrest did not differ between the two groups (recipients with versus without CMV disease). CMV disease is associated with an increased risk of cardiac complications in kidney transplant recipients. In our series, angiographic vessel occlusion was more common in recipients with CMV disease. This interesting finding may support the theory that CMV plays some role in the pathogenesis of CHD."}
{"id": "10926109", "title": "Cardiac complications of end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Cardiac complications of end-stage renal disease. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in patients receiving dialysis. This is attributed in part to the shared risk factors of cardiovascular disease and end-stage renal disease. The risk factors for coronary artery disease include the classic cardiac risk factors of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and smoking. Also in this population, hyperparathyroidism, hypoalbuminemia, hyperhomocysteinemia, elevated levels of apolipoprotein (a), and the type of dialysis membrane may play a role. Management begins with risk factor modification and medical therapy including aspirin, beta blockers, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and lipid-lowering agents. Revascularization is often important, and coronary artery bypass grafting appears to be preferable to percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. This is especially true for those with multivessel disease, impaired left ventricular function, severe symptoms, or ischemia. Congestive heart failure is another common problem in dialysis patients. The management includes correction of underlying abnormalities, optimal dialysis, and medical therapy. Data obtained from the general population indicate obvious benefits from ACE inhibitors and beta blockers, and these agents would be considered the therapies of choice. Erythropoetin is also an essential component of therapy, but the ideal hemoglobin concentration has yet to be determined. Peritoneal dialysis may be helpful in severe cases of heart failure. Pericarditis is seen in less than 10% of dialysis patients and is best diagnosed by clinical examination and echocardiography. Intensive dialysis is often the best initial therapy. Pericardiocentesis is reserved for the setting of pericardial tamponade, but a pericardial window is more definitive."}
{"id": "10898454", "title": "Renal effect of low-dose dopamine in high-risk patients undergoing coronary angiography.", "content": "Renal effect of low-dose dopamine in high-risk patients undergoing coronary angiography."}
{"id": "10870011", "title": "Minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass grafting using the saphenous vein in redo CABG.", "content": "Minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass grafting using the saphenous vein in redo CABG. We describe a patient who underwent minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass (MIDCAB), who had previously undergone coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) through a median sternotomy with a left internal mammary artery (LIMA) graft to the left anterior descending artery (LAD) and a right gastroepiploic artery (GEA) graft to the posterior descending artery. MIDCAB was less invasive and was an effective alternative procedure for the second operation. Because the patient had no LIMA or GEA available for a graft because of prior use, we used a saphenous vein graft (SVG) for bypassing from the left subclavian artery to the coronary artery by MIDCAB via a left minithoracotomy. The left subclavian artery was selected as the proximal anastomotic site because this artery was less diseased and was easier to reach. The SVG-to-coronary artery anastomosis was facilitated by firm adhesion between the epicardium and the pericardium, which reduced the motion of the epicardium itself. These results suggest that the procedure is safe and promising in selected cases of redo CABG."}
{"id": "10843246", "title": "Cardiac arrhythmias and silent myocardial ischemia during hemodialysis.", "content": "Cardiac arrhythmias and silent myocardial ischemia during hemodialysis. Cardiac arrhythmias are noted in a significant proportion of chronic renal failure (CRF) patients on hemodialysis (HD), and may contribute to cardiovascular mortality. A number of factors have been implicated in the genesis of these arrhythmias. The role of silent myocardial ischemia (SMI), however, has not been evaluated systematically. We prospectively studied 38 unselected CRF patients on regular HD by continuous Holter monitoring starting 24 hours before HD, lasting through the dialysis session and continued for 20 hours thereafter. The recordings were analyzed for frequency, timing and severity of supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias and SMI as identified by ST-segment depression. Ventricular arrhythmias during HD were noted in 11 (29%) patients (group I), and were potentially life-threatening (Lown Class III and IVa) in 13%. The remaining 27 patients (group II) had no ventricular arrhythmias during HD. There was no difference in the age, sex ratio, duration of HD, blood pressure, fluctuations in weight, hematocrit, predialysis creatinine, sodium, potassium, calcium or inorganic phosphate levels between patients in the two groups. The number of patients with clinical ischemic heart disease was significantly greater in group I. SMI was noted in 72% and 33% of group I and II patients respectively (p = 0.026). 46% of those with and 25% of those without ST changes during HD developed ventricular arrhythmias during HD. Both SMI and ventricular arrhythmias were noted most frequently during the last hour of dialysis. Hypertension, diabetes mellitus and ischemic heart disease were observed more frequently amongst patients with SMI. Ventricular arrhythmias are detected in a significant proportion of CRF patients on HD. These are probably related to coronary artery disease since silent myocardial ischemia is also noted more frequently during HD in these patients. Further studies incorporating coronary angiography are needed in a larger number of patients to establish a definite causal relationship."}
{"id": "10827380", "title": "Current status of prevention, diagnosis, and management of coronary artery disease in patients with kidney failure.", "content": "Current status of prevention, diagnosis, and management of coronary artery disease in patients with kidney failure. Patients with kidney failure have a heavy burden of coronary artery disease. The results of preventive, diagnostic, and therapeutic measures developed in nonuremic populations cannot automatically be extrapolated to this unique group of patients. Articles were reviewed if they contained English language text or an abstract identified by MEDLINE search from 1980 to 1999, supplemented by manual review of bibliographies of published articles and abstract issues of national cardiology meetings, studies on diagnostic techniques, risk modification measures, pharmacologic agents, and coronary revascularization procedures in patients with uremia. Descriptive and quantitative data as appropriate were extracted. Lipid-lowering agents may be safely administered to uremic patients. Direct evidence of lipid lowering in this population is not available and is not likely to be forthcoming. Erythropoietin therapy is effective in reversing the cardiovascular perturbations of uremic anemia, but an approach of normalizing the hematocrit cannot be recommended. Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors used in acute coronary syndromes require downward dose adjustment or are contraindicated. Thrombolytic agents are underutilized in the management of myocardial infarction. Noninvasive testing is less accurate than in nonuremic populations. Coronary revascularization offers relative clinical advantages over medical therapy similar to non-kidney failure populations, even though the results in uremic patients is significantly less favorable than for nonuremic patients. Stenting is the preferred revascularization approach, and conventional balloon percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty the least favorable. Many but not all of the benefits of therapies developed in nonuremic patients extend to patients with kidney failure. Physicians should be familiar with the advantages and limitations of each of these modalities in this population."}
{"id": "10816185", "title": "Coronary-artery calcification in young adults with end-stage renal disease who are undergoing dialysis.", "content": "Coronary-artery calcification in young adults with end-stage renal disease who are undergoing dialysis. Cardiovascular disease is common in older adults with end-stage renal disease who are undergoing regular dialysis, but little is known about the prevalence and extent of cardiovascular disease in children and young adults with end-stage renal disease. We used electron-beam computed tomography (CT) to screen for coronary-artery calcification in 39 young patients with end-stage renal disease who were undergoing dialysis (mean [+/-SD] age, 19+/-7 years; range, 7 to 30) and 60 normal subjects 20 to 30 years of age. In those with evidence of calcification on CT scanning, we determined its extent. The results were correlated with the patients' clinical characteristics, serum calcium and phosphorus concentrations, and other biochemical variables. None of the 23 patients who were younger than 20 years of age had evidence of coronary-artery calcification, but it was present in 14 of the 16 patients who were 20 to 30 years old. Among those with calcification, the mean calcification score was 1157+/-1996, and the median score was 297. By contrast, only 3 of the 60 normal subjects had calcification. As compared with the patients without coronary-artery calcification, those with calcification were older (26+/-3 vs. 15+/-5 years, P<0.001) and had been undergoing dialysis for a longer period (14+/-5 vs. 4+/-4 years, P< 0.001). The mean serum phosphorus concentration, the mean calcium-phosphorus ion product in serum, and the daily intake of calcium were higher among the patients with coronary-artery calcification. Among 10 patients with calcification who underwent follow-up CT scanning, the calcification score nearly doubled (from 125+/-104 to 249+/-216, P=0.02) over a mean period of 20+/-3 months. Coronary-artery calcification is common and progressive in young adults with end-stage renal disease who are undergoing dialysis."}
{"id": "10808299", "title": "[Is homocysteine a risk factor for coronary heart disease in patients with terminal renal failure?].", "content": "[Is homocysteine a risk factor for coronary heart disease in patients with terminal renal failure?]. Cardiovascular disease is a major cause of mortality in chronic uremic patients. We studied whether homocysteine is an independent cardiovascular risk factor for patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). The study included 163 patients and controls (Group 1: healthy controls, n = 20; Group 2: patients with chronic renal failure, serum creatinine < or = 4 mg/dl, n = 23; Group 3: patients with ESRD, n = 91; Group 4: renal transplant recipients, serum creatinine < or = 2.5 mg/dl, n = 29). We registered patients for the following factors: age, diabetes, smoking, lipids, vitamin B12, folic acid and homocysteine. The coronary heart disease was diagnosed by coronary angiography. The cardiovascular risk profile (hypertension, diabetes, smoking, hyperlipidemia) among uremic patients was significantly increased compared to the healthy controls. There was a significant correlation between the impairment of renal function and the increase of the homocysteine concentration (Group 1: 12 +/- 4.3 mumol/l vs Group 3: 27.8 +/- 15.8 mumol/l; p < 0.001). There was no significant difference of homocysteine between the patients with coronary heart disease and those without (29.9 +/- 18.1 mumol/l vs 26.6 +/- 14.4 mumol/l, not significant). In this study a significant correlation between the number of cardiovascular risk factors and the incidence of cardiovascular disease was proven. Although homocysteine was increased among patients with impaired renal function, hyperhomocysteinemia could not be identified as a significant risk factor for coronary heart disease in patients with ESRD. It is assumable that the pathogenesis of coronary heart disease in patients with ESRD is of multifactorial origin."}
{"id": "10808292", "title": "[Mistaken grafting to diagonal branch in minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass: a case required reoperation].", "content": "[Mistaken grafting to diagonal branch in minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass: a case required reoperation]. The patient was a 75 year-old male who was admitted with recurrent chest pain during hemodialysis one year after PTCA to the right coronary artery and left circumflex branch (LCX). He had the history of cerebral infarction and chronic renal insufficiency. Coronary angiography showed severe stenosis from the left main trunk to left anterior descending artery (LAD) and restenosis at the PTCA site of LCX. The LCX lesion was dilated with PTCA. Minimally invasive coronary artery bypass (MIDCAB) with left internal thoracic artery (LITA) to LAD was carried out uneventfully. However, chest pain appeared on 1 POD. LITA angiography revealed that LITA was anastomosed to the diagonal branch that had occluded completely in the preoperative angiography. Off-pump CAB to LAD using inferior epigastric artery was carried out through median sternotmy on the same day. He recovered smoothly, and LITA angiography before discharge demonstrated that both grafts to LAD and diagonal branch are patent."}
{"id": "10803449", "title": "Ethnicity does not affect outcomes of coronary angioplasty.", "content": "Ethnicity does not affect outcomes of coronary angioplasty. Access to high quality medical care and especially to complex procedures may be adversely affected in members of a minority ethnic group or a lower socioeconomic class. For example, Caucasians undergo coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) or percutaneous transluminal coronary interventions (PTCI) twice as frequently as African-Americans. Data exist to suggest that African-Americans derive less benefit than Caucasians from CABG. We investigated the possibility that outcomes of catheter-based coronary angioplasty might also be less favorable in minority populations. We analyzed in-hospital outcomes in 6,559 consecutive patients who underwent PTCI in our laboratory. In 37 ethnicity was classified as \"other,\" 5,203 (79.8%) were identified as Caucasians, 863 (13.2%), as African-Americans, and 456 (7.0%), as Hispanics. Twelve baseline clinical, angiographic, and procedural characteristics were entered into a computerized data base. Hospital complications were identified by trained quality assurance nurses. Substantial differences in baseline characteristics existed between the populations. Despite these differences, on univariate comparison of ethnicity and outcome, no differences between ethnic groups were found with a single exception. Mortality in Hispanics was higher than in the other two populations. (2.0 vs. 0.7 and 0.8%, respectively, p = 0.008). However, when this was adjusted for baseline characteristics, the difference was not significant. In contrast to previous studies suggesting less favorable outcomes of CABG in African-American patients, this analysis demonstrates an equal frequency of procedural success and rate of hospital complications for PTCI in that population, in Hispanics, and in Caucasians."}
{"id": "10773561", "title": "Coronary surgery in Europe: comparison of the national subsets of the European system for cardiac operative risk evaluation database.", "content": "Coronary surgery in Europe: comparison of the national subsets of the European system for cardiac operative risk evaluation database. To compare the national samples of patients who underwent isolated coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) during the European System for Cardiac Operative Risk Evaluation (EuroSCORE) trial in order to evaluate national differences in epidemiology, patient risk profile and surgical methods. From September to November 1995, 11731 patients had CABG in the six largest contributing nations to the EuroSCORE project: Germany, UK, Spain, Finland, France and Italy. The Chi-square and Kruskal-Wallis tests were applied to obtain an international comparison of patient general status, including pre-operative risk factors, cardiac status, critical pre-operative states, rare conditions, urgency of surgery, angina status, coronary lesions, procedures and EuroSCORE risk assessment. Large national samples (from 984 patients in Finland to 3138 in Germany) identified significant differences in epidemiology, risk profile and surgical practice. Regarding epidemiology, CABG accounted for 62.8% of adult cardiac surgery, with a range of 46.2 in Spain to 77.7% in Finland (P<0.001). The mean age was 62.9 years (61.4 in Britain to 64.4 in France, P<0.001). The mean body mass index was 26.8 (26 in France to 27.5 in Finland, P<0.001). With regard to risk profile, diabetes was present in 20.3% of patients (11.8% in Britain to 27.7% in Spain, P<0.001). Chronic renal failure was present in 8.3% (6.8% in Germany to 10.6% in Spain, P<0.001). Chronic airway disease affected 3.8% (1.9% in Italy to 5. 1% in Germany, P<0.001). The mean ejection fraction was 0.56 (0.48 in Britain to 0.58 in Finland, P<0.001). The mean predicted mortality (according to EuroSCORE) was 3.3% (2.8% in Finland to 3.6% in France, P<0.001). The prevalence of chronic congestive heart failure, unstable angina and recent myocardial infarction also showed statistically significant differences. No differences were found for some critical preoperative states (such as immediate preoperative cardiac massage and pre-operative intubation), or for surgery for catheter laboratory complication. Regarding surgical practice, major differences were noted in preoperative intra-aortic balloon use (mean 1%, Finland 0%, Spain 2.3%, P<0.001), the number of mammary artery conduits used (mean 0.9, Spain 0.7, France 1.1, P=0.0001) and the number of distal anastomoses (mean 3, France 2.7, Finland 3.8, P=0.001). There are important epidemiological differences in the national cohorts of CABG patients in the EuroSCORE database. Any international comparison of European surgical results must therefore take into account the risk profile of patients by using a compatible risk stratification system."}
{"id": "10752967", "title": "Relation of gender and health insurance to cardiovascular procedure use in persons with progression of chronic renal disease.", "content": "Relation of gender and health insurance to cardiovascular procedure use in persons with progression of chronic renal disease. Women often are less likely than men to receive diagnostic and therapeutic invasive procedures for coronary disease. To examine the relation between gender, health insurance, and access to cardiovascular procedures over time in persons with chronic illness. Seven-year longitudinal analyses in a cohort from the United States Renal Data System. National random sample of women and men who progressed to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in 1986 to 1987 and were treated at 303 dialysis facilities (n = 4,987). Medical history and utilization records, physical examination, and laboratory data. Receipt of a coronary catheterization or revascularization procedure before (baseline) and after (follow-up) the development of ESRD and acquisition of Medicare, adjusted for clinical and socioeconomic variables. At baseline, 5.2% of women and 9.2% of men had undergone a cardiac procedure; the odds of women receiving a procedure were one third lower than for men (adjusted odds ratio 0.66 [95% CI 0.49-0.88]). During follow-up, women were just as likely as men to undergo a procedure (adjusted odds ratio 0.94 [95% CI 0.74-1.20]). Compared with men with baseline private insurance, men and women with other and no insurance had 34% to 81% lower odds of receiving procedures at baseline. Women with private insurance had 42% lower odds of having a procedure at baseline compared with men (adjusted odds ratio 0.58 [95% CI 0.42-0.78]) but had the same odds at follow-up (adjusted odds ratio 1.09 [95% CI 0.82-1.45]). At follow-up, gender differences in procedure use were eliminated for groups with baseline Medicaid or no insurance. Overall gender differences in cardiac procedure use were narrowed markedly after progression of a serious illness, the assurance of health insurance, and entry into a comprehensive care system. Gender disparities in procedure use for different baseline insurance groups were largely equalized in follow-up. These findings suggest that provision of insurance with disease-managed care for a chronic disease can provide equalized access to care for women."}
{"id": "10644903", "title": "Hypoparathyroidism potentiates cardiovascular complications through disturbed calcium metabolism: possible risk of vitamin D(3) analog administration in dialysis patients with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Hypoparathyroidism potentiates cardiovascular complications through disturbed calcium metabolism: possible risk of vitamin D(3) analog administration in dialysis patients with end-stage renal disease. Progressive cardiovascular calcification in dialysis patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) is a serious complication; however, the precise mechanism remains uncertain. We tested whether metabolic calcium abnormalities and hypoparathyroidism might have a correlation with cardiovascular complications in ESRD patients. A series of 48 ESRD patients with cardiovascular diseases and/or congestive heart failure, aged 36-82 (61 +/- 12) years, 23 male and 25 female, were enrolled in this study. Serum total calcium (Ca, mmol/l), inorganic phosphate (mmol/l), and intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH, pg/ml) levels were determined in all cases. Organic heart disease was confirmed in 28 patients (58.3%), including 15 with coronary artery disease: 8 with aortic aneurysm, 8 with stenotic valvular heart disease, 9 with excessive mitral annular calcification, 3 with dialysis cardiomyopathy, and 7 with obstructive arterial disease. Serum iPTH measurement revealed hypoparathyroidism (iPTH <60) in 20 of 48 (41.7%) and hyperthyroidism (iPTH >/=200) in 13 of 48 (27.1%) subjects. The 20 patients with low iPTH had a higher prevalence of valvular heart disease, a higher total Ca level corrected for serum albumin (2.70 +/- 0.30 in low iPTH vs. 2.47 +/- 0.30 in normal iPTH, 2.35 +/- 0.20 in high iPTH, p = 0.003) and a higher tendency of vitamin D(3) analog use (65% in low iPTH vs. 33% in normal iPTH and 46% in high iPTH, p = 0.078). Moreover, corrected serum Ca exhibited a negative logarithmic correlation with serum iPTH: corrected Ca = -0.284x log (iPTH) + 3.021 (r = 0.637, p = 0.0001). Multiple logistic regression analysis revealed diabetes and hypoparathyroidism (iPTH <60) as risk factors for cardiovascular complications in ESRD. These results suggest that hypercalcemia and hypoparathyroidism in conjunction with vitamin D(3) use might play an important role in cardiovascular complications of chronic dialysis patients."}
{"id": "10835920", "title": "[Influence of trimetazidine on echocardiography parameters and free radical stress index in coronary artery disease and end-stage renal failure patients treated by hemodialysis: preliminary communication].", "content": "[Influence of trimetazidine on echocardiography parameters and free radical stress index in coronary artery disease and end-stage renal failure patients treated by hemodialysis: preliminary communication]. The aim of the study was the assessment of the influence of trimetazidine (TMZ) on echocardiography parameters and oxidative stress markers in hemodialyzed patients with coronary artery disease. The studies were carried out in 9 patients group before and after 3 months of TMZ treatment in doses 3 x 20 mg. Additionally we measured MDA concentration in the blood, as a oxidative stress marker, before and after 2 and 3 months of TMZ treatment. At the start of the study impairment of relaxation as a sign of diastolic dysfunction was detected. This abnormality persisted up to the end of the study. After 3 months of TMZ treatment we observed elevation of ejection fraction from 59.17 +/- 5.99 to 65.33 +/- 8.7% (p = 0.05). Also occurred statistically significant decrease in MDA level after 2 (0.674 +/- 0.029 vs 0.627 +/- 0.034; p < 0.001) and 3 (0.674 +/- 0.029 vs 0.567 +/- 0.063 mumol/L; p = 0.001) months of TMZ treatment. Significant improvement of the left ventricular function and decrease of MDA levels in the blood might be due to intracellular mechanisms of TMZ activity. There were no side effects of the drug in hemodialyzed patients."}
{"id": "10659582", "title": "[Characteristics of myocardial ischemia in patients with chronic renal failure and its relation to cardiac sympathetic activity].", "content": "[Characteristics of myocardial ischemia in patients with chronic renal failure and its relation to cardiac sympathetic activity]. In order to clarify the characteristics of myocardial ischemia in patients with chronic renal failure (CRF), we performed exercise stress myocardial perfusion imaging with 99mTc-MIBI in 36 patients with CRF. In 18 patients myocardial imaging with 123I-MIBG (MIBG) and 201Tl was performed at rest to evaluate myocardial sympathetic activities: cardiac uptake of MIBG normalized by myocardial perfusion (Uptake Ratio, UR) and myocardial washout rate of MIBG (WO). Exercise-induced perfusion abnormality was observed in 25 patients, and coronary angiography was performed in 19 of them. Among 25 diseased coronary arteries, 18 developed perfusion abnormalities in the myocardial segments which were supplied by each coronary artery. However in 5 patients without coronary artery stenosis and 2 patients with left anterior descending coronary artery disease, transient perfusion abnormalities were observed in the inferior segments. In 6 of them, MIBG imaging was obtained (Group A). MIBG imaging was also performed in 5 patients with transient inferior perfusion abnormality with coronary artery stenosis which supplied the inferior wall (Group B), and 7 patients without perfusion abnormality (Group C). In the patients of Group B, inferior UR was significantly lower than in Group C (0.58 +/- 0.07 vs. 0.68 +/- 0.08, p = 0.0485) and inferior WO was more accelerated than in Group C (18.6 +/- 7.7 vs. 12.1 +/- 6.0%, NS). However anterior UR and Wo levels were identical with those in Group C. In Group A, inferior UR (0.43 +/- 0.05) was significantly lower than in Group B and C, and WO in Group A (27.2 +/- 8.3%) was accelerated significantly compared to that in Group C. Besides in Group A, anterior UR was significantly smaller and WO was greater than in Group B and C. These findings suggested that in some patients with CRF, myocardial ischemia could arise without coronary artery stenosis, and this phenomenon might be related to abnormalities of cardiac sympathetic activity."}
{"id": "10630819", "title": "Current markers of myocardial ischemia and their validity in end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Current markers of myocardial ischemia and their validity in end-stage renal disease. Coronary artery disease is highly prevalent in patients with end-stage renal disease, and accounts for much of their observed morbidity and mortality. Despite this, diagnosing myocardial disease in this population remains problematic, because many patients present with abnormal baseline electrocardiograms, frequently compounded by silent or atypical symptoms. Conventionally used enzymatic markers of cardiac injury have not resolved this dilemma because of their poor specificity in end-stage renal disease. In particular, nonspecific elevations in creatinine kinase-muscle brain enzyme, a widely accepted marker of cardiac injury, have been consistently observed in the absence of other demonstrable evidence for cardiac injury. Recently, the cardiac troponins (troponin I and troponin T) have emerged as more sensitive markers for cardiac ischemia, facilitating rapid bedside diagnosis and early risk stratification. Unfortunately, cardiac troponin T shows poor specificity in end-stage renal disease, possibly because of variable expression in extracardiac tissues. On the other hand, troponin I consistently maintains a high sensitivity and specificity, and is the most sensitive marker for ischemic heart disease in this patient population."}
{"id": "10584599", "title": "Screening for coronary artery disease.", "content": "Screening for coronary artery disease. Unidentified coronary artery disease remains a significant cause of premature death and morbidity during the prime of life. The availability of effective interventions for the management of ischemia has provoked new interest in screening for this condition in asymptomatic patients, in the hope of reducing the burden of this condition. Although widespread use of stress testing is ineffective, the use of imaging techniques may offer better accuracy for detection of ischemia. Other tests that identify evidence of atheroma in the peripheral or coronary circulation may be useful to identify patients at risk."}
{"id": "10551681", "title": "The necessity for recognition and treatment of patients with \"mild\" hypertension.", "content": "The necessity for recognition and treatment of patients with \"mild\" hypertension. A dramatic evolution has occurred in the past four decades in our underlying knowledge of pathophysiology of the hypertensive diseases and in the availability of myriad pharmacologic agents for control of hypertension. This report provides a current review of antihypertensive treatment interspersed with personal opinions supported by appropriate references. It focuses on the recent national recommendations dealing with the prevention, detection, evaluation and treatment of the disease (JNC-6). Whereas I believe that the height of arterial pressure is of primary importance, it is not the sine qua non explaining all target organ involvement or complications of hypertensive disease. Consequently, all that is classified today as Stages 1 and 2 hypertension (old terminology: \"mild\" and \"moderate\") in terms of blood pressure elevation does not explain all outcomes of disease. Indeed, JNC-6 introduced the new concept of risk stratification for therapy based not only on the height of systolic and diastolic pressure but also on the presence of target organ involvement, comorbidity and other risk factors. However, after considerable advances since the inception of the National High Blood Pressure Education Program (NHBPEP) in 1972, it appears that we are avoiding our responsibilities and reversing our gains. It is of vital importance that we renew our efforts to identify, evaluate and treat all patients with hypertension; this is especially so for the vast numbers of patients with Stages 1 and 2 hypertension."}
{"id": "10546140", "title": "[Bifurcation stenting of unprotected common trunk: a case report and review of the literature].", "content": "[Bifurcation stenting of unprotected common trunk: a case report and review of the literature]. Left main disease is the most severe form of atherosclerotic heart disease, with severe prognostic implications in the short-medium term. The traditional therapeutic approach has been surgical, with placement of bypass grafts both on the LAD and the circumflex artery. Published experience with the percutaneous approach to left main disease has been disappointing because of acute procedural problems and poor long-term outcome. On the other hand, a review of the literature shows a strong negative selection of patients offered PTCA of left main-stem lesions: most published series are composed of extremely high-risk patients, often in cardiogenic shock or with severe extracardiac multisystem disease, with a prohibitive surgical risk and an inherently poor acute and mid-term prognosis. We describe such a patient, a 77-year-old woman with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis, who developed unstable angina due to distal critical left main disease, with involvement of the origin of both the LAD and the circumflex branch. Angina did not stabilize with medical therapy; the patient was denied surgery because of a prohibitively high surgical risk. A bifurcation stenting procedure was performed with no acute complications, a satisfactory one-month angiographic follow-up and no recurrence of angina until the death of the patient 4 months after the procedure for extracardiac reasons. As indicated by a recent paper by M. Leon, we likewise suggest that left main disease (especially in its simpler proximal variants) may actually be a good target for state-of-the-art transcatheter interventions, including primary stenting, under close angiographic follow-up and careful positive (instead of negative) selection of patients."}
{"id": "10544610", "title": "[Incidence of cardiovascular risk factors and complications after kidney transplantation].", "content": "[Incidence of cardiovascular risk factors and complications after kidney transplantation]. Cardiovascular disease is a leading cause of death after renal transplantation (RTx), and the incidence is considerably higher than in the general population. Aim of this study was to evaluate the incidence of atherosclerotic cardiovascular complications after RTx, the prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors, prior to and following RTx, and the association between the risk factors and complications. Analysis of atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases (coronary artery disease, cerebral and peripheral vascular disease) and cardiovascular risk factors before and after transplantation in 427 renal transplant recipients between 1987 and 1992 (mean age at transplantation 45 +/- 12 years, 58% male, 7% diabetics) with a mean posttransplant follow-up of 28 +/- 20 months. Following RTx 11.7% developed atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases, the majority coronary artery disease (9.8%). The comparison of risk factors 12 months before and 24 months following transplantation showed: The prevalence of systemic hypertension (from 67% to 86%), diabetes mellitus (from 7% to 16%) and obesity with a body mass index > 25 kg/m2 (from 26% to 48%) had increased significantly whereas the number of smokers halved to 20%. The triglycerides decreased significantly (from 235 +/- 144 mg/dl to 217 +/- 122 mg/dl). The total and HDL cholesterol rose significantly (from 232 +/- 65 mg/dl to 273 +/- 62 mg/dl and from 47 +/- 29 mg/dl to 56 +/- 21 mg/dl, respectively). The LDL cholesterol increase was insignificant (from 180 +/- 62 mg/dl to 189 +/- 53 mg/dl). In the univariate analysis, cardiovascular diseases were significantly associated with male gender, age over 50 years, diabetes mellitus (DM), smoking, total cholesterol > 200 mg/dl, LDL cholesterol > 180 mg/dl, HDL cholesterol < 55 mg/dl, fibrinogen > 350 mg/dl, body mass index > 25 kg/m2, and more than 2 antihypertensive agents per day. The Cox proportional hazards model revealed DM with a relative risk (RR) of 4.3, age > 50 years (RR = 2.7), body mass index > 25 kg/m2 (RR = 2.6), smoking (RR = 2.5), and LDL cholesterol > 180 mg/dl (RR = 2.3) as independent risk factors. The high incidence of cardiovascular disease following renal transplantation is mainly due to a high prevalence and accumulation of classical risk factors before and following transplantation. The treatment of the risk factors must be effective and introduced early in the course of renal failure, further, they must be continued following transplantation. Future prospective studies should evaluate the success of treatment regarding reduction of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in this high risk population."}
{"id": "10539833", "title": "Multivessel coronary artery bypass surgery without cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Multivessel coronary artery bypass surgery without cardiopulmonary bypass. There is limited experience with complete myocardial revascularization on a beating heart. Using a mechanical stabilization system, we sought to determine if complete coronary revascularization is feasible without cardiopulmonary bypass and what the short-term clinical outcome would be. From February through September 1998, 26 patients underwent complete myocardial revascularization with Medtronics Octopus Tissue Stabilization System. Mean age for the group was 62 +/- 7 years (range 48 to 78 years); 11% had prior interventions. Mean preoperative ejection fraction was 49% +/- 14% (range 20% to 66%); 38% of operations were performed urgently. The mean number of vessels grafted was 3.0 +/- 0.9 (range 1 to 5 grafts/patient). In 96% of patients, at least one arterial graft was used. Fifteen percent of patients had 2 or more arterial grafts. In 58% of patients, a branch of circumflex coronary artery was bypassed. The median time to extubation was 2 hours (range 0 to 37 hours). None of the patients had perioperative myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular accident, or renal failure requiring dialysis. The 30-day survival rate was 100%. Angiographic follow-up was not available. At a mean follow-up period of 3.8 +/- 2.9 months, all patients remained free of angina and none has required cardiac reintervention. Complete myocardial revascularization on a beating heart can be achieved with the currently available stabilization systems and is associated with low perioperative complications and satisfactory short-term clinical outcomes. The long-term outcomes and graft patency remain to be determined."}
{"id": "10535717", "title": "Surgical treatment of interventional coronary angiographic accidents.", "content": "Surgical treatment of interventional coronary angiographic accidents. Newer methodologies have increased the incidence of coronary interventions. At the authors' institution, 5,614 coronary interventional procedures (28% of all catheterizations) were performed over a 3-year period, from 1995 to 1997. Eighty-one patients (1.4%) suffered angiographic accidents, including coronary artery dissection, free rupture, tamponade, foreign body embolism, and wire entrapment, and were retrospectively reviewed. All patients were taken for emergency surgery in less than 4 hours. The mean age was 61.2 years, 44 (54%) were men, and 37 (46%) were in cardiogenic shock at the time of surgery. Fifty-seven patients (70%) had intraaortic balloon counterpulsation. The number of previous cardiac interventions ranged from one to four with a mean of 1.9. One to five bypass grafts (mean, 2.2) were performed, and three patients required temporary ventricular assist devices. There were six deaths for a 30-day mortality rate of 7.4%. Thirty-two patients (39.5%) suffered significant morbidity, including cerebrovascular accidents, and renal and respiratory failure. Perioperative myocardial infarctions were diagnosed in 39 (48%) patients. Average length of stay was 12.1 days. One-year survival was satisfactory at 90% (73/81), with 56 survivors (77%) regaining normal everyday activity. Early surgical intervention, rapid revascularization, and temporary mechanical support are keys to low mortality in this high-risk group. Identification of high-risk interventions and significant comorbid conditions, with concomitant surgical consultation, need to be pursued to reduce the high morbidity rate."}
{"id": "10522587", "title": "Etiology of preoperative anemia in patients undergoing scheduled cardiac surgery.", "content": "Etiology of preoperative anemia in patients undergoing scheduled cardiac surgery. Ten percent of our cardiac surgical patients have preoperative anemia. Anemia diagnosed before scheduled cardiac surgery is a strong predictor of the need for homologous blood transfusion (RBC) perioperatively but the cause of this preoperative anemia is not known. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the etiology of preoperative anemia. Seventy-five consecutive anemic cardiosurgical patients (Hb = < 120 g x L(-1) the day before surgery) were studied prospectively. All had multiple diagnostic blood tests done in the preoperative period to diagnose the cause of the anemia and subsequently underwent non-emergency cardiac surgery. Anesthesia and RBC transfusion were standardized according to the protocol. Data in respect to operation, RBC and other blood product transfusion during operation and hospital stay were recorded. Hospital-acquired anemia was present in 37.3% of anemic patients (hemoglobin decrease during hospitalization before surgery > or =9 g x l(-1)). The second most common diagnosis was iron deficiency anemia (29.3% patients) followed by anemia of chronic renal disease (10.7% patients). When coronary angiography was performed close to operation time, patients had a higher decrease in hemoglobin concentration during hospitalization --suggesting that blood loss during angiography was, in part, responsible for anemia. Seventy-five percent of anemic patients were transfused with RBC perioperatively compared with our overall transfusion rate of 30% of cardiac surgery patients. In the majority of patients, preoperative anemia is potentially preventable. Investigation and treatment of anemia before cardiac surgery should be a priority in preparing the patient for surgery."}
{"id": "10513158", "title": "[Surgical treatment of a ruptured saccular aneurysm associated with bilateral coronary arteries-pulmonary artery fistulas: a case report].", "content": "[Surgical treatment of a ruptured saccular aneurysm associated with bilateral coronary arteries-pulmonary artery fistulas: a case report]. We reported a successful operative case of ruptured coronary artery saccular aneurysm associated with bilateral coronary arteries-pulmonary artery fistulas. A 57-year-old woman, had been treated with hemodialysis due to chronic renal failure, suffered from acute heart failure with chest pain suddenly. Echocardiograph showed moderate pericardial effusion. A saccular coronary artery aneurysm with bilateral coronary arteries-pulmonary artery fistulas revealed by coronary angiogram. Ligation of coronary artery fistula, closure of orifice of draining artery to pulmonary artery and aneurysmorrhaphy were performed emergently. Post operative angiogram revealed complete disappearance of the fistulas."}
{"id": "10513157", "title": "[The case report of minimal access CABG for triple-vessel disease].", "content": "[The case report of minimal access CABG for triple-vessel disease]. A 55-year-old male patient underwent CABG for triple-vessel disease using the minimal access approach. The procedure was performed through a limited (10 cm) left para-sternal thoracotomy using extracorporeal circulation established with a usual aortic cannula, and pulmonary arterial and right atrial drainage. The myocardium was protected by antegrade administration of cold cardioplegic solution while the aorta was being cross-clampled. The saphenous vein graft was connected sequentially to the 4 PD and OM branches, and the left internal thoracic artery was grafted to the LAD. The postoperative course was uneventful and coronary angiography showed that all three grafts were patent. The patient was discharged one week postoperatively."}
{"id": "10470472", "title": "Short- and long-term outcomes after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in chronic hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Short- and long-term outcomes after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in chronic hemodialysis patients. The aim of this study was to obtain data on the outcomes of chronic hemodialysis patients who underwent percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). A retrospective chart analysis identified 31 such patients between August 1992 and October 1996. The mean follow-up period was 12.4 +/- 11.7 months. Angiographic success was achieved in 39 of 41 (95.1%) stenoses attempted. There were three in-hospital deaths. Clinical success was achieved in 28 of 31 patients (90%). Two of the 28 survivors were lost to follow-up. Recurrent angina developed within 6 months in 14 of 26 patients (53.8%). Eleven and 17 of the 26 patients (42.3% and 65.4%) died within 6 and 14 months, respectively, after the PTCA procedure. Ten of the 17 deaths (58.8%) were due to cardiovascular events. Our study suggests that PTCA is technically feasible with high angiographic success rate in chronic hemodialysis patients. In-hospital mortality rate and rate of recurrent angina are high. Long-term prognosis is poor."}
{"id": "10467215", "title": "Elevated systolic blood pressure and risk of cardiovascular and renal disease: overview of evidence from observational epidemiologic studies and randomized controlled trials.", "content": "Elevated systolic blood pressure and risk of cardiovascular and renal disease: overview of evidence from observational epidemiologic studies and randomized controlled trials. The effect of elevated blood pressure on risk of cardiovascular and renal disease has been documented in both observational epidemiologic studies and clinical trials. However, these studies have traditionally concentrated on diastolic blood pressure to characterize the risk associated with hypertension. We reviewed evidence from prospective studies and randomized controlled trials to quantify the risk associated with systolic blood pressure. Prospective studies and randomized controlled clinical trials that were published in English-language journals were retrieved using MEDLINE, bibliographies, and the authors' reference files. All retrieved publications were reviewed and information on sample size, duration, study design, antihypertensive medication, participant characteristics, and outcomes was abstracted for randomized controlled trials that reported systolic blood pressure reduction during intervention. Several prospective studies indicate that the association between systolic blood pressure and risk of coronary heart disease, stroke, and end-stage renal disease is continuous, graded, and independent. Furthermore, they suggest that the association of systolic blood pressure with these outcomes is stronger than that of diastolic blood pressure. Pooling of the data available from randomized controlled trials indicates that an average reduction of 12 to 13 mm Hg in systolic blood pressure over 4 years of follow-up is associated with a 21% reduction in coronary heart disease, 37% reduction in stroke, 25% reduction in total cardiovascular mortality, and 13% reduction in all-cause mortality rates. These data indicate that systolic blood pressure is an independent and strong predictor for risk of cardiovascular and renal disease."}
{"id": "10450738", "title": "Outcome after myocardial revascularization and renal transplantation: a 25-year single-institution experience.", "content": "Outcome after myocardial revascularization and renal transplantation: a 25-year single-institution experience. Cardiac disease is a common cause of death in renal transplant recipients. This study retrospectively analyzes the results of myocardial revascularization procedures in these patients and makes recommendations for managing coronary atherosclerosis in patients with renal disease who already have a transplanted kidney or who may receive a kidney transplant. Patients who had myocardial revascularization (coronary artery bypass grafting [CABG] or percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty [PTCA]) and renal transplantation at the authors' institution between 1968 and 1994 were analyzed. Patient, procedural, and institutional variables were used for actuarial analyses of survival, as well as multivariate analyses of risk factors for death. Eighty-three of 2989 renal transplant patients required myocardial revascularization either before or after their transplant, and diabetes mellitus was the cause of renal failure in 42% of these patients. Standard coronary angiography, CABG, and PTCA techniques were used without periprocedural renal allograft loss. Actuarial patient survival was 89%, 77%, and 65% at 1, 3, and 5 years after the last procedure (transplantation or revascularization). Cardiac disease was the most common mode of death. Early-phase risk factors for death by multivariate analysis included hypertension and revascularization before 1989. Late-phase risk factors for death included diabetes mellitus, higher number of pre-CABG myocardial infarctions, renal transplantation before 1984, older age, and unstable angina before CABG. Myocardial revascularization can be performed with acceptable short- and long-term results in patients with renal disease who have renal transplantation either before or after the revascularization procedure. Diabetes mellitus was a highly prevalent condition among these patients, and cardiac disease was their most common mode of death. PTCA and CABG, as performed at this institution, posed little risk for renal allograft loss. Modification of risk factors for coronary atherosclerosis, rigorous cardiac evaluation of patients at risk for coronary artery disease before renal transplantation, and aggressive use of revascularization procedures to decrease the incidence of myocardial infarction are proposed as ways to prolong the survival of renal transplant patients with ischemic heart disease."}
{"id": "10433703", "title": "Divalent metal derivatives of the hamster dihydroorotase domain.", "content": "Divalent metal derivatives of the hamster dihydroorotase domain. Dihydroorotase (DHOase, EC 3.5.2.3) is a zinc enzyme that catalyzes the reversible cyclization of N-carbamyl-L-aspartate to L-dihydroorotate in the third reaction of the de novo pathway for biosynthesis of pyrimidine nucleotides. The recombinant hamster DHOase domain from the trifunctional protein, CAD, was overexpressed in Escherichia coli and purified. The DHOase domain contained one bound zinc atom at the active site which was removed by dialysis against the chelator, pyridine-2,6-dicarboxylate, at pH 6.0. The apoenzyme was reconstituted with different divalent cations at pH 7.4. Co(II)-, Zn(II)-, Mn(II)-, and Cd(II)-substituted DHOases had enzymic activity, but replacement with Ni(2+), Cu(2+), Mg(2+), or Ca(2+) ions did not restore activity. Atomic absorption spectroscopy showed binding of one Co(II), Zn(II), Mn(II), Cd(II), Ni(II), or Cu(II) to the enzyme, while Mg(II) and Ca(II) were not bound. The maximal enzymic activities of the active, reconstituted DHOases were in the following order: Co(II) --> Zn(II) --> Mn(II) --> Cd(II). These metal substitutions had major effects upon values for V(max); effects upon the corresponding K(m) values were less pronounced. The pK(a) values of the Co(II)-, Mn(II)-, and Cd(II)-substituted enzymes derived from pH-rate profiles are similar to that of Zn(II)-DHOase, indicating that the derived pK(a) value of 6.56 obtained for Zn-DHOase is not due to ionization of an enzyme-metal aquo complex, but probably a histidine residue at the active site. The visible spectrum of Co(II)-substituted DHOase exhibits maxima at 520 and 570 nm with molar extinction coefficients of 195 and 210 M(-1) cm(-1), consistent with pentacoordination of Co(II) at the active site. The spectra at high and low pH are different, suggesting that the environment of the metal binding site is different at these pHs where the reverse and forward reactions, respectively, are favored."}
{"id": "10422621", "title": "[Prognosis for patients with angina pectoris accompanied by chronic renal failure].", "content": "[Prognosis for patients with angina pectoris accompanied by chronic renal failure]. Chronic renal failure (CRF) is one of the risk factors of a worse outcome for patients with coronary artery disease. However, few studies have assessed the outcome in such patients. This study investigated the clinical characteristics, treatment modalities, and prognosis for patients with angina pectoris accompanied by CRF and evaluated the validity of current treatment strategy for these patients. A total of 593 patients (248 with stable angina and 345 with unstable angina) admitted to our institution were studied. Renal failure was defined as serum creatinine of > or = 2.0 mg/dl. Patients were divided into 2 groups, with renal failure (46 patients) and without renal failure (547 patients), and the former group was further divided into 2 groups with hemodialysis (26 patients) and without hemodialysis (20 patients). The mean follow-up period was 2.5 +/- 1.2 years and the follow-up rate was 99%. The prevalences of congestive heart failure (26% vs 3%, p < 0.001), hypertension (72% vs 45%, p < 0.005), and multivessel coronary artery disease (65% vs 33%, p < 0.001) were higher in patients with CRF. The left ventricular end-diastolic volume was greater in patients with CRF than in patients without CRF (114 +/- 36 vs 85 +/- 24 ml/m2, p < 0.001). The calcification score of both coronary arteries and abdominal aorta evaluated by electron-beam computed tomography was higher in patients with CRF (2,187 +/- 2,727 vs 631 +/- 841, p = 0.03; 4,091 +/- 3,068 vs 2,191 +/- 2,249, p = 0.02, respectively). In-hospital cardiac mortality was higher in patients with CRF than in patients without CRF (8.7% vs 0.7%, p < 0.001). The cumulative survival was 88% at 1 year and 65% at 3 years in patients with CRF and 99% and 97% in patients without CRF, respectively (p < 0.001). The incidence of re-hospitalization due to congestive heart failure was higher in patients with CRF (19% vs 1.3%, p < 0.0001). The cumulative survival in CRF was 93% at 1 year, 57% at 3 years in the medical treatment group and 87% and 75% in the invasive therapy group, respectively (p = 0.1). Patients with angina pectoris and CRF had a poor prognosis under the current treatment strategy. Newly developed therapeutic strategies, such as rotational atherectomy, minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass surgery and combinations, will be necessary to improve the long-term prognosis for these patients."}
{"id": "10386420", "title": "Coronary artery bypass grafting in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus.", "content": "Coronary artery bypass grafting in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. Few reports exist on the results of coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). We retrospectively reviewed eight CABG in seven SLE patients. In early and late postoperative angiography, all grafts were evaluated for occlusion, development of string sign, or presence of significant stenosis. The early and late results were compared. The pathological studies were performed on the segments of the internal thoracic artery (ITA) and saphenous vein collected from each patient. Atherosclerosis of the ITA was analyzed using the subjective evaluation proposed by Kay et al. (Kay HR, Korns ME, Flemma RJ, Tector AJ, Lepley D. Atherosclerosis of the internal mammary artery. Ann Thorac Surg 21;1976:504-507) scale 0-4 (0 = normal, 1 = minimal disease, 2 = less than 25% luminal narrowing, 3 = 25-50% narrowing, and 4 = greater than 50% narrowing). The patients consisted of three men and four women with a mean age of 59.8 years. Co-morbid diseases were frequent and there were three patients (37.5%) with renal failure (two dialysis patients, one with renal dysfunction) and two patients with severe atherosclerosis of the aorta. The ITA was used in four patients. Saphenous vein graft was used in seven patients. Concomitant procedures included aortic valve replacement and mitral annuloplasty, mitral valvuloplasty and tricuspid annuloplasty, mitral valve replacement and tricuspid annuloplasty (TAP). There was one hospital death (12.5%). Early patency rates were 87.5% (21/24). No other atherosclerotic changes or stenosis suggesting vasculitis were noted. In pathological studies, there was no significant atherosclerosis in the six ITA specimens from four patients, although three patients had degree two atherosclerosis. No vasculitis was found in ITA or saphenous vein grafts. During the mean follow-up period of 35.3 months (range, 5-91 months), there was one non-cardiac late death. Late restudy (in three patients, 12, 57 and 64 months later respectively) revealed no deterioration in either ITA or vein grafts. Overall prognosis after the operation in SLE patients appears to be good. No other cardiac events were observed, and patients demonstrated marked clinical improvement. CABG in SLE patients can be performed with acceptable morbidity and mortality. Our data so far reveals no evidence to preclude the use of ITA and vein grafts in SLE patients."}
{"id": "10386419", "title": "Early and long term results of coronary artery bypass grafts in patients with dialysis dependent renal failure.", "content": "Early and long term results of coronary artery bypass grafts in patients with dialysis dependent renal failure. Coronary artery disease is the main cause of mortality and morbidity in patients on renal therapy replacement. The aim of this study was to define peri-operative risk and long term results of coronary artery bypass grafts (CABG) in dialysis patients. this retrospective study included 82 patients in chronic dialysis who underwent CABG between 1978 and 1997. The mean age was 61+/-10 years (range 28-81 years), 84% of the patients were male and the average duration of dialysis was 57 months (range 1-148 months). Combined procedures were carotid endarterectomy in one case, left ventricular aneurysm resection in one and valvular replacement in 10 (nine aortic and one mitral replacements). The operation was elective in 42 patients (51 %) and urgent in the others. Previous myocardial infarction was found in 37 patients (45%) and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) at less than 45% in 15 patients (18%); 23 patients (28%) were in NYHA class III or IV and regarding angina functional status, 77% in CCS class 3 or 4. Follow-up was complete. Statistical analysis included 30 and pre and peri-operative data. Statistical analysis used Chi-square analysis or Fisher's exact test, and the Mann-Whitney test when appropriate. The estimated probability of survival, including postoperative mortality, was calculated by the method of Kaplan-Meyer, and the Log-Rank test used to compare the results. the hospital mortality was 14.6 % (n = 12). Ischemic time and ECC time were significantly lengthened in dead patients (P = 0.01). Moreover, use of internal mammary artery was directly related to lower hospital mortality (P = 0.02). For previous myocardial infarction, LVEF at less than 45%, diabetes and combined procedure, a P-value of < or = 0.1 was calculated. The follow-up ranged from 1 to 140 months (mean 36 months). There were 39 late deaths. The survival rates (included hospital mortality) were 71+/-5%, 56+/-6% and 39+/-6% at 1, 3 and 5 years, respectively. All surviving patients improved their functional status and had symptomatic relief. Statistical analysis showed significant difference in favor of long term survival for patients younger than 60 years, LVEF > 45% and NYHA class I or II. these data confirm that CABG in patients with renal replacement therapy is associated with an high operative and long term mortality. However it allows an improvement of functional status, and so, let possible duration of dialysis. It may be expected that more active prevention and detection of coronary disease might improve these results."}
{"id": "10386414", "title": "Intermediate term results of total lymphoid irradiation for the treatment of non-specific graft dysfunction after heart transplantation.", "content": "Intermediate term results of total lymphoid irradiation for the treatment of non-specific graft dysfunction after heart transplantation. A proportion of heart transplant recipients develop poor graft function in the absence of cellular infiltrate in endomyocardial biopsies or transplant associated coronary artery disease. The condition has a poor prognosis and its aetiology is poorly understood. We report encouraging intermediate term results with total lymphoid irradiation (TLI) in the management of this condition. Eleven adult cardiac transplant recipients who developed severe allograft dysfunction (NYHA class-4) at a median period of 4 months after orthotopic heart transplantation were successfully treated with TLI. Endomyocardial biopsies and coronary angiography were normal in each patient and biventricular failure developed in spite of immunosuppression with Cyclosporin-A, Azathioprine, oral Prednisolone, Cyclophosphamide and intravenous Methylprednisolone therapy. Total lymphoid irradiation was given with standard Mantle and inverted Y-fields over ten treatments to achieve a cumulative dose of 8 Gy. Each patient had a significant improvement in clinical response and in ventricular performance within 2 months of commencing TLI. Nine patients are currently well (four NHYA class-1, five NHYA class-2) at 4-48 (median 26) months following TLI. Two patients died; one from bacterial septicaemia and one as a consequence of chronic renal failure. Three patients developed opportunistic infection which was successfully treated with appropriate antimicrobial agents. An Ebstein-Barr virus associated lymphoproliferative disorder occurred in one patient and was successfully treated by reduction in immunosuppression and high dose Acyclovir. Two patients developed transient bone marrow suppression. The intermediate term results of TLI in the management of poor graft function in cardiac transplant recipients with normal endomyocardial biopsies and coronary angiography are encouraging. Although complications of opportunistic infection, bone marrow suppression and lymphoproliferative disorder occurred, treatment was successful in each case."}
{"id": "10383013", "title": "Prognostic value of cardiac troponin T and I elevations in renal disease patients without acute coronary syndromes: a 9-month outcome analysis.", "content": "Prognostic value of cardiac troponin T and I elevations in renal disease patients without acute coronary syndromes: a 9-month outcome analysis. Moderate elevations of cardiac troponin (Tn) T, up to levels presumably diagnostic for minor myocardial damage, are suspected to be false positive in nearly 0.3 of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients undergoing haemodialysis (HD). It is not clear whether cardiac TnI is superior to TnT in those patients, if differences between ESRD and pre-ESRD occur, and what the prognostic meaning of these troponin elevations might be. We examined 40 chronic renaldisease patients [56.4 SD 13.9 years; 22 male, 18 female) without evidence of an acute coronary syndrome (ACS) for at least 28 days prior to the investigation. Cardiac status was determined by history, physical examination, ECG and echocardiography. Patients were divided into subgroups with HD (n = 20) and without HD (n = 20). Patients without HD had a mean creatinine clearance (CC) of 13.45 ml/min. Tn were measured by immunoassay techniques. TnT was compared to two different TnI tests (TnID, TnIB), CK/CKMB activity and myoglobin (MYO) concentrations. In all patients, a 9-month follow-up for acute myocardial infarction, re-hospitalization, and death was completed. None of the troponins significantly predicted patient outcome. Tn did not correlate with CC (r<0.6). Applying the lowest reported threshold values for all tests in the HD group, 0.3 patients were positive for TnT, 0.55 patients were positive for TnID, and 0.15 for TnIB. In the group without HD, 0.2 patients were positive for TnT and TnID and 0.1 for TnIB. Moderate elevations of cardiac troponins are common in clinically stable patients with renal disease and are neither diagnostic for an acute coronary syndrome nor predictive of outcome. It is concluded that increased troponins in asymptomatic renal patients are of questionable value for risk stratification, most probably due to unspecific elevations."}
{"id": "10383012", "title": "Prognostic value of heart rate variability during long-term follow-up in chronic haemodialysis patients with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Prognostic value of heart rate variability during long-term follow-up in chronic haemodialysis patients with end-stage renal disease. Mortality is high in chronic haemodialysis patients with cardiovascular disease, and many of them die suddenly. Reduced heart rate variability (HRV) is an increased risk for death in various populations, but its prognostic value in haemodialysis patients remains uninvestigated. We analysed the associations between 24-h HRV measures and long-term mortality through a prospective follow-up of 31 chronic haemodialysis patients who underwent diagnostic coronary angiography. Of the 31 patients, at baseline, seven had a previous myocardial infarction, five had a history of congestive heart failure and 14 had significant (> or =75%) coronary stenosis (four had multi-vessel stenosis). During follow-up for 60+/-5 months, 14 patients died, 11 of them suddenly. A left ventricular ejection fraction of <0.45, multi-vessel coronary stenosis, ventricular tachycardia on 24-h ECG and decreased/abnormal 24-h HRV (triangular index <22 and abnormal Poincar\u00e9 plot) carried a univariate risk of all-cause death, while the risk of sudden death was only correlated with decreased HRV (standard deviation of normal-normal R-R interval <50 ms, triangular index <22 and ultra-low frequency power <8.7 ln(ms2)). Multivariate analysis revealed that a triangular index <22 was the best predictor of increased risk for both all-cause and sudden death (hazards ratio (95% CI); 8.1 (1.3-48.6) and 12.6 (1.3-126.4), respectively) and that the association was independent of cardiac function, macrovascular diseases, ventricular arrhythmias and cardiovascular risk factors. The 5-year mortality when the triangular index was > or =22 or <22 was 33 or 88% for patients with coronary artery disease and 0 or 50% for those without. These results indicate that HRV has an independent prognostic value in chronic haemodialysis patients and identifies an increased risk for all-cause and sudden death."}
{"id": "10352196", "title": "Dobutamine stress echocardiography for the detection of significant coronary artery disease in renal transplant candidates.", "content": "Dobutamine stress echocardiography for the detection of significant coronary artery disease in renal transplant candidates. Prophylactic coronary revascularization may reduce the risk for cardiac events in diabetic renal transplant candidates. No published data exist on the accuracy of dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) for the diagnosis of angiographically defined coronary artery disease (CAD) in renal transplant candidates. The purpose of this study is to examine the accuracy of DSE for the detection of CAD in high-risk renal transplant candidates compared with coronary angiography. Fifty renal transplant candidates with diabetic nephropathy (39 patients) or end-stage renal disease (ESRD) from other causes (11 patients) underwent prospectively performed DSE, followed by quantitative coronary angiography (QCA) and qualitative visual assessment of CAD severity. Twenty of 50 DSE tests were positive for inducible ischemia. Twenty-seven patients (54%) had a stenosis of 50% or greater by QCA, 12 patients (24%) had a stenosis of greater than 70% by QCA, and 16 patients (32%) had a stenosis greater than 75% by visual estimation. The sensitivity and specificity of DSE for CAD diagnosis were respectively 52% and 74% compared with QCA stenosis of 50% or greater, 75% and 71% compared with QCA stenosis greater than 70%, and 75% and 76% for stenosis greater than 75% by visual estimate. On long-term follow-up (22.5 +/- 10.1 months), 6 of 30 patients (20%) with negative DSE results and 11 of 20 patients (55%) with positive DSE results had a cardiac death, myocardial infarction (MI), or coronary revascularization. Six of 27 patients (22%) with a QCA stenosis of 50% or greater had a cardiac death or MI compared with none of the 23 patients (0%) with QCA stenosis less than 50% (P = 0.025). We conclude that DSE is a useful but imperfect screening test for angiographically defined CAD in renal transplant candidates."}
{"id": "10232689", "title": "The low molecular weight apo(a) phenotype is an independent predictor for coronary artery disease in hemodialysis patients: a prospective follow-up.", "content": "The low molecular weight apo(a) phenotype is an independent predictor for coronary artery disease in hemodialysis patients: a prospective follow-up. Patients with end-stage renal disease treated by hemodialysis have a tremendous risk for cardiovascular complications that cannot be explained by traditional atherosclerosis risk factors. Lipoprotein(a) (Lp(a)), a risk factor for these complications in the general population, is significantly elevated in these patients. In this study, it was determined whether Lp(a) and/or the genetically determined apo(a) phenotype are risk predictors for the development of coronary artery disease in these patients. A cohort of 440 unselected hemodialysis patients were followed for a period of 5 yr independent of the cause of renal disease, duration of preceding treatment, and the preexistence of coronary artery disease at study entry. Coronary events defined as definite myocardial infarction, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, aortocoronary bypass, or a stenosis >50% in the coronary angiography were the main outcome measure. Sixty-six (15%) of the 440 patients suffered a coronary event during follow-up. In univariate analysis, patients with events were significantly older and showed a trend to lower HDL cholesterol concentrations, and higher apolipoprotein B and Lp(a) concentrations without reaching significance. Apo(a) phenotypes of low molecular weight, however, were significantly more frequent in patients with compared to those without events (43.9% versus 21.9%, P<0.001). The other lipids, lipoproteins, and apolipoproteins were similar in both groups. Multiple Cox proportional hazards regression analysis found age and the apo(a) phenotype to be the best predictors for coronary events during the observation period, independent of whether patients with a preexisting coronary artery disease or an age >65 yr at the study entry or both were excluded from the analysis. Diabetes mellitus was a risk factor only in presence of a low molecular weight apo(a) phenotype. The genetically determined apo(a) phenotype is a strong and independent predictor for coronary events in hemodialysis patients. Apo(a) phenotyping might be helpful to identify hemodialysis patients at high risk for coronary artery disease."}
{"id": "10221467", "title": "Constrictive pericarditis and pleuropulmonary disease linked to ergot dopamine agonist therapy (cabergoline) for Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Constrictive pericarditis and pleuropulmonary disease linked to ergot dopamine agonist therapy (cabergoline) for Parkinson's disease. Cabergoline is one of several ergoline dopamine agonist medications used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). We diagnosed constrictive pericarditis (CP) in a patient with PD receiving cabergoline therapy (10 mg daily), who had symptoms and signs of congestive heart failure (CHF). In the absence of previous reported cases of this condition linked to ergoline drugs, cabergoline was not initially identified as the cause. Shortly thereafter, however, the patient developed of a severe pleuropulmonary inflammatory-fibrotic syndrome, a recognized complication of ergoline medications, thus suggesting a common pathogenesis due to cabergoline therapy. To our knowledge, this is the first case in the English literature, although we speculate that CP may be more common than reported among patients with PD who are treated with an ergoline drug (cabergoline, bromocriptine, pergolide, or lisuride). The diagnosis of CP is difficult and requires a high level of suspicion; symptoms may masquerade as CHF due to common mechanisms such as coronary artery disease. In patients with PD who are taking not only cabergoline but also one of the other ergoline drugs, CP should be suspected if symptoms of CHF develop."}
{"id": "10097545", "title": "[Minimally invasive coronary artery bypass (MIDCAB) for double vessel using Y arterial graft which consists of left internal thoracic artery and right inferior epigastric artery].", "content": "[Minimally invasive coronary artery bypass (MIDCAB) for double vessel using Y arterial graft which consists of left internal thoracic artery and right inferior epigastric artery]. MIDCAB is a rapidly evolving technique to revascularize the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) with the left internal thoracic artery (LITA). Our case is a 60-year-old female with unstable angina due to restenosis of the proximal LAD following PTCA and proximal stenosis of the large first diagonal branch (D1). She underwent double vessel MIDCAB (LITA-LAD and LITA-RIEA-D1) using Y composite arterial conduit with LITA and right epigastric artery (RIEA), because of chronic renal failure on maintenance hemodialysis. Postoperative course was uneventful and postoperative angiography revealed a patent Y graft. Y graft using IEA appears to be an interesting operative method in double vessel MIDCAB."}
{"id": "10090349", "title": "Blood pressure and the risk of complex arrhythmia in renal insufficiency, hemodialysis, and renal transplant patients.", "content": "Blood pressure and the risk of complex arrhythmia in renal insufficiency, hemodialysis, and renal transplant patients. Complex arrhythmia is frequent in hemodialysis patients but it is not clear if this is a consequence of dialysis or uremia or is secondary to the hemodynamic and cardiovascular alterations often associated with chronic renal failure. The incidence of complex ventricular arrhythmia (frequent multiform premature beats, couplets, and runs) in 31 subjects who had their uremic status recently corrected by renal transplant (Group 1) and in 23 predialysis (Group 2) and 73 hemodialysis (Group 3) chronic renal failure patients were studied with 24-h Holter monitoring. Patients were not receiving antiarrhythmic drugs or digitalis and significant coronary artery disease was excluded by clinical and noninvasive methods. Complex arrhythmia was two times more frequent in dialysis patients but the difference did not reach statistical significance (Group 1: 16%; Group 2: 17%; Group 3: 34%; chi2 4.9, P = .086). The stepwise model of logistic regression analysis identified systolic blood pressure (odds ratio 1.015, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.001-1.027, P = .03) and left ventricular systolic dysfunction (odds ratio 7.04, 95% CI 1.3-36.7, P = .02) as the only factors that independently influenced the probability of complex arrhythmia. Age, gender, race, diabetes, smoking status, body mass index, diastolic blood pressure, serum creatinine, hematocrit, left ventricular mass index, and use of diuretics, beta-blockers, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, sympatolytics, and calcium channel blockers did not influence the occurrence of complex arrhythmia. The data indicate that blood pressure and myocardial dysfunction are more important determinants of complex arrhythmia than dialysis or uremia in chronic renal disease patients."}
{"id": "10087474", "title": "[Clinical significance of improved persistent defect by thallium-201 reinjection imaging in the subacute phase of myocardial infarction].", "content": "[Clinical significance of improved persistent defect by thallium-201 reinjection imaging in the subacute phase of myocardial infarction]. The clinical significance of new fill-in observed by thallium-201 (201Tl) reinjection in myocardial segments with persistent defect in the subacute phase of myocardial infarction was investigated. Seventy-five patients with subacute phase (mean 20th day) of first myocardial infarction underwent stress-redistribution-reinjection 201Tl single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging. Percentage 201Tl uptake was calculated and classified as persistent defect without fill-in even after reinjection (PD group, n = 26, 35%), persistent defect with new fill-in after reinjection [REINJ (+) group, n = 19, 25%] and reversible defect [RD (+) group, n = 24, 32%]. The clinical features and angiographic findings were assessed in the same phase in each group. Diameter stenosis of the infarction-related arteries by coronary angiography was 68 +/- 34% in the PD group, 31 +/- 23% in the REINJ (+) group and 83 +/- 27% in the RD (+) group [p < 0.01, REINJ (+) group vs PD group and RD (+) group]. Wall motion of the infarcted myocardial segments significantly improved and the mean left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) was higher in the REINJ (+) group than in the PD group (mean EF 51% vs 43%, p < 0.01). Post infarction angina was more frequent in the RD (+) group than in the REINJ (+) group (38% vs 5%, p < 0.05). Although new fill-in-after 201Tl reinjection has been considered to indicate severe myocardial ischemia in chronic coronary disease, these results indicate that this phenomenon in viable myocardium in patients with subacute phase of myocardial infarction is not always related to residual ischemia in the infarcted myocardial area."}
{"id": "10049195", "title": "Use of cardiovascular procedures among black persons and white persons: a 7-year nationwide study in patients with renal disease.", "content": "Use of cardiovascular procedures among black persons and white persons: a 7-year nationwide study in patients with renal disease. Black persons historically undergo fewer invasive cardiovascular procedures than white persons. To determine whether acquisition of Medicare health insurance and comprehensive care for severe illness reduce ethnic disparity in use of cardiovascular procedures. 7-year longitudinal analyses in a cohort from the United States Renal Data System. Health care institutions in the United States. Nationwide random sample of 4987 adult black and white patients with incident end-stage renal disease (ESRD) from 303 dialysis facilities in 1986 to 1987. Medical history and service use records, physical examination, and laboratory data. Main outcome measures were receipt of a coronary catheterization or revascularization procedure before (baseline) and after (follow-up) development of ESRD and acquisition of Medicare, adjusted for clinical and socioeconomic variables. At baseline, 9.9% of white patients and 2.8% of black patients had had a cardiac procedure; the odds were almost three times greater in white than in black patients (adjusted odds ratio, 2.92 [95% CI, 2.04 to 4.18]). During follow-up, white patients were only 1.4 times more likely than black patients to have a procedure (adjusted relative risk, 1.41 [CI, 1.13 to 1.77]); rates were 7.8% for white persons and 8.5% for black persons. In patients with Medicare coverage before development of ESRD, the initial three-fold difference in procedure use was eliminated over follow-up (odds ratio, 1.05 [CI, 0.56 to 1.60]). For procedures after hospital admission for myocardial infarction or coronary disease, no difference between ethnic groups was seen during follow-up (relative risk, 1.12 [CI, 0.68 to 1.85]). Differences between ethnic groups in use of cardiovascular procedures narrowed markedly once a serious illness (ESRD) developed and adequate insurance coverage was ensured; the disparity was eliminated in patients with previous Medicare insurance or a stronger indication for a procedure. These findings suggest that almost equal access to care is attainable by combining insurance with delivery of comprehensive, clinically appropriate care."}
{"id": "9973028", "title": "Ability of troponins to predict adverse outcomes in patients with renal insufficiency and suspected acute coronary syndromes: a case-matched study.", "content": "Ability of troponins to predict adverse outcomes in patients with renal insufficiency and suspected acute coronary syndromes: a case-matched study. The purpose of this study was to investigate the utility of cardiac troponin T and troponin I for predicting outcomes in patients presenting with suspected acute coronary syndromes and renal insufficiency relative to that observed in similar patients without renal disease. Cardiac troponin T and troponin I have shown promise as tools for risk stratification of patients with acute coronary syndromes. However, there is uncertainty regarding their cardiac specificity and utility in patients with renal disease. We measured troponin T, troponin I and creatine kinase MB in 51 patients presenting with suspected acute coronary syndromes and renal insufficiency and in 102 patients without evidence of renal disease matched for the same peak troponin T or I value, selected from a larger patient cohort. Blood samples were obtained at presentation to an emergency room 4 hours, 8 hours and 16 hours later. The ability of biochemical markers to predict adverse outcomes in both groups including infarction, recurrent ischemia, bypass surgery, heart failure, stroke, death or positive angiography/angioplasty during hospitalization and at six months was assessed by receiver-operator curve analysis. The performance of both troponins was compared between groups. Thirty-five percent of patients in the renal group and 45% of patients in the nonrenal group experienced an adverse initial outcome; over 50% of patients in all groups had experienced an adverse outcome by 6 months, but these differences were not significant. The area under the curve (AUC) for the ROC curve for troponin T as predictor of initial outcomes was significantly lower in the renal group than in the nonrenal group: 0.56+/-0.07 and 0.75+/-0.07, respectively. The area under the curve was also significantly lower in the renal group compared with the nonrenal group for troponin T as predictor of six month outcomes: 0.59+/-0.07 and 0.74+/-0.07, respectively. The area under the curve was also significantly lower in the renal group compared to the nonrenal group for troponin I as predictor of both initial and six month outcomes: 0.54+/-0.06 vs. 0.71+/-0.07 and 0.53+/- 0.06 vs. 0.65+/-0.07, respectively. The sensitivity of troponin T for both initial and six month adverse outcomes was significantly lower in the renal group than in the nonrenal group at a similar level of specificity (0.87): 0.29 vs. 0.60 and 0.45 vs. 0.56, respectively. Troponin I also exhibited similar differences in sensitivity in the renal group (0.29 vs. 0.50 and 0.33 vs. 0.40, respectively). The ability of cardiac troponin T and troponin I to predict risk for subsequent adverse outcomes in patients presenting with suspected acute coronary syndromes is reduced in the presence of renal insufficiency."}
{"id": "9973020", "title": "A prospective randomized trial of prevention measures in patients at high risk for contrast nephropathy: results of the P.R.I.N.C.E. Study. Prevention of Radiocontrast Induced Nephropathy Clinical Evaluation.", "content": "A prospective randomized trial of prevention measures in patients at high risk for contrast nephropathy: results of the P.R.I.N.C.E. Study. Prevention of Radiocontrast Induced Nephropathy Clinical Evaluation. This study was done to test the hypothesis that a forced diuresis with maintenance of intravascular volume after contrast exposure would reduce the rate of contrast-induced renal injury. We have previously shown a graded relationship with the degree of postprocedure renal failure and the probability of in-hospital death in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. Earlier studies of singular prevention strategies (atrial natriuretic factor, loop diuretics, dopamine, mannitol) have shown no clear benefit across a spectrum of patients at risk. A prospective, randomized, controlled, single-blind trial was conducted where 98 participants were randomized to forced diuresis with intravenous crystalloid, furosemide, mannitol (if pulmonary capillary wedge pressure <20 mm Hg), and low-dose dopamine (n = 43) versus intravenous crystalloid and matching placebos (n = 55). The groups were similar with respect to baseline serum creatinine (2.44+/-0.80 and 2.55+/-0.91 mg/dl), age, weight, diabetic status, left ventricular function, degree of prehydration, contrast volume and ionicity, and extent of peripheral vascular disease. The forced diuresis resulted in higher urine flow rate (163.26+/-54.47 vs. 122.57+/-54.27 ml/h) over the 24 h after contrast exposure (p = 0.001). Two participants in the experimental arm versus five in the control arm required dialysis, with all seven cases having measured flow rates <145 ml/h in the 24 h after the procedure. The mean individual change in serum creatinine at 48 h, the primary end point, was 0.48+/-0.86 versus 0.51+/-0.87, in the experimental and control arms, respectively, p = 0.87. There were no differences in the rates of renal failure across six definitions of renal failure by intent-to-treat analysis. However, in all participants combined, the rise in serum creatinine was related to the degree of induced diuresis after controlling for baseline renal function, r = -0.36, p = 0.005. The rates of renal failure in those with urine flow rates greater than 150 ml/h in the postprocedure period were significantly lower, 8/37 (21.6%) versus 28/61 (45.9%), p = 0.03. Forced diuresis with intravenous crystalloid, furosemide, and mannitol if hemodynamics permit, beginning at the start of angiography provides a modest benefit against contrast-induced nephropathy provided a high urine flow rate can be achieved."}
{"id": "9893112", "title": "Renal disease and hypertension in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.", "content": "Renal disease and hypertension in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. Recent epidemiologic data demonstrate a dramatic increase in the incidence of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), thus dispelling the mistaken belief that renal prognosis is benign in NIDDM. Currently, the leading cause of ESRD in the United States, Japan, and in most industrialized Europe is NIDDM, accounting for nearly 90% of all cases of diabetes. In addition to profound economic costs, patients with NIDDM and diabetic nephropathy have a dramatically increased morbidity and premature mortality. NIDDM-related nephropathy varies widely among racial and ethnic groups, genders and lifestyles; and gender may interact with race to affect the disease progression. While the course of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) progresses through well-defined stages, the natural history of NIDDM is less well characterized. NIDDM patients with coronary heart disease have a higher urinary albumin excretion rate at the time of diagnosis and follow-up. This greater risk may also be associated with hypertension and hyperlipidemia, and genes involved in blood pressure are obvious candidate genes for diabetic nephropathy. Hyperglycemia appears to be an important factor in the development of proteinuria in NIDDM, but its role and the influence of diet are not yet clear. Tobacco smoking can also be deleterious to the diabetic patient, and is also associated with disease progression. Maintaining euglycemia, stopping smoking and controlling blood pressure may prevent or slow the progression of NIDDM-related nephropathy and reduce extrarenal injury. Treatment recommendations include early screening for hyperlipidemia, appropriate exercise and a healthy diet. Cornerstones of management should also include: (1) educating the medical community and more widely disseminating data supporting the value of early treatment of microalbuminuria; (2) developing a comprehensive, multidisciplinary team approach that involves physicians, nurses, diabetes educators and behavioral therapists; and (3) intensifying research in this field."}
{"id": "10343078", "title": "Impact of recombinant human erythropoietin treatment on left ventricular hypertrophy and cardiac function in dialysis patients.", "content": "Impact of recombinant human erythropoietin treatment on left ventricular hypertrophy and cardiac function in dialysis patients. The results of anemia correction by recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO) therapy with regard to cardiac function and left ventricular hypertrophy in dialysis patients are controversially discussed. The aim of the study was to assess the effects of therapy rHuEPO on cardiac morphology and function in dialysis patients. We studied 11 clinically stable hemodialysis patients with severe renal anemia (hematocrit <27%) and increased left ventricular mass index (LVMi) with no history of coronary or valvular heart disease, systemic disease, severe hyperparathyroidism, hypertension stage 2 or higher, transfusion-dependent anemia, and concurrent rHuEPO treatment. The patients were treated with rHuEPO administered subcutaneously once or twice weekly at a mean dose of 80 +/- 31 IU/kg week until the hematocrit was >30% and underwent a complete Doppler echocardiographic study at baseline and at follow-up (after 12.2 +/- 2.9 months). At follow-up, ejection fraction and fractional shortening significantly increased from 62.7 +/- 13.8 to 67.8 +/- 9. 7% (p < 0.05) and from 35.5 +/- 9.8 to 39.4 +/- 7.1% (p < 0.05), respectively, whereas mean velocity of circumferential fiber shortening demonstrated a trend towards amelioration from 1.18 +/- 0. 23 to 1.27 +/- 0.27 circ/s (n.s.). LVMi and morphological data remained unchanged throughout the study. Nevertheless, LVMi changes showed two different behaviors with respect to baseline values: in 6 patients with higher baseline values, LVMi decreased from 229 +/- 36 to 191 +/- 45 g/m2 (p < 0.05), while it worsened in 5 patients with less marked LVMi, increasing from 141 +/- 32 to 186 +/- 40 g/m2 (p < 0.05). Our data demonstrate that partial correction of renal anemia with rHuEPO therapy seems to improve cardiac performance and to induce a regression of left ventricular hypertrophy, particularly in patients with greater baseline hypertrophy, ultimately confirming the multifactorial pathogenesis of left ventricular hypertrophy."}
{"id": "10095802", "title": "Use of dobutamine echocardiography for cardiac risk stratification of patients with chronic renal failure.", "content": "Use of dobutamine echocardiography for cardiac risk stratification of patients with chronic renal failure. This study sought to define the value of dobutamine echocardiography (DbE) for cardiac risk stratification in patients with chronic renal failure (CRF). Outcome study correlating results of DbE with late cardiac events in patients with CRF. Academic medical centre. All patients with CRF (serum creatinine > 2.5 mg dL-1) undergoing DbE were studied; we analysed 193 consecutive patients (aged 63 +/- 13 years, 73 men). A standard dobutamine-atropine stress was administered until attainment of peak dose, or the development of severe ischaemia or side-effects. The electrocardiogram (ECG) and echocardiogram were obtained before, during and after stress. Ischaemia was identified by new or worsening wall-motion abnormalities with stress. Patients were followed up after 38 +/- 14 months for cardiac death, myocardial infarction or coronary disease progression requiring revascularization. DbE demonstrated ischaemia in 36 patients (19%), scar in 36 (19%) and a normal study in 121 patients. The heart-rate response to dobutamine was submaximal (< 85% age-predicted heart rate) in the absence of wall-motion abnormalities in 69 patients (36%), 54 of whom completed the protocol. Follow-up data were complete in 191 patients (99%); cardiac events occurred in 33 patients (17%), including 17 with cardiac death, 7 with infarction, and 9 requiring late revascularization. Spontaneous events occurred in 7 patients with ischaemia, 3 with scar (8%), 11 with a nondiagnostic study (16%) and 3 patients with a normal study (6%). Over the entire follow-up, the event-free survival in patients with ischaemia (66%) was markedly lower than those without ischaemia (84%, P = 0.006). However, the event rate in patients with nonischaemic responses increased from 8% to 16% between 24 and 40 months, and whilst ischaemia was an independent predictor of outcome at 24 months, it was not at 40 months. In patients with CRF, the identification of ischaemia at DbE is associated with a significant risk of adverse cardiac events. Patients with nonischaemic scans have a low frequency of events over short-term follow-up, but this increases at later follow-up. These later events may reflect progressive coronary disease, attributable to the atherogenic milieu of these patients, and imply that repeated testing may be required to maintain cardiac risk stratification in patients with CRF."}
{"id": "10025064", "title": "[Ulcer of the thoracic aorta: diagnosis, therapy and prognosis].", "content": "[Ulcer of the thoracic aorta: diagnosis, therapy and prognosis]. Penetrating aortic ulcers (PAU) result from progressive erosion of atheromatose plaques perforating the internal elastic lamina. PAU is considered both a predisposing condition and differential diagnosis of classic aortic dissection; 93 cases of PAU are documented in the world literature, 60% of which are male over 60 years old. Systemic hypertension was prevalent in 85%, history of smoking in 72%, hyperlipoproteinemia in 35%, and diabetes mellitus in 31%. In 61%, PAU was associated with coronary artery disease, in 53% with abdominal or thoracic aortic aneurysm, in 31% with chronic renal insufficiency, in 17% with peripheral artery disease, and in 12% with a history of cerebrovascular accidents. In 73%, PAU was associated with formation of medial hematoma and in 16% with a thick, calcified intimal flap of less than 10 cm extent. Angiography, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging and transesophageal echocardiography were used in 66, 64, 23 and 14%, respectively, for diagnosing PAU; sensitivities for demonstrating PAU were 83, 65, 86 and 61%, respectively. Chest or back pain was found in 76% and an acute onset of symptoms in 68%. Signs of mediastinal widening were found in 59%, neurologic signs comprising hoarseness, syncope or coma in 8%, pulse differentials caused by embolism in 4%, aortic regurgitation in 7%, and mediastinal hematoma, pleural- or pericardial effusion in 42, 27 and 10%, respectively. PAU of the ascending aorta or aortic arch (type A) leads to dissection and rupture in 57%, compared to 12% and 5%, respectively, in the descending aorta (type B); 57% of medically managed type A PAU patients died within 30 d of hospital admission compared to only 14% of type B PAU with 20 cases of uncomplicated long-term outcome without surgery. Thus, similar to the Stanford classification for aortic dissection, type A PAU should primarily be considered for surgical management, whereas type B PAU without signs of instability may be managed medically."}
{"id": "9914952", "title": "[Elevated levels of plasma homocysteine related to saphenous vein graft disease after coronary artery bypass graft surgery].", "content": "[Elevated levels of plasma homocysteine related to saphenous vein graft disease after coronary artery bypass graft surgery]. Elevated levels of plasma homocysteine may be an independent risk factor for coronary atherosclerosis. This study investigated whether plasma homocysteine levels are related to atherosclerotic lesions of saphenous vein grafts after coronary artery bypass surgery. Homocysteine levels were measured in fasting plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography and total cholesterol, triglyceride, high density lipoprotein cholesterol and lipoprotein (a) were also evaluated in 40 patients (mean age 65 +/- 8 years, mean interval after bypass surgery: 6.1 +/- 3.1 years, range 1-13 years). The vein graft disease group was defined as patients with angiographical stenosis of > or = 50% in any vein graft (n = 23). The other patients were defined as the no-vein graft disease group (n = 17). Patients who had a history of chronic renal failure or anatomic lesions of saphenous vein grafts were excluded. The distributions of homocysteine were skewed. Median homocysteine levels were 11.9 nmol/ml in all subjects. Homocysteine levels in the vein graft disease group were significantly higher than in the no-vein graft disease group (median 15.1 vs 10.6 nmol/ml, p = 0.01). In the analysis of plasma lipids, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were significantly lower in the vein graft disease group than in the no-vein graft disease group (mean 37 +/- 11 vs 48 +/- 13 mg/dl, p = 0.01). Multiple regression analysis showed that elevated levels of homocysteine were an independent risk factor for saphenous vein graft disease after coronary artery bypass surgery. These findings indicate that elevated levels of plasma homocysteine are related to atherosclerotic lesions of saphenous vein grafts after coronary artery bypass surgery as well as coronary atherosclerosis."}
{"id": "9857935", "title": "Biochemical differences between cTnT and cTnI and their significance for diagnosis of acute coronary syndromes.", "content": "Biochemical differences between cTnT and cTnI and their significance for diagnosis of acute coronary syndromes. Although assays for cardiac troponin T (cTnT) and cardiac troponin I (cTnI) exhibit similar clinical performance in patients with acute coronary syndromes for diagnosis and risk stratification, there are differences in the release and clearance of these proteins from damaged myocytes. There are also differences in the percentages of patients with chronic renal failure and skeletal muscle myopathies that have abnormal results. A review of the biochemistry of these proteins may provide insights as to the nature of these differences. Cardiac troponin T has a higher overall tissue concentration and free cytoplasmic concentrations than cTnI, and appears in blood of patients with acute myocardial infarction as a mixture of complexed (cTnT-I-C) and free cTnT. Cardiac troponin I is more hydrophobic and appears in blood predominately in the binary complex (I-C) form, with smaller amounts of the ternary (T-I-C) complex. Degradation of the complex will lead to faster clearance of the protein. There are also differences in standardization and availability of commercial troponin kits. Cardiac troponin T assays are available from only one manufacturer and are standardized to a single material, whereas cTnI is available from multiple vendors. While there is some degree of correlation between assays, there are significant proportional biases between results which can be problematical when different tests are made on the same patient."}
{"id": "9853162", "title": "Does coronary stenting following balloon angioplasty improve myocardial fractional flow reserve?", "content": "Does coronary stenting following balloon angioplasty improve myocardial fractional flow reserve? Suboptimal distal coronary flow reserve after successful balloon angioplasty has been attributed to angiographically unrecognized inadequate lumen expansion, and adjunct coronary stenting has been shown to improve coronary flow reserve. The aim of this study was to investigate whether myocardial fractional flow reserve (FFRmyo) would increase further after coronary stenting compared with balloon angioplasty alone in the same patient group. FFRmyo and quantitative coronary angiography were obtained before and after pre-stent balloon dilation, and again after stent placement in 11 patients (7 left anterior descending artery, 3 right coronary artery and 1 left circumflex artery). FFRmyo was calculated as the ratio of Pd/Pa during intracoronary adenosine 5'-triphosphate (50 micrograms and 20 micrograms in the left and right coronary arteries, respectively)-induced maximum hyperemia, where Pd represents mean distal coronary pressure measured by a 2.1 Fr infusion catheter and Pa represents mean aortic pressure measured by the guiding catheter. Percent diameter stenosis significantly decreased after balloon angioplasty (74% +/- 15% vs 37% +/- 17%, p < 0.001), and decreased further after stent placement (18% +/- 10%, p < 0.001 vs baseline and balloon angioplasty). FFRmyo after coronary stenting (0.85 +/- 0.09) was significantly higher than that at baseline (0.51 +/- 0.16, p < 0.001) and after balloon angioplasty (0.77 +/- 0.11, p < 0.05). There was a significant correlation between angiographic variables and FFRmyo. The increase in lumen dimensions after coronary stenting was followed by a further significant improvement of FFRmyo. These results suggest that coronary stenting may provide a more favorable functional status and lumen geometry of residual coronary stenosis compared with balloon angioplasty alone."}
{"id": "9847582", "title": "[One stage operation for aneurysm of the diverticulum of the ductus arteriosus and coronary artery bypass grafting].", "content": "[One stage operation for aneurysm of the diverticulum of the ductus arteriosus and coronary artery bypass grafting]. Aneurysm of the diverticulum of the ductus arteriosus in the adult is rare. One stage operation for aneurysm of the diverticulum of the ductus arteriosis and coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is reported. A 61-year-old man was admitted for diagnosis of thoracic aneurysm on chest X-ray and CT. Chest CT scan showed an aneurysm above the left main pulmonary artery. An aortography showed the left vertebral artery originated directly from the aortic arch and a saccular aneurysm arising from the aortic isthmus and lesser curvature of the aortic arch. Coronary arteriography showed 75% stenosis at the right coronary artery (seg. #1) and 75% stenosis at the left anterior descending artery. Operation was performed through a median sternotomy. The aneurysm of 6 to 3 cm was located between the aortic isthmus and left pulmonary artery. Ascending aorta and right atrium were used to institute cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). CABG (LITA to #7, SVG to #4 PD) was performed. Arterial cannulation was then switched to the left femoral artery. The proximal aorta was cross-clamped between the left vertebral artery and the left subclavian artery under the partial CPB, and the distal aorta was occluded with a occulusive balloon catheter via the right femoral artery. The selective left axillar artery cannulation was performed to perfuse LITA. The aneurysm was resected and closed with a patch. His post-operative course was uneventful."}
{"id": "9813755", "title": "Assessment of coronary blood flow in humans using phase difference MR imaging. Comparison with intracoronary Doppler flow measurement.", "content": "Assessment of coronary blood flow in humans using phase difference MR imaging. Comparison with intracoronary Doppler flow measurement. Coronary blood flow quantification provides essential information on the hemodynamic significance of coronary artery stenoses. Recently, magnetic resonance (MR) flow mapping has emerged as a new promising method to noninvasively determine flow velocity and flow volume within the coronary arteries. The aim of this study was to compare phase difference (PD) MR flow quantification with intracoronary Doppler flow measurements in 15 patients with suspected or known coronary artery disease. Flow quantification was attempted before and after systemic application of 5mg Isosorbiddinitrate (ISDN) in order to determine possible alterations in coronary flow volume. PD MR flow mapping was performed successfully in 13 of the 15 patients. For flow velocities and flow volume values, a close correlation between PD MR and Doppler flow measurements was found (r = 0.79 and r = 0.90, respectively). However, average flow measured by PD MR was significantly lower than the invasively obtained values (9.0 +/- 4.4 cm/sec vs. 11.7 +/- 4.9 cm/sec; p < 0.001 and 46.3 +/- 28.7 ml/min vs. 53.4 +/- 32.8 ml/min; p < 0.05). Although the mean flow volume remained constant in the entire patient group after ISDN application, individual changes (increase in 6, decrease in 4 cases) could be documented with PD MR imaging and showed a good correlation to the Doppler method (r = 0.82). In conclusion, PD MR flow mapping is a promising method for the noninvasive quantification of coronary blood flow and therefore offers the potential of assessing coronary artery stenoses. However, technical improvements are mandatory in order to increase accuracy of the method."}
{"id": "9807034", "title": "Coronary artery diameter and left ventricular function in patients on maintenance hemodialysis treatment: comparison between diabetic and nondiabetic patients.", "content": "Coronary artery diameter and left ventricular function in patients on maintenance hemodialysis treatment: comparison between diabetic and nondiabetic patients. This study examined the role of diabetes mellitus on determining left ventricular function by evaluating coronary artery diameter in patients with end-stage renal disease on maintenance hemodialysis treatment. We studied 12 diabetic and 12 nondiabetic patients on maintenance hemodialysis treatment without significant stenoses of the major epicardial coronary arteries. Patients were matched for age, sex distribution, duration of dialysis and incidence of major coronary risk factors. Left ventricular wall thickness (septal and posterior walls) and left ventricular diameter (end-diastolic and systolic phases), were measured by echocardiography. Hemodynamic measurements and coronary angiography were performed on the day of hemodialysis and coronary artery diameter at the proximal and mid portion of three major coronary arteries were measured using the computed densitometry method. Right and left anterior descending and circumflex coronary artery diameters were all significantly smaller and the frequency of coronary artery calcification was higher in diabetic (58%) compared to nondiabetic (8%) patients. Although there were no significant differences in left ventricular wall thickness, left ventricular diameter, mean right atrial pressure and cardiac index between the two groups, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was significantly higher in diabetic (22 +/- 9 mm Hg) compared to nondiabetic patients (14 +/- 5 mm Hg). Despite that there were no significant stenoses of the major epicardial coronary arteries, diffuse luminal narrowing of the epicardial coronary arteries in diabetic patients on maintenance hemodialysis treatment was associated with increased left ventricular end-diastolic pressure."}
{"id": "9797147", "title": "Coronary flow and flow reserve in canines using MR phase difference and complex difference processing.", "content": "Coronary flow and flow reserve in canines using MR phase difference and complex difference processing. Coronary artery disease continues to be the leading cause of death for adults in the United States. Magnetic resonance imaging (MR) has the potential to dramatically impact the diagnosis of heart disease by noninvasively providing a wide range of anatomic and physiologic information. Previous research has shown that coronary flow, one component of a complete examination, can be accurately measured in the left anterior descending artery in vivo. The current work validates MR flow measurements in canine circumflex arteries using transit time ultrasound as a standard. The circumflex artery experiences greater in-plane motion and is a more stringent test for flow measurement accuracy. This work also compares two methods of processing MR velocity data, phase difference and complex difference techniques, and examines the sources of error present in the animal validation model. Phase difference processing with a 30% magnitude threshold best matched the mean ultrasound flow values (30% PD = 1.04 x US + 1.49, r = 0.94), but it was very sensitive to vessel boundary identification. The complex difference process was less sensitive to vessel boundary identification and correlated well with the transit time ultrasound despite systematic underestimations. The reasons for the discrepancies are shown to stem from a number of possible sources including variability of the ultrasound standard, low signal-to-noise ratios in the MR images, sensitivity of the MR technique to vessel boundary identification, and motion artifacts in the images."}
{"id": "9761973", "title": "Coronary artery disease in dialysis patients.", "content": "Coronary artery disease in dialysis patients."}
{"id": "9753853", "title": "Elective stent implantation after optimal debulking for complex coronary lesions: acute and mid-term results.", "content": "Elective stent implantation after optimal debulking for complex coronary lesions: acute and mid-term results. Between January 1995 to December 1997, 45 patients with complex lesions in coronary arteries were treated by using the strategy of initial debulking with an atherectomy device followed by elective stenting. Their age ranged from 35-73 years (mean +/- SD:53.9 +/- 9.1) and 93.3 percent were males. The lesion morphology was type B1 in 14 (31.1%), B2 in 16 (35.6%) and type C in 13 (28.9%) patients. The choice of atherectomy device, based primarily on the morphology of lesion, was rotational atherectomy in 23 (51.1%) and directional coronary atherectomy in 22 (48.9%) patients. While majority (73.9%) of the lesions treated by rotablation were long, diffuse and calcified, directional atherectomy was preferred for highly eccentric stenoses in large-sized arteries. All patients underwent elective stent implantation after optimal lesion debulking using a mean burr size of 1.74 +/- 0.2mm for rotablation and a 7Fr. atherocath in majority (90.9%) of patients treated by directional coronary atherectomy. Angiographic success was achieved in all, while clinical success was 97.8 percent. One patient died of acute-on-chronic renal failure during hospitalisation. There were no other major in-hospital adverse cardiac events. At a median follow-up of 13 months (range 1-36 months), recurrence of angina developed in 10 (22.7%), out in which target lesion revascularisation was required in 5 (11.4%) and elective coronary artery bypass graft surgery in one (2.2%) patient. The event-free survival as calculated by the Kaplan-Meier method was 85.8 percent at six, 77.2 at 12 71.7 percent at 18 months of follow-up. In conclusion, optimal debulking before stent implantation provides a larger lumen, and thus eliminates sub-acute stent thrombosis in complex coronary lesions. This strategy also resulted in a high incidence of event-free survival and a low frequency of target lesion revascularisation on mid-term follow-up."}
{"id": "9738122", "title": "Minimally invasive left anterior descending coronary artery revascularisation in high-risk patients with three-vessel disease.", "content": "Minimally invasive left anterior descending coronary artery revascularisation in high-risk patients with three-vessel disease. We reviewed our experience over a 12 month period with using minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass (MIDCAB) for the management of high-risk patients with three-vessel coronary artery disease. Twenty patients (4 females, mean age 67 years) received left internal mammary artery (LIMA) grafts to the left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery. Associated co-morbidity included: severe chronic renal failure, severe extensive arteriopathy, chronic obstructive airway disease, poor general condition and severely impaired left ventricular function. There was one early postoperative mortality and no other cardiac-related morbidity. Graft patency investigated, using angiography was 90%, and 5 patients underwent follow-up angioplasty to other coronary arteries. All patients remain entirely angina free at a follow-up period between 3 and 12 months. We conclude that MIDCAB is a safe and effective approach for managing high-risk patients with three-vessel coronary artery disease."}
{"id": "9691592", "title": "[Perioperative management for nephrectomy in a long-term hemodialysis patient with anticoagulants for coronary stent].", "content": "[Perioperative management for nephrectomy in a long-term hemodialysis patient with anticoagulants for coronary stent]. A 53-year old man on long-term hemodialysis (HD) with anticoagulant therapy was scheduled for nephrectomy due to renal cell carcinoma. Two months before surgery, a coronary stent had been placed due to right coronary artery disease. One week before surgery, percutaneous transmural coronary angioplasty (PTCA) was performed for unstable angina. Aggressive oral antiplatelet therapy (aspirin and ticlopidine) was absolutely required to maintain patency. Following withdrawal of the antiplatelets, unfractionated heparin (UFH) was titrated to an activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) of 1.5 times greater than the control value. Maintenance UFH (800 U.h-1) was continued until the time of arrival in the operation room (activated clotting time (ACT) was 166 seconds). One hour after arrival, reduced dose of UFH (200 U.h-1) was reinfused, and ACT was 121 140 seconds. Hemodynamic change was minimized using balanced general anesthesia (nitrous oxide-isoflurane, fentanyl, midazolam and vecuronium) accompanied by nitroglycerin and diltiazem. There was no ischemic change on ECG or transesophageal echocardiography. Following surgery, the UFH dose was augmented (400 U.h-1), and the maintenance dose was attained 11 hours after surgery. HD on the second postoperative day was performed uneventfully. This hemodynamic stability might be come from the no water removal. Fourteen days after surgery, the patient was discharged without hemorrhagic complications or clinical ischemic events. We conclude that perioperative UFH infusion is not contraindicated for dialysis patient if strict ACT control is maintained."}
{"id": "9685126", "title": "Prophylactic repair of renal artery stenosis is not justified in patients who require infrarenal aortic reconstruction.", "content": "Prophylactic repair of renal artery stenosis is not justified in patients who require infrarenal aortic reconstruction. Simultaneous prophylactic repair of asymptomatic renal artery stenosis (ARAS) in patients who require infrarenal aortoiliac reconstruction is controversial. This study documents the natural history of ARAS in patients who require aortic reconstruction. Two hundred patients who required aortic reconstruction from 1985 to 1990 for indications other than hypertension or renal salvage were identified. ARAS was not repaired. Preoperative angiograms were available for 171 of 200 patients and were reviewed for renal artery stenosis. Patients were assessed for atherosclerotic risk factors, survival, preoperative and follow-up blood pressure, serum creatinine level, antihypertensive medication usage, and need for dialysis. The mean duration of follow-up was 6.3 years. Twenty-four of 171 patients (14%) had preoperative unilateral 70% to 99% diameter reduction ARAS, and eight (5%) had bilateral 70% to 99% ARAS. Clinical features associated with > or =70% ARAS included coronary artery disease, increased age, and a diagnosis of hypertension (p < 0.05). Patients with > or =70% ARAS did not have a decreased 7-year survival rate (66% vs 84%; p = 0.10) but had higher systolic blood pressures (153 +/- 25 vs 138 +/- 30 mm Hg; p < 0.05) as well as increased numbers of antihypertensive medications at follow-up (1.1 +/- 0.2 vs 0.7 +/- 1; p < 0.05). The mean serum creatinine level (1.1 +/- 0.3 preoperative vs 1.4 +/- 0.8 mg/dl; p = NS) was not increased. One patient (0.58%) with polycystic kidney disease and minimal renal artery stenosis required dialysis. High-grade ARAS in patients who are undergoing infrarenal aortic reconstruction is associated at late follow-up with increased systolic blood pressure and a need for increased numbers of antihypertensive medications, but not decreased survival rate, dialysis dependence, or an increase in serum creatinine level. These data do not support renal artery repair in patients with ARAS who undergo infrarenal aortic reconstruction."}
{"id": "9648086", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy and prognostic value of combined dipyridamole-exercise thallium imaging in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy and prognostic value of combined dipyridamole-exercise thallium imaging in hemodialysis patients. Non-invasive detection of coronary artery disease in dialysis patients, a major cause of mortality, often remains difficult. The aim of the study was to test the diagnostic and prognostic accuracies of combined dipyridamole-exercise thallium imaging in dialysis patients. Dipyridamole-exercise thallium imaging and coronary angiography were both performed prospectively in 60 asymptomatic hemodialysis patients who were followed up, long term, by recording any major coronary event. Coronary angiography was abnormal in 13 patients (21%), and there was abnormal thallium uptake in 17 patients. Sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values, and overall accuracy of thallium to detect a coronary artery disease were 92, 89, 71, 98 and 90%, respectively. After a median follow-up of 2.8 years, 12 patients experienced at least one major coronary event (4 cardiac deaths, 5 myocardial infarctions and 3 revascularizations). Eight of the 17 patients with abnormal thallium uptake (47%) suffered a coronary event, compared to only 4 of the 43 patients (9%) with a normal thallium uptake (P < 0.001). The positive prognostic predictive value of thallium imaging was 47% and its negative predictive value was 91%. The probability of survival free of coronary events was significantly higher in patients with normal thallium uptake than in those with abnormal thallium uptake (crude risk ratio 7.6; P < 0.001) even after adjustment for several risk factors for cardiovascular disease (adjusted risk ratio 9.2; P < 0.005). In dialysis patients, combined dipyridamole-exercise thallium imaging is an accurate method for detecting coronary stenosis and for predicting future coronary events."}
{"id": "9604070", "title": "CMV infection is associated with transplant renal artery stenosis.", "content": "CMV infection is associated with transplant renal artery stenosis. Transplant renal artery stenosis (TRAS) is a significant cause of graft dysfunction, with no clearly defined aetiology. Evidence suggests a role for cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection in cardiac transplant vasculopathy and in native coronary artery restenosis after angioplasty. We investigated the relationship between CMV infection after renal transplantation and subsequent development of TRAS. Of 917 patients receiving renal transplants at a single centre from 1978 to 1994, 75 had TRAS diagnosed by angiography. Each was paired with a control transplanted patient with no TRAS, matched for age, sex, year of transplant and number of grafts. Incidence of CMV infection between transplantation and the time of diagnosis of TRAS was assessed in both groups, using clinical and serological criteria to assign patients to three groups: definite CMV infection (CMV-DEF), possible infection (CMV-POSS) and no evidence of infection (CMV-NUL). CMV-DEF was significantly more common in TRAS than in controls (36 vs. 12, respectively, p < 0.001) and CMV-NUL was less common (TRAS 15, controls 33). We have previously reported an increased incidence of acute rejection in patients with TRAS. The subset of patients with no rejection episodes also had significantly more CMV-DEF cases in the TRAS group (54%) than in controls (10%) (p = 0.002). The data are consistent with the hypothesis that CMV infection can contribute to the development of TRAS. The relationship between CMV and TRAS did not arise from an excess of anti-rejection treatment in the TRAS group. CMV-induced large-vessel damage in immunosuppressed patients may occur through local infection and the mitogenic actions of viral gene products within cells of the vessel wall."}
{"id": "9596081", "title": "Coronary aneurysms in patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease.", "content": "Coronary aneurysms in patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. Patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) have an increased risk of intracranial aneurysms. Reports on arterial aneurysms in other locations have not been conclusive. The present study was initiated to investigate the prevalence of coronary aneurysms. Thirty ADPKD patients who had undergone coronary angiography on clinical indication were identified, 15 after renal transplantation. For each ADPKD patient, a control patient was identified with end-stage renal disease, investigated by coronary angiography, and matched for age, sex, and time relation to transplantation. All angiograms were retrieved and reevaluated with respect to aneurysms, defined as an increase in artery diameter by 50% or more, as well as to pathologic ectasias not fulfilling this criterion. Aneurysms were detected in four ADPKD patients and two control subjects. Five more ADPKD patients, but none of the control subjects, had minor ectasias. One ADPKD patient had a dissecting aortic aneurysm, and another died of aortic dissection during bypass surgery. This study adds to the evidence of an increased risk of extracranial aneurysms in ADPKD patients."}
{"id": "9575401", "title": "Prognostic value of dipyridamole thallium-201 screening to minimize perioperative cardiac complications in diabetics undergoing kidney or kidney-pancreas transplantation.", "content": "Prognostic value of dipyridamole thallium-201 screening to minimize perioperative cardiac complications in diabetics undergoing kidney or kidney-pancreas transplantation. To minimize perioperative cardiac events, we utilize a screening protocol consisting of intravenous dipyridamole thallium-201 myocardial imaging (DPT), with the selective use of coronary angiography based on the presence of reversible defect(s) on DPT test. A retrospective study was performed to determine the prognostic value of this protocol and to identify any clinical parameters predictive of an abnormal DPT test. To accomplish this, a detailed chart analysis of 176 consecutive kidney (n = 89) and kidney-pancreas (n = 87) transplant recipients who had undergone pretransplant DPT testing was performed. The results of the DPT test were interpreted as normal in 111, fixed defect in 15, and reversible defect(s) in 50 patients. Forty-two of the 50 patients with reversible defect(s) underwent coronary angiography. Twelve of the 27 patients with significant coronary artery disease (CAD, > 50% stenosis in one or more coronary arteries) underwent pretransplant revascularization and the remaining 15 were treated medically. Cardiac events (documented acute myocardial infarction or sudden cardiac death) within 6 wk of transplant were stratified by the results of this protocol. Also, various clinical parameters were compared between patients with normal and abnormal (fixed and reversible defect) DPT tests. Only one of the 111 (0.9%) transplant recipients with a normal DPT test had a perioperative cardiac event. None of the 15 (0%) patients with a fixed defect and none of the 15 (0%) patients with reversible defect(s), but a nonsignificant (< 50% narrowing) coronary angiogram, had a perioperative cardiac event. Three of the 27 (11.1%) patients with reversible defect(s) and significant disease on coronary angiography, who had undergone pre-transplant revascularization or were managed medically, had a perioperative coronary event. Of 14 recipients parameters analyzed, age > 50 yr was the only variable predictive of an abnormal DPT test. We conclude that the incidence of perioperative cardiac events in patients with a normal or fixed defect, or reversible defect(s) but a nonsignificant (< 50% narrowing) coronary angiogram is very low, indicating the high correlation of these findings on DPT and an uneventful (cardiac) post-transplant course. The incidence of perioperative cardiac complications amongst the high-risk transplant recipients with reversible defect(s) and significant CAD on coronary angiogram may be minimized by appropriate preoperative medical management or revascularization. None of the clinical variables except age > 50 yr was predictive of an abnormal DPT test."}
{"id": "9567044", "title": "[A case of MIDCAB to the left circumflex via the left posterolateral thoracotomy].", "content": "[A case of MIDCAB to the left circumflex via the left posterolateral thoracotomy]. There have been many reports of MIDCAB to left anterior descending artery via a small dissection utilizing the left anterolateral thoracotomy. We report here a case of CABG reoperation to the circumflex artery by MIDCAB via the left posterolateral thoracotomy. A 66-year-old male patient had received a 3 branch bypass graft on the LITA-LAD and the SVG-OM-4 PD at another institution. Postoperative angiography revealed a SVG occlusion. Since repeated intervention was unsuccessful, reoperation was necessary. To preserve the patency of the LITA, the 4th left intercostal posterolateral thoracotomy was selected. We utilized a commercially available rib retractor for MIDCAB, as well as a stabilizer and a CO2 blower to obtain a nearly perfect bloodless stabilized view. A new SVG was used to connect the left circumflex artery. The operation was successful without any postoperative complications or need for transfusion. After a two week hospital stay, the graft patency was confirmed and the patient was discharged."}
{"id": "9567039", "title": "[Minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass for ischemic heart disease associated with preoperative severe complications].", "content": "[Minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass for ischemic heart disease associated with preoperative severe complications]. Our experiences of minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass (MIDCAB) were reported with review of literatures. Patient #1 was a 69 years-old man with left main lesion associated with cerebral infarction and impaired renal function. Preoperative CT examination showed calcified ascending aorta. There was no significant lesions in the large right coronary artery and the circumflex was small. The patient underwent MIDCAB via minithoracotomy on the fourth intercostal space with left internal thoracic artery (ITA) to left anterior descending artery (LAD). The patient was weaned from ventilator 3 hours after the operation and his postoperative course was uneventful. Patient #2 was a 80 years-old man with acute myocardial infarction requiring intraaortic balloon pumping (IABP) due to significant stenosis in the right coronary artery and left main lesion associated with chronic hemodialysis due to renal failure. The right coronary artery was dilated by balloon angioplasty at the time of emergency coronary angiogram. However, the emergent operation was required because of the left main lesion. The circumflex was relatively small and because of severe complication, MIDCAB was selected to improve his condition. He underwent MIDCAB via minithoracotomy. The heart was enlarged because of congestive heart failure and left inferior epigastric artery was used to extend the length of the left ITA. The composite graft of ITA and IEA was anastomosed to the LAD under beating heart. The IABP was removed 8 hours after the operation and his postoperative course was uneventful. The MIDCAB for coronary artery bypass was first reported by Benetti et al in 1995 and the procedure seemed to be very effective for preventing postoperative complications in selected patients as seen in ours."}
{"id": "9564946", "title": "Transmyocardial laser revascularization in allograft coronary artery disease.", "content": "Transmyocardial laser revascularization in allograft coronary artery disease. We used transmyocardial laser revascularization to treat accelerated cardiac allograft atherosclerosis in 2 patients. One patient received transmyocardial laser revascularization as sole therapy, the other as an adjunct to coronary artery bypass grafting. The systolic function improved in both patients, although the patient who had adjunctive transmyocardial laser revascularization died of systemic infection and renal failure on postoperative day 55. The second patient is alive and well 1 1/2 years after the laser procedure. We discuss 4 other patients who received transmyocardial laser revascularization treatment elsewhere in the United States. Transmyocardial laser revascularization has the potential to become important in the treatment of transplant atherosclerosis. Randomized clinical trials are warranted to assess the efficacy of transmyocardial laser revascularization in this setting."}
{"id": "9550645", "title": "Signal-averaged ECG abnormalities in haemodialysis patients. Role of dialysis.", "content": "Signal-averaged ECG abnormalities in haemodialysis patients. Role of dialysis. Late potentials (LP) on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram (SAECG) are predictive of malignant ventricular arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death in patients with ischaemic and non-ischaemic cardiomyopathy. Cardiac dysfunction, both regional and global, as well as supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias are reported in a high percentage of patients with end-stage renal failure (ESRF). The aim of the study was to assess the prevalence of LP and the effects of haemodialysis on the SAECG of ESRF patients. SAECG was recorded immediately before and within 30 min after the end of dialysis in 48 patients in sinus rhythm, free of conduction disturbances on ECG and of signs of congestive heart failure. Serum electrolytes were sampled together with the SAECG recordings. An echo-Doppler exam was performed within 2 weeks of the study. SAECGs were adequate for analysis in 45/48 patients. LP were present when at least two of the following criteria were fulfilled: QRS duration < or = 115 ms, LAS40 < or = 38 ms, RMS40 > or = 38 microV at 40 Hz high pass bidirectional filter, and noise <0.7 microV. LP were detected in 12/45 patients (25%) on the SAECG before dialysis; of these 12 patients, seven had a history of a previous myocardial infarction and two had documented coronary artery disease (CAD). A significant greater wall motion score index--calculated on a 16 segment model--was reported in patients with LP (1.20+/-0.20 vs 1.01+/-0.03, P<0.01), while left ventricular mass was comparable in the two groups of patients. At the end of dialysis, a significant prolongation of fQRS duration was found both at 25 and 40 Hz filters (from 98+/-11 to 106+/-16 ms and from 97+/-12 s to 102+/-13 ms, respectively, P<0.001). A significant inverse relationship was seen between the percentage of dialysis-induced serum potassium reduction and fQRS changes at 40 Hz (r=-0.68, P<0.001). LP were detected in a significant proportion of dialysis patients, probably related to underlying CAD with left ventricular dysfunction. Prolongation of fQRS after dialysis could be explained by the acute reduction in serum potassium levels."}
{"id": "9492240", "title": "Hypocapnia associated with cardiac stress scintigraphy in chest pain patients with panic disorder.", "content": "Hypocapnia associated with cardiac stress scintigraphy in chest pain patients with panic disorder. Patients with recurrent chest pain but no evidence of coronary artery disease often meet diagnostic criteria for panic disorder (PD). However, it can be argued that the phenomenological diagnosis of PD may not be valid in these normal coronary chest pain (NCCP) patients. The purpose of this study is to additionally validate the diagnosis of PD in chest pain patients by comparing PCO2 levels before and during myocardial stress scintigraphy in those with and without PD. End-tidal PCO2 was measured before and during myocardial stress scintigraphy in 22 patients being evaluated for chest pain. Psychiatric diagnoses were assessed by structured interview. Eleven of the 19 patients (58%) with negative scintigrams met DSM-III-R diagnostic criteria for current panic disorder. Prestress PCO2 levels were significantly lower in these patients. Eight of the nine NCCP patients with prestress PCO2 < 34 mm Hg had PD. The finding of stress-related hypocapnia associated with PD in NCCP patients provides additional support for the validity of the diagnosis of PD in this population. The potential value of PCO2 measurements in screening for PD in patients with chest pain merits additional study."}
{"id": "9520130", "title": "LDL-unbound apolipoprotein(a) and carotid atherosclerosis in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "LDL-unbound apolipoprotein(a) and carotid atherosclerosis in hemodialysis patients. High lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] plasma concentrations, which are genetically determined by apo(a) size polymorphism, are directly associated with an increased risk for atherosclerosis. Patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), who show an enormous prevalence of cardiovascular disease, have elevated plasma concentrations of Lp(a). In recent studies we were able to show that apo(a) size polymorphism is a better predictor for carotid atherosclerosis and coronary artery disease in hemodialysis patients than concentrations of Lp(a) and other lipoproteins. Less than 5% of apo(a) in plasma exists in a low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-unbound form. This \"free\" apo(a) consists mainly of disintegrated apo(a) molecules of different molecular weight, ranging from about 125 to 360 kDa. LDL-unbound apo(a) molecules are elevated in patients with ESRD. The aim of this study was therefore to investigate whether the LDL-unbound form of apo(a) contributes to the prediction of carotid atherosclerosis in a group of 153 hemodialysis patients. The absolute amount of LDL-unbound apo(a) showed a trend to increasing values with the degree of carotid atherosclerosis, but the correlation of Lp(a) plasma concentrations with atherosclerosis was more pronounced. In multivariate analysis the two variables were related to neither the presence nor the degree of atherosclerosis. Instead, the apo(a) phenotype took the place of Lp(a) and LDL-unbound apo(a). After adjustment for other variables, the odds ratio for carotid atherosclerosis in patients with a low molecular weight apo(a) phenotype was about 5 (p<0.01). This indicates a strong association between the apo(a) phenotype and the prevalence of carotid atherosclerosis. Finally, multivariate regression analysis revealed age, angina pectoris and the apo(a) phenotype as the only significant predictors of the degree of atherosclerosis in these patients. In summary, it seems that LDL-unbound apo(a) levels do not contribute to the prediction of carotid atherosclerosis in hemodialysis patients. However, this does not mean that \"free\", mainly disintegrated, apo(a) has no atherogenic potential."}
{"id": "9470062", "title": "[Cardiopathy in uremic dialyzed patients: transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography].", "content": "[Cardiopathy in uremic dialyzed patients: transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography]. Despite progress and improvement in the dialysis modalities, cardiovascular disease remains the leading cause of death in patients receiving chronic hemodialysis therapy. To determine the prevalence of myocardial abnormalities among these patients, thirty-nine patients (22 males and 17 females, ranging in age from 20 to 87; mean age 61.38 +/- 15.04) underwent echocardiographic study. Twenty-seven were also examined by transesophageal echocardiogram. The morphology and function of the left ventricle as well as the presence of pericardial effusion, valvular disease and calcification were examined. The data obtained from transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography were then compared. The patients on chronic hemodialysis treatment showed a high prevalence of valvular disease (observed in 90% of the cases, but rarely hemodynamically relevant), calcifications (74%) and left ventricular hypertrophy (74%). Impaired cardiac function (diastolic dysfunction in 74% of the patients; systolic dysfunction in 36%) and left atrial enlargement (50%) were frequently observed. The incidence rates of pericardial effusion (7%) left atrial thrombi (7%) and atherosclerotic plaques of coronary arteries (10%) were uncommon. Transesophageal echocardiography is more accurate than transthoracic echocardiography in evaluating the presence of cardiac calcification (particularly of mitral apparatus), valvular leaflet mobility minor valvular regurgitation, left atrial and auricolar thrombi and spontaneous echocontrast, aortic and interatrial septum abnormalities and coronary artery atherosclerotic plaque."}
{"id": "9464592", "title": "Minimally invasive LAD revascularisation in high-risk patients with three-vessel coronary artery disease.", "content": "Minimally invasive LAD revascularisation in high-risk patients with three-vessel coronary artery disease. A potential advantage of minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass (MIDCAB) is that patients in whom conventional coronary bypass surgery is associated with increased risk because of various associated medical conditions, or those with relative contraindications to cardiopulmonary bypass, can benefit from surgical revascularisation. We reviewed our experience with adopting MIDCAB in the management of patients with three-vessel coronary artery disease over an 8 month period. Thirteen patients (3 females, mean age 67.6 years) with severe symptomatic three vessel coronary artery disease on maximum medical treatment (angina class III or IV) received left internal mammary artery grafts to the left anterior descending coronary artery using the MIDCAB approach. Associated co-morbidity included: severe chronic renal failure (n=2), severe extensive arteriopathy (n=4), chronic obstructive airway disease (n=2), poor general condition (n=2) and severely impaired left ventricular function (n=3). There was one early postoperative mortality and no other cardiac related morbidity. All patients were extubated within 3 h of leaving the operating room, mean ITU stay was 15 h and mean hospital stay was 5 days. Graft patency was investigated using angiography in all patients; all grafts but two were patent. In combination with medical therapy, all patients remain entirely angina free at a follow-up period between 3-11 months. MIDCAB is an effective approach for managing high-risk patients with symptomatic three-vessel coronary artery disease. Longer follow-up is needed to further clarify patient selection and the long-term outcome of this approach."}
{"id": "9431840", "title": "Ischemic renal disease: an emerging cause of chronic renal failure and end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Ischemic renal disease: an emerging cause of chronic renal failure and end-stage renal disease. Ischemic renal disease (IRD) is defined as a clinically important reduction in glomerular filtration rate or loss of renal parenchyma caused by hemodynamically significant renal artery stenosis. IRD is a common and often overlooked clinical entity that presents itself in the setting of extrarenal arteriosclerotic vascular disease in older individuals with azotemia. Eleven to 14% of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) cases are attributable to chronic IRD. A high percentage of patients entering ESRD programs are hypertensive. Many patients with a presumed diagnosis of hypertensive nephrosclerosis actually have undiagnosed ischemic nephropathy as the etiology of their ESRD. It is important for the clinician to identify IRD, because IRD is a potentially reversible cause of chronic renal failure in a hypertensive patient. Atherosclerotic renal artery disease is common among patients with coronary artery disease and aortic and peripheral vascular disease. Atherosclerotic renal artery disease is a progressive disorder, and its progression is associated with loss of renal mass and functioning. A decrease in glomerular filtration rate sufficient to cause an elevation of the serum creatinine concentration requires injury to both kidneys. Consequently, IRD can arise from one of two main clinical situations: bilateral hemodynamically significant renal artery stenosis leading to bilateral renal ischemia; and hemodynamically significant renal artery stenosis in a solitary functioning kidney, or in a kidney that is providing the majority of a patient's glomerular filtration. The primary reason for establishing the diagnosis of IRD is the hope that correction of a renal artery stenosis will lead to improvement of renal function, or a delay in progression to ESRD. There are six major clinical settings in which the clinician could suspect IRD: acute renal failure caused by the treatment of hypertension, especially with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors; progressive azotemia in a patient with known renovascular hypertension; acute pulmonary edema superimposed upon poorly controlled hypertension and renal failure; progressive azotemia in an elderly patient with refractory or severe hypertension; progressive azotemia in an elderly patient with evidence of atherosclerotic disease; and unexplained progressive azotemia in an elderly patient. Noninvasive testing modalities that have been used recently include the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor renal scan, duplex Doppler sonography, magnetic resonance angiography, and the spiral computed tomography. Treatment methods include percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, endovascular stenting, and surgical revascularization. The results of treatment for preservation of renal function have been encouraging, with stabilization or improvement in renal function observed in a significant proportion of cases."}
{"id": "9404246", "title": "Restenosis after elective coronary balloon angioplasty in patients with end stage renal disease: a case-control study using quantitative coronary angiography.", "content": "Restenosis after elective coronary balloon angioplasty in patients with end stage renal disease: a case-control study using quantitative coronary angiography. To assess the rate of angiographic restenosis in patients with end stage renal disease after elective coronary angioplasty. A retrospective case-control study of 20 patients with end stage renal disease and 20 sex and age matched controls without renal disease, who had undergone primarily successful coronary angioplasty. Control coronary angiography was performed regardless of worsening or renewed incidence of anginal symptoms. Group comparison of coronary morphology, as evaluated by quantitative coronary angiography, and of cardiovascular risk factors. The rate of angiographic restenosis was 60% in patients with renal disease and 35% in controls. In patients with end stage renal disease the following differences (mean (SD) were found versus controls: raised plasma fibrinogen (483 (101) v 326 (62) mg/dl, p < 0.001); raised plasma triglyceride (269 (163) v 207 (176) mg/dl, p < 0.01); smaller diameter of the coronary reference segment (2.59 (0.87) v 2.90 (0.55) mm, p < 0.10); smaller minimum luminal diameter of the dilated stenosis (0.77 (0.46) v 0.97 (0.27) mm, p < 0.05). Discriminant analysis showed that minimum luminal diameter before angioplasty (r = -0.79) and fibrinogen (r = +0.34) had the highest statistical association with restenosis. The high rate of angiographic restenosis in patients with end stage renal disease seems to be related to the size of the vessel dilated and to an increased prothrombotic risk, as indicated by higher fibrinogen concentrations."}
{"id": "9404111", "title": "[A case report of coronary artery bypass grafting in a patient with ankylosing spondylitis].", "content": "[A case report of coronary artery bypass grafting in a patient with ankylosing spondylitis]. We reported a case of ankylosing spondylitis who successfully underwent coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) for unstable angina pectoris. A 67-year-old man was admitted with symptom of anginal pain. Selective coronary angiography revealed coronary artery stenoses; 90% in seg 6, 90% in seg 11, proximal 75%, distal 90% in seg 3, 99% in 4 PD and 99% with delay in 4 AV. The left internal thoracic artery was anastomosed to seg 7 and saphenous vein (SVG) to PL-2, PL-1 sequentially, and another SVG to 4 PD. His postoperative course was uneventful. Cardiac lesions accompanied by ankylosing spondylitis are rare in Japan. Perioperative problems of these lesions therefore, are discussed."}
{"id": "9361933", "title": "Assessment of long-term risks for living related kidney donors by 24-h blood pressure monitoring and testing for microalbuminuria.", "content": "Assessment of long-term risks for living related kidney donors by 24-h blood pressure monitoring and testing for microalbuminuria. Our aim was to assess the long-term risks for kidney donors of developing arterial hypertension and hypertension-associated diseases or hyperfiltration injury of the remaining solitary kidney. We conducted a cross-sectional study in which 29 donors who were nephrectomized at our center between October 1973 and March 1990 were enrolled. At the time of evaluation median age was 54 (37-70) yr. Since kidney donation an average time interval of 11.1 +/- 3.8 yr had elapsed. Body weight, casual blood pressure, S-creatinine and proteinuria were recorded. In 28/29 donors 24-h blood pressure monitoring was performed; all 29 were tested for microalbuminuria (MAU). The patient history was checked for treatment with antihypertensives, coronary heart disease and diabetes mellitus. From all 29 kidney donors surveyed up to 19.8 yr none developed marked renal insufficiency: median S-creatinine was 1.0 mg/dl (range 0.7-1.6), only 3 donors had a S-creatinine > 1.3 mg/dl. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) decreased in an age-dependent manner. While all donors had been normotensive without an antihypertensive treatment at time of nephrectomy, actually 29% proved to be hypertensive with average values > 130/80 mmHg in the 24-h assessment. 5/29 donors received antihypertensives, 3 of whom nevertheless were hypertensive. Day-night profile was lost in 2 patients. After donation one patient developed coronary heart disease. 7/29 donors (24%) displayed positive testing for MAU, furthermore one had proteinuria (approx. 300 mg/l). MAU was associated in one case with slightly elevated S-creatinine (1.3 mg/dl) and in 3 cases with arterial hypertension. In the long-term course living related kidney donors do not seem to be at risk for developing hypertensive disorders more often than the general population. The prevalence of MAU in the 29 cases studied was higher than so far described for healthy subjects. This may reflect subclinical hyperfiltration damage of the glomerulus. Progressive renal insufficiency with clinical relevant function loss of the remaining solitary organ, however, was not observed up to 19.8 yr after kidney donation."}
{"id": "9304313", "title": "[Rate of restenosis after PTCA in patients with terminal renal failure. A quantitative coronary angiography study].", "content": "[Rate of restenosis after PTCA in patients with terminal renal failure. A quantitative coronary angiography study]. Patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) have a high incidence of coronary artery disease. In 30-60% of these patients coronary artery disease can be demonstrated by coronary angiography often prompting myocardial revascularization. Previous studies on PTCA in patients with ESRD have suggested a high rate of procedural complications and restenosis. We studied the rate of restenosis after PTCA in 23 patients with chronic renal failure (17 males, 6 females, age: 52.5 +/- 18.3 years). After primarily successful PTCA all patients were restudied angiographically within 6-12 months. Using quantitative coronary angiography 13 patients (56%) demonstrated restenosis (stenosis > 50% luminal diameter). In 11 of these patients further revascularization therapy was indicated (6 x PTCA, 5 x CABG). Before follow-up angiography 12 patients demonstrated recurrence of angina pectoris, the sensitivity of clinical symptoms for angiographic restenosis was 69%. High concentrations of triglycerides (265 +/- 160 mg/dl), total cholesterol (258 +/- 53 mg/dl) with low HDL-levels (34 +/- 14 mg/dl) as well as elevated plasma levels of fibrinogen (481 +/- 114 mg/dl) were measured before PTCA. The mechanisms contributing to the high rate of coronary restenosis in patients with ESRD remain unclear, influence of lipid abnormalities, hemostatic factors and fibrinolytic state as well as primarily uremic factors have to be discussed. Prospective interventional studies are needed to address the relevance of PTCA for myocardial revascularization in this patient group."}
{"id": "9284841", "title": "Appropriate hematocrit levels of erythropoietin supplementary therapy in end-stage renal failure complicated by coronary artery disease.", "content": "Appropriate hematocrit levels of erythropoietin supplementary therapy in end-stage renal failure complicated by coronary artery disease. To investigate an appropriate hematocrit (Hct) for managing renal anemia complicated by angina pectoris at rest. Nonrandomized, retrospective and prospective observational study. Sapporo Medical University Hospital, Sapporo, Japan. Thirty-two anemic patients (aged 62 +/- 10 years, range 40 to 78) with rest angina in end-stage renal failure. Serial changes of exercise tolerance (estimated metabolic equivalents [METs] on stress electrocardiography produced by improvement of patients' Hct, using recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO). Adverse effects, such as deteriorating systemic hypertension, were investigated with regard to the severity of coronary arteriographic findings (Leaman's score) and cardiac events within a six-month period. Higher Hct was clearly correlated with better estimated METs: when Hct was less than 20%, MET was 1.4 +/- 0.5; with 20% < or = Hct < 25% 2.1 +/- 1.4; with 25% < or = Hct < 30% 3.1 +/- 1.6; and with 30% < or = Hct < 35% 4.9 +/- 1.1. Patients with cardiac events (elective balloon angioplasty [n = 5], bypass surgery [n = 1], myocardial infarction [n = 2] and hospital death from congestive heart failure [n = 3]) had advanced coronary lesions compared with patients without coronary events (Leaman's score 15.9 +/- 9.3 versus 7.3 +/- 4.4, respectively, P < 0.01) and lower exercise capacity at 25% < or = Ht < 30% (estimated METs 2.4 +/- 1.2 versus 3.9 +/- 1.9, respectively, P < 0.05). Moreover, there was an inverse linear correlation between estimated METs and Leaman's score only when Hct was over 25%. In prospectively examined subjects (n = 16), Hct 35% or greater without systemic hypertension was obtained in only seven (44%), and no additional effect on exercise tolerance was expected when Hct was 35% or greater. Managing renal anemia with 30% < or = Hct < 35% with rHuEPO is considered an appropriate therapy in patients with end-stage renal failure complicated by rest angina."}
{"id": "9284429", "title": "[Treatment of hypertension associated with diabetes mellitus].", "content": "[Treatment of hypertension associated with diabetes mellitus]. The number of patients with non-insulin-dependent-diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) is dramatically increasing in Japan and estimated to be 6 million, more than one of ten adults. It is well known that more than a half of diabetics are hypertensive. Therefore, it is very important to treat hypertension to reduce cardiovascular events as well as end-stage renal disease. At first, life style modification such as body weight reduction, exercise and restriction of salt and alcohol intake will be recommended. Improved glycemic control by such a non-pharmacological therapy will lower blood pressure. Recent studies demonstrated that hypoglycemic agents improving insulin resistance such as metformin and troglitazone reduce blood pressure. If these maneuvers do not lower blood pressure, hypotensive medication will be necessary. As a first line therapy, ACE inhibitor, alpha 1-blocker or Ca-channel blocker will be selected. In diabetics with proteinuria or micro-albuminuria, ACE inhibitors will be effective to delay the progression of diabetic nephropathy."}
{"id": "9241623", "title": "Effects of simvastatin and enalapril on serum lipoprotein concentrations and left ventricular mass in patients on dialysis. The Perfect Study Collaborative Group.", "content": "Effects of simvastatin and enalapril on serum lipoprotein concentrations and left ventricular mass in patients on dialysis. The Perfect Study Collaborative Group. A randomised trial of simvastatin and enalapril in patients with chronic renal failure on dialysis: effects on serum lipoprotein concentrations and left ventricular mass. Left ventricular hypertrophy and abnormalities of lipoprotein metabolism are both possible contributors to the high risk of cardiovascular death in patients with chronic renal failure on dialysis. We investigated the effects of simvastatin on lipid and lipoprotein concentrations and the effects of enalapril on left ventricular mass in 107 patients receiving haemodialysis or continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. Patients were randomised in a factorial design to receive simvastatin (10 mg daily) or placebo and enalapril (2.5-5 mg daily) or placebo. During follow-up, there was a significant excess of patients withdrawn from enalapril because of hypotension (2p = 0.002), and after 6 months only 55% of those assigned enalapril were still on treatment. From baseline to 6 months, there were no statistically significant differences in left ventricular mass or left ventricular dimensions between patients assigned enalapril and those assigned placebo. Among the patients assigned simvastatin, total cholesterol was reduced by 13% (2p = 0.001), LDL cholesterol was reduced by 17% (2p = 0.003) and apolipoprotein B was reduced by 12% (2p = 0.005) compared to patients assigned placebo. There were borderline significant (2p = 0.05 to 0.08) reductions in VLDL cholesterol, total triglyceride and VLDL triglycerides of 26%, 12% and 17% respectively. Large-scale trials are now required to determine whether reductions in lipid and lipoprotein concentrations confer a reduction in coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality in patients on dialysis."}
{"id": "9216132", "title": "Closed-loop drug infusion for control of heart-rate trajectory in pharmacological stress tests.", "content": "Closed-loop drug infusion for control of heart-rate trajectory in pharmacological stress tests. The diagnosis of coronary artery disease (CAD) is an important task in the management of cardiology patients. Recently, the use of pharmacological stress testing has become available as an alternative to exercise stress testing (ETT). A new system (device-drug combination) was developed specifically for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease. The system uses a novel catecholamine, arbutamine, which is infused intravenously to increase heart rate (HR) and cardiac contractility in order to evoke signs of ischemia. The development of a closed-loop control algorithm for the delivery of this drug and a pharmacodynamic (PD) model representing the HR response to arbutamine infusions are presented. Model parameters are estimated from clinical data on normal volunteers and patients. Based on this mathematical model, a rule-based control algorithm is designed. The structure of the control algorithm is discussed and testing of the algorithm based on simulations and animal and human trials are summarized. Results from clinical trials shows that the algorithm controls the HR increase according to a selected trajectory. The automated delivery of the drug can provide the cardiologist with an efficient, effective, and safe method for administering a pharmacological stress test."}
{"id": "9198049", "title": "Relevance of conventional cardiovascular risk factors for the prediction of coronary artery disease in diabetic patients on renal replacement therapy.", "content": "Relevance of conventional cardiovascular risk factors for the prediction of coronary artery disease in diabetic patients on renal replacement therapy. Diabetic patients undergoing renal replacement therapy have a high cardiovascular mortality. As the rate of patients with diabetic nephropathy rises, adequate risk stratification subsequent to renal transplantation is warranted. It was the aim of our study to elucidate whether conventional risk factors are valid predictors of coronary artery disease in this group of patients with chronic renal failure subsequent to transplantation. Between 1989 and 1993, 105 consecutive diabetic patients (70 men, 35 women, 77 type I and 28 type II diabetics, mean age 43 +/- 12 years) were examined during the first six months of dialysis treatment. Coronary angiography was performed in all patients regardless of clinical symptoms of coronary artery disease (CAD). In 38 patients (36%) CAD was documented (single-vessel disease: 17 patients, double-vessel disease: 6 patients, triple-vessel disease: 15 patients). Manifestations of coronary atherosclerosis were seen in 49 patients (47%). Angina pectoris was present in 9 out of 38 patients (24%), the sensitivity to detect CAD was 43% and 52% for ST-segment depression assessed at rest. Risk factors for atherosclerosis like hypertension, smoking, cholesterol (total cholesterol, HDL-,LDL-cholesterol), triglycerides as well as concentrations of lipoprotein (a) and fibrinogen were not significantly different in patients with or without coronary artery disease. Atherosclerotic manifestations of cerebral and peripheral arteries as well as manifestations of diabetic microangiopathy like retinopathy did not correlate with the prevalence of CAD. In 11 out of 38 patients (29%) cardiac interventions (3 x CA BG, 8 x PTCA) were performed. All of them were defined as transplantable after myocardial revascularisation. Clinical symptoms as well as the cardiovascular risk profile are not valid predictors of CAD in diabetic patients with chronic renal failure. Therefore coronary angiography should be performed in all diabetic patients prior to renal transplantation."}
{"id": "9190440", "title": "[Diagnosis of renovascular disease by heart catheterization].", "content": "[Diagnosis of renovascular disease by heart catheterization]. Atherosclerotic renovascular disease is a common entity, particularly in persons older than 50 years of age and especially in those patients with other evidence of atherosclerotic vascular disease. The illness clearly progresses in some patients, and progression rate appears to be highly variable. Taken into account the apparent high prevalence of renovascular disease in older persons, it is possible that this disorder be the cause of end stage renal disease in 5% to 15% of patients currently entering the dialysis program each year. Surgery and percutaneous angioplasty can both improve renal function in patients with renal artery stenosis. We describe a patient in whom the detection of renovascular disease was made accidentally at the time of coronary arteriography. He presented an acute renal failure after use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and/or contrast media associated nephrotoxicity, and was treated with percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty and had a successful outcome."}
{"id": "9158024", "title": "Safe pancreas transplantation in patients with coronary artery disease.", "content": "Safe pancreas transplantation in patients with coronary artery disease. This study was conducted to determine the risk of clinically significant posttransplant cardiac events (PCEs) in a cohort of diabetic patients referred for pancreas transplantation. Between April 1991 and December 1995, 316 insulin-dependent diabetics were evaluated for pancreas transplantation. Patients were assessed for risk factors for coronary artery disease (CAD), and underwent screening for significant CAD by a standardized algorithm that included selective coronary angiography. For the 3-year period following transplantation, PCEs were identified, and related to pretransplant cardiac risk factors. Only four patients (1.3%) were turned down for cardiac contraindications. Coronary angiography was done in 74 patients (27% of the active transplant candidates) during the evaluation period because of the patient's history or a positive stress test. Significant coronary artery stenoses were found in 54% of the patients catheterized. Twenty-five of these 40 patients (63%) underwent revascularization with percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and/or coronary artery bypass grafting. A total of 359 organs were subsequently transplanted into 194 of these patients. No deaths occurred within 30 days of any of the transplants; four percent of transplant recipients died of cardiac causes within the follow-up period (median 23 months). Those with no pretransplant evidence of CAD had significantly lower rates of PCE (2% and 8% at 1 and 3 years, respectively) than those with pretransplant evidence of CAD (11% and 29% at 1 and 3 years, P<0.01; relative risk, 4.3). Routine cardiac screening of pancreas recipients with selective angiography and revascularization allows patients with significant CAD to safely undergo pancreas transplantation. Patients should rarely be excluded from pancreas transplantation for cardiac causes."}
{"id": "9141000", "title": "Onset of coronary artery disease prior to initiation of haemodialysis in patients with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Onset of coronary artery disease prior to initiation of haemodialysis in patients with end-stage renal disease. To determine whether the onset of coronary artery disease may precede the initiation of dialysis in patients with end-stage renal disease, we performed coronary angiography within 1 month of initiation of maintenance haemodialysis in 24 patients (age range 42-78 years; mean 63.7 +/- 11). Coronary angiography was performed regardless of the absence or presence of angina. Fifteen patients had diabetic nephropathy, and nine had non-diabetic nephropathy. Significant coronary stenosis was defined as at least 75% narrowing of the reference segment. Fifteen patients (62.5%) with a total of 49 lesions were classified as the coronary artery disease present group. Eleven of those 15 (73.3%) had multivessel disease. The average number of stenotic lesions was 3.3 per patient. The most common patterns of stenosis were complex (23 lesions; 47%), and diffuse lesions over 20 mm long (14 lesions; 29%). None of the clinical or haematological factors evaluated differed significantly between the groups with and without coronary artery disease. The prevalence of coronary artery disease was 72.7% in the symptomatic patients and 53.8% in the asymptomatic patients. The diagnosis of coronary artery disease at the start of maintenance haemodialysis based only on chest symptoms and clinical factors proved to be difficult. Coronary angiography is thus essential for evaluating coronary artery disease in uraemic patients. Many patients with end-stage renal disease had coronary artery disease prior to the start of haemodialysis."}
{"id": "9135610", "title": "Non-invasive cardiac investigations in patients awaiting renal transplantation.", "content": "Non-invasive cardiac investigations in patients awaiting renal transplantation. Patients with chronic renal failure undergoing renal transplantation have a high prevalence of cardiovascular disease. Invasive investigation may identify those at risk of cardiac death during or after renal transplantation, but which patients should undergo cardiac catheterization is currently not clear. In 95 patients awaiting renal transplantation we assessed the ability of echocardiography and exercise electrocardiography to identify patients at risk of cardiac death. Echocardiography identified impaired left ventricular (LV) systolic function in 20%, severe in 8%. Of the patients with severe LV dysfunction, 25% died before transplantation. Of those undergoing exercise electrocardiography, 44% did not achieve 85% of maximum predicted heart rate. No coronary artery disease requiring intervention was identified by exercise testing. These findings indicate that echocardiography, but not exercise electrocardiography, should be part of the assessment for renal transplantation."}
{"id": "9134832", "title": "[The effect of coronary intervention on renal function in patients with chronic renal failure].", "content": "[The effect of coronary intervention on renal function in patients with chronic renal failure]. To investigate the effect of coronary intervention on renal function in patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) we investigated 19 patients with CRF [serum creatinine (Scr) > 1.5 mg/dl] who underwent coronary intervention for the treatment of acute myocardial infarction or unstable angina recruited from 516 consecutive patients admitted to the coronary care unit of Nara Medical University Hospital from January, 1992 to July, 1995. Serum creatinine levels were measured at 3 points: on admission, at peak level, and at discharge. Nineteen patients were divided into two groups on the basis of increases in Scr (delta Scr): a worsened group (group A) (delta Scr > or = 1mg/dl after coronary intervention; 6 patients) and an unchanged group (group B) (delta Scr < 1 mg/dl ; 13 patients). In group A, except for one patient, the renal function recovered to the level before coronary intervention after adequate hydration or hemodialysis. The volume of contrast medium in group A (420 +/- 134 ml) was significantly higher than group B (253 +/- 97 ml) (p < 0.01). There was significant positive correlation (r = 0.42, p < 0.05) between delta Scr and the volume of contrast medium. In conclusion, coronary intervention for patients with CRF can be performed safely under treatment with adequate hydration and hemodialysis, even at higher serum creatinine levels of up to 4.0 mg/ml."}
{"id": "9122976", "title": "Pretransplant dobutamine stress echocardiography is useful and cost-effective in renal transplant candidates.", "content": "Pretransplant dobutamine stress echocardiography is useful and cost-effective in renal transplant candidates."}
{"id": "9113492", "title": "Post-transplant diabetes mellitus. The role of immunosuppression.", "content": "Post-transplant diabetes mellitus. The role of immunosuppression. Immunosuppressive agents increase the risk of death due to coronary disease or stroke by their ability to cause 3 different adverse effects: dyslipidaemia, hypertension and hyperglycaemia. Post-transplant diabetes mellitus has emerged as a major adverse effect of immunosuppressants. As recipients of organ transplants survive longer, the secondary complications of diabetes mellitus have assumed greater importance. There is a need for a precise definition of post-transplant diabetes mellitus to facilitate inter-centre comparison and to study the natural history of post-transplant diabetes mellitus. We recommend broad criteria to define hyperglycaemia, as a fasting blood glucose level of > 400 mg/dl at any point or > 200 mg/dl for 2 weeks, or a need for insulin treatment for at least 2 weeks. We also recommend serial measurements of HbA1c. Cyclosporin and tacrolimus cause post-transplant diabetes mellitus by a number of mechanisms, including decreased insulin secretion, increased insulin resistance or a direct toxic effect on the beta cell. For corticosteroids, the induction of insulin resistance seems to be the predominant factor. However, few studies have examined the mechanism of diabetogenicity at the molecular level. This may hold the key for pharmacological manipulation of current immunosuppressive regimens which may result in decreased metabolic complications. Corticosteroid sparing regimens have been shown to reduce the metabolic complications of immunosuppressants including post-transplant diabetes mellitus. However, their use should be balanced against the increased incidence of transplant rejections. Post-transplant diabetes mellitus may be organ-specific irrespective of the immunosuppressant used. Tacrolimus causes a high incidence of post-transplant diabetes mellitus in recipients of kidney transplants (upto 20% in some reports); the diabetogenicity of cyclosporin-based regimens is comparable with that of tacrolimus-based regimens in recipients of liver transplants. A few clinical studies in which attempts were made to discontinue cyclosporin resulted in an unacceptable loss of the transplant. In the case of tacrolimus, complete withdrawal of immunosuppression may be possible in selected patients with liver transplants. However, post-transplant recipients who may benefit from this approach are difficult to identify. In some early series, patients received doses of tacrolimus that were approximately 2 to 3 times higher than those currently used, which may have resulted in a higher incidence of post-transplant diabetes mellitus. More recently, it has been shown that tacrolimus was successful in salvaging whole pancreatic grafts which were maintained on cyclosporin. Tacrolimus-based immunosuppression as primary therapy was also used with remarkable success in solitary whole pancreas transplants. Strategies to reduce the metabolic complications of immunosuppressants should be pursued aggressively as this will directly lead to a decrease in long term cardiovascular adverse effects."}
{"id": "9100051", "title": "Atherosclerotic vascular complications in diabetic transplant candidates.", "content": "Atherosclerotic vascular complications in diabetic transplant candidates. Serious vascular complications limit the success of renal transplantation in diabetic patients. Nearly half of diabetic transplant recipients die within 3 years after transplantation from a vascular complication. However, it has been difficult to determine before transplantation which patients are likely to do poorly. Because atherosclerosis is a systemic disease, we hypothesized that diabetic transplant candidates with pretransplant coronary artery disease would be at high risk for vascular complications even if asymptomatic at the time of pretransplant evaluation. Our hypothesis was that insulin-dependent (IDDM) transplant candidates with coronary artery disease identified with pretransplant coronary angiography would have an increased number of vascular events (amputation, cerebral vascular accident [CVA], or myocardial infarction [MI]) within 3 years of follow-up. We prospectively studied 198 consecutive diabetic transplant candidates grouped on the basis of coronary artery disease. Group 1 patients had no stenosis that was 50% or greater, group 2 patients had one or more stenoses between 50% and 74%, and group 3 patients had one or more stenoses of 75% or greater. During median follow-up of 41 months, 64 patients experienced 98 amputations, 28 MIs, and seven CVAs. At 36 months of follow-up, 55% of group 3 patients, 30% of group 2 patients, and 11% of group 1 patients had experienced a vascular event (P < 0.001). Cox regression confirmed the association of coronary artery disease with subsequent vascular events. Patients with coronary artery disease had a sevenfold increased risk of amputation and a fourfold increased risk of myocardial infarction. Six of seven CVAs occurred in patients with coronary artery disease. We conclude that coronary artery disease identified at pretransplant evaluation is associated with an increased risk of noncoronary vascular complications within 3 years after evaluation."}
{"id": "9071143", "title": "[Successful emergency coronary artery bypass grafting in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus under hemodialysis therapy].", "content": "[Successful emergency coronary artery bypass grafting in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus under hemodialysis therapy]. A 38-year-old woman, who had been suffering from systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and receiving steroid therapy for the past 25 years, underwent a successful emergency coronary artery bypass grafting for unstable angina. She had also been treated with a 10-year period of hemodialysis therapy for chronic renal failure. Her coronary angiography revealed the heavily calcified ectatic right coronary artery with a thrombus formation in its proximal portion associated with severe stenosis in the proximal left coronary artery. The left internal thoracic artery was anastomosed to #7 and the saphenous vein to #3, respectively. Postoperative coronary angiography performed one month later revealed both grafts to be patent with no stenosis. Ischemic heart disease (IHD) is one of the major complication limiting the prognosis of the patient with SLE. We discuss the point related to cause of IHD and the surgical management."}
{"id": "9070553", "title": "Impact of diabetes mellitus on percutaneous revascularization (CAVEAT-I). CAVEAT-I Investigators. Coronary Angioplasty Versus Excisional Atherectomy Trial.", "content": "Impact of diabetes mellitus on percutaneous revascularization (CAVEAT-I). CAVEAT-I Investigators. Coronary Angioplasty Versus Excisional Atherectomy Trial. We examined the relation between diabetes mellitus and outcomes in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary revascularization in the Coronary Angioplasty Versus Excisional Atherectomy Trial (CAVEAT-I), a randomized trial comparing treatment with either percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty or directional atherectomy for de novo lesions in native coronary arteries. Acute success and complication rates, 6-month angiographic restenosis rates, and 1-year clinical outcomes were compared between diabetic and nondiabetic patients undergoing each procedure. Acute success rates between diabetic (n = 191) and nondiabetic (n = 821) patients were similar for both revascularization techniques. Except for the need for dialysis, complication rates were also similar. Six months after atherectomy, diabetic patients had significantly more angiographic restenosis than nondiabetics (59.7% vs 47.4%) and significantly smaller minimum luminal diameters (1.20 vs 1.40 mm). Diabetics undergoing atherectomy required more frequent bypass surgery (12.8% vs 8.5%) and more repeat percutaneous revascularizations (36.5% vs 28.1%) than nondiabetics undergoing atherectomy. Restenosis rates, minimum luminal diameters and repeat revascularizations between diabetics and nondiabetics undergoing angioplasty were similar. The higher restenosis and repeat revascularization rates and the smaller minimum luminal diameter at follow-up in diabetic patients suggest that atherectomy may provide only modest benefit for these patients. The increased restenosis rate in diabetics undergoing atherectomy (but not angioplasty) requires further evaluation."}
{"id": "9016902", "title": "Endotheliopathy: a continuum of hemolytic uremic syndrome due to mitomycin therapy.", "content": "Endotheliopathy: a continuum of hemolytic uremic syndrome due to mitomycin therapy. Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) is a rare, often fatal complication of mitomycin C therapy. It is generally accepted that HUS is, in part, caused by endothelial cell dysfunction. Endothelial cells modulate blood flow, blood pressure, and myointimal proliferation. Endothelial cells synthesize and release products that modulate vascular tone and regulate vascular smooth muscle cell growth. We describe a patient who developed HUS secondary to mitomycin C, resulting in end-stage renal disease and necessitating chronic hemodialysis. Over several months, the patient subsequently developed multisystem organ failure involving the heart, liver, and intestine that was associated with angiographically documented small, distal vessel occlusive disease and ultrasonographically identified coronary artery intimal hyperplasia. We propose that a diffuse ongoing endothelial cell dysfunction (ie, endotheliopathy) is the putative mechanism for this patient's clinical course. To our knowledge, this continuum of HUS presenting as a multisystem, progressive disorder has not been previously reported."}
{"id": "9167787", "title": "Differences in cognitions during chest pain of patients with panic disorder and ischemic heart disease.", "content": "Differences in cognitions during chest pain of patients with panic disorder and ischemic heart disease. A significant number of patients with chest pains who undergo coronary angiography (20-30%) have normal coronary arteries. Up to 50% of this group are eventually diagnosed as Panic Disorder and most continue to complain of their symptoms, in spite of the normal coronary angiogram. We hypothesized that the cognitions of panic disorder subjects on presentation with chest pain would differ from those of patients suffering from true angina pectoris. We investigated the cognitions associated with chest pain of three patient groups: proven symptomatic coronary artery disease (CAD+), subjects with chest pain and a normal coronary angiogram (CAD-), and patients with panic disorder (PD). All patients were classified according to whether the symptomatology was, firstly, associated with frightening cognitions (during the episode), and, secondly, whether either these cognitions (cognitive predominance), or the physical symptom (physical predominance), dominated the clinical picture. We observed that in the CAD+ group, 18% experienced frightening cognitions but in only 4% (2 of 66 patients) were the cognitions the dominant experience during the chest pain. In contrast, all the PD patients experienced frightening cognitions and in 83% of this group, the cognitions were the predominant experience. In the CAD- group, 48% were found to be PD compatible. This study indicates that the cognitions of patients during episodes of chest pain, evaluated by three questions, help to differentiate between PD and true coronary symptoms. Consequently, the presence of frightening cognitions in the presence of chest pain, particularly at the onset of the clinical problem, makes necessary the need for psychiatric evaluation with the objective of excluding PD."}
{"id": "9036291", "title": "[Coronary risk factors in chronic hemodialysis patients].", "content": "[Coronary risk factors in chronic hemodialysis patients]. In contrast to persons with normal renal function, coronary risk factors or indicators until yet could not clearly be defined in renal insufficiency. 30 patients under chronic hemodialysis therapy were investigated; 15 patients with severe coronary artery disease and 15 patients with normal coronary angiogram were compared. Numerous factors of the manner of living (diet, smoking behaviour etc.) were registered and glucose and lipid metabolism, hemostatic and fibrinolytic system as well as blood pressure level were investigated. Besides higher HDL-cholesterol and tissue plasminogen activator (TPA) levels in patients without coronary heart disease, no significant difference could be found between both groups. The higher HDL levels were mainly due to the higher percentage of women in the coronary healthy group. There was no evidence of insulin resistance as a major pathogenic factor in the group with coronary heart disease. The blood pressure levels were not significantly different in both groups. Our quantitative examination of accepted or suspected coronary risk factors revealed no entity which turned out to be a reliable risk indicator for practical purposes."}
{"id": "9023707", "title": "High blood pressure and end-organ damage.", "content": "High blood pressure and end-organ damage. Findings from numerous epidemiologic and clinical studies worldwide attest to a strong, graded, consistent relationship between blood pressure level and cardiovascular-renal diseases, subclinical and clinical, nonfatal and fatal. This review summarizes results from selected prospective observational studies, primarily from US populations, and from randomized clinical trials. Review Analyses from the Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial (MRFIT) subjects (middle-aged men) and the Framingham Heart Study (middle-aged and elderly men and women) clearly establish that systolic blood pressure is a more powerful predictor of cardiovascular events than diastolic pressure. Wherever the full range of blood pressure has been examined, for example for systolic pressure in the MRFIT subjects and for diastolic pressure in pooled data from nine epidemiologic studies, the associations for coronary heart disease and stroke are seen to extend over the whole range, including 'normotensive' levels. In MRFIT, this continuous relationship has also recently been shown for end-stage renal disease and both systolic and diastolic pressure. Data from Framingham document further associations with peripheral vascular disease, congestive heart failure, and both electrocardiographic and echocardiographic left ventricular hypertrophy. Several studies are row available demonstrating a relationship between hypertension and carotid wall intimal-medial thickness. Finally, the causal nature of the relationships with major cardiovascular events is supported by the results of 17 large-scale randomized trials of blood-pressure-lowering using primarily diuretic- and beta-blocker-based drug regimens. These trials have demonstrated highly significant reductions in fatal and nonfatal stroke and major coronary heart disease. There are few trial data, however, on health benefits from further reducing blood pressure among normotensive persons."}
{"id": "8979003", "title": "Screening for cardiovascular disease in dialysis patients.", "content": "Screening for cardiovascular disease in dialysis patients. The burden of cardiac disease in dialysis patients is high, resulting from cardiomyopathy and from coronary artery disease. Asymptomatic dialysis patients, patients with heart failure, patients with symptomatic ischaemic heart disease, and patients being evaluated for renal transplantation all require investigation to determine the presence or the extent of heart disease. Echocardiography is very useful for screening for cardiomyopathy, but should be undertaken when patients are euvolaemic. Non-invasive tests for coronary artery disease, particularly exercise-based tests, are less sensitive and less specific in dialysis patients than in the general population. Dobutamine stress echocardiography may be more sensitive in patients with renal failure than other investigations. Patients with abnormal screening tests or symptomatic ischaemic heart disease should undergo coronary angiography and subsequent revascularization procedures if indicated."}
{"id": "8932262", "title": "Evaluation of diabetic patients for renal and pancreas transplantation: noninvasive screening for coronary artery disease using radionuclide methods.", "content": "Evaluation of diabetic patients for renal and pancreas transplantation: noninvasive screening for coronary artery disease using radionuclide methods. Pharmacologic stress thallium scintigraphy is commonly performed in the risk assessment of diabetic patients with nephropathy before kidney and/or pancreas transplantation; however, controversy exists regarding the test's accuracy in detecting coronary artery disease. Our purpose was to compare pharmacologic stress thallium scintigraphy and also exercise radionuclide ventriculography with coronary angiography in diabetic patients undergoing evaluation for transplantation. In addition, we also determined the association of the test results with outcome after transplantation. The medical records of 47 patients (mean age, 37+/-9 years) without clinical evidence of coronary artery disease were reviewed. Forty-one patients had pharmacologic stress thallium scintigraphy performed during their evaluation. Sensitivity was 62% and specificity was 76% for detecting > or = 75% coronary artery stenosis (sensitivity was 53% and specificity was 73% for > or = 50% stenosis). Thirty-five patients had exercise radionuclide ventriculography performed. Sensitivity was 50% and specificity was 67% for detecting > or = 75% coronary artery stenosis (sensitivity was 44% and specificity was 63% for > or = 50% stenosis). Thirty patients had both pharmacologic stress thallium scintigraphy and exercise radionuclide ventriculography performed; when either test was abnormal, sensitivity in the detection of > or = 50% or > or = 75% stenosis tended to increase compared with pharmacologic stress thallium scintigraphy alone (0.05<P<0.10), whereas specificity decreased (P<0.01). The incidence of adverse cardiac outcomes was identical for patients with abnormal thallium scintigrams and undergoing transplantation (2/11) compared with patients with normal scintigrams and undergoing transplantation (4/22). We conclude that: (1) pharmacologic stress thallium scintigraphy and exercise radionuclide ventriculography are suboptimal screening tests for coronary artery disease in diabetic patients awaiting kidney and/or pancreas transplantation; (2) using the two radionuclide tests in combination results in a decrease in specificity; and (3) patients with abnormal thallium scintigrams can receive transplants with outcomes similar to those for patients with normal thallium scintigrams."}
{"id": "8915964", "title": "Diagnosis and management of coronary artery disease in patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis.", "content": "Diagnosis and management of coronary artery disease in patients with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis. Cardiovascular disease accounts for almost half of the total mortality in patients with ESRD. Ischemic heart disease is responsible for many cardiovascular deaths, with myocardial infarction accounting for approximately 15% and sudden cardiac death or severe left ventricular dysfunction accounting for much of the remainder. The markedly increased prevalence of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease in patients with ESRD is influenced, at least in part, by numerous risk factors for atherosclerosis, with hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and hypercholesterolemia being particularly important. Because atherosclerotic coronary artery disease (CAD), whether symptomatic or asymptomatic, is associated with an increased incidence of allograft failure and mortality, the results of this study suggest the need for careful evaluation for the presence of CAD in those persons who are under consideration for renal transplantation. Candidates with angina pectoris, previous myocardial infarction, or congestive heart failure are at particularly high risk of a cardiac event, and, therefore, should routinely undergo pretransplant coronary angiography and subsequent surgical revascularization if angina is refractory to medical therapy or CAD is extensive. In contrast, although young, nondiabetic transplant candidates without symptoms or electrocardiographic evidence of CAD have an increased relative risk of cardiac death when compared with age-matched control subjects, their absolute risk of such an event is very low. As a result, they do not require a cardiac evaluation before transplantation. For the remaining transplant candidates at neither low nor high risk of a fatal or nonfatal cardiac event (i.e., those at intermediate risk), the authors of this study routinely perform (1) thallium imaging with dipyridamole or (2) two-dimensional echocardiography with intravenous dobutamine. If the result of these investigations are normal, transplantation proceeds; if abnormal, coronary angiography is performed, followed by surgical revascularization if CAD is extensive. Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty is not recommended in patients with ESRD because it appears to be accompanied by a high likelihood of acute and chronic complications. Although it is hoped that surgical revascularization before renal transplantation improves allograft and patient survival, prospectively obtained data proving that this, in fact, is true do not exist."}
{"id": "8861439", "title": "Coronary artery bypass grafting without cardiopulmonary bypass for high-risk patients.", "content": "Coronary artery bypass grafting without cardiopulmonary bypass for high-risk patients. Between January 1991 and June 1993, coronary artery bypass grafting was performed without either cardiopulmonary bypass or cardiac arrest in 23 patients. Most patients had several surgical risk factors, including age > or = 70 years, poor left ventricular function, left main coronary artery stenosis, chronic renal failure, and aortic aneurysm. Distal anastomoses were made under temporary interruption of coronary flow. A total of 37 distal anastomoses to the left anterior descending coronary artery and/or right coronary artery (mean 1.6 per patient) were made, 24 of which were internal thoracic arteries. The coronary occlusion time ranged from 7-14 min (mean 9.8 min). Combined cardiac or vascular operations were carried out in six patients (abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, thoracic aortic aneurysm repair, carotid endarterectomy, and coronary endarterectomy). There was one hospital death. Postoperative angiography was performed in 22 patients and showed a patency rate of 89%. In summary, coronary artery bypass grafting without cardiopulmonary bypass may improve the postoperative outcome of high-risk patients."}
{"id": "8843118", "title": "Reproducibility of left ventricular volume measurements at rest and during bicycle exercise in patients with congestive heart failure: a combined radionuclide and haemodynamic study.", "content": "Reproducibility of left ventricular volume measurements at rest and during bicycle exercise in patients with congestive heart failure: a combined radionuclide and haemodynamic study. A series of 14 patients with heart failure due to coronary artery disease and impaired left ventricular function underwent radionuclide ventriculography with simultaneous thermodilution measurement of cardiac output by pulmonary artery catheter on two occasions (m1, m2) separated by 6 weeks in order to determine the reproducibility of haemodynamic and left ventricular volume measurements at rest and during supine bicycle exercise. The patients were in NYHA grade II or III and had baseline left ventricular ejection fractions below 40%. Derived haemodynamic variables were calculated from the thermodilution cardiac output and from the radionuclide ejection fraction as follows: stroke volume = thermodilution cardiac output/heart rate; left ventricular end-diastolic volume = stroke volume/ejection fraction; left ventricular end-systolic volume = end-diastolic volume - stroke volume. The percentage difference (PD) between each pair of data (m1, m2) was calculated using the following formula: PD = 100% x (m2-m1)/m1. The data showed that reproducible measurements of left ventricular volume can be obtained at rest and during exercise. The mean (+/- S.D.) PD values for end-systolic volume and end-diastolic volume at rest were - 0.1 +/- 17% and - 0.2 +/- 13%, respectively. The mean PD values for end-systolic volume and end-diastolic volume during exercise were - 0.3 +/- 19% and - 0.7 +/- 15%, respectively. By contrast, the reproducibility of the pulmonary capillary wedge pressure measurements was poor, as reflected by a PD value of 14 +/- 51% for exercise pulmonary capillary pressure. Combining radionuclide ventriculography and the thermodilution measurement of cardiac output is useful for measuring left ventricular volume at rest and during exercise in patients with heart failure. This minimally invasive technique allows for a comprehensive assessment of left ventricular performance and appears to be particularly suited for assessing the effects of therapeutic interventions aimed at minimizing the progressive left ventricular enlargement in heart failure."}
{"id": "8803638", "title": "Revascularization of the ischemic diabetic foot using popliteal artery inflow.", "content": "Revascularization of the ischemic diabetic foot using popliteal artery inflow. Between March 1988 and June 1994, 35 popliteal to distal artery vein bypasses were done in 32 diabetic patients. There were 16 males and 16 females with an average age of 60 years. Eighteen patients (56%) had insulin dependent diabetes mellitus. Medical risk factors included coronary artery disease (CAD) in 15 (47%), hypertension in 15 (47%), chronic renal failure (CRF) in 9 (28%), and cigarette smoking in 10 (31%). Indications for revascularization were: non-healing ulcerations in 18 (51%), gangrene in 15 (43%), and rest pain in 2 (6%). The distal anastomosis was to the posterior tibial artery in 9, anterior tibial artery in 8, dorsalis pedis artery in 10 and peroneal artery in 8 cases. All the bypasses were done with autogenous saphenous veins (in-situ 11, reversed 17, and free non-reversed 7). The limbs were graded into three groups based on the preoperative angiographic evaluation of their pedal arch: patent arch (Grade \"0\"), partial occlusion of the arch (grade \"1.5\") and little or no arch visualized (Grade \"3\"). Eight limbs had Grade \"0\", 16 had Grade \"1.5\" and 11 had Grade \"3\" pedal circulation. Bypass follow up was done by clinical exam and color duplex surveillance (CDS) for a mean duration of 24 months. CDS identified 4 failing bypasses which were surgically revised and have subsequently remained patent. There were 3 bypass occlusions which resulted in a major amputation in 2 patients. Three additional major amputations were performed for persisting infection despite a patent bypass. By life table analysis the cumulative primary & secondary patency and limb salvage rates for this group of diabetic patients were 75% at 2 years, 89% at 3 years and 82% at 3 years respectively (S.E. < 10%). The 3 bypass occlusions, which occurred at 1 week, 5 weeks, and 20 months, were in patients with both CRF and Grade \"3\" foot circulation (significantly different outcome compared to the rest of the group, by chi 2 test, p < 0.05). Good results can be achieved in the majority of diabetic patients undergoing short popliteal-distal bypasses. However, the combination of chronic renal failure and very limited foot circulation (Grade \"3\") has a significant adverse outcome."}
{"id": "8788732", "title": "Coronary restenosis.", "content": "Coronary restenosis. Return of angina within 6 months of a catheter-based treatment of coronary artery disease usually reflects restenosis due to an overly aggressive local healing response to the procedure-related arterial injury. The restenotic lesion should be treated aggressively. Patients with preexisting diabetes mellitus, renal failure requiring hemodialysis, and left anterior descending artery lesions should be considered to be at exceedingly high risk for clinically significant restenosis. Exercise testing is indicated for all patients who experience a return of their angina within 6 months of an interventional procedure. Nurse practitioners in the primary care setting may be the first clinicians to hear of the return of angina. Patients should always be reassured that repeat intervention is almost always possible and is generally effective in providing long-term relief. New devices (in particular the Palmaz-Schatz stent) may help reduce the likelihood of restenosis, to the extent that they provide a large acute post-treatment lumen diameter that is more tolerant of intimal hyperplasia without producing significant narrowing. Until adjunctive drug therapy is found that effectively reduces the local tissue response to interventional therapy, all clinicians involved in caring for patients following such procedures will need to be vigilant and knowledgeable about recognizing and treating restenosis."}
{"id": "8784984", "title": "Regression of coronary atherosclerosis and amelioration of renal function during LDL-immunoadsorption therapy in a renal transplant recipient.", "content": "Regression of coronary atherosclerosis and amelioration of renal function during LDL-immunoadsorption therapy in a renal transplant recipient. Hyperlipoproteinemia is frequently observed in patients after renal transplantation and contributes to cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. In addition, it was recently shown that hypercholesterolemia accelerates the progression of renal disease. In a renal transplant recipient (RTR) with severe coronary heart disease, familial hypercholesterolemia and decreased renal function, immunospecific LDL-apheresis was instituted since dietary restrictions failed to sufficiently improve hyperlipoproteinemia and medication had to be avoided due to drug interactions. Over a period of 36 months 145 LDL-apheresis treatments were performed at weekly intervals. The desorption of 5600 ml plasma volume allowed a mean reduction of total cholesterol by 56.6% (from 256 mg/dl to 110 mg/dl), of LDL-cholesterol by 63.0% (from 163 mg/dl to 58 mg/dl), of Lp(a) by 68.3% (from 34 mg/dl to 11 mg/dl) and of triglycerides by 49.6% (from 332 mg/dl to 163 mg/dl). Although temporarily decreasing during each apheresis session by 9.0%, HDL-cholesterol values increased during the first 9 months of treatment and remained within the normal range (> 45 mg/dl) thereafter. Cyclosporine A blood trough values were decreased by 32% during LDL-apheresis. Symptoms of angina pectoris rapidly improved and disappeared after 8 months of apheresis treatment. Initial coronary angiography exhibited serious three-vessel-disease, without the possibility of bypass grafting. Coronary angiography repeated after two years of therapy showed a regression of the disease. Serum creatinine levels declined during treatment (from 2.7 mg/dl to 1.8 mg/dl) and proteinuria did not increase further. This is the first report to show that long-term LDL-immunoadsorption is a safe and highly effective treatment of severe hyperlipidemia and coronary heart disease in a RTR, resulting in regression of vascular pathology. Moreover, amelioration of hyperlipidemia may have improved transplant function. Multicenter studies are necessary to confirm our results."}
{"id": "8725677", "title": "Coronary revascularization in patients on dialysis. What treatment option should we choose?", "content": "Coronary revascularization in patients on dialysis. What treatment option should we choose?"}
{"id": "8709414", "title": "[Angiographic study of stenosis and calcification of coronary vessels in long-term dialysis patients: examination of risk factors for coronary calcification].", "content": "[Angiographic study of stenosis and calcification of coronary vessels in long-term dialysis patients: examination of risk factors for coronary calcification]. Coronary atherosclerosis and calcification score were assessed angiographically in 30 uremic patients receiving dialysis (8 patients with diabetes mellitus [DM dialysis group] and 22 patients without DM [non-DM dialysis group] who were suspected of having coronary artery disease because of their clinical symptoms and electrocardiographic findings. Thirty non-uremic subjects (11 with DM and 19 without DM) served as controls. Twelve dialysis patients (40%) did not have significant coronary artery disease, and the rate of significant coronary artery disease in dialysis patients overall was less than that in the control subjects. The calcification score of dialysis patients was significantly higher than that of the control patients (P < 0.0001), and also scores of the non-DM dialysis group and the DM dialysis group were higher than those of each group of control subjects. The scores were significantly correlated with the duration of dialysis in uremic patients as a group (r = 0.52; P < 0.01) and the non-DM dialysis group (r = 0.70; P < 0.01), but were not correlated with the duration of dialysis in the DM dialysis group. The scores were correlated with serum phosphate concentration, but not with serum calcium concentration, calcium phosphate product, alkaline phosphatase levels total cholesterol or age. Calcification scores were extremely high (> 21) in six uremic patients who had high serum c-terminal parathyroid hormone concentrations. These findings indicate that serum phosphate concentration, serum c-terminal parathyroid hormone concentration, and the duration of dialysis are closely associated with coronary calcification in long-term dialysis patients."}
{"id": "8657415", "title": "[Simultaneous heart valve implantation and coronary bypass following kidney transplantation].", "content": "[Simultaneous heart valve implantation and coronary bypass following kidney transplantation]. The authors report simultaneous aortic valve replacement and coronary artery bypass grafting surgery successfully performed in a patient with functioning transplanted kidney. The patient's cardiac status was classified as NYHA class III. The indication of the cardiac operation was a heavily calcified, stenotic and insufficient aortic valve and severe coronary artery disease. Renal function and blood biochemistry tests did not show significant changes in the postoperative period. The patient was discharged on the 15. postoperative day after an uneventful postoperative period. He remained asymptotic for two and a half years after operation. His cardiac status judged by postoperative treadmill stress was NYHA class I. The outcome of this case in accordance with results found in the literature further confirms that, if the clinical indications are appropriate, a kidney transplant patient can survive and benefit from cardiac surgery. To our knowledge our patient has been the only one who has survived aortic valve replacement and double coronary artery bypass grafting after kidney transplantation, and this is the first case that has ever been reported in Hungary."}
{"id": "8654213", "title": "[Cardiosurgical therapy of coronary heart disease in terminal kidney insufficiency].", "content": "[Cardiosurgical therapy of coronary heart disease in terminal kidney insufficiency]. To determine retrospectively the complications and long-term results of aortocoronary bypass grafting in patients with end-stage renal disease. 65 patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) and on dialysis (54 men, 11 women; average age 56.9 +/- 8.1 years) underwent aortocoronary bypass grafting between 1982 and 1992. Mean duration of dialysis (haemo- or peritoneal) was 41.1 +/- 45.0 (1-215) months. All patients had had haemofiltration treatment in conjunction with the bypass operation. Coronary angiography demonstrated triple-vessel disease in 40 patients (62%). Average number of bypasses was 2.8 per patient. Perioperative death rate was 4.6%. 95% of survivors were free of symptoms 6 months postoperatively. Long-term survival rate was 71% after 3 years and 55% after 5 years. Aortocoronary bypass grafting for CHD in patients with end-stage renal disease can be performed with a low perioperative mortality rate and significantly improves symptoms."}
{"id": "8604709", "title": "Electron beam computed tomography in the evaluation of cardiac calcification in chronic dialysis patients.", "content": "Electron beam computed tomography in the evaluation of cardiac calcification in chronic dialysis patients. The purpose of this study was to assess the value of electron beam computed tomography in the detection of cardiac calcifications in coronaries and valves of dialysis patients and to determine the rate at which calcification progresses. Forty-nine chronic hemodialysis patients aged 28 to 74 years were compared with 102 non-dialysis patients aged 32 to 73 years with documented or suspected coronary artery disease, all of whom underwent coronary angiography. We used high-resolution electron beam computed tomography scanning to make 30 axial slices with a distance of 3 mm between each slice. The number of calcifications, the surface area, and the average and highest density values were measured. We calculated a quantitative coronary artery calcium score and assessed calcification of mitral and aortic valves. In dialysis patients, the measurements were repeated after 12 months. The coronary artery calcium score was from 2.5-fold to fivefold higher in the dialysis patients than in the non-dialysis patients. Hypertensive dialysis patients had higher calcium scores than non-hypertensive dialysis patients (P < 0.05). A stepwise, multiple regression analysis confirmed the importance of age and hypertension. No correlation between calcium, phosphate, or parathyroid hormone values and the coronary calcium score was identified; however, the calcium score was inversely correlated with bone mass in the dialysis patients (r = 0.47, P < 0.05). The mitral valve was calcified in 59% of dialysis patients, while the aortic valve was calcified in 55%. The coronary artery calcium score was correlated with aortic valvular, but not mitral valvular calcification. A repeat examination of the dialysis patients at an interval of 1 year showed a disturbing tendency for progression. Our data under-score the frequency and severity of coronary and valvular calcifications in dialysis patients, and illustrate the rapid progression of this calcification. Finally, they draw attention to hypertension as an important risk factor in this process."}
{"id": "8546139", "title": "Carotid artery lesions in patients with nondiabetic chronic renal failure.", "content": "Carotid artery lesions in patients with nondiabetic chronic renal failure. Atherosclerotic complications are the leading cause of death in chronic renal failure (CRF) patients. Therefore, we wished to investigate the prevalence of carotid artery lesions (CALs) in these subjects. Two groups were evaluated by high-resolution echo Doppler: group 1 included 103 patients (68 males and 35 females) affected by nonnephrotic CRF and group 2 included 100 control subjects (60 males and 40 females). The prevalence of hypertension was 84% in both groups. The exclusion criteria included diabetes mellitus and symptoms of cerebrovascular disease. In the two groups we evaluated clinical history, physical examination, total cholesterol, triglycerides, fibrinogen, blood cell counts, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, 24-hour proteinuria, and urine analysis. In group 1 patients the following lipid profile parameters were also evaluated: low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, lipoprotein(a), ApoAI, ApoAII, and ApoB. Group 1 had higher triglycerides and fibrinogen than group 2. A lower body mass index was found in group 1 than in group 2. The prevalence of CALs was significantly higher in the CRF patients than in the control subjects (62% v 47%; P = 0.04). The difference between the two groups was more striking among normotensive patients (62% v 19%; P = 0.03). All CRF patients affected by peripheral arterial disease and 86% of those having coronary artery disease had associated CALs. In CRF patients the severity of CALs was positively correlated to age, white blood cell count, triglycerides, and fibrinogen. Nondiabetic CRF patients have a higher prevalence of carotid artery lesions than control subjects. Several factors besides hypertension, including lipids, blood coagulation, and leukocytes, could contribute to the accelerated atherosclerosis of CRF patients."}
{"id": "8808221", "title": "Effect of treatment with 1.25 and 1.75 mmol/l calcium dialysate on bone mineral density in haemodialysis patients.", "content": "Effect of treatment with 1.25 and 1.75 mmol/l calcium dialysate on bone mineral density in haemodialysis patients. The effect of two different dialysate solutions with a calcium concentration of 1.25 and 1.75 mmol/l was evaluated in 14 patients, using a cross-over design. Patients were treated with each solution during a period of 6 months. Treatment with calcium supplements, vitamin D and aluminium hydroxide was adapted weekly, according to the results of blood chemistry. PTH, SAP, and ionized calcium were determined monthly, bone density with DXA and QCT before and after 6 months of treatment. During treatment with both 1.25 and 1.75 calcium dialysate (cad), the control of serum calcium and phosphate was similar. PTH did not change during either treatment. SAP decreased during treatment with 1.75, but remained stable with 1.25 mmol/l cad. Bone density evaluated with DXA remained unchanged during both treatments. QCT measured bone density increased from 101.29 +/- 13.50 to 106.79 +/- 13.14 mg/ml in the 1.75 cad group, while it did not vary in the 1.25 cad group, (107.75 +/- 13.48 versus 108.97 +/- 13.40 mg/ml). It is concluded that lowering the calcium content of the dialysate does not negatively influence the control of serum calcium and phosphate, nor does it aggravate hyperparathyroidism when vitamin D is administered simultaneously. Under the present conditions, osteopenia and possibly bone mineralization improve only in the group dialysed with 1.75 Ca."}
{"id": "8665982", "title": "Adult onset Kawasaki disease diagnosed by the echocardiographic demonstration of coronary aneurysms.", "content": "Adult onset Kawasaki disease diagnosed by the echocardiographic demonstration of coronary aneurysms. A 17-year-old boy presented with fever, bilateral conjunctival infection, angina and extensive cervical adenopathy. Amoxycillin was started. Ten days later he was admitted to hospital because of persistent high fever, cervical adenopathy, erythema of the pharynx and tongue and lip fissuration. The most important interventions of his first hospitalization were endotracheal intubation because of increasing dyspnoea due to adult respiratory distress syndrome and haemodialysis for renal insufficiency. His admission to our hospital was marked by the echocardiographic discovery of giant coronary aneurysms in the first few centimeters of both right and left coronary arteries. Coronary angiography confirmed giant aneurysm formation of the right and left coronary arteries. Similarly, medium sized arteries (cerebral, hepatic, mesenteric, iliac) presented abnormalities and laboratory findings. This is the first description of adult-onset Kawasaki disease with giant coronary aneurysm formation and more generalized arterial involvement. The severity of the clinical symptoms and the severity of the coronary disease indicates that Kawasaki disease of the adult does not always have a benign course."}
{"id": "8572857", "title": "[Diagnostic value of myocardial thallium stress scintigraphy in the detection of coronary artery disease in patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis].", "content": "[Diagnostic value of myocardial thallium stress scintigraphy in the detection of coronary artery disease in patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis]. Atherosclerotic heart disease is the leading cause of death in patients with end stage renal disease, but its non invasive detection remains difficult because of a low efficacy of exercise testing. The aim of the study was to evaluate diagnostic accuracy of thallium myocardial imaging after dipyridamole combined with exercise. Forty two chronic dialysis patients (34 men, 8 women) aged 55 +/- 11 years (range: 36 to 75) without symptom of angina nor myocardial infarction were studied. In each patient, an echocardiography, a myocardial scintigraphy with dipyridamole combined with symptom-limited exercise, and coronarography were performed. A coronary heart disease was diagnosed by coronarography in 10 patients (4.5 and 1 respectively with 1, 2 and 3 vessels diseased). Echocardiography detected a left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) in 26 patients and a regional asynergia in 14 patients. A positive scintigraphy was present in 11 patients. Three false-positive and 2 false-negative on scintigraphy were noted. Sensibility, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value were respectively evaluated at 80, 73, 73 and 93%. All the five patients with either false-positive or false-negative scintigraphy exhibited a LVH. CONCLUSION. In chronic dialysis patients, coronary heart disease may be detected by thallium myocardial imaging after dipyridamole combined with exercise."}
{"id": "7900665", "title": "Usefulness of dobutamine stress echocardiography in detecting coronary artery disease in end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Usefulness of dobutamine stress echocardiography in detecting coronary artery disease in end-stage renal disease. The cardiovascular evaluation of patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) has been hampered by the suboptimal sensitivity and specificity of currently employed diagnostic tests. Dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) is a recently developed technique which is accurate for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease (CAD) in general populations. The purpose of this study was to assess its diagnostic accuracy and prognostic implications in patients with ESRD. Patients with ESRD (n = 97) underwent DSE as part of a preoperative evaluation before being listed for renal transplantation. Patients were followed for 12 +/- 6 months (range 1 to 24) after the study. Rest and dobutamine stress echocardiograms were analyzed for regional and global function. Coronary angiography was performed in 30 patients, and 25 underwent renal transplantation in the follow-up period. DSE had a sensitivity of 95% (92% for 1-vessel, 100% for > or = 2-vessel disease), specificity of 86%, and accuracy of 90% for the detection of CAD. During the follow-up period, 6 patients died; DSE revealed inducible ischemia in 4, and catheterization before death revealed multivessel CAD in 2. Conversely, a normal DSE identified a very low risk population, with a 97% probability of being free of cardiac complications or death during the follow-up period. We conclude that DSE accurately identifies CAD in patients with ESRD and identifies a cohort of patients at low risk for cardiac complications."}
{"id": "7878539", "title": "Infrainguinal bypass in patients with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Infrainguinal bypass in patients with end-stage renal disease. This study was undertaken to evaluate the outcome of infrainguinal arterial reconstruction in a high-risk subset of patients with end-stage renal disease. We reviewed the medical records of 44 patients requiring maintenance dialysis and undergoing 57 infrainguinal bypass procedures for limb salvage from 1986 to 1992. These included 16 (28%) femoropopliteal and 41 (72%) tibial or pedal bypasses with autogenous (82%), prosthetic (12%), or composite (6%) graft materials. The principal indications for operation were ischemic ulceration or gangrene (79%) and rest pain (21%). Angiographic evaluation most frequently showed single-vessel runoff (56%). Risk factors included age (mean, 63 years), diabetes (75%), hypertension (93%), coronary artery disease (52%), smoking (39%), previous myocardial infarction (20%), and contralateral amputation (18%). Infection was present in 22 limbs (39%). Early (30-day) surgical morbidity rate was 39%, including wound breakdown (19%), graft thrombosis (9%), and major amputation (4%). Perioperative mortality rate was 9%. Cumulative primary graft patency rates were 71% and 63%, secondary patency rates were 80% and 66%, and limb salvage rates were 70% and 52% at 1 and 2 years, respectively. Limb loss correlated most highly with the presence of preoperative infection (p = 0.036; log-rank method). Patient survival rate was 52% at 2 years. Life-table analysis confirms a poor life expectancy for this population but indicates that an acceptable level of limb salvage may be achieved with arterial reconstruction in properly selected patients."}
{"id": "7847356", "title": "A comparison of coronary angioplasty and coronary artery bypass grafting outcomes in chronic dialysis patients.", "content": "A comparison of coronary angioplasty and coronary artery bypass grafting outcomes in chronic dialysis patients. The objective of this study was to compare the outcomes of angina, myocardial infarction (MI), cardiac death, and all-cause death following percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) or coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). The study design was based on retrospective, nonrandomized analysis and was set in referral teaching hospitals and community hospitals. Eighty-four chronic dialysis patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease without prior revascularization were included in the study. Twenty-four patients underwent PTCA of one or more vessels, and 60 patients underwent CABG. Recurrence of angina, MI, cardiac death, and all-cause death following revascularization as well as the number of inpatient days preprocedure and postprocedure were recorded. The two patient groups were comparable in terms of age, sex, history of MI, left ventricular mass and function, and angina severity. Diabetes mellitus was more prevalent in the PTCA group. The CABG group had more severe coronary artery disease. The 2-year survival rate of the CABG patients (66%; 95% confidence interval = 53.79) did not differ from that of the PTCA patients (51%; 95% confidence interval = 27.65). Thirteen PTCA patients were restudied 106 +/- 108 days after recurrence of angina; nine (69%) of these patients were found to have angiographic restenosis. The postprocedure risk of angina and the combined endpoints of angina, MI, and cardiovascular death were significantly greater following PTCA than CABG. Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty was the only consistent predictor of outcomes; the adjusted relative risks (compared with CABG) of postprocedure angina and combined endpoints were 16.4 and 10.2, respectively, and were several-fold higher than the unadjusted risks. We conclude that in chronic dialysis patients with symptomatic coronary disease, patients undergoing PTCA have a higher risk of subsequent angina and combined angina, MI, and cardiovascular death than those undergoing CABG. The optimal approach to coronary revascularization in this patient population remains to be determined."}
{"id": "7750623", "title": "[A case report of aldosterone-producing adrenocortical adenoma complicated with chronic renal failure associated with nephrocalcinosis: review of APAs complicated with chronic renal failure].", "content": "[A case report of aldosterone-producing adrenocortical adenoma complicated with chronic renal failure associated with nephrocalcinosis: review of APAs complicated with chronic renal failure]. A 57-year-old man was admitted to our hospital because of dyspnea due to congestive heart failure caused by hypertensive heart disease in September, 1992. Twenty years ago, he was diagnosed to be hypertensive, and in 1980, he was diagnosed to at our hospital to have primary aldosteronism (PA) due to a right aldosterone-producing adrenocortical adenoma (APA). There were no hypertensive vascular complications at that time. He refused surgical removal, and anti-hypertensive drugs including spironolactone were administered. However, his drug compliance was very inaccurate. On this recent admission, left ventricular hypertrophy associated with impaired contractivity, hypertensive retinal change and mild protein uria were noted, but no hematuria was detected. His renal function was impaired (Ccr: 15.2ml/min). An abdominal CT scan showed a typical right APA, bilateral renal atrophy and fine granular calcification at renal medulla, even though he had no hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria. In addition, multiple cerebral infarction was demonstrated by a brain CT scan, along with coronary artery stenoses at the right coronary artery and left circumflex branch by coronary angiography and bilateral multiple renal artery stenoses by renal angiography. Right adrenalectomy and renal biopsy were performed. Histological examinations revealed a yellow tan-colored APA, many sclerotic glomerulus, and severely hyarinized renal arterioles. After adrenalectomy, blood pressure was not normalized but was controlled easily by hypotensive agents. Impaired renal function was not improved and deteriorated slightly but did not get worse there after. Since 1959, including ours, 22 cases of APAs complicated with chronic renal failure were reported in Japan. In conclusion, surgical removal should be recommended for APA, even if the patient's condition is complicated with chronic renal failure."}
{"id": "7731145", "title": "Clinical and echocardiographic disease in patients starting end-stage renal disease therapy.", "content": "Clinical and echocardiographic disease in patients starting end-stage renal disease therapy. End-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients have a high cardiovascular mortality rate. Precise estimates of the prevalence, risk factors and prognosis of different manifestations of cardiac disease are unavailable. In this study a prospective cohort of 433 ESRD patients was followed from the start of ESRD therapy for a mean of 41 months. Baseline clinical assessment and echocardiography were performed on all patients. The major outcome measure was death while on dialysis therapy. Clinical manifestations of cardiovascular disease were highly prevalent at the start of ESRD therapy: 14% had coronary artery disease, 19% angina pectoris, 31% cardiac failure, 7% dysrhythmia and 8% peripheral vascular disease. On echocardiography 15% had systolic dysfunction, 32% left ventricular dilatation and 74% left ventricular hypertrophy. The overall median survival time was 50 months. Age, diabetes mellitus, cardiac failure, peripheral vascular disease and systolic dysfunction independently predicted death in all time frames. Coronary artery disease was associated with a worse prognosis in patients with cardiac failure at baseline. High left ventricular cavity volume and mass index were independently associated with death after two years. The independent associations of the different echocardiographic abnormalities were: systolic dysfunction-older age and coronary artery disease; left ventricular dilatation-male gender, anemia, hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia; left ventricular hypertrophy-older age, female gender, wide arterial pulse pressure, low blood urea and hypoalbuminemia. We conclude that clinical and echocardiographic cardiovascular disease are already present in a very high proportion of patients starting ESRD therapy and are independent mortality factors."}
{"id": "7646157", "title": "The autologous tissue cardiac valve: a new paradigm for heart valve replacement.", "content": "The autologous tissue cardiac valve: a new paradigm for heart valve replacement. This is a report of early clinical experience with an autologous tissue cardiac valve, which demonstrates the feasibility of making a bioprosthesis in the operating room in 10 minutes at the time of the valve replacement operation. There were 30 implant patients (18 men, 12 women), with ages ranging from 32 to 83 years. Diagnoses included calcified aortic stenosis (n = 16), pure aortic insufficiency (n = 9), and mixed aortic stenosis and insufficiency (n = 5). Associated diagnoses have included chronic renal failure treated with dialysis (n = 1), coronary artery disease requiring concomitant coronary bypass (n = 1), ascending aortic aneurysm requiring resection (n = 3), and mitral insufficiency requiring concomitant mitral valvuloplasty (n = 2). All of the valve replacements were in the aortic position. These implanted patients are being followed up carefully according to the protocol that requires examination every 6 months for the first year and every 12 months subsequently. No patient has been lost to follow-up. Twenty-seven patients are alive and well from 1 to 22 months postoperatively. There were three deaths: two perioperative deaths (one perivalvular leak and one hemorrhage) and one infective endocarditis 1.3 years after valve replacement. All surviving patients were followed up by echocardiographic examination (mean gradient, 15.5 +/- 6.8 mm Hg at 1 year). In conclusion, the feasibility of this method and concept has been demonstrated with implants in 30 patients. The validity of the technique will be judged by clinical results and experiences in children."}
{"id": "7602867", "title": "[Vein patch angioplasty for coronary revascularization to ischemic heart disease: report of two cases].", "content": "[Vein patch angioplasty for coronary revascularization to ischemic heart disease: report of two cases]. Two cases of vein patch angioplasty for ischemic heart disease were presented. The first case (59-year-old female) admitted to our hospital because of posterolateral infarction. Preoperative coronary angiogram (CAG) showed stenosis of 4-PD of RCA, proximal LAD and distal LCX. The second case (62-year-old male) admitted for operation of abdominal aortic aneurysm. Preoperative CAG showed stenosis of proximal RCA and mid LAD. Stenosis of 4-PD and proximal RCA was relieved by patch angioplasty using saphenous vein graft and coronary artery bypass to LAD was performed by left internal thoracic artery graft. Both cases showed successful enlargement of RCA stenosis and good graft patency at the postoperative CAG. Vein patch angioplasty is thought to be an alternative method for coronary revascularization to ischemic heart disease."}
{"id": "7586302", "title": "Fractional flow reserve. A useful index to evaluate the influence of an epicardial coronary stenosis on myocardial blood flow.", "content": "Fractional flow reserve. A useful index to evaluate the influence of an epicardial coronary stenosis on myocardial blood flow. Fractional flow reserve (FFR), defined as the ratio of maximum flow in the presence of a stenosis to normal maximum flow, is a lesion-specific index of stenosis severity that can be calculated by simultaneous measurement of mean arterial, distal coronary, and central venous pressure (Pa, Pd, and Pv, respectively), during pharmacological vasodilation. The aims of this study were to define ranges of FFR values, whether associated with inducible ischemia or not, and to investigate FFR in normal coronary arteries. In 60 patients accepted for percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) of single-vessel disease, with a positive exercise test (ET) < 24 hours before PTCA, FFR was determined during adenosine-induced hyperemia just before and 15 minutes after angioplasty. Pa was measured by the guiding catheter, Pd by an 0.018-in fiber-optic pressure-monitoring wire, and Pv, by a multipurpose catheter. The ET was repeated after 5 to 7 days, and only if this second ET had reverted to normal was the pre-PTCA value of FFR definitely considered to be associated with inducible ischemia and the post-PTCA value not. Myocardial FFR (FFRmyo) increased from 0.53 +/- 0.15 before PTCA to 0.88 +/- 0.07 after PTCA. Coronary FFR increased from 0.38 +/- 0.19 to 0.83 +/- 0.12. In all patients, values of FFRmyo definitely associated with ischemia were < or = 0.74, whereas all except two values not associated with inducible ischemia exceeded 0.74. Moreover, FFRmyo in 18 coronary arteries in 5 normal patients equaled 0.98 +/- 0.03. A value of FFRmyo of 0.74 reliably discriminates coronary stenosis, whether associated with inducible ischemia or not. Therefore, FFRmyo is a useful index to determine the functional significance of an epicardial coronary stenosis and may facilitate clinical decision making in patients with an equivocal coronary stenosis."}
{"id": "7579064", "title": "Hyperhomocysteinemia and the risk for vascular disease in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Hyperhomocysteinemia and the risk for vascular disease in hemodialysis patients. The objective of this study was to examine if hyperhomocysteinemia is associated with occlusive vascular disease in hemodialysis patients. The study design included risk factor analysis and determination of serum homocysteine in hemodialysis patients. Fifty chronic uremic patients on regular hemodialysis treatment were studied. Twenty-four patients had coronary, cerebral, or peripheral signs of occlusive vascular disease. Cerebral vascular disease was diagnosed by computed tomography, arterial angiography, or Doppler sonography of the carotid and vertebral arteries. Coronary vascular disease was diagnosed by documented history of myocardial infarction or by coronary angiography. The diagnosis of peripheral vascular disease was established by angiography of the lower limb arteries. In all control patients, Doppler sonography of the carotid, vertebral, and lower limb arteries and thallium-201 exercise imaging were without pathologic results. Measurements included blood pressure, body mass index, smoking behavior, serum homocysteine (measured by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry), serum total, low-density lipoprotein, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, lipoprotein (a), triglycerides, and plasma fibrinogen. In a stepwise multiple logistic regression analysis, high serum homocysteine was significantly associated with occlusive arterial disease (R = 0.23; P = 0.031). Furthermore, hypertension (R = 0.18; P = 0.058), but not serum total, low-density lipoprotein, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, lipoprotein (a), triglycerides, diabetes mellitus, body mass index, plasma fibrinogen, and smoking behavior, was significantly associated with atherosclerosis. Our results support the hypothesis that hyperhomocysteinemia is an independent risk factor for vascular disease in hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "7579050", "title": "The prognostic importance of left ventricular geometry in uremic cardiomyopathy.", "content": "The prognostic importance of left ventricular geometry in uremic cardiomyopathy. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of left ventricular (LV) mass, volume, and mass-to-volume ratio on mortality in chronic dialysis patients. The Design was a multicenter, prospective inception cohort study with a median follow-up of 41 months. The Setting was three university-affiliated nephrology units. A total of 433 patients who (1) survived > 6 months from the start of ESRD therapy and (2) had a technically satisfactory baseline echocardiogram were studied. Measurements included a baseline clinical, laboratory and echocardiographic assessment. LV hypertrophy was present in 74% and LV dilation was present in 36% of patients. In patients with normal cavity volume (< or = 90 mL/m2) and normal systolic function, high LV mass index (> 120 g/m2) and mass-to-volume ratios (> 2.2 g/mL) were independently associated with late mortality (> 2 yr after starting dialysis therapy). After adjusting for baseline age, diabetes, and ischemic heart disease, the relative risk for the former was 3.29 and for the latter was 2.24. Cavity volume was of no prognostic significance in this group. In patients with LV dilation and normal systolic function, high cavity volume (> 120 mL/m2) and low mass-to-volume ratio (< 1.8 mL/m2) were independently associated with late mortality, the relative risk in the former being 17.14 and the latter being 4.27. LV mass index was of no prognostic significance in this group. The baseline echocardiographic classification, based on LV mass and cavity volume, was the strongest predictor of late mortality, after adjusting for age, gender, diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease, angina pectoris, chronic hypertension, and hemoglobin and serum albumin levels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7566298", "title": "Comparison of Lp(a) concentrations and some potential effects in hemodialysis, CAPD, transplantation, and control groups, and review of the literature.", "content": "Comparison of Lp(a) concentrations and some potential effects in hemodialysis, CAPD, transplantation, and control groups, and review of the literature. Apolipoprotein (a)-Lp(a)-is reported to be an independent risk factor for coronary artery disease and for hemodialysis (HD) access occlusion. Homology with plasminogen may predispose to thrombosis. High concentrations usually have been reported in patients on HD and on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD), but near-normal values in many kidney transplants (TP). We used Pharmacia immunoradiometric assay in 52 patients on HD, 58 on CAPD, 94 after TP, and 56 controls. The Lp(a) mean levels for CAPD, HD, TP, and control groups were 738, 647, 348, and 368 U/l and the medians were 542, 537, 96 and 143 U/l, respectively. The means and medians for CAPD and HD were significantly greater than those for TP and controls (p < 0.003 for means and < 0.005 for medians). We found no significant difference between: (1) Lp(a) means or medians comparing HD and CAPD or TP and controls; (2) Lp(a) means for the 33 patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and the 171 without; (3) number of occlusions of HD fistulae or grafts in patients with high Lp(a) values and without; (4) mean Lp(a) for CAPD patients on gemfibrozil and also for TP patients on 3-hydroxy-methylglutaryl coenzyme 1 reductase inhibitors, or diet alone, before and after treatment, and (5) mean Lp(a) values for HD and CAPD patients with and without myocardial infarction. Lp(a) did not correlate significantly with fractional shortening or left ventricular end systolic or diastolic diameter by echocardiogram or with ejection fraction. For TP patients, Lp(a) and serum creatinine correlated (p = 0.004), and mean Lp(a) for 71 TP on ciclosporin A exceeded that for the other 23 patients (p < 0.03). Lp(a) fell in 13 of 14 patients after TP (mean fall 77%). The dominant Apo(a) isoform in 10 of 13 patients on CAPD or HD with high Lp(a) values was the equivalent of S2 (Utermann). Lp(a) in HD or CAPD is often elevated and regulated by both genetic and renal failure factors, but falls after TP with return of renal function and mainly genetic regulation. Lp(a) was not a risk factor for coronary artery disease in HD or CAPD patients and did not fall significantly with two drugs or diet."}
{"id": "7500898", "title": "Atheroembolic renal failure after invasive procedures. Natural history based on 52 histologically proven cases.", "content": "Atheroembolic renal failure after invasive procedures. Natural history based on 52 histologically proven cases. Atheromatous plaque material containing cholesterol crystals may dislodge and cause distal ischemia. To characterize atheroembolic renal failure, we retrospectively evaluated all patients at the Massachusetts General Hospital from 1981 to 1990 with both renal failure and histologically proven atheroembolism after angiography or cardiovascular surgery. Over the 10-year period, 52 patients were identified. They tended to be elderly men with a history of hypertension (81%), coronary artery disease (73%), peripheral vascular disease (69%), and current smoking (50%). Within 30 days of their procedure, only 50% of patients had cutaneous signs of atheroembolism, and 14% had documented blood eosinophilia. Urinalysis was often abnormal. Hemodynamically unstable patients died shortly after their procedure, yet renal function in the remainder continued to decline over 3 to 8 weeks. Patients who received dialysis had a higher baseline serum creatinine than those who did not (168 +/- 44 mumol/L versus 133 +/- 18 mumol/L, p = 0.02), with dialysis starting a median of 29 days after the procedure. Patients with renal failure due to atheroembolism alone, as opposed to multiple renal insults, were more likely to recover renal function (24% versus 3%, p = 0.03) and had a lower risk of death during the 6 months after their procedure (log-rank p = 0.002). Renal failure due to procedure-induced AE is characterized by a decline in renal function over 3 to 8 weeks. This time course is not consistent with most other iatrogenic causes of renal failure, such as radiocontrast or nephrotoxic medications, which present earlier and often resolve within 2 to 3 weeks after appropriate intervention.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8171522", "title": "Coronary arteriosclerotic lesions in type I diabetic patients eligible for combined renal-pancreatic transplantation.", "content": "Coronary arteriosclerotic lesions in type I diabetic patients eligible for combined renal-pancreatic transplantation."}
{"id": "8039226", "title": "High incidence of renal artery stenosis in patients with coronary artery disease.", "content": "High incidence of renal artery stenosis in patients with coronary artery disease. The incidence of renal artery stenosis (RAS) in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) has not been well documented. Over a 9-month period, 196 patients who underwent coronary angiography because of clinically suspected CAD had routine nonselective renal cine or digital subtraction angiography. There were 68 females and 128 males with a mean age of 63 years (range 35-85). Angiographically significant CAD was present in 152 patients (78%). Of the total patient cohort, 29 patients (15%) had mild RAS (< 50%), and 36 patients (18%) had significant RAS (> or = 50%). In patients with normal coronary arteries, only three patients (7%) had RAS. Thirty-three patients (92%) with severe RAS also had CAD. Of these 33 patients, 45% had hypertension, 30% had hyperlipidemia, 24% had diabetes mellitus, 24% had renal insufficiency (creatinine > or = 1.5), and 51% were smokers. In addition, it was noted that 20 of these patients (61%) had two or more of the above-listed clinical parameters. However, univariate analysis using the chi-square test revealed that only CAD (22% P < 0.03) and renal insufficiency (29% P < 0.15) were reliable clinical predictors of RAS. In conclusion, RAS is a frequent finding in patients with CAD, particularly when renal insufficiency is also present."}
{"id": "8037090", "title": "Complications and long-term outcome after percutaneous coronary angioplasty in chronic hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Complications and long-term outcome after percutaneous coronary angioplasty in chronic hemodialysis patients. The objective of this investigation was to assess the acute and long-term outcome after coronary angioplasty in patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis. Previous studies have suggested a high incidence of restenosis after coronary angioplasty performed in patients with renal failure. Medical discharge abstracts for 8342 patients undergoing angioplasty during a 5-year period were searched to identify all coronary angioplasty procedures performed in patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis. Procedural and follow-up coronary angiograms were reviewed in a core angiographic laboratory. Hospital records and office visit notes were obtained to assess acute and long-term outcome. Twenty-one patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis had been treated by coronary angioplasty. The 9 men and 12 women had a mean age of 59 +/- 10 years (range 37 to 78 years) and had been undergoing hemodialysis for 6.2 +/- 6.4 years (range 1 to 19 years). Procedural success was achieved in 12 (57%) of 21 patients. Three (14%) patients died; 4 suffered nonfatal myocardial infarctions (19%); 1 (5%) required emergency bypass surgery; and 1 (5%) had abrupt vessel closure without complications. Of the 15 (71%) patients who were discharged with a patent angioplasty vessel, 4 (27%) died and 9 (60%) had recurrence of angina within 1 year. Of 9 patients with recurrent angina, 7 underwent a second angiography, and all showed evidence of restenosis at the previous angioplasty site. The results of coronary angioplasty in these 21 hemodialysis patients suggest a high rate of acute complications and poor long-term prognosis in this subgroup. Other strategies for revascularization should be considered for these patients."}
{"id": "8035633", "title": "Selection and preparation of high-risk patients for repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms.", "content": "Selection and preparation of high-risk patients for repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms. To discuss the most important risk factors in patients who undergo surgical repair of an abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). This update in vascular surgical repair highlights the criteria that identify high-risk patients, the useful preoperative tests, and the perioperative measures that can aid surgical recovery. In elective repair of AAAs, high-risk patients are those with severe coronary or valvular heart disease, decompensated chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, severe cerebrovascular disease, chronic renal failure, hepatic cirrhosis with portal hypertension, and chronic hematologic disorders associated with bleeding dysfunction. Patients with unstable or severely symptomatic heart disease should undergo preoperative coronary angiography and ventriculography. Pharmacologic stress testing is recommended for patients with clinical markers of serious coronary artery disease and other medical or physical factors that prevent any type of standard exercise stress testing. Our experience with high-risk patients supports conventional repair of AAAs. Our preference for the midline abdominal incision in high-risk patients is substantiated by an operative mortality rate of 5.7% in comparison with a reported 7% mortality rate for nonresective therapy. Approximately one in three high-risk patients will have a serious postoperative complication, the most common of which is a cardiac event. Most patients recover after a slightly prolonged hospital stay. Despite an increased operative risk, patients with a stable medical condition and an AAA larger than 6 cm in diameter should be considered for elective repair. High-risk patients with smaller aneurysms (5 to 6 cm in diameter) should undergo efforts to stabilize or to improve their general medical condition before elective operation."}
{"id": "8020052", "title": "[Transesophageal coronary flowmetry and ventricular diastolic properties in surgically treated aortic insufficiency].", "content": "[Transesophageal coronary flowmetry and ventricular diastolic properties in surgically treated aortic insufficiency]. In patients with aortic valve regurgitation anginal pain without coronary artery disease is a consequence of both impairment of coronary flow (CF) reserve and reduction of diastolic CF (D) due to a diminished coronary perfusion pressure (CPP). Aim of this study was to evaluate with transesophageal multiplane echocardiography CF pattern in 15 patients with severe aortic regurgitation (AR) in the operative room before and after aortic valve replacement and to correlate it with hemodynamic parameters of left ventricular systolic (echocardiographic fractional shortening area) and diastolic (Doppler E/A ratio of mitral flow and X/Y ratio of pulmonary venous flow; pulmonary wedge pressure) function. Patients were compared to a control group (C) of 10 subjects. Coronary flow was divided into systolic (S), protodiastolic (PD) and end-diastolic (ED) components. In AR we observed a reduction in D/S ratio (2.6 +/- 1.3 versus 3.5 +/- 0.8, NS) and an increase in PD/ED ratio (2.24 +/- 2.8 versus 1.05 +/- 0.15, p < 0.001). A positive correlation was observed between PD/ED ratio and left ventricular diastolic impairment (E/A ratio: r = 0.71, p < 0.001; wedge pressure: r = 0.70, p < 0.001) and a negative correlation with CPP (r = -0.6, p < 0.02). Forty-five min after aortic valve replacement diastolic function improvement and CPP increase were associated with a normalization of CF pattern (D/S = 4.35 +/- 1.9/PD/ED = 1.06 +/- 0.16). In conclusion in AR diastolic dysfunction and abnormal CPP are strictly related to the reduction in diastolic CF; valve replacement normalizes the former two parameters and redistributes CF in late diastole."}
{"id": "8001103", "title": "Limitations of translesional pressure and flow velocity for long ostial left anterior descending stenoses.", "content": "Limitations of translesional pressure and flow velocity for long ostial left anterior descending stenoses. Translesional pressure and flow velocity can be used to assess angiographically intermediate or indeterminate lesions. Ostial narrowings and long lesions represent situations that may require both pressure and flow velocity assessment. In patients with hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and chronic renal failure, distally measured absolute and regional coronary reserve values alone may not be helpful in selecting lesions requiring intervention."}
{"id": "7999844", "title": "Effects of calcitriol pulse therapy per os in CAPD patients.", "content": "Effects of calcitriol pulse therapy per os in CAPD patients. Pulse calcitriol therapy (IV or per os) has been efficacious in hemodialysis (HD) patients to inhibit parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels, but there are very poor data for continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients. For this reason, we used calcitriol (C) per os (0.75-1.5 micrograms three times weekly) in 19/54 patients who had PTH > 150 pg/mL (on peritoneal dialytic treatment for 6-114 months, weekly KT/V 2.01 +/- 0.43); 16% were in therapy with calcium (Ca) carbonate, 26% with calcium acetate alone, and 58% with calcium acetate associated with magnesium (Mg) carbonate and reduction of dialysate Ca (CaD) and dialysate Mg (MgD), respectively, to 1.25 and 0.25 mmol/L. In 5 patients (26%), a further reduction of CaD to 0 mmol/L has been necessary, and 3 patients must be considered nonresponders after three months of treatment. In conclusion, the use of calcitriol as pulse therapy (three times weekly), and at low doses, allows a good control of secondary hyperparathyroidism in 85% of patients who are using phosphate binders without aluminum, if CaD is reduced in some patients to 1.25 or even to 0 mmol/L."}
{"id": "7990283", "title": "[A concomitant operation of coronary artery bypass grafting and thymectomy: a case report].", "content": "[A concomitant operation of coronary artery bypass grafting and thymectomy: a case report]. A 63-year-old man was successfully operated upon concomitantly for coronary artery disease and invasive thymoma. The chest roentogenogram showed a mass shadow in the anterior mediastinum, which was 6.0 x 4.0 cm in size and irregular. Coronary angiography revealed complete obstruction of the right coronary artery and 90% stenosis of the first diagonal branch (#9). Following thymectomy combined with the resection of the left phrenic nerve and the mediastinal pleura, coronary artery bypass grafting with the major saphenous vein was performed to #4 PD and #9. This is the first report of concomitant surgery for the ischemic heart disease and invasive thymoma in Japan."}
{"id": "7989797", "title": "[A case of operation for acute postinfarction mitral insufficiency due to papillary muscle rupture].", "content": "[A case of operation for acute postinfarction mitral insufficiency due to papillary muscle rupture]. A 75-year-old man was brought to hospital with complaining of chest pain. He was diagnosed acute myocardial infarction and treated medically using thrombolytic drugs. Without chest pain relieved, cardiac catheterization revealed three coronary vessel disease and severe mitral insufficiency (MR). MR was diagnosed due to papillary muscle rupture by echocardiography. After being transferred to our hospital, the patient developed in shock and underwent emergency operation with IABP inserted. Triple CABGs (to LAD, PD and 4PL) and mitral valve replacement were performed using saphenous vein grafts and a mechanical valve (Carbomedicus 25 M). The patient recovered gradually and discharged one and a half month after operation."}
{"id": "7986481", "title": "Noninvasive cardiac testing in the end-stage renal disease patient.", "content": "Noninvasive cardiac testing in the end-stage renal disease patient. Renal transplant candidates are at increased risk for future cardiac death--approximately 5-10% per year. Invasive testing by coronary angiography has been used to assess the cardiac risk. However this is expensive and carries its own risks to residual renal function as well as cardiac morbidity and mortality. Screening of patients by clinical risk factors may obviate the need for invasive or noninvasive testing in a significant number (approximately 50%) of the renal transplant candidates. Further noninvasive testing with exercise or dipyridamole thallium-201 stress testing in the high-risk patients may be a more cost-effective screening test than coronary angiography. Other noninvasive testing modalities may also prove useful in the future but have not yet been proven in this unique patient population. The characterization of a renal transplant candidate's cardiac risk may assist the clinicians in prioritizing the candidate for transplantation. Recent evidence also suggests that revascularization of the diabetic renal transplant candidate with significant coronary artery disease (which is approachable by angioplasty or bypass surgery) may modify their cardiac risk. Randomized studies of the efficacy of revascularization or medical therapy interventions in the nondiabetic renal transplant candidate with coronary artery disease have not been performed."}
{"id": "7982418", "title": "Hyperhomocysteinaemia in heart transplant recipients.", "content": "Hyperhomocysteinaemia in heart transplant recipients. The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence of hyperhomocysteinaemia in cardiac transplant recipients. Three groups of subjects were studied: 27 heart transplant recipients, 14 to 63 months (mean = 36.5) after transplantation; 10 patients with moderate chronic renal insufficiency without clinical evidence of vascular disease; 17 apparently healthy individuals. Twenty-five out of 27 transplanted patients had a coronaroangiography within 6 months of homocysteine measurement. Plasma homocysteine was measured both while the subject was fasting (t0) and 6 h after administration of 0.1 g.kg-1 of methionine (t6). Hyperhomocysteinaemia was present in 14/27 fasting transplanted patients and after methionine loading. Mean plasma levels of homocysteine at t0 were higher (P = 0.03) in transplanted heart recipients (15.4 +/- 7 mumol.l-1) than in the renal patients (9.9 +/- 5 mumol.l-1) despite similar mean plasma creatinin. In eight transplanted patients with angiographic coronary abnormalities of the cardiac graft, homocysteinaemia was at t0 17.1 +/- 9 mumol.l-1 and at t6 47.8 +/- 25 mumol.l-1. In 17 transplanted patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries, plasma homocysteine levels were at t0, 13.2 +/- 4 mumol.l-1 and at t6, 46.8 +/- 25 mumol.l-1. We conclude that hyperhomocysteinaemia is common in transplanted heart recipients, and partly related to renal insufficiency. No correlation was found between hyperhomocysteinaemia and angiographic evidence of coronary atherosclerosis of the graft, but the population of the study was possibly too small to establish this correlation."}
{"id": "7977476", "title": "Myocardial alterations during hemodialysis: insights from new noninvasive technology.", "content": "Myocardial alterations during hemodialysis: insights from new noninvasive technology. Eighteen patients with chronic renal failure had their cardiac status monitored during hemodialysis (HD). Ten studies were carried out using an ambulatory nuclear vest to assess ejection fraction (EF), heart rate (HR), relative end-systolic (ESV) and end-diastolic (EDV) volumes every 60 s. A total of 36 episodes of EF falls occurred in 9 patients, all asymptomatic. These EF falls were associated with a rise in ESV, while HR, BP, and EDV remained unchanged. The EF falls correlated best with the volume of ultrafiltrate removed. Ten patients had on-line ST-segment monitoring with sestamibi injection either at the time of ST depression (STD) or at the end of dialysis, if no STD occurred, in order to detect the presence of transient ischemia. Seven of ten patients had perfusion defects after dialysis, with STD occurring in 3 of 10 patients. Predialysis imaging was available in only 8 of 10 patients, and 6 of these patients had perfusion defects. Changes in perfusion defects were not significantly different in the 3 patients with STD compared with those without STD. EF falls and perfusion defects are common in HD patients even in the absence of known coronary artery disease; however, ST segment monitoring is not a sensitive tool for its detection. These changes in function and perfusion may represent myocardial ischemia and contribute to the high incidence of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in this patient population."}
{"id": "7955310", "title": "Coronary artery disease in renal transplant recipients.", "content": "Coronary artery disease in renal transplant recipients. Coronary artery disease is a major cause of death in transplant recipients. To review current approaches for the detection, evaluation, and treatment of coronary artery disease in transplant recipients. Renal transplantation promotes the development of coronary artery disease primarily because immunosuppressant medications accentuate known coronary risk factors such as hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and hyperglycemia that accelerate the progression of coronary artery disease existing before transplantation. Physicians can monitor a patient's risk status by regular inquiries for symptoms and by simple clinical tools such as the Framingham Study Coronary Heart Disease Risk Prediction Chart in asymptomatic patients. Patients found to be at high risk for coronary artery disease can then undergo dobutamine echocardiography or other noninvasive tests, and patients with positive studies can subsequently undergo angiography. The cost-effectiveness of such an approach is presented. In recent studies at our institution, patients with coronary artery disease had decreased numbers of CD2+ and CD3+ circulating lymphocytes. In addition, in immunosuppressed transplant recipients with coronary artery disease, there was a decrease in CD8+ lymphocytes, whereas in nonimmunosuppressed, nontransplant patients there was a decrease in CD4+ lymphocytes. A systematic approach to screening patients for coronary artery disease before transplantation can identify those at highest risk and potentially save money and lives. Possible new avenues of research may focus on the role of the lymphocytes in coronary atherosclerosis."}
{"id": "7942820", "title": "Renal vascular disease causing end-stage renal disease, incidence, clinical correlates, and outcomes: a 20-year clinical experience.", "content": "Renal vascular disease causing end-stage renal disease, incidence, clinical correlates, and outcomes: a 20-year clinical experience. In the United States, the incidence of end-stage renal disease to hypertension has increased sharply over the last 8 years, especially in elderly white dialysis patients who demonstrate very poor survival rates. The 5-year survival rates were near 20% for patients 65 to 74 years old and 9% for those > or = 75 years of age. Our program experienced a sharp increase in cases of end-stage renal disease due to renal vascular disease after 1982. Renal vascular disease was characterized clinically in 83 of 683 dialysis patients either by angiography or asymmetric kidney size in patients with evidence of systemic atherosclerosis, hypertension, insignificant proteinuria, and a benign urinary sediment. The median age was 70 years, with 84% of the patients being older than 61 years. These patients had 56% 2-year, 18% 5-year, and 5% 10-year survival rates, which are quite similar to the 1992 US Renal Data System data. Patients with renal vascular disease have a significantly worse prognosis than other diagnostic groups, most likely due to their older age, underlying vascular disease, and coronary artery disease. We feel that a significant number of elderly white hypertensive patients described in the 1992 US Renal Data Service report have renal vascular disease as a cause of end-stage renal disease, highlighting the need to establish correct renal diagnoses. Hypertension should not be the end-stage renal disease diagnosis in elderly white hypertensive patients if clinical criteria suggest a diagnosis of renal vascular disease."}
{"id": "7862226", "title": "[Kidney transplantation in patients more than 60 years old. Analysis of results apropos of 57 patients].", "content": "[Kidney transplantation in patients more than 60 years old. Analysis of results apropos of 57 patients]. From April 1988 to August 1993, 57 elderly recipients more than 60 years old (mean age 64 +/- 3 years, 35 males, 22 females) underwent cadaveric renal transplantation. The pretransplant screening included immunological and viral status and urological examination; cardiovascular risk factors were systematically estimated by medical history, physical examination, echocardiography, femoral arterial doppler, and myocardial stress thallium imaging. A coronarography was performed if myocardial ischemia was evidenced. Patients free of cardiovascular diseases or after correction of vascular and/or coronary lesions were included in the waiting list. A sequential immunosuppression regimen including azathioprine, prednisolone anad antilymphocyte globulins was given in all patients. Oral cyclosporin A (5-8 mg/kg/day) was started when serum creatinine level decreased to 200 mumol/l; antilymphocyte globulins were stopped when whole trough blood cyclosporin level reached 150-200 ng/ml. After 24 months of follow-up, the patient survival rate of elderly recipients was significantly lower than the survival rate observed in patients less than 60 years old (90% vs 97%; p < 0.005); the deaths were related to cardiovascular complications in 3 cases and to infectious diseases in 3 cases. No abdominal complications were observed in our series. The graft survival was identical in both groups (81% vs 82% at 2 years), and we observed a low incidence of acute rejection (23%) in the elderly group. The graft function, as determined by serum creatinine level, is significantly correlated with the donor age (p < 0.05). We conclude that the patients more than 60 years old, free of ischemic coronary disease or after correction of such a lesion could be safely transplanted.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7835359", "title": "The use of Gianturco-Roubin flexible metallic coronary stents in old saphenous vein grafts: in-hospital outcome and 7 day angiographic patency.", "content": "The use of Gianturco-Roubin flexible metallic coronary stents in old saphenous vein grafts: in-hospital outcome and 7 day angiographic patency. After placement of a Gianturco-Roubin metallic, coiled coronary stent(s) following balloon angioplasty (PTCA), a pre-discharge (7 day) angiogram determined the patency of the old coronary bypass vein graft(s) (SVG) (> or = 5 years remote from their last surgery, mean age: 8.5 +/- 1.8 years). Metallic, coiled stents were successfully deployed in 95/96 (99%) patients within 100/101 (99%) SVGs. The indications for deployment were threatened [81 patients (84%)] or acute [15 patients (16%)] vein graft closure following PTCA. Intragraft urokinase infusion was performed in 17 patients (17%) [6 patients with baseline occlusions; 11 with abrupt closure post PTCA]. Complications encountered included three (3%) in-hospital deaths (two procedure related) two (2%) Q wave myocardial infarctions, six (6%) non-Q wave myocardial infarctions, and 22 (22%) bleeding problems. These included, not mutually exclusively, 21 (22%) requiring transfusions, six (6%) cases of gastrointestinal bleeding, six (6%) pseudoaneurysms, five (5%) retroperitoneal haemorrhages and two (2%) cerebrovascular accidents. All patients received dipyridamole, aspirin, dextran, and anticoagulation (heparin 10-20,000 U intra-procedurally); a heparin infusion was continued for 5 +/- 1 days, despite warfarin administration which attained a therapeutic prothrombin time (PT) (1.5-2 times control) by 3 +/- 1 days. Out of the 95 successfully treated patients, six with eight stented grafts were ineligible for pre-discharge angiography. Of the six, three died in hospital (four SVGs), one had an intracerebral haemorrhage (one SVG), and two were asymptomatic patients with chronic renal failure (three SVGs).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "10146597", "title": "Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty for chronic dialysis patients.", "content": "Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty for chronic dialysis patients. Accelerated forms of atherosclerosis continue to be responsible for considerable morbidity and mortality among patients on chronic hemodialysis, and coronary artery disease is responsible for approximately 20-30% of the deaths of such patients. The suitability of such patients for percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA), however, remains unknown. Accordingly, the purpose of this study was to evaluate the feasibility of PTCA in a group of chronic dialysis patients. PTCA was performed on a total of 15 dialysis patients with medically refractory angina pectoris. Angiographic success was obtained in 16 of 21 (76%) stenoses attempted after the first PTCA. Restenosis was observed in 6 of 16 (38%) lesions, which was significantly related to longer dialysis history (p less than 0.01), and low maximal inflation pressure (p < 0.05). Five of the 6 patients with restenosis underwent a second PTCA, however, all 4 patients with successful second PTCA developed recurrence of angina. Three of 4 patients with a second episode of restenosis underwent a third PTCA, and angina recurred in 2. Thus, PTCA is a reasonable initial strategy for patients with chronic hemodialysis, especially when dialysis history is short. For restenotic lesions and when there is a long dialysis history, restenosis rates are high and coronary bypass surgery should be considered."}
{"id": "8499068", "title": "Aortoiliac reconstruction in preparation for renal transplantation.", "content": "Aortoiliac reconstruction in preparation for renal transplantation. Aortoiliac angiography has always been an integral part of the pretransplantation work-up of renal transplant candidates in Norway. The present study was undertaken to investigate the value of this routine. Based on the angiograms of approximately 1400 patients evaluated for renal transplantation during the 7-year period 1984-1991, 26 were found to have aortic and/or iliac atherosclerosis requiring pretransplant vascular reconstruction. Fifteen of the 26 patients had aneurysm of the abdominal aorta and 11 had extensive aortoiliac occlusive disease. A prosthetic graft was inserted in 25 patients and endarterectomy of the aortic bifurcation was performed in one. The cause of death was coronary heart disease in four of six patients who died before, and in one patient who died after, transplantation. Sixteen patients received a renal transplant while four patients are still on the waiting list. Fifteen of the recipients are alive, 14 with functioning renal transplants. The low yield of patients below 40 years of age requiring vascular reconstruction calls into question the routine use of angiographic investigation of renal transplant candidates below this age. However, we recommend this routine for the higher age groups because it often provides the surgeon performing the transplantation with valuable information. Aortoiliac reconstruction as preparation for renal transplantation is advocated when atherosclerosis of a degree that may preclude transplantation is found. Because of the high risk of myocardial infarction in these patients, one must be especially aware of coronary atherosclerosis when evaluating patients for this procedure."}
{"id": "8488402", "title": "Effect of hemodialysis on left ventricular contractility in pediatric patients with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Effect of hemodialysis on left ventricular contractility in pediatric patients with end-stage renal disease. Assessment of the effect of hemodialysis on myocardial contractility is complicated by variations in loading conditions that can occur during hemodialysis and by the prevalence of coronary artery disease among patients with chronic renal failure. Therefore, we used a load-independent index of left ventricular contractility, derived from analyses of the rate corrected velocity of circumferential fiber shortening (Vcfc)-end systolic wall stress (ESWS) relationship, to study the acute effects of hemodialysis on left ventricular function in the cases of 15 pediatric patients with end-stage renal disease. Prior to dialysis, Vcfc was appropriate for ESWS (102% +/- 16% of predicted) and did not differ significantly from values obtained from a group of nine normal control subjects of similar ages (103% +/- 9% of predicted), indicating that the patients' left ventricles were functioning in a normal inotropic state. After dialysis, Vcfc increased to levels beyond those expected for ESWS (118% +/- 20% of predicted, P < .05 versus control; P < .001 versus predialysis levels), indicating that dialysis was associated with enhancement of the left ventricle's inotropic state. A statistically significant increase in plasma norepinephrine levels was also observed. However, the increase in the percentage of the predicted Vcfc did not correlate with observed changes in this inotropic agent or with dialysis-induced variations in body weight or levels of electrolytes, urea nitrogen, or creatinine, and firm conclusions regarding the identity of the factors responsible for the positive inotropic effect of hemodialysis could not be drawn."}
{"id": "8469788", "title": "Preliminary screening of the relationship of serum lipids to survival of chronic dialysis patients.", "content": "Preliminary screening of the relationship of serum lipids to survival of chronic dialysis patients. To assess the predictive value of serum lipid measurements in dialysis patients once the initial decrease on early dialysis had occurred, we obtained random serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels in stable, chronic dialysis patients who were then followed up to 9 years. Derived LDL (DLDL) was estimated by the Friedewald formula, calculated for all HDL levels between 30 and 45 mg/dL, and evaluated statistically against a panel of vascular disease markers, including clinical assessment for coronary, peripheral, and cerebrovascular disease; ECG, both standard and ambulatory; two-dimensional echocardiogram; and medications. Survival was calculated from entry (not dialysis onset) for 58 hemodialysis and 33 peritoneal dialysis patients. The 91 patients (49 males, 74 diabetics) were divided by cholesterol level (> or = 175 mg/dL = 53, < 175 = 38), triglyceride (> or = 175 mg/dL = 55, < 175 = 36), and DLDL (> or = 75 = 58, < 75 = 24). High total cholesterol was present in a larger proportion of females than low cholesterol, but groups were not different with respect to all vascular determinants, including survival (mean = 33.4 months vs. 43.2, p = NS). High vs. low triglyceride groups were not different with respect to vascular indicators, except for both incidence of abnormal standard ECG (69% vs. 42%, p < 0.05) and survivals (mean = 42.0 vs. 30.7, p < 0.05; 1 year = 80% vs. 56%, p < 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8461627", "title": "Aneurysms of coronary arteries in a patient with adult polycystic kidney disease: arteriosclerosis or involvement by the primary disease?", "content": "Aneurysms of coronary arteries in a patient with adult polycystic kidney disease: arteriosclerosis or involvement by the primary disease? Adult polycystic kidney disease is frequently associated with gastrointestinal and cardiovascular abnormalities. These include hypertension, mitral valve prolapse, mild dilation of the aortic root, abdominal aneurysms, and predisposition to aortic, mitral, and tricuspidal valve regurgitation reminiscent of Marfan's syndrome. Although the exact molecular mechanisms of adult polycystic kidney disease are not well established, a generalized defect of collagen structure is hypothesized. The most severe vascular problems, however, are typical intracranial aneurysms with a high incidence of subarachnoid hemorrhage and a high mortality rate. We report a case of dilated coronary arteries found incidentally in a patient with adult polycystic kidney disease and stress-induced angina pectoris. The typical angina pectoris of the patient is explained by left ventricular hypertrophy and coronary heart disease. Multiple liver cysts, mitral valve prolapse, and the coronary aneurysms in this patient with adult polycystic kidney disease appear to reflect the manifestation of a generalized connective tissue disorder in this syndrome."}
{"id": "8450597", "title": "Effects of rHuEPO therapy on exercise capacity in hemodialysis patients with coronary artery disease.", "content": "Effects of rHuEPO therapy on exercise capacity in hemodialysis patients with coronary artery disease. We investigated the effects of recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO) therapy on exercise capacity by symptom-limited maximal treadmill exercise testing in 9 patients with coronary artery disease who were receiving maintenance hemodialysis. The initial hemoglobin concentration of 7.9 +/- 0.7 g/dl, (mean +/- S.D.) rose to 10.4 +/- 1.1 g/dl, (p < 0.01) after three months of rHuEPO therapy. The partial correction of renal anemia resulted in a significant increase in exercise duration (from 278 +/- 84 sec to 384 +/- 74 sec, p < 0.01) and maximum pressure-rate product (from 228.3 +/- 50.3 mmHg.bpm/10(2) to 262.8 +/- 40.4 mmHg.bpm/10(2), p < 0.01). The maximum exercise-induced ST segment depression significantly decreased after treatment (from 1.3 +/- 0.5 mm to 0.5 +/- 0.5 mm, p < 0.05). These results suggest that the improvement in maximum coronary oxygen supply exceeded the increased maximum myocardial oxygen requirements after the partial correction of renal anemia by rHuEPO therapy in hemodialysis patients with coronary artery disease."}
{"id": "8437387", "title": "[A case report: surgical repair of bilateral coronary artery-pulmonary artery fistula associated with mitral regurgitation, tricuspid regurgitation and severe renal dysfunction].", "content": "[A case report: surgical repair of bilateral coronary artery-pulmonary artery fistula associated with mitral regurgitation, tricuspid regurgitation and severe renal dysfunction]. The patient was a 72-year-old female who was admitted with evaluation of dyspnea on effort. On cardiac catheterization, coronary angiography showed the fistula from both RCA and LAD to the pulmonary artery and L-R shunt ratio was 37.4%, and MR and TR were found. The preoperative examination showed renal dysfunction, BUN: 61.6 mg/ml, Cr: 21. mg/ml, 24 hr Ccr: 15.2 ml/min. At the operation, the fistula was closed from the inside of the pulmonary artery and MVR (27 SJM) and TAP (Kay-Reed method) were performed associated with the intra-operative hemodialysis. The peritoneal dialysis was used for 9 days after the operation. The hemodynamics and the urination were well controlled. A successful surgical repair of bilateral coronary artery-pulmonary artery fistula associated with valvular disease and severe renal dysfunction was reported."}
{"id": "8430569", "title": "Balloon angioplasty above the aortic arch: immediate and long-term results.", "content": "Balloon angioplasty above the aortic arch: immediate and long-term results. Angioplasty above the level of the aortic arch is becoming more common, and the indications for it are increasing. We report our experience with this procedure, including life-table analysis of the long-term results. We dilated 32 lesions in 29 patients. Early in our series, patients were referred primarily because of arm claudication or vertebrobasilar insufficiency. Subsequently, the indications were expanded to include inflow to left internal mammary-coronary artery bypass grafts, inflow to axillobifemoral bypass grafts, and inflow to dialysis fistulas in the upper extremity. A femoral artery approach was used in 18 patients and an axillary approach was used in 11. Clinical follow-up included evaluation of symptoms and bilateral measurements of peripheral pulses and blood pressure. Follow-up angiograms were obtained in nine patients. Eighteen of the lesions dilated were located in the left subclavian artery, eight were in the right subclavian artery, four were in the axillary or proximal brachial artery, and two were in the innominate artery. Interestingly, three of eight right subclavian arteries treated had an anomalous origin from the arch of the aorta. Initial technical success was 100%. All 29 patients had long-term follow-up of 4-88 months (mean, 36 months). In one patient, stenosis recurred 8 months after angioplasty. This patient subsequently had redilatation. Life-table analysis projected a 7.5-year cumulative primary patency rate of 96.6%. No cerebrovascular complications or embolic events occurred. Angioplasty of the great vessels is safe and effective, and the long-term results are favorable when compared with results after surgery. As a result, the indications for this procedure should be broadened."}
{"id": "8418631", "title": "Cardiac and cerebrovascular disease in chronic uremia.", "content": "Cardiac and cerebrovascular disease in chronic uremia. Cardiovascular disease causes death in more than 40% of dialysis patients and the burden of its morbidity is high. The relationships between traditional risk factors for cardiac mortality, as identified by the Framingham study, and potential uremia-related risk factors are unclear. The characteristic echocardiographic pattern in dialysis patients is a dilated left ventricle with normal systolic function and left ventricular hypertrophy. Dilated cardiomyopathy, severe left ventricular hypertrophy, and coronary artery disease occur frequently and predispose to congestive heart failure, arrhythmias, and ischemic heart disease. The risk factors that predispose to each disease and the natural history of each disorder have not been studied with sufficient precision. Few quality studies have been undertaken to identify the interventions that effectively ameliorate the impact of cardiac disease in dialysis patients. In some subsets of patients, erythropoietin or renal transplantation will be useful in inducing regression of some cardiac diseases. However, the impact of various antihypertensive agents, lipid-lowering agents, or normalization of hematocrit is unknown."}
{"id": "8379318", "title": "Radionuclide assessment of left ventricular performance on exercise after external conduit operation.", "content": "Radionuclide assessment of left ventricular performance on exercise after external conduit operation. Only limited information is available concerning left ventricular (LV) response to exercise after an external conduit operation for cyanotic congenital heart disease. Sixteen patients who had undergone external conduit repair (EC group) were studied with multi-gated cardiac pool imaging using a supine bicycle ergometer on 20 occasions. Six patients with a history of Kawasaki disease without coronary artery stenosis served as controls (control group). Myocardial imaging and cardiac catheterization were also performed in the EC group. There was no significant difference in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) at rest between the groups. However, on exercise, LVEF of the EC group was significantly lower than that of the control group. Nine patients in the EC group showed a perfusion defect (PD) on 12 occasions. LVEF on exercise of the patients with PD was significantly lower than that of the patients without PD. Furthermore, only the patients with PD showed a LVEF decrease of 5% or more in response to exercise. In the EC group, a significant inverse relationship was demonstrated between right ventricular systolic pressure (RVP) and LVEF response to exercise. However, two out of four patients who underwent external conduit replacement improved their LVEF response to exercise with successful reduction of RVP. These findings indicate that an impaired left ventricular response to exercise was common in patients after external conduit operations. Myocardial damage and right ventricular outflow tract obstruction could be the causes of this left ventricular dysfunction."}
{"id": "8377288", "title": "[Risk factors for coronary artery disease in Japanese patients with chronic renal failure].", "content": "[Risk factors for coronary artery disease in Japanese patients with chronic renal failure]. We examined the records of 101 Japanese patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) to determine the influence of established risk factors on the incidence of coronary artery disease (CAD). CAD was found in 25 patients (myocardial infarction in 18, significant coronary artery stenosis by coronary angiogram in 16). In patients with CAD, there were significantly more male (80% vs 58%, p < 0.05), more smokers (80% vs 41%, p < 0.0005), more diabetics (68% vs 32%, p < 0.005) and more hypertensives (92% vs 76%, p < 0.05). However, lipoprotein (a), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, or triglycerides were not significantly different between CAD group and control group. When significant risk factors were entered into a stepwise logistic regression analysis, we found a history of smoking (p = 0.0025) and the presence of diabetes (p = 0.0141) to be independent risk factors for the presence of CAD in Japanese patients with CRF."}
{"id": "8361888", "title": "[The effect of blood pressure changes during hemodialysis on left ventricular systolic function].", "content": "[The effect of blood pressure changes during hemodialysis on left ventricular systolic function]. Echocardiographic study was performed in 31 uremic patients on maintenance hemodialysis (HD) with no apparent heart failure, valvular heart disease, pericardial effusion or coronary artery disease. On the basis of blood pressure patients were classified into two groups: 1) patients with normal arterial pressure (group I) (n = 19), 2) patients with blood hypertension (group II) (n = 12). Cardiac function was assessed immediately before and after HD session. Left ventricular end-diastolic diameter (EDD), left ventricular end-systolic diameter (ESD) and ejection fraction (EF) were calculated. Body weight, heart rate and mean blood pressure (mBP) were also measured. A significant decrease of EDD was noted in both groups during HD but it was less evident in group II (p < 0.05). ESD decreased significantly in group II (p < 0.01) when it did not change in group I. EF increased significantly only in group II (p < 0.05). Blood pressure decreased during HD in both groups. A significant inverse linear association between EF and ESD was noted during HD in both groups (r = -0.685; p < 0.001) but was more evident in group II. There was no association between and EDD (r = 0.199; NS). Similar analysis shows that ESD was significantly with mBP (group II--r = 0.914; p < 0.001, group I--r = 0.565; p < 0.05). Such association were not found for EDD and RR. Only in group II the decrease in mBP was statistical significantly correlated with the increase in EF. The decrease in EDD during HD exists probably due to changes in intravascular volume.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8336042", "title": "[Acute aortic dissection after coronary revascularization--a case report].", "content": "[Acute aortic dissection after coronary revascularization--a case report]. A 59-year-old man with coronary artery disease and arteriosclerosis obliterans of left lower extremity underwent anastomosis of left internal thoracic artery to left anterior descending artery with cardiopulmonary bypass of aortic perfusion and left femoro-popliteal bypass with saphenous vein graft. On the first postoperative day, urinary output decreased and then stopped. The transesophageal echocardiography and angiography revealed the Stanford A type acute aortic dissection. Immediately the resection of the ascending aorta including the intimal tear, which was found on the site of the previous aortic perfusion, and the reconstruction of the ascending aorta with the prosthetic graft was performed. After the reperfusion of left femoral artery, which was used as the route of the arterial perfusion during cardiopulmonary bypass, serum potassium level increased gradually and at last the heart was arrested. Hemodialysis with draining from inferior vena cava produced the stability of hemodynamics, but on the next day he died of low cardiac output syndrome. We presented the case with the acute aortic dissection after open heart surgery, which was one of the rare complications in aortic perfusion of cardiopulmonary bypass and emphasized the possibility of occurrence of myonephropathic-metabolic syndrome after the repair of acute aortic dissection with limb ischemia."}
{"id": "8336026", "title": "[A case report underwent simultaneous CEA and CABG followed by FPB].", "content": "[A case report underwent simultaneous CEA and CABG followed by FPB]. A case of 67-year-old man with stenoses of both carotid arteries, double vessel diseases of coronary arteries, and left superficial femoral artery obstruction, for which surgical treatments were performed, is herein reported. He was in HYHA class IV because of unstable angina pectoris and pain in the left leg and in the state of chronic renal and hepatic disorders which made his condition worse. Coronary angiography showed stenoses in the origin of the right coronary artery and in the proximal left anterior descending artery at the degrees of about 95% and 90%, respectively. Carotid arteriography revealed both internalcarotid artery stenoses over 90%. The left carotid endarteractomy was not indicated because of presence of obstructive lesions of intracranial arteries in the left side. He underwent simultaneous surgery for the coronary and carotid occlusive diseases. He gained consciousness at the post operative 1st day and underwent left femoroperoneal saphenous vein bypass at the post operative 2nd day. He is leading a normal life without angina pectoris, left intermittent claudication and neurological deficit and has been followed up for 9 months postoperatively."}
{"id": "8314645", "title": "Observations of angina and myocardial infarction in constrictive pericarditis.", "content": "Observations of angina and myocardial infarction in constrictive pericarditis. The common symptoms of constrictive pericarditis, i.e. dyspnea on exertion, shortness of breath and cough, relate to impairment of ventricular filling and to a progressive rise in systemic and pulmonary venous pressures. Myocardial ischemia, angina and myocardial infarction are rarely associated with this disease. We have encountered two patients with constrictive pericarditis, one presenting with angina and the other with acute anterior wall infarction. Possible etiologies of constrictive pericarditis in the first case include cardiac surgery, chronic renal failure and myocarditis; in the second case, Crohn's disease. The proposed mechanism of chest pain in the first patient was a reduced cardiac output resulting in underperfusion of the coronary arteries, although it is possible that the patient experienced angina due to the presence of severe coronary artery disease. In the second patient an anterior wall infarction and post-infarction angina were attributed to obliteration of the left anterior descending artery by constraint of a thickened pericardium. In both cases non-invasive imaging modalities were not of use in establishing the diagnosis of constrictive pericarditis. Clinical awareness and accurate hemodynamic measurements continue to play a key role in the diagnostic process."}
{"id": "8311744", "title": "[Mitral catheter-balloon valvuloplasty in surgical high risk patients].", "content": "[Mitral catheter-balloon valvuloplasty in surgical high risk patients]. To evaluate percutaneous mitral balloon valvuloplasty (PMBV) in surgical high risk patients. Twenty (12%) patients out of 172 submitted to a PMBV were considered high surgical risk cases; 17 (85%) were women and mean age was 43 (18-69). Thirteen (65%) were in acute pulmonary edema (3 were pregnant, 2 had previous cerebrovascular event, 1 had pulmonary thromboembolism and other had chronic renal failure), and 7 (35%) were in functional class (CF) III (2 had coronary artery disease, 2 severe obesity, 1 pulmonary neoplasia, 1 cardiac cachexia and one with previous cerebrovascular event). All patients underwent PMBV through transseptal technique. Double balloon was used in 10 (50%) patients; Inoue balloon in 5 (25%), mono-foil in 3 (15%) and bi-foil in 2 (10%). Seventeen (85%) obtained success and 2 (10%) had clinical improvement. The hemodynamic results pre versus post-PMBV showed: left atrium pressure (LAP) mmHg 28.2 +/- 10.0 x 15.2 +/- 9.2 (n = 20) (p < 0.001), mitral medium gradient (G) mmHg 21.2 +/- 10.7 x 10.7 +/- 6.7 (n = 18) (p < 0.001), mitral valve area (MVA) cm2 0.73 +/- 0.3 x 1.73 +/- 0.6 (n = 11) (p < 0.001), pulmonary artery pressure mmHg 52.0 +/- 18.2 x 40.1 +/- 14.7 (n = 18) (p < 0.001) and cardiac index L/min/m2 2.1 +/- 0.4 x 2.5 +/- 0.6 (n = 14) (p < 0.001). Comparative echocardiography results pre, post and 6 months after PMBV showed: MVA 1.06 +/- 0.39 x 1.92 +/- 0.51 x 1.65 +/- 0.5 and G 13.8 +/- 4.7 x 7.3 +/- 3.6 x 7.3 +/- 4.4. There were two immediate deaths (pulmonary thromboembolism and multiple organs failure) and other after hospital discharge. The complications were: 2 (10%) patients with neurological complications, 1 (5%) atrial septal defect and other right atrium perforation (5%). PMBV offers an alternative to surgical treatment in high risk surgical patients and the results are maintained in the 6 month follow-up."}
{"id": "8300457", "title": "Left ventricular diastolic function--pulsed Doppler echocardiography versus radionuclide angiography.", "content": "Left ventricular diastolic function--pulsed Doppler echocardiography versus radionuclide angiography. Fifty five consecutive patients diagnosed to have coronary artery disease by coronary angiography had their left ventricular (LV) diastolic functions evaluated by pulsed doppler (PD) methods and radionuclide angiography (RNA). Using PD, the peak velocities of the early filling wave 'E' and the late filling wave 'A' of mitral inflow were measured. LV diastolic dysfunction, defined as E/A ratio less than 1.0, was present in 31 of 38 patients with low RNA peak filling rates (PFR) of 2.3 EDV/sec or less (sensitivity 81.6%). Normal E/A ratios (> 1.0) were seen in 13 of 17 patients with normal RNA PFR of > 2.3 EDV/sec (specificity 76.5%). Both methods were in agreement in 44 of 55 patients (accuracy 80%). There was good direct correlation between RNA PFR and PD E/A ratio (correlation coefficient r = 0.51, P < 0.01). It is concluded that PD echocardiography is a simple and reliable method of identifying diastolic dysfunction in patients with ischaemic heart disease."}
{"id": "8277603", "title": "[Study of washout rate in patients with chronic renal failure by dipyridamole 201Tl myocardial scintigraphy--comparison with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy].", "content": "[Study of washout rate in patients with chronic renal failure by dipyridamole 201Tl myocardial scintigraphy--comparison with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy]. Fourteen patients with chronic renal failure (CRF) were studied by dipyridamole 201Tl myocardial scintigraphy. In this study, patients with coronary heart disease were excluded by clinical findings. 201Tl SPECT was performed at 8 min after injection of dipyridamole (0.56 mg/kg) and at a 3-hr delayed interval, and washout rates (WR) were calculated. Because UCG showed left ventricular hypertrophy (thickness; 13 +/ 2 mm) in CRF, the WR values were compared with those of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) (n = 9). In CRF, an average WR was 54.2 +/- 6.8% and was significantly higher than that in normal (46.2 +/- 9.1%, p < 0.05, n = 9), though WR in HCM was significantly low (26.9 +/- 11.4%, p < 0.01). Hematocrit value was 24.5 +/- 3.2% in CRF and was significantly lower than that in normal (37.8 +/- 3.6%, p < 0.001). On the other hands, hemoconcentration was observed in HCM (hematocrit; 44.6 +/- 3.6%, p < 0.001). WR in CRF, HCM and normal had significant correlation with hematocrit values (r = -0.796, p < 0.001). These results suggest that anemia or hemoconcentration may affect coronary blood flow and WR, and this should be considered when diagnosing coronary heart disease in CRF or HCM."}
{"id": "8231036", "title": "Screening diabetic transplant candidates for coronary artery disease: identification of a low risk subgroup.", "content": "Screening diabetic transplant candidates for coronary artery disease: identification of a low risk subgroup. Coronary artery disease is the major cause of death in diabetic renal transplant recipients. Because one-third of diabetic transplant candidates have clinically silent coronary artery disease, many transplant centers recommend coronary angiography prior to transplantation. However, angiography is expensive and may precipitate acute renal failure. Therefore, we developed a noninvasive screening algorithm to identify patients at low risk for coronary artery disease (CAD), defined as one or more coronary stenoses > or = 50% diameter. We performed coronary angiography in 141 consecutive asymptomatic Caucasian type I diabetic renal transplant candidates. Fourteen of 16 patients age 45 or older had CAD. One hundred and twenty-five patients under age 45 were randomly divided into two groups. Ninety patients were used to identify clinical factors significantly associated with CAD which included smoking for five or more pack years, nonspecific ST-T wave changes on electrocardiogram, and diabetes duration 25 years or longer. The screening algorithm, \"CAD is predicted in diabetic transplant candidates under age 45 with any of the above risk factors,\" was then tested in the remaining 35 patients and in 35 additional patients. In these 70 patients, the algorithm had a sensitivity of 97% and a negative predictive accuracy of 96%. We conclude that coronary angiography should be recommended to Caucasian type I diabetic renal transplant candidates age 45 or older because of the high probability of disease. In patients younger than 45 without a smoking history, ST-T wave changes on EKG, or diabetes longer than 25 years, the likelihood of CAD is low and angiography can be avoided."}
{"id": "8159304", "title": "Long-term efficiency, biocompatibility, and clinical safety of combined simultaneous LDL-apheresis and haemodialysis in patients with hypercholesterolaemia and end-stage renal failure.", "content": "Long-term efficiency, biocompatibility, and clinical safety of combined simultaneous LDL-apheresis and haemodialysis in patients with hypercholesterolaemia and end-stage renal failure. Three hypercholesterolaemic patients on maintenance haemodialysis with angiographically proven coronary artery disease were treated in a once-a-week schedule by combined, synchronous lipid apheresis (using heparin-induced extracorporeal LDL precipitation) and haemodialysis (HELP/HD) for 65-104 weeks. Clinical side-effects were few and mostly related to high ultrafiltration rates in patients with low compliance regarding interdialytic fluid restriction. Biocompatibility of the procedure was shown to be good and blood cell losses, leukocyte (elastase release) and thrombocyte (beta-thromboglobulin extrusion) as well as complement (C3a formation) activation were minimal. Interestingly, most of the C3a generated in the extracorporeal HELP circuit was immediately removed again in the precipitate filter. In the pseudo-steady-state after 3 months of regular therapy, acute haematocrit-corrected reduction of plasma components after the session compared to pre values were about 55% for the risk factors LDL cholesterol (LDL-C), lipoprotein(a) (Lp(a)), and fibrinogen (FIB) with good recovery of HDL-C and other proteins. Urea, creatinine, and phosphate elimination was similar to normal haemodialysis. Mean interapheresis values of risk factors after one (n = 2) and two (n = 1) years of treatment were crucially dependent upon ultrafiltration (UF); thus, in two patients with high UF LDL-C concentrations amounting to 185 and 220 mg/dl at baseline and were reduced to about 135 mg/dl LDL-C, while in the patient with low UF the reduction was from 231 mg/dl to 80 mg/dl. The atherogenic index (LDL-C/HDL-C), was reduced from 6.4 and 5.1 to about 4.3 in patients with high UF, from 6.1 to 3.3 in the patient with low UF.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8129558", "title": "[Extensive isolated aneurysm of the right coronary vessel developing within 4 years].", "content": "[Extensive isolated aneurysm of the right coronary vessel developing within 4 years]. The authors report the case of a 64 year old man on chronic haemodialysis therapy in whom coronary angiography showed a right coronary artery aneurysm. This patient had undergone coronary angiography 4 years previously and no aneurysm had been found on that occasion. The aneurysm occurred in the context of coronary atherosclerosis, coronary angiography showing typical appearances of double vessel disease. There were several special features of this aneurysm which contribute to the originality of the case: its rapid development within 4 years, its large size and the fact that it was an isolated finding on the right coronary artery. Several aetiologies are discussed but none can be formally confirmed."}
{"id": "8102238", "title": "Bilateral mammary grafting. Clinical, functional and angiographic assessment in 400 consecutive patients.", "content": "Bilateral mammary grafting. Clinical, functional and angiographic assessment in 400 consecutive patients. Between October 1985 and September 1991, 400 patients benefited from bilateral internal mammary artery (BIMA) grafting. Of these, 354 (88.5%) were male and the average age was 57.4 years. There were 132 (33%) urgent procedures, 55 in diabetic patients (14%) and 15 in end-stage renal failures (4%). An average of 3.9 distal anastomoses (AN) per patient was undertaken, 2.8 using arterial grafts. Two hundred sixty-nine patients (67.2%) received exclusively arterial grafts. Right internal mammary artery (RIMA) grafts were predominantly directed to the left coronary system (348 AN = 78%) and particularly to the circumflex (CX) area. Postoperative myocardial infarction was diagnosed in 16 patients (4%). Reoperation was required for early myocardial ischemia in 12 patients (3%) and for excessive bleeding in 23 patients (5.8%). Sternal complications occurred in 18 patients (4.1%), 5 in diabetic patients (9%) and 3 in renal patients (20%). The hospital mortality was 2% (8 patients, 3 cardiac causes). Follow-up averages 37.7 months. Late mortality was 3% (12 patients, 4 cardiac causes). Angina recurred in 12 patients (3.1%). The maximal stress test at a mean interval of 9 months was abnormal in 7.4% (21 patients). One hundred eighty-one patients (47%) consented to an angiographic restudy at an average of 13 months postoperatively. Pedicled RIMA patency rates equal those of pedicled LIMA (95.1 vs 96.7, NS) and the grafted vessel does not alter the patency rates of IMA AN. A pedicled IMA graft is preferable to a free IMA graft (96.1 vs 79.6, P < 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1626568", "title": "Preoperative evaluation for diabetic renal transplantation: impact of clinical, laboratory, and echocardiographic parameters on patient and allograft survival.", "content": "Preoperative evaluation for diabetic renal transplantation: impact of clinical, laboratory, and echocardiographic parameters on patient and allograft survival. To assess the impact on renal transplant patients and graft survival of clinical, laboratory, and echocardiographic parameters commonly measured prior to surgery. Forty-seven consecutive diabetics with preoperative echocardiograms at the time of transplantation. Clinical history, standard chest roentgenogram, electrocardiogram, blood tests, echocardiograms, and HLA testing at baseline; follow-up from 2 to 7 years with periodic reassessment of graft function. Patient survival did not appear to be influenced by age, sex, or type of allograft. A history of either myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, or angina was present in 15 patients with 3-year survival of 50% (72% if not present, p less than 0.05). Histocompatibility testing did not impact on survival. Serum sodium, potassium, calcium, phosphate, and calcium-phosphate product did not discern different survival groups. A hematocrit greater than 30% was present in 15 patients with 3-year survival of 43% (73% if not present, p less than 0.05). Greater than 10% antibody sensitization of the recipient resulted in a 3-year survival of 38% in eight patients (68% if not present, p less than 0.05). Radiologic evidence of cardiomegaly or congestive heart failure and standard electrocardiographic evidence for left ventricular hypertrophy or strain did not impact on survival. Echocardiographic measurements of left ventricular end-diastolic diameter, posterior wall thickness, or ejection fraction were also not predictive. Increased end-systolic diameter (10 patients, 30% 3-year survival versus 69%, p less than 0.05) and decreased velocity of circumferential fiber shortening (11 patients, 45% 3-year survival versus 71%, p less than 0.05) both appeared to be related to survival. Increased accuracy of prediction could be obtained by adding risk factors so that a history of coronary artery disease and increased end-systolic diameter predicted 3-year survival of 42% versus 82% if neither was present. In terms of graft survival, no clinical, radiographic, or electrocardiographic result yielded predictive information. Among the laboratory tests, only highly antibody-sensitized patients (eight patients, 0% 3-year survival versus 66% 3-year survival, p less than 0.001) showed different survival patterns. Echocardiographic elevated end-systolic diameter predicted a significantly (p less than 0.001) decreased graft survival (3-year survival 33% versus 63%). Preoperative prediction of patient and graft survival in diabetic renal transplantation may be enhanced by echocardiographic assessment of systolic load and function. For patients with normal systolic function, whose hematocrit is below 30%, with preformed antibodies less than 10%, renal transplantation has an excellent prognosis; invasive cardiac procedures are not likely required. Since these risk factors are likely additive, a high-risk group may be identified. These latter patients should undergo coronary angiography."}
{"id": "1621408", "title": "Short-term reproducibility of gas exchange measurements during bicycle exercise in patients with mild to moderate congestive heart failure.", "content": "Short-term reproducibility of gas exchange measurements during bicycle exercise in patients with mild to moderate congestive heart failure. A series of 45 patients with congestive heart failure due to coronary disease had semisupine bicycle exercise tests (ramp protocol, 10 W/min) on two occasions separated by 3 to 7 days in order to determine the short-term reproducibility of gas exchange measurements during symptom-limited exercise. The percentage difference (PD) between each pair of measurements (m1, m2; PD = 100%.(m2-m1): m1) were calculated. The mean PD values (+/- 1 sigma) and the single determination standard deviations (SDSD) for exercise tolerance (ET, W), peak heart rate (pHR, 1/min), peak oxygen uptake (pVO2, ml/min/kg), peak carbon dioxide output (pVCO2, ml/min/kg), and peak minute ventilation (pVE, l/min) were as follows: [table: see text] No patient reached a plateau of oxygen uptake during the last portion of the ramp exercise test. Thus, pVO2 is not an objective endpoint. The single determination standard deviations show that exercise tolerance and peak oxygen uptake do not differ as to their reproducibility. The absolute values of PD were not a function of exercise tolerance for any of the parameters studied. The PD values for ET and pVO2 were normally distributed. The data suggest that a change in ET and pVO2 must exceed 27% and 28% between two sequential studies in an individual patient in order to be significant at the 5% level, respectively. For the one-tailed test situation, the changes in ET or pVO2 must be greater than 23% in order to be significant."}
{"id": "1553000", "title": "Painless myocardial ischemia in chronic hemodialysed patients: a real event?", "content": "Painless myocardial ischemia in chronic hemodialysed patients: a real event? We investigated the incidence of painless (silent) myocardial ischemia, manifested as S-T segment deviation, by Holter ECG monitoring in patients with chronic renal failure undergoing regular hemodialysis. Forty-five patients underwent Holter ECG monitoring for a continuous 48-hour period covering dialysis and the intermediate period of everyday activity at home. ECG criteria for ischemia were found in 15.5% of patients mainly during and immediately after dialysis with a simultaneous increase of R,S,R + S amplitude. There was no correlation of S-T segment deviation with the existence of cardiac dysfunction and coronary artery disease proved by hemodynamic and angiographic studies. It is concluded that hemodialysis itself seems to play an important role in the genesis of the above ECG findings, possibly by means of serum K and Mg changes."}
{"id": "1525805", "title": "In-vivo validation of on-line and off-line geometric coronary measurements using insertion of stenosis phantoms in porcine coronary arteries.", "content": "In-vivo validation of on-line and off-line geometric coronary measurements using insertion of stenosis phantoms in porcine coronary arteries. Geometric coronary artery measurements with the Phillips Digital Cardiac Imaging System (DCI) and the Cardiovascular Angiography Analysis System (CAAS) were validated using percutaneous insertion of radiolucent stenosis phantoms in swine coronary arteries. Angiographic visualization of the stenosis lumens (phi 0.5, 0.7, 1.0, 1.4, 1.9 mm) was simultaneously recorded on DCI and cinefilm. The acquisition systems were calibrated by either the diameter of the guiding catheter (catheter CAL) or the isocenter method (isocenter CAL). Minimal luminal diameters (MLD) obtained with CAAS and DCI on 20 corresponding cineframes were compared with the true phantom diameters (PD). The accuracy of MLD measurements with the CAAS using isocenter CAL was -0.07mm, the precision 0.21 mm (r = 0.91; y = 0.30 + 0.79x; SEE = 0.19), with catheter CAL the accuracy was 0.09 mm, the precision 0.23 mm (r = 0.89; y = 0.19 + 0.74x; SEE = 0.19). The accuracy of MLD measurements using the DCI with isocenter CAL was 0.08 mm, the precision 0.15 min (r = 0.96; y = 0.08 + 0.86x; SEE = 0.14), with catheter CAL the accuracy was 0.18 mm, the precision 0.21 mm (r = 0.92; y = 0.09 + 0.76x; SEE = 0.17). DCI underestimated PD with isocenter CAL (p less than 0.05) and with catheter CAL (p less than 0.001). MLD can be measured with high accuracy, both applying on-line digital as well as off-line cineangiographic analysis. The results of digital measurements demonstrate high reliability of the new digital software package."}
{"id": "1487382", "title": "Response to 35% CO2 in patients with chest pain and angiographically normal coronary arteries.", "content": "Response to 35% CO2 in patients with chest pain and angiographically normal coronary arteries. Several interview studies have suggested that panic disorder (PD) exists in patients with angiographically normal coronary arteries (NCA). Interview studies require corroboration by other studies in order to validate them. The purpose of this study is to test whether response to the inhalation of 35% CO2 reliably discriminates between PD and non-panic disorder patients in this population. Three groups were studied: six with NCA and PD, five with NCA and no PD, and ten in the control group. All subjects breathed room air, then 35% CO2 in a single-blind fashion. Each completed the Acute Panic Inventory (API) before and during the procedure. The NCA-panic group scored significantly higher than the other two groups on the Acute Panic Inventory from baseline to post-inhalation. Despite several methodological limitations including a relatively small number people in each cells, 35% CO2 was shown to trigger more intense responses in panic patients, thus helping to validate the interview findings."}
{"id": "1465270", "title": "99Tcm-MIBI single photon emission tomography (SPET) for detecting myocardial ischaemia and necrosis in patients with significant coronary artery disease.", "content": "99Tcm-MIBI single photon emission tomography (SPET) for detecting myocardial ischaemia and necrosis in patients with significant coronary artery disease. The ability of 99Tcm-methoxyisobutylisonitrile (MIBI) single photon emission tomography (SPET) to detect myocardial ischaemia and necrosis was assessed in 56 patients (45 male, 11 female, aged 55 +/- 5 years), with clinically recognized ischaemic heart disease (IHD). All underwent coronary angiography (CA) and left ventriculography (LV). SPET images were obtained at rest and at peak exercise (Modified Bruce) 90 min after injection of 99Tcm-MIBI (650-850 MBq). Data were acquired in 30 min over 180 degrees (from 45 degrees RAO to 45 degrees LPO) with no correction for attenuation, using a 64 x 64 matrix. The presence of persistent (P) or reversible (R) perfusion defects (PD) was then correlated to the resting and exercise ECG and to the results of CA and LV. Of the 56 patients, 34 had reversible underperfusion (RPD), 46 persistent underperfusion (PPD) and 31 had both. The occurrence of RPD correlated well with the occurrence of exercise-induced ST segment depression and/or angina (27 patients of 34 patients, 79%) and with the presence of significant coronary artery disease (CAD) (33 of 44, 73%). In 45 of 46 patients (98%) PPD corresponded to akinetic or severely hypokinetic segments (LV) usually explored by ECG leads exhibiting diagnostic Q waves (42 of 46 patients, 91%). The scan was normal both at rest and after stress in four of 11 patients with no CAD, and in two of 45 patients with CAD. Finally, an abnormal resting scan was seen in seven of 11 patients with normal coronary arteries, of whom six had regional wall motion abnormalities.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1436308", "title": "Effect of erythropoietin on ischemia tolerance in anemic hemodialysis patients with confirmed coronary artery disease.", "content": "Effect of erythropoietin on ischemia tolerance in anemic hemodialysis patients with confirmed coronary artery disease. From a total of 81 patients on maintenance hemodialysis who underwent coronary angiography, 8 patients fulfilled the criteria: significant coronary artery disease, hematocrit less than 27%, reproducible (ECG) positive treadmill test, no disturbance of repolarization in ECG at rest. Exercise stress testing was performed at a hematocrit of 25 +/- 2% and following erythropoietin therapy at a hematocrit of 34 +/- 0.5%. Symptom-limited exercise performance increased in all patients (1.10 +/- 0.3 W/kg b.w. vs. 1.44 +/- 0.31 W/kg b.w., p less than 0.01) as well as exercise duration (489 vs. 362 s, p +/- 0.01). ST segment depression during maximal exercise was reduced from a mean of 2.1 to 0.4 mm (p less than 0.01). It is concluded that amelioration of renal anemia by erythropoietin in dialysis patients with significant coronary artery disease reduces exercise-induced myocardial ischemia."}
{"id": "1386292", "title": "Lipoprotein(a) is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Lipoprotein(a) is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease in hemodialysis patients. Although serum lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] is an independent risk factor for atherosclerosis in the general population and Lp(a) levels are increased in hemodialysis patients, an association of Lp(a) with the risk of clinical events attributed to atherosclerosis has not been established in the chronic hemodialysis patient population. We therefore determined the association between Lp(a) levels and the risk of clinical events of presumed atherosclerotic etiology in a prospective study of an outpatient hemodialysis population. Lp(a) was measured by radioimmunoassay in a baseline cardiovascular disease risk assessment in a consecutive series of 129 hemodialysis patients. The relation between baseline Lp(a) and clinical events of presumed atherosclerotic etiology was determined during 48 months of follow-up. Hemodialysis patients had a median Lp(a) concentration that was approximately four times as high as the median Lp(a) concentration in normal controls and twice as high as the levels in controls with angiographic evidence of coronary artery disease [median Lp(a), 38.4 versus 16.9 mg/dl; p less than 0.001]. Baseline Lp(a) levels were no different in participants with or with no history of a previous clinical event at the time of the baseline examination. However, baseline Lp(a) concentration (p less than 0.001) and a history of atherosclerotic clinical events (p = 0.001) were associated with clinical events during the period of follow-up. In contrast, baseline serum total cholesterol, triglyceride, high density lipoprotein cholesterol, low density lipoprotein cholesterol, age, gender, race, or duration of hemodialysis were unrelated to this risk in the prospective study. Stepwise multiple logistic regression analysis demonstrated that serum Lp(a) concentration (p = 0.001) and the presence of a previous clinical event (p = 0.004) were the only independent contributors to the risk of a clinical event during the period of follow-up. Lp(a) is an independent risk factor for clinical events attributed to atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease in patients receiving chronic hemodialysis treatment of end-stage renal disease."}
{"id": "1357450", "title": "Coronary revascularisation in insulin-dependent diabetic patients with chronic renal failure.", "content": "Coronary revascularisation in insulin-dependent diabetic patients with chronic renal failure. Insulin-dependent diabetic patients found to have substantial coronary artery disease at the time of assessment for renal transplantation have 2-year survival of less than 50%. Because most of these patients have no angina symptoms their management is controversial. We tried to find out whether coronary artery revascularisation in such patients might decrease the combined incidence of unstable angina, myocardial infarction, and cardiac death. 151 consecutive insulin-dependent diabetic candidates for renal transplantation underwent coronary angiography. 31 had stenoses greater than 75% in one or more coronary arteries, atypical chest pain or no chest pain, and a left ventricular ejection fraction greater than 0.35. Of these, 26 agreed to be randomly assigned medical treatment (a calcium-channel-blocking drug plus aspirin) or revascularisation (angioplasty or coronary bypass surgery). 10 of 13 medically managed and 2 of 13 revascularised patients had a cardiovascular endpoint within a median of 8.4 months of coronary angiography (p < 0.01). 4 medically managed patients died of myocardial infarction during follow-up. Thus, revascularisation decreased the frequency of cardiac events in insulin-dependent diabetic patients with chronic renal failure and symptomless coronary artery stenoses. These findings suggest that diabetic renal transplant candidates should be screened for silent coronary artery disease, because revascularisation may decrease cardiac morbidity and mortality in this population."}
{"id": "1331875", "title": "Ventricular late potentials in haemodialysis patients and the risk of sudden death.", "content": "Ventricular late potentials in haemodialysis patients and the risk of sudden death. Cardiovascular diseases account for approximately 50% of deaths in patients on chronic haemodialysis. Therefore we prospectively studied 54 consecutive patients on dialysis for the presence or absence of ventricular late potentials (LP). LP, i.e. low-amplitude potentials in the terminal part of the QRS complex, have been shown to be highly indicative of life-threatening arrhythmias and sudden death. The results were correlated with echocardiographic studies and the clinical outcome during a follow-up period of 18 months. Fifty patients were suitable for evaluation (29 males, 21 females; mean age 55 years; mean time on dialysis 32 months; coronary artery disease present in 5) Our analysis revealed LP in seven of 50 patients only. Left ventricular hypertrophy, i.e. mean wall diameter > 12 mm, was present in 78%, a compromised left ventricular function, i.e. shortening fraction < 28%, was found in 28% of the patients. With respect to echocardiographic parameters, patients with and without LP were similar. During follow-up, sudden cardiac death was observed in three of 11 patients deceased. LP were detectable in one of the three only. From the remaining six patients with LP, four are still alive, and two patients died due to atherosclerosis and pulmonary embolism. Our data underline the crucial role of sudden cardiac death in dialysis patients. Ventricular late potentials, however, are of no prognostic relevance with respect to identification of dialysis patients at risk of sudden death."}
{"id": "10147633", "title": "Noninvasive assessment of cardiac risk in insulin-dependent diabetic patients being evaluated for pancreatic transplantation using thallium-201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy.", "content": "Noninvasive assessment of cardiac risk in insulin-dependent diabetic patients being evaluated for pancreatic transplantation using thallium-201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy. We examined the value of thallium-201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy in noninvasive assessment of cardiac risk in 36 insulin-dependent (type 1) diabetic patients being evaluated for pancreas or combined pancreas/kidney transplantation. An extensive cardiovascular evaluation including electrocardiogram was performed in all patients, and most patients were also evaluated by two-dimensional and Doppler echocardiography. Exercise thallium studies were performed in 31 patients. Five patients were unable to exercise and underwent dipyridamole-thallium study. The thallium images were abnormal in 12 patients, 10 of whom underwent coronary arteriography. Significant coronary artery disease was found in 7 of these patients. Nineteen patients underwent pancreatic (3 patients) or pancreato-renal (16) transplantation without any occurrence of cardiac death or nonfatal myocardial infarction peri-operatively or on follow-up ranging from 7 months to 21 months. In contrast, 3 cardiac events occurred in 12 patients not approved for transplantation, each of whom had an abnormal thallium study exhibiting significant ischemia. Resting left ventricular global and regional function was not helpful in determining perioperative risk. Thus, thallium-201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy may be useful in identifying diabetic patients at low risk for pancreas transplantation and may obviate the need for routine coronary angiography in these patients."}
{"id": "2029013", "title": "Thallium stress testing does not predict cardiovascular risk in diabetic patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing cadaveric renal transplantation.", "content": "Thallium stress testing does not predict cardiovascular risk in diabetic patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing cadaveric renal transplantation. This study assessed the usefulness of thallium stress testing as a predictor of perioperative cardiovascular risk in diabetic patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing cadaveric renal transplantation. Demographic factors influencing the exercise performance in these patients were also examined. The medical records of 189 consecutive patients with diabetic nephropathy who were evaluated for cadaveric renal transplantation were reviewed. Thallium stress testing was the initial examination of cardiovascular status in 141 patients. An adequate examination was one in which at least 70% of maximum heart rate was achieved. A thallium stress test was normal if there were no ST segment depressions on the electrocardiogram and no perfusion abnormalities on the thallium scan. Forty-four patients underwent cardiac catheterization as the initial evaluation (Group C) and four patients underwent transplantation without a formal cardiovascular evaluation (Group D). Sixty-four of the 141 patients undergoing thallium stress testing had an adequate and normal examination (Group A). The incidence of perioperative cardiac events in this group was 2%. Seventy-seven patients (Group B) had an abnormal (n = 41) or an inadequate (n = 36) thallium stress test and most (n = 61) then underwent coronary angiography. The use of beta-blockers was the only predictor of an abnormal or inadequate thallium stress test (10 of 64 versus 27 of 77, chi 2 = 6.66, p less than or equal to 0.025). Forty-three percent (26 of 61 in Group B) of patients with inadequate or abnormal thallium stress tests had significant coronary artery disease on cardiac catheterization. The perioperative risk of cardiac events was not different in Group A versus Groups B, C, and D combined. Survival of Group A and B patients was not different but was significantly longer than that of Group C patients (p less than 0.001). Thallium stress testing was less expensive than cardiac catheterization ($1,000 versus $4,000 to $5,000). Thallium stress testing allowed 45% of patients to avoid cardiac catheterization before renal transplantation. Discontinuing beta-blockers before thallium stress tests may improve exercise performance. The risk of perioperative cardiac events after transplantation was low and not different among patient groups. The relatively low predictive value of thallium stress testing for significant coronary artery disease and perioperative cardiac events in diabetic patients with end-stage renal disease suggests the need for the development of a more cost-effective, noninvasive screening test for this patient population."}
{"id": "2014921", "title": "Assessment of coronary artery disease by thallium scan in type-1 diabetic uremic patients awaiting combined pancreas and renal transplantation.", "content": "Assessment of coronary artery disease by thallium scan in type-1 diabetic uremic patients awaiting combined pancreas and renal transplantation. Twenty-five type-1 diabetic uremic patients (14 men, 11 women, mean age forty +/- eleven years, range, nineteen to sixty) were prospectively analyzed for coronary artery disease (CAD) by thallium scan (TLS) before synchronus pancreas and kidney transplantation. Duration of diabetes ranged from ten to thirty-two years (mean twenty-two +/- five). Fifteen patients (60%) were in dialysis from two to sixty months (mean twenty +/- eighteen). Advanced diabetic degenerative complications were present in all patients. Twenty exercise and five pharmacologic thallium scans were performed. Forty-four percent of patients (6 men, 5 women, mean age forty-two +/- eleven years, range, twenty-six to sixty) had a positive (reversible or permanent defects) TLS. In 2/11 cases, severe CAD required further cardiac investigations for therapeutic management decision. A statistical correlation with resting ECG nonspecific ST-segment and T-wave abnormalities was observed (p less than 0.05) despite the absence of angor in 8 of the 11 patients. On the contrary, no statistical correlations were found regarding high blood pressure, smoking, hypercholesterolemia, duration of diabetes, and duration of dialysis. In this particular diabetic population (young age, male/female ratio = 1.2) with high incidence of silent ischemia, resting ECG repolarization abnormalities, though predictive, were not specific or prognostic of CAD severity; in these cases, exercise and pharmacologic TLS, a noninvasive and sensitive cardiovascular test, may be of great interest in diagnosis of CAD, allowing adequate cardiac management before, during, and after pancreas transplantation."}
{"id": "1989332", "title": "Noninvasive assessment of cardiac risk in insulin-dependent diabetic patients being evaluated for pancreatic transplantation using thallium-201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy.", "content": "Noninvasive assessment of cardiac risk in insulin-dependent diabetic patients being evaluated for pancreatic transplantation using thallium-201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy."}
{"id": "1959245", "title": "Predictive value of thallium-201-dipyridamole myocardial stress scintigraphy in chronic hemodialysis patients and transplant recipients.", "content": "Predictive value of thallium-201-dipyridamole myocardial stress scintigraphy in chronic hemodialysis patients and transplant recipients. The prognostic impact of thallium(Tl)-201-dipyridamole (DPM) stress and redistribution scintigraphy done in 36 patients on chronic hemodialysis (HD) and in 23 renal transplant recipients (TRs) was evaluated according to cardiovascular complications and survival in a follow-up period of six years. Though symptomatic ischemic heart disease (IHD) was present in 33% of HD patients and in 17% of TRs, 50% and 39%, respectively, had Tl-201 findings indicative of IHD. The duration of HD treatment was similar for patients with an abnormal or normal scintigraphic finding. Abnormal Tl-201 results were seen more frequently in older patients. During follow-up, 27 of 36 HD-patients died, 16 had an abnormal and 11 a normal Tl-201-DPM finding; cardiovascular complications were the cause of death in 88% and 18% of these patients, respectively. Thus the incidence of death from fatal cardiac events was 12% per year at risk for the former and 1.9% per year at risk for the latter. In TRs survival was not different for patients with an abnormal or normal Tl-201 finding (56% vs. 64%). However, fatal or nonfatal cardiovascular events were seen more frequently in patients with an abnormal Tl-201 results (78% versus 7%; p less than 0.0001). Stepwise logistic analysis and survival analysis demonstrated Tl-201-DPM stress/redistribution scintigraphy to be the only predictor for identifying patients at increased risk for cardiovascular events. In patients with abnormal Tl-201-DPM scintigraphy subsequent survival was extended for symptomatic patients as compared to asymptomatic ones )30.3 +/- 21.6 versus 22.0 +/- 17.3 months; p less than 0.008)."}
{"id": "1934671", "title": "Myocardial revascularization in patients on renal replacement therapy.", "content": "Myocardial revascularization in patients on renal replacement therapy. Coronary disease is the main cause of mortality and morbidity among long-term survivors on renal replacement therapy (RRT). Despite the additional risk factors, myocardial revascularization has been recently attempted with various success in some patients on RRT. We report on 26 patients (13 dialyzed and 13 transplanted, mean age: 50 years [range 38-66]) who have undergone either surgical aorto-coronary bypass (CABG) (n = 16) with mammary artery grafts, or percutaneous coronary angioplasty (PTCA) (n = 9), or both procedures (n = 2). Indication was angina pectoris in all but three patients with painless ischemia. Eight patients had unstable angina (NYHA class IV). A previous myocardial infarction was documented in 11 cases. Coronary angiography disclosed mainly multiple vessel disease (81%). Post CABG complications consisted of severe intrathoracic bleeding (n = 3) resulting in death in 2 cases. PTCA entailed no major complication. After the critical postoperative period, the long-term survival was the same as that of non-uremic patients and the clinical improvement, according to the NYHA classification, was highly satisfactory at 6 months and persists up to 2 years. We conclude that coronary angiography and myocardial revascularization should be considered in patients on long-term RRT developing coronary disease."}
{"id": "1844439", "title": "[Minimal redistribution of thallium-201 representing reversible ischemia after coronary bypass surgery: value of quantitative analysis of exercise thallium-201 SPECT].", "content": "[Minimal redistribution of thallium-201 representing reversible ischemia after coronary bypass surgery: value of quantitative analysis of exercise thallium-201 SPECT]. We previously reported the value of minimal redistribution (MR) of thallium-201 in analyzing quantitative polar map analysis (QNT) which correlated well with metabolic activity on FDG-PET. To determine whether ischemic areas that have redistribution are truly reversible, we performed stress and 3-hr delayed thallium-201 SPECT imaging and radionuclide ventriculography (RNV) in 41 patients with coronary artery disease before and after coronary bypass surgery (CABG). Redistribution (RD) was categorized into 4 grades: complete RD (CR), incomplete RD (IR), MR and persistent defect (PD). MR was defined as the segment that showed > or = 2SD improvement in more than 1/3 of the area on QNT, but RD was not evident by visual analysis. 1. QNT identified MR in 30 of 56 segments (54%) where PD is noted by visual inspection. 2. The MR segments showed severer wall motion abnormality (wall motion score: 1.83 +/- 1.12) than did the IR or CR segments (0.99 +/- 1.04) (p < 0.01), but the wall motion was well preserved, compared to the PD segments (2.54 +/- 0.90) (p < 0.01). 3. The grade of RD was compared with improvement in regional perfusion and wall motion on RNV after CABG. Improvement in perfusion was observed in 62 of 77 IR or CR segments (81%) and in 17 of 30 MR segments (57%), but in only 3 of 26 PD segments (12%) (p < 0.01). 4. Similarly, improvement in wall motion was observed in 45 of 57 IR or CR segments (79%) and in 22 of 27 MR segments (81%), but in only 5 of 25 PD segments (20%) (p < 0.01). Thus, the MR segments should be considered reversible after CABG. We conclude that QNT of RD should be performed to detect RD which is slight, yet suggestive of viability."}
{"id": "1843504", "title": "[Transesophageal Doppler echocardiographic imaging and blood flow measurements for the diagnosis of stenotic left coronary arteries].", "content": "[Transesophageal Doppler echocardiographic imaging and blood flow measurements for the diagnosis of stenotic left coronary arteries]. To evaluate the usefulness of transesophageal Doppler echocardiography (TEE) in diagnosing left coronary artery (LCA) stenosis, we studied 26 patients with 33 proximal LCA lesions, including 5 with lesions of the left main trunk (LMT), 21 proximal anterior descending arteries (LAD), 7 proximal circumflex arteries (LCx), and 20 with normal coronary arteries. We measured blood flow velocity along the LCA using the pulsed Doppler mode (PD) and obtained velocities at multiple neighboring sites in 13 normal coronary arteries and in 12 of 26 LMTs or LADs with lesions. In all 13 normals, peak velocity tended to decline towards the periphery. By contrast, in one LMT and 10 LADs with lesions, marked increase in peak velocity (1.7 to 3.9 times) was observed at the sites diagnosed as stenotic lesions by coronary angiography. Using two-dimensional echocardiography (2DE), 24 LMTs including 3 with lesions, 4 LADs including 3 with lesions and 13 LCxs including 4 with lesions were imaged. Among them, 3 LMT, one LAD and 2 LCx lesions were correctly diagnosed. The diagnostic ratio by both PD and 2DE was 60% for LMT (PD: 20%, 2DE: 60%), 48% for LAD (PD: 48%, 2DE: 5%) and 29% for LCx (PD: 0%, 2DE: 29%) lesions. In conclusion, TEE proved to be useful in diagnosing proximal LCA stenosis. The coronary flow measurement by PD especially has the potentiality for the diagnosis of proximal LAD stenosis."}
{"id": "1833574", "title": "[The clinical significance of reverse redistribution of Tl-201 SPECT at rest in the 1st month after the onset of acute myocardial infarction].", "content": "[The clinical significance of reverse redistribution of Tl-201 SPECT at rest in the 1st month after the onset of acute myocardial infarction]. The pattern of Thallium-201 reverse redistribution (r-RD) at rest has been reported in some patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in the acute phase. But there is no report of this pattern in the later phase. To investigate the significance of Thallium-201 reverse redistribution in the subacute phase, 37 patients with AMI underwent Thallium-201 SPECT at rest a month after the onset. The patients were classified into three groups visually and 19 of 37 patients (51%) showed the persistent defect pattern (Group PD), and the remaining 18 patients (49%) had the reverse redistribution pattern (Group r-RD). None of them had the redistribution pattern. Coronary reflow was earlier and the incidence of the scintigraphic overlap on Dual SPECT image of 99mTc-PYP/201TlCl in the acute phase was more frequent in Group r-RD than in Group PD. A decrease in thallium defect size of patients with r-RD from the acute phase to one month after the onset represented improvement more significantly than that with PD. Initial %Tl uptake of the infarcted region of Group r-RD was greater than that of Group PD. The degree of stenosis of the infarct-related coronary artery in Group r-RD was less severe than that in Group PD. And corresponding regional wall motion of Group r-RD was less impaired. The Thallium-201 washout in the infarcted region with r-RD was significantly faster than that in the normal region. It is concluded that the r-RD pattern at rest in the 1st month after the onset of AMI may be a sign of viable myocardium."}
{"id": "1832984", "title": "The natural history of myocardial disease in dialysis patients.", "content": "The natural history of myocardial disease in dialysis patients. Among dialysis patients, only 23% have a normal echocardiogram, about 10% have recurrent or chronic congestive heart failure, and 17% have asymptomatic ischemic heart disease. The predisposing factors for congestive heart failure are dilated cardiomyopathy, hypertrophic hyperkinetic disease, and ischemic heart disease. Dilated cardiomyopathy, a disorder of systolic function, includes among its risk factors age, hyperparathyroidism, and smoking. Hypertrophic disease results in diastolic dysfunction, and its predictors include age, hypertension, aluminum accumulation, anemia, and, perhaps, hyperparathyroidism. Ischemic heart disease is due to the presence of coronary artery disease and also to nonatherosclerotic disease caused by the reduction in coronary vasodilator reserve and altered myocardial oxygen delivery and use. The clinical outcome of congestive heart failure is comparable to that of nonrenal patients with medically refractory heart failure. Left ventricular hypertrophy is an important independent determinant of survival. A subset have hyperkinetic disease with severe hypertrophy and have a bad survival, as low as 43% have a 2-yr survival after the first admission to hospital with cardiac failure. The prognosis for those with dilated cardiomyopathy is less severe but is worse than those with normal echocardiogram. The survival of patients with symptomatic ischemic heart disease was little different from that of patients without symptoms, suggesting that the underlying cardiomyopathies had an adverse impact on survival independent of ischemic disease. Much research needs to be undertaken on the risk factors, natural history, and therapy of the various types of cardiac disease prevalent in dialysis patients."}
{"id": "1828650", "title": "Therapy with recombinant human erythropoietin reduces cardiac size and improves heart function in chronic hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Therapy with recombinant human erythropoietin reduces cardiac size and improves heart function in chronic hemodialysis patients. The substitution of recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEPO) in chronic hemodialysis patients is often associated with the development of severe hypertension. In the present study, a systematical echocardiographic analysis was performed in 25 patients on maintenance hemodialysis during rhEPO therapy for at least 4 months. Referred to the total group, indices of left ventricular size decreased significantly. Left ventricular total volume and left ventricular mass were reduced considerably. Fractional fiber shortening and ejection fraction showed an impressing improvement. At a constant heart rate, stroke volume and cardiac output were reduced. Myocardial thickness did not alter under chronic rhEPO therapy. When subgroups were formed with respect to changes in blood pressure, all parameters investigated behaved very similar to the total group, irrespective of changes in blood pressure. Five patients with coronary heart disease and clinical signs of myocardial insufficiency were evaluated separately. These patients showed a decrease in left ventricular size and no evidence of a deterioration of myocardial function. We conclude from our results that rhEPO therapy in patients on maintenance renal replacement therapy has beneficial effects on left ventricular size and function; these effects are not significantly counteracted by the development of hypertension."}
{"id": "1789122", "title": "Myocardial capillary permeability for small hydrophilic indicators during normal physiological conditions and after ischemia and reperfusion.", "content": "Myocardial capillary permeability for small hydrophilic indicators during normal physiological conditions and after ischemia and reperfusion. Myocardial capillary permeability for small hydrophilic solutes (51Cr-EDTA or 99mTc-DTPA) has been measured using intracoronary indicator bolus injection and external radioactivity registration (the single injection, residue detection method). The method is based on kinetic separation of the injected indicator molecules in an extracted and a transmitted fraction of molecules. In open chest dog hearts measurements performed during normal physiological conditions gave mean capillary extraction values of 43.5-47.5% and the corresponding calculated PdS values were 47.1 - 57.5 ml.(100g.min)-1. From these PdS values Pd values between 1.57.10(-5) and 1.92.10(-5) cm.s-1 were calculated, in accordance with values obtained by other methods. Similar data have been obtained in myocardium of patients undergoing coronary angiography. Oxygen derived free radicals seems to participate in reperfusion injury including microvascular alterations. In open chest dogs transitory increases in capillary extraction fraction and PdS for small hydrophilic solutes were seen following 20 minutes of regional myocardial ischemia and reperfusion. This response could be inhibited by treatment directed against superoxide radicals."}
{"id": "1784539", "title": "[Effect of hemodialysis on left-ventricular contractility].", "content": "[Effect of hemodialysis on left-ventricular contractility]. 43 patients with end-stage renal failure maintained on hemodialysis were studied by echocardiography before and after hemodialysis. Considering possibility, that left ventricule can be enlarged due to intrinsic factors impairing their performance, like myocardial fibres damage in coronary disease or inflammation and extrinsic factors like hypertension, overhydration, anemia, arteriovenous shunt and humoral changes (electrolyte imbalance, uremic toxins, acidosis) three groups of patients were chosen: A--with normal left ventricular diameter, B--with enlarged left ventricule before and after dialysis, C--with enlarged left ventricule only before dialysis. Mean velocity of circumferential fibre shortening (mVcf) and ejection fraction (EF) as left ventricular contractility indexes and end-systolic meridional wall stress as afterload index were determined. Stress-shortening relations before and after hemodialysis were compared in groups, to determine possible intrinsic contractility impairment of the left ventricule. No differences in groups were found in preload reduction (weight loss) and humoral changes (BUN, creatinine, pH, potassium, calcium, hematocrit), also blood pressure was not significantly different in all groups. Hemodialysis improved contractility only in patients with normal left ventricular diameter and significant reduction of afterload. In group A and C stress-shortening relation increased after dialysis. In group B decreased probably because of the lack of mVcf improvement despite reduction of stress in two patients. It is possible that these two patients had impaired contractility and enlarged left ventricle due to intrinsic factors."}
{"id": "1777585", "title": "Cardiovascular complications in renal failure.", "content": "Cardiovascular complications in renal failure. Cardiovascular diseases are a leading cause of death in end-stage renal disease (ESRD) largely as a result of the progressively increasing age of ESRD patients and the broad constellation of uremia-associated factors that can adversely affect cardiac function. Hypertension, one of the leading causes of renal failure, is a major culprit in this process, causing left ventricular hypertrophy, cardiac chamber dilation, increased left ventricular wall stress, redistribution of coronary blood flow, reduced coronary artery vasodilator reserve, ischemia, myocardial fibrosis, heart failure, and arrhythmias. In addition to impairing the coronary microcirculation, hypertension may contribute to the development of atherosclerotic coronary artery disease, particularly in the presence of the many lipid abnormalities observed in ESRD. These patients have reduced high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and increased plasma triglyceride concentrations, and there is a defect in cholesterol transport. Other abnormalities that may contribute to atherosclerotic coronary artery disease in ESRD are reduced high-density lipoprotein cholesterol synthesis and reduced activity of the reverse cholesterol pathway. Treatment with fibric acids, nicotinic acids, and lovastatin may be useful in lowering cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations in some of these patients. The incidence of coronary artery disease in ESRD populations is difficult to determine. About 25 to 30% of ESRD patients with angina have no evidence of significant coronary artery disease, and an undetermined number have silent coronary disease. The presence of resting electrocardiographic abnormalities caused by hypertension or conduction defects makes it difficult to accurately diagnosis coronary artery disease in ESRD populations by noninvasive methods, including exercise testing and thallium scintigraphy with or without the use of dipyridamole. Hypotension is a frequent complication of the dialytic process. Many factors have been implicated, including autonomic neuropathy. There is no consensus on the function of the efferent limb of the sympathetic nervous system. The afferent limb (arterial baroreflex function) is felt to be impaired. Further, there may be defects in the ability of the cardiovascular system to respond to sympathetic nerve activity. Most studies of autonomic function have used indirect measurements. Studies are underway that use techniques to assess sympathetic function directly. Such experiments with microneuropathy suggest greater skeletal sympathetic muscle discharge in uremic patients than in normal patients."}
{"id": "1751258", "title": "Ischemic heart disease, serum cholesterol, and apolipoproteins in CAPD.", "content": "Ischemic heart disease, serum cholesterol, and apolipoproteins in CAPD. Thirty-one patients, mean age 54 years, had been on chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) for an average of 38 months. Mean values (mg/dl) for triglycerides (567), total-C (267), LDL-C (133), and Apo-B (154) were elevated, and HDL-C (30) were low. The low values for total-C/Apo-B and LDL-C/Apo-B suggest an increase in the number of low density lipoprotein (LDL) particles, rather than in the amount of cholesterol per LDL particle. Without knowledge of lipids, ischemic heart disease for the 31 patients was categorized into five grades in the following manner. All patients were graded based on history (angina, myocardial infarction, and bypass surgery), electrocardiogram (EKG), and echocardiography. In addition, five patients underwent coronary angiography, the results of which were considered in their grading. The five grades were assigned as follows: Grade I, no evidence (n = 15); Grade II, angina with EKG ischemia (n = 4); Grade III, myocardial infarction (MI) (n = 1); Grade IV, MI with dyskinesia-akinesia on echo (n = 4); Grade V, severe three vessel disease on angiography, or multiple infarcts, or Grade IV with heart failure (n = 7). Only Apo-B (r = 0.56) and total-C/HDL-C (r = 0.57) correlated with severity of grade, with p less than 0.001. When patients with and without detectable ischemic heart disease were compared by stepwise logistic regression, Apo-B was the only variable that independently predicted heart disease (p = 0.001). However, contribution of the lipid changes induced by CAPD has not been established."}
{"id": "2353652", "title": "Prognostic value of intravenous dipyridamole thallium imaging in patients with diabetes mellitus considered for renal transplantation.", "content": "Prognostic value of intravenous dipyridamole thallium imaging in patients with diabetes mellitus considered for renal transplantation. Patients with diabetes and end-stage renal failure are known to have a high risk for cardiac morbidity and mortality associated with renal transplantation. The most efficient method to determine preoperative cardiac risk has not been established. To determine the effectiveness of intravenous dipyridamole thallium imaging in predicting cardiac events, 40 diabetic renal transplant candidates were studied preoperatively in a prospective trial. The study group consisted of 40 patients whose average age was 42 years (range 27 to 64); 34 (85%) were hypertensive and 21 (53%) were cigarette smokers. Cardiac history included chest pain in 6 patients and prior myocardial infarction in 3 patients. Dipyridamole thallium imaging showed reversible defects in 9 patients, fixed defects in 8 patients and normal scans in 23 patients. Dipyridamole thallium imaging was performed using 0.56 mg/kg of dipyridamole infused intravenously over 4 minutes. Cardiac events occurred only in patients with reversible thallium defects, of which there were 6. Of these 6 patients, 3 had cardiac events before transplantation and 3 had them in the early postoperative phase (within 6 weeks of surgery). Of 21 patients who underwent renal transplantation, 3 had cardiac events within 6 weeks of transplantation. The average duration of follow-up was 11 months (range 1 to 21). Thus, dipyridamole thallium imaging is an effective method of identifying renal transplant candidates likely to develop cardiac complications. Routine coronary angiography may not be necessary to screen all renal transplant candidates for coronary artery disease before surgery."}
{"id": "2338771", "title": "[Assessment of resting thallium-201 reinjection after stress-delayed Tl imaging (I): Comparison with 24-hour scan and regional wall motion].", "content": "[Assessment of resting thallium-201 reinjection after stress-delayed Tl imaging (I): Comparison with 24-hour scan and regional wall motion]. Clinical value of resting reinjection of 1 mCi (37 MBq) of Tl after stress-delayed scan was assessed in comparison with 24 hr delayed scan and regional wall motion (RWM) in 37 patients with coronary artery disease. Of 101 segments with initial perfusion abnormality, concordant findings were observed after Tl reinjection in 67 segments (66%). But redistribution (RD) after Tl reinjection was observed in 19 of the 52 persistent defect (PD) segments (37%), and complete RD was observed 15 of the 43 segments (35%) where 3 hr scan showed incomplete RD. On the other hand, concordant findings were observed on 24 hr delayed scan in 11 of the 20 segments with perfusion abnormality (55%). RD on 24 hr delayed scan was observed in 5 of the 13 PD (38%), but it was not apparent in 3 of the 7 segments where 3 hr scan showed RD. Furthermore the segments which showed RD after Tl reinjection in PD segments tend to have less severe RWM abnormality than the sustained PD segments (RWM score: 1.65 +/- 1.17 vs. 2.29 +/- 1.05, p less than 0.05). These data indicate that Tl reinjection which permits assessment of RD with good quality images on the same day is considered as a valuable means for assessing myocardial viability."}
{"id": "2315467", "title": "Perfusion thallium imaging of type I diabetes patients with end stage renal disease: comparison of oral and intravenous dipyridamole administration.", "content": "Perfusion thallium imaging of type I diabetes patients with end stage renal disease: comparison of oral and intravenous dipyridamole administration. Eighty patients with type I diabetes and end stage renal disease were prospectively evaluated for coronary artery disease with dipyridamole-thallium-201 scintigraphy and quantitative coronary angiography. Forty patients received dipyridamole orally, and 40 received it intravenously. The prevalence of coronary artery disease was 53%. There were no significant differences in the accuracy of the two dipyridamole tests (sensitivity = 85%, specificity = 85%, accuracy = 85% for the oral group; sensitivity = 86%, specificity = 72%, accuracy = 79% for the intravenous group). Combining the 80 patients into a single group gave a sensitivity of 86%, a specificity of 79%, and an accuracy of 83% for the detection of coronary disease. Although the accuracy of this test in this patient population was similar to that previously reported for other groups, the prevalence of disease was high and resulted in a low predictive value of a negative test (83%)."}
{"id": "2309593", "title": "Short- and long-term outcome of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in chronic dialysis patients.", "content": "Short- and long-term outcome of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in chronic dialysis patients. Accelerated atherosclerosis occurs in chronic renal failure. The role of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) in chronic renal failure patients requiring dialysis has not been characterized. We studied 17 chronic dialysis patients requiring PTCA over a 6-year period. Their mean age was 60 years, four were diabetic, eight had severe hypertension, and seven had unstable angina. Angiographic success was achieved in 47 of 49 (96%) stenoses attempted, including multivessel PTCA in 12 patients. There was one procedural death, two non-Q wave myocardial infarctions following PTCA, and one additional in-hospital noncardiac death. The 15 survivors were asymptomatic on discharge (mean stay 11 days), but recurrent angina developed within 6 months in 12 patients. Angiography in 11 of these 12 patients demonstrated restenosis of 26 of 32 (81%) dilated sites. Repeat PTCA in six patients was followed by return of angina in four patients with restenosis in 11 of 12 sites. Bypass surgery was ultimately performed in four patients with long-term angina relief. During follow-up (mean 20 months), seven patients died (five from chronic renal failure, two cardiac deaths). Thus although PTCA in chronic dialysis patients is technically feasible and provides relief of angina, aggressive restenosis limits the long-term benefit. Coronary bypass surgery may be the preferred therapy for this unique patient group."}
{"id": "2300998", "title": "Ineffectiveness of dipyridamole SPECT thallium imaging as a screening technique for coronary artery disease in patients with end-stage renal failure.", "content": "Ineffectiveness of dipyridamole SPECT thallium imaging as a screening technique for coronary artery disease in patients with end-stage renal failure. The efficacy of dipyridamole single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) thallium as a screening test for coronary artery disease (CAD), was studied in 45 patients with end-stage renal failure undergoing evaluation for renal transplantation. Coronary arteriography, dipyridamole SPECT thallium imaging and clinical follow-up were performed in all patients. Nineteen patients (42%) had an obstruction of 50% or more in at least one coronary artery. Fourteen patients had a positive thallium scan, but 7 of these were false-positives (sensitivity 37%, specificity 73%). The sensitivity was considerably lower than that quoted for non-ESRF patients in the literature, and significantly lower than a control group of 19 patients without ESRF having comparable severity and distribution of CAD. Five of the 6 patients who died of cardiac causes over a mean follow-up period of 25 months had normal thallium imaging, but all had significant coronary artery disease at cardiac catheterization. Dipyridamole SPECT thallium imaging has not proved a useful screening test for angiographically significant CAD, and does not predict cardiac prognosis in this population."}
{"id": "2252044", "title": "Major depression, panic disorder, and mitral valve prolapse in patients who complain of chest pain.", "content": "Major depression, panic disorder, and mitral valve prolapse in patients who complain of chest pain. Patients with chest pain but without angiographic evidence of significant atherosclerotic coronary artery disease (CAD) are often found to have other medical or psychiatric disorders, including mitral valve prolapse, panic disorder (PD), and major depressive disorder (MDD). The purpose of this study was to determine the degree of comorbidity between MDD/PD and mitral valve prolapse in a group of patients with non-CAD chest pain. Patients referred for cardiac catheterization and coronary angiography for suspected CAD who were 70 years of age or younger and without other significant medical illnesses or cardiac complications were eligible for study. The first 100 patients who agreed to a psychiatric diagnostic interview were recruited. Forty-eight of the 100 patients were found to be without significant CAD. Forty-two percent of these patients, compared to 19% of the patients with significant CAD, were found to have either MDD, PD, or both. Eighty percent of the patients without CAD who had mitral valve prolapse also had either MDD or PD (p less than 0.006). The finding that mitral valve prolapse was significantly associated with MDD/PD has implications for the diagnosis and treatment of patients with non-CAD chest pain, and may explain why these patients complain of symptoms."}
{"id": "2226509", "title": "Cardiac evaluation of candidates for kidney transplantation: value of exercise radionuclide angiocardiography.", "content": "Cardiac evaluation of candidates for kidney transplantation: value of exercise radionuclide angiocardiography. In view of the high incidence and mortality of coronary artery disease (CAD) in patients with kidney transplantation, a systematic cardiac evaluation was prospectively performed in 103 uraemic patients eligible for transplantation. After clinical examination, 28 patients with symptoms of CAD or diabetes mellitus were referred directly for coronary angiography, whereas the remaining 75 patients had rest and exercise radionuclide angiocardiography for evaluation of possible asymptomatic CAD. Among them, left ventricular ejection fraction was below 40% at rest or fell during exercise by at least 5 EF% in 12 patients; coronary angiography in nine showed CAD in four and hypertensive heart disease in five. In the remaining 63 (of 75) patients without severe resting left ventricular dysfunction or exercise ischaemia, the follow-up of 28 +/- 7 months revealed no clinical manifestation of CAD. Overall incidence of CAD in symptomatic and asymptomatic patients during a follow-up of 27 months after cardiac evaluation was 20 and 25% in nondiabetic and diabetic candidates for kidney transplantation, respectively (P = n.s.). Thus, clinical examination combined with exercise radionuclide angiocardiography in patients without signs or symptoms of heart disease had a high predictive accuracy for presence or absence of late manifestations of CAD. Exercise radionuclide angiocardiography is therefore a useful method for screening kidney transplantation candidates for asymptomatic CAD."}
{"id": "2208196", "title": "[Improvement in the accuracy of diagnosis of ischemic heart disease with simultaneous radioisotope evaluation of regional myocardial function perfusion and an exercise test].", "content": "[Improvement in the accuracy of diagnosis of ischemic heart disease with simultaneous radioisotope evaluation of regional myocardial function perfusion and an exercise test]. The recently developed myocardial agent methoxy-isobutyl-isonitrile (MIBI), labelled to 99mTc, allows one to evaluate global and regional ventricular function as well as myocardial perfusion by means of a single exercise stress test, significantly increasing diagnostic accuracy for coronary artery disease. Between September 1988 and March 1989, 407 patients with either suspected or already ascertained coronary artery disease underwent simultaneous assessment of regional ventricular function with first pass radionuclide angiography, and of myocardial perfusion with single photon emission computerized tomography, by means of 2 injections of 99mTc-MIBI at rest and at peak of the same exercise test. Out of these patients, 56 (52 men and 4 women, whose mean age was 57 +/- 7 years) underwent coronary angiography within 6 months of radionuclide examination and were included in the study. There were 13 1-vessel, 26 2-vessel and 17 3-vessel disease patients. Thirty-six of them had had a previous (greater than 6 months old) myocardial infarction, on the anterior wall in 16 patients, on the inferior wall in 20. In all patients a computerized bicycle stress test was performed; interruption criteria were ST segment depression greater than or equal to 1 mm in 27 patients (48%), the achievement of a heart rate greater than 85% of maximal age-predicted heart rate in 12 patients (22%) and fatigue in 17 patients (30%). Scintigraphic results were compared to angiographic findings: global sensitivity and specificity of the simultaneous evaluation were 82% and 81%, respectively, vs 95% and 56% of functional results and 85% and 71% of perfusion results, respectively. Regional analysis was also performed, by dividing scintigraphic images into the territories supplied by the 3 main coronary vessels, i.e., left anterior descending artery (LAD), left circumflex artery (LCx) and posterior descending artery (PD). On LAD territory the simultaneous evaluation achieved a sensitivity of 88% and a specificity of 63%, vs 98% and 38% of functional analysis and 88% and 50% of perfusional analysis, respectively. On LCx territory sensitivity and specificity were respectively 71% and 96%, vs 91% and 64% of function, and 77% and 96% of perfusion alone. On PD territory sensitivity was 85%, vs 94% and 91%, respectively; specificity was 73%, vs 55% and 55%, respectively. Combined functional and perfusional analysis achieved a 68% sensitivity in identifying less than or equal to 75% coronary narrowings, and a 90% sensitivity for greater than 90% narrowings.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"}
{"id": "2148851", "title": "Effects of diabetes mellitus and aluminum toxicity on myocardial calcium transport.", "content": "Effects of diabetes mellitus and aluminum toxicity on myocardial calcium transport. Diabetics have an increased risk of developing renal insufficiency, as well as congestive heart failure independent of coronary atherosclerotic or hypertensive heart disease. Aluminum toxicity is being recognized with increased frequency in patients with reduced renal function and aluminum accumulates to a greater degree in tissues of patients with diabetes. Studies in patients with end stage renal disease have implicated aluminum overload as a potential cause of reduced cardiac function. Since both diabetes and aluminum decrease the activity of (Ca + Mg)-ATPase, a key enzyme involved in myocardial calcium transport, the interaction of experimental diabetes mellitus and aluminum toxicity on myocardial sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium transport was investigated in rats. Aluminum alone had no effect on (Ca + Mg)-ATPase activity, while activities in both the diabetic ([DM]) and diabetic plus aluminum loaded ([DM + Al]) groups were significantly lower than controls ([C]). Oxalate-dependent calcium uptake in the [DM] rats was slightly, but not significantly lower than controls, however, uptake was markedly reduced in rats which were both diabetic and aluminum loaded. The calcium regulatory protein calmodulin was measured by a functional assay in the soluble fraction of myocardial tissue prepared from each of the four groups. Compared to [C], calmodulin activity was significantly reduced in both the [DM] and [DM + Al] groups but not affected by aluminum alone. These data indicate that diabetes mellitus is associated with decreased myocardial calmodulin activity that may contribute to reduced sarcoplasmic reticulum (Ca + Mg)-ATPase and calcium transport activities and that aluminium toxicity potentiates the adverse effects of diabetes on decreasing sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium uptake."}
{"id": "2143353", "title": "Outcome of congestive heart failure, dilated cardiomyopathy, hypertrophic hyperkinetic disease, and ischemic heart disease in dialysis patients.", "content": "Outcome of congestive heart failure, dilated cardiomyopathy, hypertrophic hyperkinetic disease, and ischemic heart disease in dialysis patients. Congestive heart failure in dialysis patients is associated with dilated cardiomyopathy, hypertrophic hyperkinetic disease and ischemic heart disease. To determine the natural history of these four diseases, 150 dialysis patients were prospectively followed for 3-5 years. The 2-year cumulative survival rate was 33% in those with recurrent or persistent congestive heart failure vs. 80% in dialysis patients without. Survival was significantly worse in patients with an echocardiographic diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy compared to patients with normal echo-cardiogram (2-year survival rate 67 vs. 90%). In hypertrophic hyperkinetic disease the 2-year survival rate was 30% after entry into the study, and 43% after first admission with congestive heart failure. Symptomatic ischemic heart disease did not have an adverse impact on mortality when compared to those without ischemic heart disease. We conclude that congestive heart failure in dialysis patients has a bad prognosis. Its associated disorders include dilated cardiomyopathy and hypertrophic hyperkinetic disease, the latter being associated with a high mortality. As the prognosis for patients with overt ischemic heart disease was not different from patients without, it is likely that the underlying cardiomyopathy directly influenced survival."}
{"id": "2108635", "title": "[So-called uremic heart diseases].", "content": "[So-called uremic heart diseases]. The overall cardiovascular mortality in patients with chronic renal failure is about 30 per cent of which 10 per cent is attributed to myocardial infarction. This prevalence led some workers to propose a hypothesis of \"accelerated atherosclerosis\" due to the hyperlipidaemia observed in 30 to 70 per cent of patients. However, the concept of accelerated atherosclerosis, which was based essentially on clinical studies, has been questioned. Pericardial effusion is a common complication of chronic renal failure and has been reported in over 62 per cent of patients in echocardiographic studies. There are many causes and symptoms are often mild; systematic echocardiographic examination of patients with renal failure undergoing haemodialysis has shown 32 per cent of pericardial effusions to be asymptomatic. There are two potential complications: cardiac tamponade and, lesser frequently, constrictive pericarditis. Cardiac failure is a common cause of death in patients undergoing long-term dialysis. The myocardial histological appearances are those of fibrosis, the etiology of which is not fully understood although the dialysis membranes and hypotensive episodes occurring during haemodialysis have been thought to play a role. Left ventricular hypertrophy and fibrosis may give rise to ventricular arrhythmias which could explain some of the cases of sudden death observed in patients with renal failure and often wrongly attributed to ischemic heart disease. Another form of myocardial disease which is observed later is characterised by an alteration of systolic function with left ventricular dilatation and hypokinesia and increased end diastolic pressures without an increase in left ventricular wall thickness. Valvular heart disease may also result from renal failure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1968526", "title": "Long-term cardiorespiratory effects of amelioration of renal anaemia by erythropoietin.", "content": "Long-term cardiorespiratory effects of amelioration of renal anaemia by erythropoietin. The long-term cardiorespiratory effects of recombinant human erythropoietin treatment were investigated in ten haemodialysis patients by means of maximum exercise testing, lung function tests, echocardiography, chest X-ray, and rheological assessment over 12 months. There were significant rises in exercise time (mean [SD] 13.2 [5.5] to 20.0 [6.2] min), maximum oxygen consumption (19.1 [7.0] to 25.0 [6.7] ml.min-1.kg-1), and anaerobic threshold (11.7 [3.6] to 15.4 [4.8] ml.min-1.kg-1) after 2 months of erythropoietin treatment. The improvements were maintained but not augmented on repeat testing after 4, 8, and 12 months of therapy. Carbon monoxide transfer [corrected] rose from 15.5 (2.9) to 18.6 (3.7) ml.min-1.mm Hg-1. There was a substantial reduction in exercise-induced cardiac ischaemia (eight patients had significant ST segment depression before erythropoietin, only one after 2 months' treatment, and none after 12 months' treatment), despite a significant rise in whole blood viscosity. Left ventricular mass, as estimated by echocardiography, progressively decreased from 354 (169) g to 251 (95) g after 12 months' treatment, and four patients showed a reduction in cardiothoracic ratio on chest X-ray."}
{"id": "2787845", "title": "Value of rest-stress myocardial positron tomography using nitrogen-13 ammonia for the preoperative prediction of reversible asynergy.", "content": "Value of rest-stress myocardial positron tomography using nitrogen-13 ammonia for the preoperative prediction of reversible asynergy. To determine the predictive value of stress [13N]ammonia positron emission tomography (PET) for reversible ischemia, 31 patients with coronary artery disease underwent rest-stress [13N]ammonia PET before and after coronary artery bypass surgery. The circumferential profile analysis was applied to determine the presence of transient defect (TD) and persistent defect (PD) preoperatively, and the fate of perfusion abnormality and asynergy after the surgery was assessed. Preoperative PET demonstrated 100 segments with perfusion abnormalities, including 69 TD and 31 PD. Fifty-six of the 69 TD (81%) improved in regional perfusion, while only four of 31 PD (13%) improved in perfusion postoperatively (p less than 0.001). Of 75 segments showing regional asynergy on contrast or radionuclide ventriculography preoperatively, 34 of 48 segments with TD (71%) improved in asynergy, while only five of 27 segments with PD (19%) improved in asynergy postoperatively (p less than 0.001). Stress-delayed 201TI tomography was performed in 22 of them. The predictive values for improvement in perfusion (77%) and asynergy (65%) were similar as those by [13N]ammonia PET (81% and 71%, respectively). However, the predictive values for no improvement in perfusion and asynergy by 201TI tended to be low (66% and 58%, respectively), as compared to those in 13N ammonia PET (87%; p less than 0.05 and 81%; p = 0.09, respectively). We conclude that an accurate prediction of reversible ischemia and asynergy can be achieved with rest-stress [13N]ammonia PET. Particularly, it can identify irreversible areas more accurately than the commonly performed stress-delayed 201TI imaging."}
{"id": "2678807", "title": "Renal failure in diabetes: a substantive problem in provision of health care.", "content": "Renal failure in diabetes: a substantive problem in provision of health care. Approximately 5.8 million people in the United States have been diagnosed by a physician as being diabetic, and an additional 4 to 5 million people have undiagnosed diabetes. Although the incidence of diabetes appears to be declining from a peak of 300 per 100,000 population in 1973, to 230 per 100,000 in 1981, its prevalence continues to rise, due to a 19 percent decline since 1970 in deaths caused by diabetes. In 1982, 34, 583 deaths were attributed to diabetes, resulting in diabetes being ranked as the seventh leading underlying cause of death. Medical and surgical complications of diabetes due to macro- and microvascular disease result in 5,800 new cases of blindness, 4,500 perinatal deaths, 40,000 lower extremity amputations and 3,000 deaths due to diabetic coma (ketotic and hyperosmolar) and at least 4,000 new cases of end-stage renal disease. Hyperglycemia is a major if not sole determinant of diabetic glomerulopathy. The exact mechanism underlying diabetic vasculopathy is under intensive study. Experiments in the induced-diabetic rat and dog suggest that small vessel injury may--under defined circumstances--be associated with the polyol (sorbitol) pathway of glucose metabolism, myoinositol deficiency, capillary hypertension, plasma hyperviscosity, stiff erythrocytes, elevated circulating thromboxane, and platelet-derived growth factor(s). As yet, no single hypothesis fits these seemingly disparate pieces together into a unified formulation of the genesis of diabetic complications. Clinical experience sustains the contention that a functioning kidney transplant proffers the uremic diabetic younger than age 60 a higher probability for survival with good rehabilitation than does either peritoneal dialysis or maintenance hemodialysis. Diabetics treated by kidney transplantation require more than the routine preoperative and postoperative attention afforded to nondiabetic ESRD patients. During initial nephrologic evaluation, concurrent extrarenal vascular disease--especially ophthalmic, cardiovascular, cerebrovascular and in the extremities, often demands immediate attention. Inventory of co-morbid risk factors pre-transplant facilitates their management post-transplant, thereby improving chances for rehabilitation. Consultations with an ophthalmologist and podiatrist familiar with management of the uremic diabetic should be obtained prior to transplant surgery. When performed as a component of pre-transplant evaluation, coronary angiography permits identification and correction, in many patients, of potentially fatal coronary artery disease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"}
{"id": "2667345", "title": "Use of digital subtraction fluorography in screening for coronary artery disease in patients with chronic renal failure.", "content": "Use of digital subtraction fluorography in screening for coronary artery disease in patients with chronic renal failure. The diagnosis of coronary artery disease remains a major problem in patients with end-stage renal disease. Screening with conventional noninvasive techniques is limited by the poor exercise capacity of these patients. This study evaluated the accuracy of digital subtraction fluorography in detecting coronary calcification as a noninvasive, nonexercise screening test for coronary artery disease. Eighty-six patients under evaluation for renal transplantation and considered at increased risk of coronary artery disease were studied by coronary arteriography and digital subtraction fluorography for coronary calcification. Significant coronary disease (greater than or equal to 50% obstruction in at least one vessel) was present in 36 (42%) patients. The detection of coronary calcification by digital subtraction fluorography had a sensitivity of 78% and a specificity of 66%. The probability of disease being present in the absence of coronary calcification in this group was 18%. The detection of coronary calcification by digital subtraction fluorography appears to be a satisfactory and inexpensive screening test in this setting."}
{"id": "2624791", "title": "Follow-up after coronary revascularisation in patients with renal transplants.", "content": "Follow-up after coronary revascularisation in patients with renal transplants. Seven patients underwent coronary revascularisation 12-145 months (mean: 63.4 months) after receiving cadaver renal transplants. There was no operative mortality and in all patients satisfactory renal function was maintained perioperatively. Hospital stay ranged from 7 days to 10 days (mean: 8 days). During the period of follow-up (5-72 months, mean: 35 months): one patient remained angina-free at 7 months postoperatively; one patient developed meningitis with Listeria monocytogenes 9 weeks after surgery, and died of streptococcal septicaemia 11 weeks later. The other five patients (71.4%) developed recurrence of angina requiring antianginal therapy, and three of them sustained myocardial infarctions. Three patients developed intermittent claudication, two of whom sustained acute leg ischaemia. Two patients developed heart failure, one of whom died 38 months postoperatively. In four patients who were restudied with cardiac catheterisation and coronary angiography (2-17 months postoperatively) there was evidence of progression of the coronary arterial disease in three, although all coronary grafts were patent. Renal function remained satisfactory in 5 patients, and deteriorated in two patients; in one secondary to advanced heart failure; and in one as a terminal event secondary to septicaemia. Although patients with renal transplants can safely undergo open cardiac procedures, the long-term results of coronary surgery are adversely affected by the progressive disease from which they suffer."}
{"id": "2615025", "title": "[Assessment of myocardial viability by quantitative analysis of stress Tl-SPECT--comparison with FDG-PET].", "content": "[Assessment of myocardial viability by quantitative analysis of stress Tl-SPECT--comparison with FDG-PET]. Stress Tl-201 tomography (SPECT) is widely used for evaluating myocardial viability. To assess its value, redistribution (RD) on SPECT was compared with metabolic imaging using FDG. Thirty patients with coronary artery disease underwent stress-3 hour Tl-201 SPECT and PET using N-13 ammonia and FDG. RD was classified into 4 grading, including complete RD (CR), incomplete RD (IR), persistent defect (PD) and additional minimal RD (MR) defined as no definite RD on visual analysis but faint RD with Bull's eye quantitative analysis (QNT). All but one segment with CR or IR were viable regions (normal or ischemic regions) by PET. Of 74 segments without RD on visual analysis, 31 segments (42%) had RD by QNT (MR). All of them were viable regions by PET. Thus, QNT identified 31 segments (63%) of the metabolically viable segments which the visual Tl-201 analysis did not show RD and classified as myocardial scar. However, even such QNT cannot detect ischemic myocardium in 18 segments (42%) containing metabolic activity on PET. These data indicate that QNT of RD on Tl-201 SPECT is considered as a valuable means for assessing myocardial ischemia."}
{"id": "2613358", "title": "Dipyridamole thallium-201 perfusion imaging for the study of ischemic heart disease in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Dipyridamole thallium-201 perfusion imaging for the study of ischemic heart disease in hemodialysis patients. To assess the usefulness of dipyridamole thallium perfusion imaging in the evaluation of myocardial perfusion in hemodialysis (HD), we studied 29 HD patients divided into three groups: A) 13 patients with clinical angina, B) 8 patients without angina but similar in age, sex, time on HD and hematocrit and C) 8 young asymptomatic patients (mean age 33 +/- 9.7 years). Dipyridamole thallium-201 (Tl-201) perfusion imaging revealed myocardial perfusion defects in 8 patients (61%) from group A, 4 (50%) from group B and 1 (12.5%) from group C. These defects were localized in the inferior, posterior and septal segments of the left ventricle. Abnormal myocardial perfusion was associated with age over 50 years and aortic calcifications (p less than 0.05). Eight patients died within the following four years. All had aortic calcifications (p less than 0.001). Our results show that myocardial perfusion defects are frequent even in non-symptomatic HD patients. This suggests that ischemic heart disease could be more frequent than estimated by clinical symptoms alone. Tl-201 scintigraphy may be a useful non-invasive procedure in cardiological evaluation of HD patients."}
{"id": "2560905", "title": "[Low molecular weight heparin: an real alternative in thrombolysis in hemodialyzed patients. A trial of coronary thrombolysis].", "content": "[Low molecular weight heparin: an real alternative in thrombolysis in hemodialyzed patients. A trial of coronary thrombolysis]. Fibrinolytic treatments pose serious problems in subjects at high risk for hemorrhage, such as those requiring chronic dialysis. A 36-year-old patient requiring dialysis for the last 14 years due to chronic kidney failure was hospitalized for unstable angina combined with calcified mitral stricture. Prompt coronary arteriography revealed recent intracoronary thrombi. The failure of drug treatment and the surgical indication in light of unstable angina led the authors to use low-molecular-weight heparin b.i.d. for 12 days with monitoring of laboratory parameters (anti-Xa activity, APTT). No thrombotic or hemorrhagic episode was recorded. Control angiography indicating partial lysis of the left and right intracoronary thrombi led to exact evaluation of the residual underlying stenoses. A double aortocoronary bypass was subsequently performed combined with replacement of the mitral valve. This case gives a glimpse of the potential value of low-molecular-weight heparin as a valid alternative to conventional fibrinolysis in subjects requiring dialysis."}
{"id": "2528654", "title": "Impact of left ventricular hypertrophy on survival in end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Impact of left ventricular hypertrophy on survival in end-stage renal disease. We examined the prognostic significance of left ventricular hypertrophy determined by echocardiography in a cohort beginning renal replacement therapy. No patient had hemodynamically significant valvular disease or echocardiographic signs of obstructive cardiomyopathy. Using the Cox proportional hazards model, left ventricular hypertrophy was significantly associated with survival. The relative risk, based on comparison of upper and lower quintiles of left ventricular mass index, was 3.7 (95% confidence intervals, 1.6 to 8.3) for all-cause mortality and 3.7 (95% confidence intervals, 1.2 to 11.1) for cardiac mortality. The independent risk, adjusted for age, known coronary artery disease, diabetes, level of systolic blood pressure, and treatment (dialysis or transplantation), was 2.9 (95% confidence intervals, 1.3 to 6.9) for all-cause mortality and 2.7 (95% confidence intervals, 0.9 to 8.2) for cardiac mortality. Therefore, left ventricular hypertrophy appears to be an important, independent, determinant of survival in patients receiving therapy for end-stage renal failure."}
{"id": "2525969", "title": "Atheroembolic renal disease: association with renal arterial stenosis.", "content": "Atheroembolic renal disease: association with renal arterial stenosis. In elderly patients with generalized atherosclerosis and longstanding hypertension, progressive renal insufficiency should suggest renal artery occlusive disease and/or renal cholesterol embolization. Renal cholesterol embolization is not an absolute contraindication to successful surgical revascularization. Renal cholesterol emboli were identified in biopsy specimens obtained in 24 cases at the Cleveland Clinic from 1978 to 1986, and renal artery stenosis was an associated finding in 19. Clinical manifestations of generalized atherosclerosis were common, including ileofemoral atherosclerosis (18), coronary artery disease (16), carotid occlusive disease (15), and carotid occlusive disease with a history of stroke (8). Evidence of embolic events in other organs was common. Hypertension worsened before biopsy in 21 patients with and without renal artery stenosis. Surgery or angiography definitely or probably contributed to renal failure in 16. Of 12 who underwent surgical revascularization of a renal artery, renal function improved in five, remained stable in five, and worsened in one. Renal function improved in the three patients undergoing dialysis before revascularization, and two were able to discontinue dialysis."}
{"id": "2525871", "title": "Role of anemia in the pathogenesis of left ventricular hypertrophy in end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Role of anemia in the pathogenesis of left ventricular hypertrophy in end-stage renal disease. Left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy is common in end-stage renal disease, yet the factors associated with its development are poorly understood. LV mass index was determined by echocardiography in 78 patients who had been treated by dialysis for at least 3 months. A significant relation was evident between anemia and LV hypertrophy. The mean LV mass index was 158 +/- 6 g/m2 (mean +/- standard error) in patients in the lowest quartile of serum hemoglobin and 140 +/- 10, 132 +/- 7 and 120 +/- 8 g/m2 in the second, third and uppermost quartiles, respectively (p = 0.005). This relation persisted after adjusting for systolic blood pressure, treatment mode and suspected coronary artery disease. Forty-eight patients had paired studies. In these, LV mass index increased as hemoglobin decreased (coefficient = -0.81 g/m2/g/liter, p less than 0.025). These data indicate that anemia contributes to the development of LV hypertrophy in patients with end-stage renal disease."}
{"id": "3403826", "title": "Which cineangiographically assessed anatomic variable correlates best with functional measurements of stenosis severity? A comparison of quantitative analysis of the coronary cineangiogram with measured coronary flow reserve and exercise/redistribution thallium-201 scintigraphy.", "content": "Which cineangiographically assessed anatomic variable correlates best with functional measurements of stenosis severity? A comparison of quantitative analysis of the coronary cineangiogram with measured coronary flow reserve and exercise/redistribution thallium-201 scintigraphy. The goal of this investigation was to establish which measured anatomic variable of stenotic coronary lesions correlates best with functional severity. Therefore, 38 patients with single vessel disease underwent coronary cineangiography and exercise/redistribution thallium-201 scintigraphy. The computer-based Cardiovascular Angiography Analysis System was used to determine the cross-sectional area at the site of obstruction (OA) and percent diameter stenosis (DS), and to calculate the pressure drop over the stenosis (PD) with use of fluid dynamic equations. Coronary flow reserve was measured radiographically. Myocardial perfusion defects on thallium scintigrams were analyzed quantitatively and by visual interpretation. The relations between coronary flow reserve (CFR) and the three anatomic variables were described by the following equations: 1) CFR = 4.6 - 0.053 DS, r = 0.82; SEE: 0.79, p less than 0.001. 2) CFR = 0.5 + 0.75 OA, r = 0.87; SEE: 0.68, p less than 0.001). 3 CFR = 3.6 - 1.5 log PD, r = 0.90; SEE: 0.62, p less than 0.001. The calculated pressure drop was highly predictive of the thallium scintigraphic results with a sensitivity of 94% and a specificity of 90%. The calculated pressure drop is a better anatomic variable for assessing the functional importance of a stenosis than is percent diameter stenosis or obstruction area. However, the 95% confidence limits of the relation between pressure drop and coronary flow reserve are wide, making the measurement of coronary flow reserve an indispensable addition to quantitative angiography, especially when determining the functional importance of moderately severe coronary artery lesions."}
{"id": "3382298", "title": "Congestive heart failure in dialysis patients.", "content": "Congestive heart failure in dialysis patients. To determine the prevalence of congestive heart failure in dialysis patients and the disorders with which it is associated, 85% of 153 nondiabetic patients who were undergoing maintenance dialysis had echocardiography and gated cardiac scan. Ten percent (n = 15) had congestive heart failure, 53% (n = 8) of whom had dilated cardiomyopathy, and 47% (n = 7) had hypertrophic hyperkinetic cardiomyopathy. Ischemic heart disease was an additional independent risk factor for congestive heart failure. Significantly more of those patients with dilated cardiomyopathy were smokers and none were hypertensive, whereas all those patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were hypertensive. The prevalence of hypertrophic hyperkinetic disease was 11%, of dilated cardiomyopathy 18%, and of symptomatic ischemic heart disease 18%. We concluded that congestive heart failure in dialysis patients is associated not only with dilated cardiomyopathy but also with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, a disease that requires echocardiography for diagnosis and that has different risk factors and management."}
{"id": "3294231", "title": "Removal of low-density lipoproteins (LDL) and fibrinogen by precipitation with heparin at low pH: clinical application and experience.", "content": "Removal of low-density lipoproteins (LDL) and fibrinogen by precipitation with heparin at low pH: clinical application and experience. The clinical application of a new extracorporeal procedure (HELP) for the selective elimination of low-density lipoproteins and fibrinogen by heparin precipitation at acid pH is described. Plasma, obtained by filtration of whole blood through a 0.2 micron filter is continuously mixed with an equal volume of an acetate buffer (pH 4.85) containing heparin. After removal of the precipitated heparin complex by filtration, excess heparin is adsorbed to a specially developed filter, and the clear plasma filtrate is subject to bicarbonate dialysis/ultrafiltration to restore physiologic pH and remove excess fluid. The calculated efficiency for the elimination of low-density lipoproteins and fibrinogen from plasma by HELP is 100% and is therefore comparable to conventional plasmapheresis. However, the HELP system shows a high degree of specificity, with over 80% of total protein being returned to the patient. A total of over 350 treatment procedures have now been performed. Patient compliance and acceptance have been excellent, and no major complications have been observed. The system is therefore suitable for the treatment of severe hyper-beta-lipoproteinemia; its use for the treatment of coronary heart disease is currently under investigation in a prospective multicenter study in which treatment efficiency will be controlled by coronary angiography on 45 patients treated with HELP over a period of 2 years."}
{"id": "3275808", "title": "Multicenter prospective study of nonruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms. I. Population and operative management.", "content": "Multicenter prospective study of nonruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms. I. Population and operative management. This article describes the patient population and operative management of 666 patients with nonruptured aneurysms of the abdominal aorta. Statistical significance of variables was determined by the chi-square test and logistic regression analysis. There were no statistically significant differences (p greater than 0.05) in mortality rate for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) on the basis of indication for surgery (asymptomatic, 3.9%; asymptomatic but with evidence of enlargement, 4.9%; and symptomatic, 7.2%) or the urgency of operation (elective operation, 4.5%; and urgent operation, 7.1%). Characteristics of the 72 participating surgeons did not influence the operative mortality rate. A family history of AAA was documented in 6.1% of cases and was more common if the patient was female (p = 0.03) and less than 65 years of age (p = 0.04). Patients without clinical evidence of coronary artery disease had a 0.8% mortality rate from cardiac disease compared with 6.2% if any stigmata of coronary disease were present. Prior aortocoronary bypass surgery did not reduce the incidence of postoperative cardiac events or operative mortality rate. Patients having \"routine\" angiography did not have a less complicated operative course, fewer thrombotic complications, or lower mortality rate than those not having it. Those patients with an inflammatory AAA (4.5%) did not have a significantly higher incidence of pain. Heparin administration (84.8%) did not reduce the complications of graft thrombosis, \"trash,\" distal thrombosis, and/or amputation. The 6.8% of patients requiring suprarenal aortic cross-clamping had a higher incidence of postoperative renal dysfunction (p = 0.02) and intraoperative blood loss (p less than 0.001), but cardiac events were not more frequent. When the aortic cross-clamping time was prolonged (more than 70 minutes), the requirement for crystalloid fluid administration increased (p less than 0.001) and postoperative myocardial infarction was more common (p = 0.004). After ligation of the left renal vein in 7.9%, renal damage or dialysis was more frequent (p = 0.01). Patients having an intra-abdominal graft (tube, 38.5% and biiliac, 30.7%) had fewer wound infections (p = 0.02) and graft thromboses (p less than 0.001) than the patients with a femoral anastomosis. When the internal iliac artery flow was interrupted bilaterally (12%), diarrhea (p = 0.03) and ischemic colitis (p = 0.03) were more frequent complications. Reimplantation of the inferior mesenteric artery was carried out in 4.8%. After renal artery bypass in 2.1%, the mortality rate was not increased, but the incidence of transient renal dysfunction was increased (p = 0.03).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3257495", "title": "Surgical A-V fistula in aortocoronary snake graft. Preliminary report.", "content": "Surgical A-V fistula in aortocoronary snake graft. Preliminary report. In coronary artery surgery, when a poor distal run of can predict an early graft failure, it might be useful to perform the last anastomosis to a low pressure chamber thus creating a small arterio-venous (A-V) fistula. From January throughout December 1984, 4 patients underwent coronary angiography for severe symptoms of angina. The coronary angiography showed multiple stenoses on the left anterior descending (LAD), ventricular branches of the circumflex (CX), and posterior descending of the right coronary artery (PD). At operation the patients received a sequential aortocoronary bypass graft with reversed saphenous vein, plus the creation of a small A-V fistula into the right atrium in order to improve the graft flow and patency. All patients experienced a clinical improvement. No adverse effects have been observed and the patients, controlled clinically with non invasive and in two cases with invasive techniques, showed satisfactory revascularization."}
{"id": "3232411", "title": "The role of physical activity in the prevention and treatment of noncommunicable diseases.", "content": "The role of physical activity in the prevention and treatment of noncommunicable diseases. More and more people are turning to exercise as a means of achieving long-term health. The World Health Organization has endorsed this concept. The best available evidence suggests that an employee fitness programme will result in decreased health-care costs, decreased absenteeism and increased productivity for the employer. Regular physical activity is also associated with lower mortality rates. Appropriate physical activity may be a valuable tool in therapeutic regimens for the control and amelioration (rehabilitation) of cardiovascular disease, coronary artery disease, hypertension, congenital heart disease, peripheral vascular disease, obesity, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, diabetes mellitus, musculoskeletal disorders, end-stage renal disease, stress, anxiety and depression, etc. Regular physical activity, independent of other factors, reduces the probability of coronary artery disease and early death. Patients with risk factors for coronary artery disease need more intensive preexercise evaluation than those not a risk, and those with known or suspected cardiovascular disease need the most intensive evaluation and follow-up. Participation in vigorous sports activities, such as jogging, swimming, tennis, etc., helps to protect against the development of hypertension, even when other predisposing factors are present. Several studies have been conducted on the use of exercise in the treatment of hypertension. Physical exercise also contributes to the control of body weight. Consideration of the metabolic abnormalities in patients with type II (adult onset) diabetes indicates that they would make excellent candidates for an exercise programme. Osteoporosis is an important health problem for the elderly. The best treatment available at present is prevention, and a high level of physical activity throughout life can result in a larger skeletal mass during old age.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3226093", "title": "[Effect of physical exertion on the changes in arterial blood pressure, heart rate and electrocardiogram in orthostatic position].", "content": "[Effect of physical exertion on the changes in arterial blood pressure, heart rate and electrocardiogram in orthostatic position]. Variations in arterial systolic (APs) and diastolic (APd) pressure, heart rate (HR) and electrocardiograms (ECG) were investigated in 22 normal men, 28 patients with arterial hypertension and 10 patients with chronic ischemic heart disease. Measurements were made during active orthostatic tests applied before and after submaximal exercises. In all three groups, APs diminished after exercise to a greater extent than before exercise. In hypertensive patients, APd increased significantly after exercise but changed insignificantly before exercise. In hypertensive patients with depressed T and ST, the level of ECG changes after exercise diminished by more than 50% as compared to the pre-exercise value."}
{"id": "3049845", "title": "Correlations between quantitative cineangiography, coronary flow reserve measured with digital subtraction cineangiography and exercise thallium perfusion scintigraphy.", "content": "Correlations between quantitative cineangiography, coronary flow reserve measured with digital subtraction cineangiography and exercise thallium perfusion scintigraphy. The goal of this investigation was to establish which anatomical parameters of stenotic lesions correlate best with its functional severity. Therefore, thirty-eight patients with single vessel disease underwent coronary cineangiography and exercise/redistribution thallium-201 scintigraphy. Cross-sectional area at the site of obstruction (OA), percentage diameter stenosis (DS), the calculated pressuredrop over the stenosis (PD), as well as coronary flow reserve (CFR) derived from myocardial contrast appearance time and density were determined. The relations between CFR and the 3 anatomical parameters were described by the following equations: CFR = 4.6 - 0.053 DS, r = 0.82, SEE: 0.79, p less than 0.001 CFR = 0.5 + 0.75 OA, r = 0.87, SEE: 0.68, p less than 0.001 CFR = 3.6 - 1.5 log PD, r = 0.90, SEE: 0.62, p less than 0.001 The calculated pressuredrop was highly predictive of the thallium scintigraphic results with a sensitivity of 94% and a specificity of 90%. Therefore, the calculated pressuredrop is a better anatomical parameter for assessing the functional importance of a stenosis than percentage diameter stenosis or obstruction area. However, the 95% confidence limits of the relation between pressuredrop and coronary flow reserve are wide, making measurement of CFR a valuable addition to quantitative angiography, especially when determining the functional importance of moderately severe coronary artery lesions."}
{"id": "3573209", "title": "Simultaneous aortic reconstruction and renal revascularization: risk factors and late results in eighty-nine patients.", "content": "Simultaneous aortic reconstruction and renal revascularization: risk factors and late results in eighty-nine patients. From 1973 through 1984, graft replacement of infrarenal aortic aneurysms (N = 56) or occlusive disease (N = 33) was performed in conjunction with simultaneous renal revascularization in 89 patients. Isolated renal artery stenosis was corrected by unilateral reconstruction in 56 patients (63%), but the remaining 33 (37%) had diffuse involvement that required either bilateral renal artery grafts or unilateral revascularization of solitary kidneys. The incidence of hypertension (greater than 180/90 mm Hg) refractory to preoperative medical therapy (88%), severe coronary disease documented by angiography (40%), and postoperative azotemia (33%) or oliguric renal failure (15%) was significantly higher among patients with bilateral renal artery disease (p less than 0.05). In addition, this group had twice the early mortality rate (15%) of patients having unilateral renal artery lesions (7.1%). During a mean follow-up interval of 37 months, medical control of hypertension was enhanced in 46 of the 80 operative survivors (58%), and renal function improved or remained stable in 63 survivors (79%). Five-year actuarial survival presently is 65% for the entire series, with a cumulative mortality rate of 38% among patients who underwent aneurysm resection (mean age 64 years) in comparison to 15% (p = 0.03) for those patients with aortoiliac occlusive disease (mean age 60 years)."}
{"id": "3557738", "title": "Oral isosorbide-5-mononitrate: pharmacokinetics and clinical efficacy.", "content": "Oral isosorbide-5-mononitrate: pharmacokinetics and clinical efficacy. Isosorbide-5-mononitrate is a longer acting active metabolite than the parent drug, isosorbide dinitrate (ISDN), with a half-life of around 4 hours. In coronary heart disease, myocardial infarction and in heart failure it causes a typical nitrate action on the central hemodynamics, but due to a complete systemic availability with high and predictable systemic drug levels, a drug action with a lower interindividual variability than with ISDN is to be expected. There is a close correlation between serum level and effect. The antianginal exercise tolerance increasing and unwanted effects as well as the development of tolerance to the drug action are comparable with those of ISDN. This naturally long-acting metabolite in ISDN works usually with a standard dosage of 20 mg twice daily."}
{"id": "3552553", "title": "[Coronary heart disease and heart valve diseases in patients with terminal kidney insufficiency].", "content": "[Coronary heart disease and heart valve diseases in patients with terminal kidney insufficiency]. Cardiac catheterisation and coronary angiography were performed in 100 patients preceding a planned renal transplantation. Coronary heart disease was revealed in 64 patients: stenoses of 50-70% in 28, 71-90% in 16, over 90% in 20 patients. For stenoses above 50% the sensitivity of clinical symptoms was 0.52, their specificity 0.64. For stenoses over 70% the specificity was 0.58; over 90% it was 0.70. Typical symptoms of angina were less common in dialysis patients with coronary heart disease than is usual in other patients with coronary heart disease. Total duration of dialysis as well as frequency and severity of coronary heart disease did not correlate. In 19 of the 100 patients valvar disease was also present, with a discrepancy between the severity of clinical and of hemodynamic findings. Incidence and severity of valvar disease increased with the duration of dialysis. Transplantation was postponed in 11 patients (bypass operation in 3, balloon dilatation in 2, valve replacement in 6). Transplantation was advised against in four (severe coronary heart disease in 2, cardiomyopathy in 2)."}
{"id": "3313892", "title": "Role of coronary angiography and heart surgery in care of kidney transplant recipients.", "content": "Role of coronary angiography and heart surgery in care of kidney transplant recipients."}
{"id": "3308409", "title": "l-Carnitine. A preliminary review of its pharmacokinetics, and its therapeutic use in ischaemic cardiac disease and primary and secondary carnitine deficiencies in relationship to its role in fatty acid metabolism.", "content": "l-Carnitine. A preliminary review of its pharmacokinetics, and its therapeutic use in ischaemic cardiac disease and primary and secondary carnitine deficiencies in relationship to its role in fatty acid metabolism. l-Carnitine occurs naturally as an essential cofactor of fatty acid metabolism which is synthesised endogenously or obtained from dietary sources. In patients with primary carnitine deficiencies, which may be life-threatening, and some secondary deficiencies such as organic acidurias, the exogenously administered compound is clearly beneficial: by abolishing hypotonia, motor skills are improved, as are muscle weakness and wasting. In preliminary clinical trials in patients with ischaemic cardiac disease, therapy with l-carnitine has shown beneficial effects on myocardial function and metabolism and has improved exercise tolerance in patients with angina pectoris-findings which require further substantiation in larger controlled studies. Moreover, while some interesting evidence suggests that l-carnitine may find potential use in such diverse conditions as carnitine deficiencies secondary to prolonged total parenteral nutrition supplementation or chronic haemodialysis, hyperlipidaemias and the prevention of toxicity induced by anthracyclines and valproate, such findings must be regarded as preliminary. Exogenously administered l-carnitine is very well tolerated. Thus, while its role in primary deficiencies is established, with its profile of negligible toxicity l-carnitine is worthy of further investigation to more clearly define its therapeutic applications in a variety of conditions which may be indirectly related to alterations in fatty acid metabolism."}
{"id": "3301199", "title": "Role of radionuclide ventriculography in the management of kidney transplant candidates.", "content": "Role of radionuclide ventriculography in the management of kidney transplant candidates."}
{"id": "2956742", "title": "Clinical and echocardiographic heart disease in renal transplant patients: prevalence and risk factors.", "content": "Clinical and echocardiographic heart disease in renal transplant patients: prevalence and risk factors."}
{"id": "3964590", "title": "Type As who think they are type Bs: discrepancies between self-ratings and interview ratings of the type A (coronary-prone) behaviour pattern.", "content": "Type As who think they are type Bs: discrepancies between self-ratings and interview ratings of the type A (coronary-prone) behaviour pattern. The study described here explored discrepancies between self-ratings and interview ratings of Type A behaviour. A total of 281 patients referred for diagnostic coronary angiography underwent a comprehensive psychological assessment including the Type A structured interview (SI), the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI) and two self-report measures of Type A behaviour, the Jenkins Activity Survey (JAS) and the Type A Self-Rating Inventory (TASRI). Two subgroups of patients were identified--Type A subjects whose Type A self-ratings were consistent with the SI classification, and subjects who obtained low self-rating scores and yet were classified as Type A by the SI. A comparison of the MMPI profiles showed that the discordant Type As scored lower on MMPI scales 9 (Ma) and 4 (Pd), and higher on scales 0 (Si), 2 (D) and F. The personality attributes associated with this MMPI pattern are more consistent with individual self-reports of Type A behaviour than observer ratings during the SI."}
{"id": "3960242", "title": "Exercise training reduces coronary risk and effectively rehabilitates hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Exercise training reduces coronary risk and effectively rehabilitates hemodialysis patients. This study examines the effects of 12 months of endurance exercise training (cycling, walking and jogging) on lipid profiles, glucose metabolism, blood pressure, anemia and psychological function in 14 hemodialysis patients. Maximal aerobic capacity (VO2max) increased 18% in the exercisers (p less than 0.01), but did not change in 11 controls. This was associated with a reduction in depression, a decrease in dosages of antihypertensive medications, a significant increase in hematocrit and hemoglobin levels (red cell mass rose, plasma volume did not change), a decrease in plasma triglyceride by 23% (p less than 0.05) and an increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels by 21% (p less than 0.01) (both HDL-C and triglyceride levels worsened in the sedentary controls), and an 18% increase in glucose disappearance rates (p less than 0.05) in spite of a 52% decrease in fasting insulin levels (p less than 0.01), suggesting that insulin sensitivity improved. These results demonstrate that some of the complications present in hemodialysis patients may be caused by their sedentary life-style, rather than endstage renal disease itself. This suggests that rehabilitation through exercise is possible for these patients. By reducing coronary risk factors in hemodialysis patients, exercise training may also decrease their heightened morbidity and mortality from atherosclerotic complications. These possibilities need to be examined in a longitudinal study."}
{"id": "3830201", "title": "Aortic valve orifice equation independent of valvular flow intervals: application to aortic valve area computation in aortic stenosis and comparison with the Gorlin formula.", "content": "Aortic valve orifice equation independent of valvular flow intervals: application to aortic valve area computation in aortic stenosis and comparison with the Gorlin formula. An orifice equation is derived relating the effective aortic valve area, A, the average aortic valve pressure gradient, dP, the stroke volume, SV, and the heart frequency, FH, through considerations of momentum conservation across the aortic valve. This leads to a formula consistent with Newton's second law of motion. The form of the new equation is A = (7.5 X 10(-5)) SV FH2/Pd, where A, VS, FH and Pd are expressed in cm2, ml, s-1 and mmHg, respectively. Aortic valve areas computed with the new orifice equation are found to correlate with those computed by the Gorlin formula in conditions of resting haemodynamic states at a level of r = 0.86, SE = 0.25 cm2, N = 120. The results suggest that the new formula may be considered as an independent orifice equation having a similar domain of validity as the Gorlin formula. The new equation offers the possibility of deriving additional useful haemodynamic relationships through combination with established cardiological formulas and applying it in a noninvasive Doppler ultrasonic or echocardiographic context."}
{"id": "3568673", "title": "Cardiac dysfunction in patients on maintenance hemodialysis. I. The importance of associated heart diseases in determining alterations of cardiac performance.", "content": "Cardiac dysfunction in patients on maintenance hemodialysis. I. The importance of associated heart diseases in determining alterations of cardiac performance."}
{"id": "3532789", "title": "Evaluation of cardiovascular risk for renal transplantation in diabetic patients.", "content": "Evaluation of cardiovascular risk for renal transplantation in diabetic patients. Cardiovascular disease contributes in a major way to morbidity and mortality in diabetic patients with end-stage renal disease. Sixty patients with type I diabetes were evaluated prior to renal transplantation to determine the risk of cardiovascular complications. On the basis of results of thallium stress testing and/or cardiac catheterization, each patient was assigned to one of five categories. There were no cardiovascular events in the seven patients who had negative results on stress testing. Of the remaining 53 patients, all of whom underwent cardiac catheterization, 30 had normal coronary arteries. None of these 30 patients had any cardiac morbidity, and the two deaths that occurred in this group were not attributable to cardiac causes. Significant coronary artery disease was present in 38 percent of the patients. The overall mortality rate was 5.4 percent in those patients without coronary artery disease and 43.5 percent in those with the disease. In addition, the mortality rate in patients with coronary disease classified as severe was 62 percent, whereas it was 20 percent in those categorized as having moderate disease. The data indicate that patients with diabetes and end-stage renal disease who are at highest risk for cardiovascular events can be identified, and these patients probably should not undergo renal transplantation."}
{"id": "3518165", "title": "A critical look at survival of diabetics with end-stage renal disease. Transplantation versus dialysis therapy.", "content": "A critical look at survival of diabetics with end-stage renal disease. Transplantation versus dialysis therapy. The survival of 100 consecutive patients with diabetic nephropathy after treatment with hemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis, or renal transplantation was reviewed at our institution from 1976 to 1982. Standard actuarial survival analysis revealed an overall survival of 83% and 61% at one and two years, respectively. Coronary angiography was used as a screening procedure for renal transplantation. In the dialysis group, 27 patients were considered acceptable transplant candidates on the basis of the coronary angiography but were not transplanted for other reasons. When the survival analysis was limited to those \"transplant candidates\" the survival rates were 78%, 51%, and 8% at 1, 2, and 5 years, respectively. In comparison, survival after transplantation was 81%, 67%, and 45%, at 1, 2, and 5 years, respectively. In order to eliminate bias, survival comparisons were subsequently made using the Cox Proportional Hazard Model to take into account the time the transplant patients spent on dialysis prior to renal transplantation. When this analysis was performed, there was no significant difference in survival between transplantation and dialysis for the first two years, but overall survival after five years was significantly better after renal transplantation even when the comparison was limited to acceptable transplant candidates who remained on dialysis (P = .04). Survival for patients with significant coronary disease (greater than 70% stenosis of a coronary vessel or moderate to severe left ventricular dysfunction) was analyzed according to therapeutic modality. Although overall prognosis was poor in this group as a whole (1, 2, and 5 year survivals were 76%, 45%, and 19%, respectively), the cardiac patients had a trend to better survival after renal transplantation than when maintained on dialysis (P = .22). In addition to other factors such as quality of life, rehabilitation, and progression of other diabetic complications, the benefit of renal transplantation on patient survival must be considered when deciding between renal transplantation and maintenance dialysis therapy for diabetic patients with renal failure."}
{"id": "3513879", "title": "Intravenous digital subtraction angiography.", "content": "Intravenous digital subtraction angiography. Intravenous digital subtraction angiography (ivDSA) is a method whereby arterial images are produced following a peripheral or central venous injection of contrast medium. It is a safe and relatively simple procedure to undertake and is becoming more widely available. The purpose of this article is to review its clinical applications, its advantages and limitations."}
{"id": "3458343", "title": "[Pathologic decrease in lipoprotein lipase activity in relation to the development of hyperlipemias and their significance for coronary heart disease].", "content": "[Pathologic decrease in lipoprotein lipase activity in relation to the development of hyperlipemias and their significance for coronary heart disease]. There is much evidence that altered lipid metabolism contributes to the development of coronary artery disease (CAD). It is generally accepted that there is a direct association between the extent of CAD and total plasma cholesterol, as well as an inverse association between the extent of CAD and plasma HDL-cholesterol. No general agreement exists about the atherogenetic potential of plasma triglycerides and of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins. Since lipoprotein lipase (LPL) is the key-enzyme in the catabolism of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins (chylomicrons and very low-density lipoproteins), we examine the relationship between triglyceride-rich lipoproteins and LPL in vitro and in vivo. The concentrations of the main lipoprotein density classes, namely very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL), intermediate-density lipoproteins (IDL), low-density lipoproteins (LDL), high-density lipoproteins2 (HDL2) and HDL3, are measured by rate zonal ultracentrifugation. The preparation of VLDL, IDL, LDL, HDL2, and HDL3 is performed by sequential ultracentrifugation. The activity of LPL is measured radioenzymatically in a glycerol-based triolein emulsion. It can be demonstrated in vitro that VLDL, IDL, and HDL2 from normal plasma are able to increase LPL-activity in contrast to VLDL, IDL, and HDL2 from hyperlipemic plasma. This difference seems to be caused by an altered composition of apolipoproteins in hyperlipemic lipoproteins. An artificial acidosis in three healthy subjects shows in contrast to alkalotic and neutral blood-pH a significant decrease of LPL-activity. This result seems to be of some interest, since diseases associated with acidotic blood-pH, such as chronic renal disease, diabetes mellitus or chronic alcoholism, show secondary hyperlipemias caused by a deficit of LPL-activity. It can be shown in 15 male patients who produce a secondary type-V hyperlipemia during severe abuse of alcohol, that LPL-activity is decreased significantly as compared to 15 healthy controls. During sober phases, this alcohol-induced hyperlipemia and the impairment of LPL-activity disappears completely. In an other group of 8 male patients, who are not producing severe secondary hyperlipemia during approximately the identical alcohol intake, LPL-activity is also significantly decreased, but the activity of hepatic lipase is significantly increased. This increase of the activity of hepatic lipase seems to protect these patients from the development of secondary type-V hyperlipemia. In 89 male patients with angiographically assessed CAD a very strong inverse association between the activity of LPL and the extent of CAD is found.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"}
{"id": "2427239", "title": "Plasma levels of platelet secretory proteins.", "content": "Plasma levels of platelet secretory proteins. Platelets contain three types of secretory organelles: the dense granules, the alpha granules, and the lysosomes. Most of the proteins secreted from platelets are stored in the alpha granules, whereas the dense granules contain substances such as adenine nucleotides, serotonin, Ca++, and inorganic pyrophosphate types as well as a heparatinase. Three of the secreted alpha granule proteins have been measured by radioimmunoassay and it has been suggested that levels of these proteins in patient plasmas provide an index of in vivo platelet activation and secretion. These three are beta-thromboglobulin, platelet factor 4, and thrombospondin. In this chapter the chemistry of these proteins will be considered briefly, as will their clearance from the circulation, and then the clinical studies will be reviewed critically. Since radioimmunoassays were developed for these proteins (the first was reported in 1975), there has been a profusion of reports on levels of one or another of these proteins in a wide range of disease states, and these reports have indicated secreted platelet protein levels ranging from normal to grossly elevated in a given disease state. Possible reasons for such variability will be discussed."}
{"id": "3991956", "title": "[Value of postdipyridamol myocardial perfusion gammagraphy (GT1 PD) in the diagnosis of ischemic cardiopathy and its angiographic correlation].", "content": "[Value of postdipyridamol myocardial perfusion gammagraphy (GT1 PD) in the diagnosis of ischemic cardiopathy and its angiographic correlation]."}
{"id": "3991506", "title": "Myocardial studies in haemodialysis patients.", "content": "Myocardial studies in haemodialysis patients. Myocardial perfusion was studied using Thallium-201 (Tl-201) after dipyridamol in 33 patients on maintenance haemodialysis. It could be shown that coronary artery disease was underestimated by clinical symptoms, 55 per cent of patients had abnormal Tl-201 scintigrams, whereas typical or atypical chest pain was present in only 33 per cent of the patients. Eleven patients died within a year of the scintigraphic study, which resulted in an average mortality rate of 7.7 per cent/year. The risk of developing fatal cardiovascular complications was higher in patients with an abnormal Tl-201 perfusion (7 of 18) than in those with a normal scintigram (1 of 15). Thus nuclear medicine procedures appear to be of diagnostic value in haemodialysis patients, which in addition may have prognostic implications."}
{"id": "3987103", "title": "Left ventricular function in uremia: echocardiographic and radionuclide assessment in patients on maintenance hemodialysis.", "content": "Left ventricular function in uremia: echocardiographic and radionuclide assessment in patients on maintenance hemodialysis. Echocardiography and radionuclide ventriculography were performed in 37 uremic patients on maintenance hemodialysis with no apparent coronary artery disease, pericardial effusion, valvular heart disease or heart failure. These non-invasive studies were performed during the interdialytic period (about 18 hours after a dialysis). Sixty-two percent of our patients had abnormal left ventricular function with one or more abnormal echocardiographic parameters. The significant abnormalities were enlargement of the left ventricular cavity, a reduction of myocardial contractility, and thickening of the left ventricular posterior wall. Similar findings were found in 10 undialyzed uremic patients. Measurement of cardiac index and ejection fraction were found to be inadequate for a full assessment of left ventricular function and other parameters such as the mean velocity of circumferential fiber shortening and mean normalized posterior wall velocity should be included. There is a significant number of hemodialysis patients (7/37) with congestive cardiomyopathic features on the echocardiogram. Their clinical features are no different from the other patients in this study, except they have a significantly higher prevalence of uremic hyperparathyroidism. Our findings support that the existence of a specific uremic cardiomyopathy and uremic hyperparathyroidism may play an important role in the pathogenesis."}
{"id": "3984738", "title": "Uremic arterial disease in rabbits with special reference to the coronary arteries.", "content": "Uremic arterial disease in rabbits with special reference to the coronary arteries. In rabbits with chronic renal failure of 9 months' duration, the distribution and morphological characteristics of uremic arterial disease were investigated, with special reference to the coronary arteries. All major systemic arteries were affected, large vessels more severely than smaller ones, and within each artery the changes were most pronounced in the proximal part of the vessel. The intimal lesions consisted primarily of smooth muscle cells without calcification or lipid accumulation. A reduction of the lumen exceeding 50% of the normal cross sectional area was not seen and mural thrombosis was not encountered. In the media, degenerative changes with increased amounts of proteoglycans and calcifications were prominent, but foci of increased cellularity were also seen. There was no evidence of lipid accumulation in the media either. Similar changes were found in the coronary arteries, but coronary angiography revealed no irregularities or stenosis. The calcified medial degenerative changes and intimal cellular lesions without lipid accumulation in non-cholesterol-fed rabbits distinguish uremic arterial disease from atherosclerosis."}
{"id": "3894688", "title": "Renal transplantation in the older recipient.", "content": "Renal transplantation in the older recipient. From 1976 to 1983, 13 living related and 54 cadaver renal transplants were done in 62 patients more than 50 years old. Patients with no coronary or myocardial disease upon coronary angiography were selected preferentially for transplantation. Over-all 1-year patient and graft survival rates were 88 and 70 per cent, respectively. Among cadaver recipients graft survival was improved (p less than 0.001) when prophylactic antilymphoblast globulin was used. There were fewer steroid-related complications (p less than 0.001) in recipients managed with a low dose rather than a high dose maintenance prednisone regimen. With careful patient selection and a steroid-sparing immunosuppressive regimen, renal transplantation can be done safely in older recipients with no increased risk of death or graft loss."}
{"id": "6733995", "title": "Influence of fluid removal rate during hemodialysis on left ventricular performance and exercise tolerance in patients with coronary artery disease.", "content": "Influence of fluid removal rate during hemodialysis on left ventricular performance and exercise tolerance in patients with coronary artery disease. The effect of hemodialysis (HD) on left ventricular (LV) function and exercise tolerance were measured at rest and during exercise using gated equilibrium radionuclide ventriculography in seven patients with confirmed coronary artery disease (CAD). To separate the effects of fluid removal rate on LV function in CAD, we investigated the same patients with identical overall volume loss of 4 liters during two different treatment times (4 hr and 2 hr). HD significantly increased resting LV ejection fraction (EF) from 55.7 +/- 8% to 64.7 +/- 8% (P less than 0.01) during the 4 hr HD and from 58.1 +/- 9 to 68.1 +/- 10 (P less than 0.05) during the 2 hr HD. Indicating ischemia, EF decreased at pre- and postdialysis peak exercise without differences between both treatments. HD also resulted in an improved segmental wall motion score. Exercise duration as well as S-T segment depression and angina score improved during HD, whereas heart rate, blood pressure and double product remained unchanged. We conclude that HD improves global and regional resting LV function and exercise tolerance in patients with CAD. The degree of interdialytic hydration and not the degree of fluid removal per time affects LV performance in CAD. Since LV function is the major prognostic factor in CAD, those patients require volume restriction and/or shorter interdialytic phases."}
{"id": "6720755", "title": "A potential role for exercise training in modulating coronary risk factors in uremia.", "content": "A potential role for exercise training in modulating coronary risk factors in uremia."}
{"id": "6690369", "title": "Cardiovascular problems in chronic renal failure.", "content": "Cardiovascular problems in chronic renal failure."}
{"id": "6525845", "title": "Rest and exercise response of left ventricular functions of patients on maintenance hemodialysis with and without cornary artery disease.", "content": "Rest and exercise response of left ventricular functions of patients on maintenance hemodialysis with and without cornary artery disease."}
{"id": "6514077", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of thallium-201 myocardial perfusion imaging in detecting ischemia in patients on regular dialysis treatment.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of thallium-201 myocardial perfusion imaging in detecting ischemia in patients on regular dialysis treatment."}
{"id": "6506128", "title": "Pathogenesis of carotid bifurcation atherosclerosis in cynomolgus monkeys.", "content": "Pathogenesis of carotid bifurcation atherosclerosis in cynomolgus monkeys. We report here the effect of diet and social environment on the carotid bifurcation atherosclerosis of 60 adult male cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) fed either an atherogenic diet (AD) or a more \"prudent\" diet (PD). Animals within each dietary condition lived either in unstable social groupings (which had their memberships reorganized on a regular basis) or in stable groupings. The experiment lasted 22 months, after which animals were necropsied and the extent of atherosclerosis was measured both at the carotid bifurcation and at other arterial sites. Carotid bifurcation atherosclerosis (CBA) was significantly more extensive and severe among animals fed the AD diet. Among these animals, all of which were normotensive, lesion extent was positively associated with both plasma cholesterol concentrations and heart rate response to behavioral stress, and negatively associated with the ability to clear glucose. No experimental variables correlated with the CBA of the PD animals; these lesions, some of which were extensive, were probably pre-existing. The social conditions and individual behavior patterns of the animals had no effect on CBA in either group, despite a pronounced effect on the coronary arteries (CA) of the same animals. While the overall correlation between CBA and CA atherosclerosis was not high, animals with extensive CBA almost always had extensive CA atherosclerosis. The factors influencing CBA in the cynomolgus monkey may be similar to those affecting humans."}
{"id": "6482169", "title": "Dialysis-associated ischemic heart disease: insights from coronary angiography.", "content": "Dialysis-associated ischemic heart disease: insights from coronary angiography. We reviewed the records of 44 dialysis patients who had undergone one or more coronary angiograms to determine the frequency with which symptomatic ischemic heart disease (IHD) and significant coronary artery narrowing coincided and to determine those factors which were associated with the coronary atherosclerotic process. Thirty-four patients were catheterized for angina pectoris or myocardial infarction. Of this group, 53% were found to have significant narrowing of coronary arteries. This group was older than the group with trivial or no coronary artery occlusion and their duration of dialysis was shorter. All the patients with significant coronary occlusion were white and the majority were adult males. Discriminant function analysis revealed that the presence of significant coronary artery occlusion could be predicted with high sensitivity and specificity by the following variables: older age, white race, male sex, the presence of symptomatic IHD prior to the onset of dialysis, increased total serum cholesterol, abnormal left ventricular wall motion, and reduced alkaline phosphatase. We also found that the occurrence of symptomatic IHD far exceeded the presence of significant atherosclerotic coronary artery narrowing. We suggest that this may result from several dialysis-associated alterations in oxygen delivery and myocardial oxygen consumption."}
{"id": "6475083", "title": "[Radionuclide studies in chronically hemodialyzed patients. Diagnosis of coronary disease using Tl-201 myocardial scintigraphy after administration of dipyridamole].", "content": "[Radionuclide studies in chronically hemodialyzed patients. Diagnosis of coronary disease using Tl-201 myocardial scintigraphy after administration of dipyridamole]. Myocardial perfusion using Tl 201 after dipyridamol was evaluated in 33 patients on maintenance hemodialysis. In addition radionuclide angiography (RNA) was performed following hemodialysis to assess left ventricular function. RNA was done at rest in 31 patients and repeated in 13 after isometric exercise. All patients studied showed no signs of congestive heart failure. 55% of the patients had abnormal Tl 201 scintigrams, whereas coronary artery disease (CAD) was underestimated from clinical symptoms alone (33%). The incidence of an abnormal Tl 201 finding increased with the duration of hemodialysis treatment. However, in the symptomatic patients angina appeared already in the first (45%) or second year of hemodialysis treatment. 39% of patients with abnormal Tl 201 findings died within a year following scintigraphic examination. From 15 patients with normal Tl 201 scans 26% died. Overall mortality rate was above that in asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients with CAD, averaging about 7.7% per day. The major causes of death were cardiovascular complications in patients with abnormal Tl 201 findings. In all patients left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was within the normal range following hemodialysis. Thus in our patients LVEF appeared not as an important prognostic characteristic. However, ventricular function can be impaired following exercise. As expected, in 7 patients with CAD (abnormal Tl 201 scan) isometric handgrip induced a mean decrease in LVEF by 11% and abnormalities in regional wall motion. However, also in 4 of 6 patients with normal Tl 201 scintigrams LVEF decreased following isometric exercise.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "6375027", "title": "Coronary artery disease in 100 diabetics with end-stage renal failure.", "content": "Coronary artery disease in 100 diabetics with end-stage renal failure."}
{"id": "6372457", "title": "Postinfectious glomerulonephritis in a renal allograft associated with a mycotic aneurysm of a coronary artery.", "content": "Postinfectious glomerulonephritis in a renal allograft associated with a mycotic aneurysm of a coronary artery. Postinfectious glomerulonephritis is well known to occur after various infections but is rare in renal allografts, perhaps as a result of immunosuppressive therapy. This report describes a 47-year-old man who, seven years after receiving a cadaveric renal transplant, had biopsy-proved crescentic glomerulonephritis presenting with gross hematuria and rapidly progressive renal failure. The patient underwent cardiac surgery to define an abnormal structure shown on echocardiography, and a mycotic aneurysm of the left circumflex artery was discovered. Such aneurysms are uncommon and rarely diagnosed during life. This case appears to be the first report of glomerulonephritis associated with a mycotic aneurysm of a coronary artery and one of the few reports of postinfectious glomerulonephritis in a renal allograft."}
{"id": "6371778", "title": "Exercise in the management and rehabilitation of selected chronic diseases.", "content": "Exercise in the management and rehabilitation of selected chronic diseases. The effects of exercise on the progression of eight chronic diseases or medical conditions are reviewed. In the case of coronary artery disease (CAD), there is some suggestive evidence that exercise is associated with a survival advantage. Exercise does not consistently increase blood flow in peripheral vascular disease, nor does it improve lung function in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. However, it is associated with increased physical work capacity in these two conditions. Preliminary studies suggest that exercise may be beneficial in the management of pulmonary secretions in patients with cystic fibrosis. Exercise has no therapeutic role in acute exacerbations of rheumatoid arthritis, but in the chronic stages, exercise that does not cause pain may be beneficial. Exercise is the focal point of chronic pain syndrome programs. With exercise programs, patients with chronic pain can increase physical work capacity with a decrease in complaints of pain. Patients with osteoporosis appear to benefit from a carefully programmed low-level exercise program that avoids back flexion exercises. Blood glucose, hypertension, and serum lipid levels improve with exercise in patients with dialysis-dependent renal failure."}
{"id": "6862803", "title": "Variations in the blood supply of the left ventricular apex.", "content": "Variations in the blood supply of the left ventricular apex. Contraction or perfusion abnormalities of the left ventricular apex are generally assumed to result from left anterior descending (LAD) artery disease since this vessel is the usual source of blood supply to this area of myocardium. Such an assumption may be erroneous since the left ventricular apex may be supplied by the LAD alone, both the LAD and posterior descending (PD) branch of the right coronary artery, or the PD alone. Blood supply of the left ventricular apex was prospectively studied angiographically in 431 adult patients. In 77.7%, the apex was totally supplied by the LAD. In 12.1%, the apex received dual blood supply from both the LAD and PD. In 10.2%, the LAD terminated well before the apex, which was totally supplied by the PD. With the latter two anatomic variations, the LAD tended to be shorter and smaller in caliber than usual, while the PD was longer and larger than usual. A short, narrow LAD therefore does not necessarily indicate coronary disease if the left ventricular apex is partially or completely supplied by the PD. Dysfunction or perfusion abnormalities of the apex do not necessarily indicate LAD disease."}
{"id": "6858907", "title": "Left ventricular performance during exercise: response of ear densitogram derivative.", "content": "Left ventricular performance during exercise: response of ear densitogram derivative. The peak derivative of the ear densitogram (PD) has been shown to track left ventricular (LV) function during exercise. Measured as percent change in amplitude from resting control, PD in normal subjects slowly and consistently increased throughout exercise and to 2 minutes of recovery, followed by return to control level. In contrast, PD in patients with coronary artery disease rapidly increased only to 1 minute of exercise, with no significant subsequent increase. Expressed as a percent change from control, the response of normal subjects differs significantly from that of patients with coronary artery disease at 1 and 4 minutes of exercise, and 2 minutes of recovery. The PD increase in normal subjects from end-exercise to 2 minutes of recovery may be attributable to the heart rate decreasing faster than venous return, associated with LV ejection time, which is significantly shorter than heart rate-predicted values 2 minutes after exercise."}
{"id": "6657654", "title": "Myocardial perfusion and left ventricular performance during long and short haemodialysis in patients with coronary heart disease.", "content": "Myocardial perfusion and left ventricular performance during long and short haemodialysis in patients with coronary heart disease. In seven patients with confirmed coronary heart disease and stable blood pressure control acetate haemodialysis improved left ventricular performance and exercise tolerance. Similar positive effects were obtained by a four hour dialysis (one litre fluid removal/hour) and a two hour dialysis (two litre fluid removal/hour). In this group of patients weight gain and overhydration between dialyses appears to be the major risk for myocardial perfusion and rapid weight reduction by acetate dialysis appears adequate therapy. One practical consequence from our study is to minimise fluid overload in coronary heart disease and we try to avoid iatrogenic induction of thirst by decreasing dialysate sodium from 140 mmol/litre to 125-135 mmol/litre. As far as myocardial risk factors are concerned it appears that it is more important to focus on interdialysis weight gains than on acute dialysis therapy."}
{"id": "6645211", "title": "Cardiovascular changes in chronic hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Cardiovascular changes in chronic hemodialysis patients. Coronary angiography and left ventricular (LV) hemodynamic studies were performed after dialysis in 32 home dialysis patients (20 men) aged 49.8 +/- 8.0 years. They had been on hemodialysis for 1 to 47 months and were being considered for renal transplantation. The controls were 11 normotensive patients (6 men) aged 46.1 +/- 11 years without coronary artery disease (CAD). Ten (31%) patients had significant CAD (5 single vessel, 3 double vessel, 2 triple vessel). Cardiac index (4.57 +/- 1.3 l/min/m2), LV mass (140 +/- 43 g/m2), mean aortic pressure (103 +/- 20 mm Hg), and LV stroke work index (72 +/- 30 g X m/m2) were significantly elevated while stroke index, heart rate, LV ejection fraction, maximum dP/dT, LV end-diastolic volume and LV end-diastolic pressure were normal. The hemodynamic changes did not correlate with the time on maintenance dialysis nor with the duration of treatment for hypertension. Patients with CAD had higher LV mass and mean aortic pressure than those without CAD. The cardiac changes are thought to result from a combination of pressure and volume loads and anemia."}
{"id": "6600759", "title": "Prospective assessment of regional myocardial perfusion before and after coronary revascularization surgery by quantitative thallium-201 scintigraphy.", "content": "Prospective assessment of regional myocardial perfusion before and after coronary revascularization surgery by quantitative thallium-201 scintigraphy. Because thallium-201 uptake relates directly to the amount of viable myocardium and nutrient blood flow, the potential for exercise scintigraphy to predict response to coronary revascularization surgery was investigated in 47 consecutive patients. All patients underwent thallium-201 scintigraphy and coronary angiography at a mean (+/- standard deviation) of 4.3 +/- 3.1 weeks before and 7.5 +/- 1.6 weeks after surgery. Thallium uptake and washout were computer-quantified and each of six segments was defined as normal, showing total or partial redistribution or a persistent defect. Persistent defects were further classified according to the percent reduction in regional thallium activity; PD25-50 denoted a 25 to 50% constant reduction in relative thallium activity and PD greater than 50 denoted a greater than 50% reduction. Of 82 segments with total redistribution before surgery, 76 (93%) showed normal thallium uptake and washout postoperatively, versus only 16 (73%) of 22 with partial redistribution (probability [p] = 0.01). Preoperative ventriculography revealed that 95% of the segments with total redistribution had preserved wall motion, versus only 74% of those with partial redistribution (p = 0.01). Of 42 persistent defects thought to represent myocardial scar before surgery, 19 (45%) demonstrated normal perfusion postoperatively. Of the persistent defects that showed improved thallium perfusion postoperatively, 75% had normal or hypokinetic wall motion before surgery, versus only 14% of those without improvement (p less than 0.001). Whereas 57% of the persistent defects that showed a 25 to 50% decrease in myocardial activity demonstrated normal thallium uptake and washout postoperatively, only 21% of the persistent defects with a decrease in myocardial activity greater than 50% demonstrated improved perfusion after surgery (p = 0.02). Thus, preoperative quantitative thallium-201 scintigraphy appears useful in predicting response to revascularization surgery, and some persistent defects may revert to normal thallium uptake after surgery. Importantly, the preoperative distinction between viable and nonviable myocardium can be reasonably established by quantitating the amount of persistent reduction in thallium uptake and correlating this with preoperative wall motion."}
{"id": "6355509", "title": "Improved results of cadaver renal transplantation in the diabetic patient.", "content": "Improved results of cadaver renal transplantation in the diabetic patient. The results of 54 renal transplants performed on 48 patients with end stage renal disease and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus are reported. Pre-transplant screening with coronary angiography was done to determine the presence and severity of coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction. There were 12 living related donor (group 1) and 42 cadaver renal transplants. The cadaver transplant recipients were grouped further into those who received additional prophylactic immunosuppression with antilymphoblast globulin (group 2, 18 patients) and those who received standard immunosuppression with azathioprine and prednisone (group 3, 18 patients). The 2-year patient and graft survival rates in groups 1 to 3 were 81 and 67, 88 and 69, and 61 and 32 per cent, respectively. The use of prophylactic antilymphoblast globulin for adjunctive immunosuppression resulted in significantly improved graft survival among cadaver recipients (p less than 0.003). Selection of patients for transplantation on the basis of preliminary screening with coronary angiography was found to have a major impact on patient survival."}
{"id": "6351648", "title": "Predictive value of thallium stress testing for coronary and cardiovascular events in uremic diabetic patients before renal transplantation.", "content": "Predictive value of thallium stress testing for coronary and cardiovascular events in uremic diabetic patients before renal transplantation. Coronary artery disease and the ability of noninvasive exercise perfusion imaging with thallium-201 to predict future coronary and cardiovascular events was prospectively evaluated in a group of 85 insulin-dependent diabetic renal transplantation candidates. Sixty patients received renal allografts (36 living related donors, 24 cadaver donors) after a thallium stress test; the actuarial 2 year patient survival rate after transplantation was 84 percent. Twenty-five patients remained on dialysis, and the 2 year actuarial survival rate from onset of dialysis was 41 percent, significantly lower than the actuarial survival rate of transplanted patients (p less than 0.01). Thirteen transplanted patients had positive thallium stress test results, and 6 (46 percent) had cardiovascular events (two fatal). In contrast, of 47 transplant patients with negative thallium stress test results, only 13 (28 percent) had cardiovascular events (four fatal). Five patients treated by hemodialysis only had positive test results and three (60 percent) had cardiovascular events (two fatal), whereas of 20 hemodialysis patients with negative test results, 9 (45 percent) suffered cardiovascular events (four fatal). In this study, cardiovascular events included arrhythmia, stroke, and pulmonary embolism. Within the total group, 4 of 18 patients (22 percent) with a positive test result (22 percent) had a fatal myocardial infarction, whereas only 3 of 67 patients (4 percent) with a negative result had a fatal myocardial infarction (p less than 0.05). In comparison, 24 of 85 patients had a history or electrocardiographic evidence of preexisting cardiovascular disease, and 13 (54 percent) had subsequent cardiovascular events (5 of 11 patients with positive test results and 8 of 13 patients with negative results). In summary, renal transplant candidates with positive thallium stress test results appear to be at increased risk compared with those with negative results for the development of fatal myocardial infarction, but thallium stress testing is no more predictive for future coronary and cardiovascular events than is a history or an abnormal electrocardiogram."}
{"id": "7051035", "title": "Antithrombotic effects of drugs which suppress platelet function: their potential in prevention growth of tumour cells.", "content": "Antithrombotic effects of drugs which suppress platelet function: their potential in prevention growth of tumour cells. Four drugs that inhibit platelet function have been evaluated for their antithrombotic effects in humans. These are aspirin, dipyridamole, hydroxychloroquine and sulphinpyrazone. Aspirin has been shown to reduce the number of transient ischemic attacks (TIA), stroke and death in patients with multiple TIA. The reduction in TIA was greatest in males who were normotensive and when there was an angiographically demonstrated lesion in the carotid artery that accounted for the symptoms. Aspirin reduced venous thrombosis and non-fatal and fatal pulmonary embolism in patients after surgery for fractured hip and after elective hip replacement. There is evidence that the prophylactic effect of aspirin may be greater in male patients. Aspirin reduced the frequency of arteriovenous shunt thrombosis. Aspirin abolished symptoms in patients with peripheral ischemia associated with thrombocytosis and spontaneous platelet aggregation. There is no conclusive evidence at the present time that aspirin is effective in patients with coronary artery artery disease. Dipyridamole in combination with oral anticoagulants is effective in reducing the frequency of systemic embolism in patients with prosthetic heart valve replacement but is ineffective in patients with transient cerebral ischemic attacks or for the prevention of venous thromboembolism. Hydroxychloroquine was effective in reducing postoperative venous thrombosis in patients undergoing general abdominothoracic surgery but the evidence that it was effective in patients undergoing orthopaedic surgery is inconclusive. Sulphinpyrazone may be effective in reducing the frequency of sudden cardiac deaths in patients in the first year after myocardial infarction when it is started within 25 to 35 days after the infarction. Sulphinpyrazone reduced the incidence of arteriovenous shunt thrombosis in patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis and in combination with anticoagulants, it reduced the frequency of recurrent venous thrombosis. There have been no large scale trials of platelet suppressant drugs in clinical cancer and successful treatment of thromboembolic disorders cannot be used to predict success in the treatment of malignant disease."}
{"id": "6979796", "title": "New perspectives on coronary artery disease in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "New perspectives on coronary artery disease in hemodialysis patients. Between July 1, 1979, and July 1, 1980, we treated 64 patients with long-term maintenance hemodialysis. Of these, 11 (17%) had angina pectoris, four of them (6%) chronic stable angina and seven (11%) new onset of crescendo angina. The most common risk factors in the group with unstable angina were cardiomegaly and hypertension. Of the five patients who underwent cardiac catheterization, proximal occlusive disease was seen in four and these four had good left ventricular function. Three patients underwent coronary artery bypass, which successfully improved their functional status to a class I or II without any antianginal medicines. Concurrent hemodialysis was performed during heart-lung bypass in one patient. The need for dialysis postoperatively was easily delayed for 72 hours without detriment to this patient. We reached the following conclusions: (1) The prevalence of angina in a stable hemodialysis population was 17% in a one-year analysis period. (2) The incidence of new onset of crescendo angina, which potentially requires coronary angiography, was 11% over the same one-year period. (3) The presence of surgically correctable lesions in these cases is high. (4) Concurrent hemodialysis during coronary artery bypass simplifies postoperative fluid and electrolyte management and prevents surgical bleeding."}
{"id": "7282731", "title": "Disabling angina pectoris with normal coronary arteries in patients undergoing long-term hemodialysis.", "content": "Disabling angina pectoris with normal coronary arteries in patients undergoing long-term hemodialysis. Reports of patients undergoing long-term hemodialysis presenting with angina pectoris have usually shown severe coronary atherosclerosis. We studied a series of nine patients undergoing regular maintenance dialysis referred for incapacitating angina. Of them, four had strictly normal coronary angiograms. The patients with normal angiograms were all females who were significantly younger (p less than 0.05) and had more severe hypertension and higher left ventricular wall stress than patients showing coronary artery lesions. Anemia and increased myocardial oxygen consumption due to high blood pressure may explain the syndrome of angina pectoris in the presence of long-term dialysis in patients with normal coronary arteries. The prevalence of this association cannot be ascertained unless prospective studies are conducted. However, our data suggest that it might not be an uncommon finding."}
{"id": "7047115", "title": "Improving survival after renal transplantation for diabetic patients with severe coronary artery disease.", "content": "Improving survival after renal transplantation for diabetic patients with severe coronary artery disease. After successful renal transplantation, seven diabetic renal failure patients with severe coronary artery disease returned to productive employment. Despite the requirement for additional peripheral vascular or ophthalmologic surgery in four patients, their renal function remained adequate. Following transplantation, diabetic complications included angina in three, myocardial infarction in three, and cerebrovascular accident in two patients. Two patients with adequate renal function died suddenly at 29 and 62 mo. Despite severe coronary artery disease, an increasing number of diabetic dialysis patients may be able to return to work after a successful kidney transplant."}
{"id": "7439040", "title": "[Oestrogen as a risk factor for the vascular system (author's transl)].", "content": "[Oestrogen as a risk factor for the vascular system (author's transl)]. Plasma oestradiol and testosterone concentrations were measured in 44 men with angiographically proven coronary heart disease, 66 men without evidence of coronary heart disease serving as control. Another group consisted of 28 men with renal failure. Those with coronary heart disease had a significantly higher oestradiol concentration than the control group. This increased value also was present in patients with renal failure. There was a relationship between the level of oestradiol on one hand and glucose tolerance, ratio of beta to alpha-lipoproteins and blood pressure, on the other, in both the patients with coronary heart disease and the healthy controls. These results indicate the oestradiol may in males be an indicator of a risk constellation of vascular damage. Perhaps, it may be the cause of an abnormal carbohydrate and fat metabolism, which then leads to hypertension and degenerative vascular lesions."}
{"id": "6965831", "title": "Coronary-artery surgery in patients with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Coronary-artery surgery in patients with end-stage renal disease. Between 1975 and 1979 we performed coronary arteriography on 15 patients with end-stage renal failure and clinical evidence of severe ischemic heart disease. One patient died after the procedure of severe pump failure. Ten patients subsequently received coronary-artery bypass grafts, and two of these patients also received mitral-valve replacement. One patient, a diabetic, died of sepsis after surgery. Eight of the nine surviving patients, including the two patients who had undergone mitral-valve replacement, are markedly improved as a result of surgery. Our experience indicates that these patients can undergo angiography and coronary-artery bypass surgery at an increased but acceptable risk, provided dialysis is done before and after cardiac catheterization and surgery to control extracellular volume overload and hyperkalemia. The operation benefits patients with end-stage renal failure and severe ischemic heart disease by relieving angina and improving their level of activity. It is unclear whether survival is improved for these patients."}
{"id": "6965748", "title": "Myocardial revascularization in patients with chronic renal failure.", "content": "Myocardial revascularization in patients with chronic renal failure. Symptomatic coronary artery disease in patients with chronic renal failure can complicate their management in a dialysis program. Hypotension associated with hemodialysis and the anemia of chronic renal disease can produce anginal episodes refractory to medical management. Untreated coronary artery disease may be a contraindication to renal transplantation in an otherwise acceptable candidate. We have encountered three cases of coronary artery disease severe enough to necessitate coronary bypass in patients from our long-term hemodialysis program. All three patients had uncomplicated postoperative courses, none had perioperative infarction, and in all three patients postoperative angiography demonstrated patency of all grafts. One patient subsequently underwent successful renal transplantation; the other two patients have continued in hemodialyses since bypass. We believe our experience and the reported experience of others confirm the feasibility of coronary bypass grafting in patients with chronic renal failure."}
{"id": "552050", "title": "Effects of exercise training on coronary risk factors in hemodialysis patients.", "content": "Effects of exercise training on coronary risk factors in hemodialysis patients."}
{"id": "153711", "title": "Myocardial dysfunction without coronary artery disease in diabetic renal failure.", "content": "Myocardial dysfunction without coronary artery disease in diabetic renal failure."}
{"id": "636913", "title": "Aortic insufficiency in chronic renal failure.", "content": "Aortic insufficiency in chronic renal failure. A diastolic decrescendo murmur was heard along the left sternal border in 21 patients with advanced renal failure. Eight patients had organic aortic insufficiency. Among the remaining 13 patients, angiocardiography was carried out in 6; aortic regurgitation was demonstrated in 4, while 2 had stenosis of a coronary artery. Two of the 5 patients with positive angiography have died. At autopsy the aortic ostium was normal. The diastolic murmur in these patients is thought to be functional. It disappears during treatment with hemodialysis and renal transplantation."}
{"id": "635507", "title": "[Transfemoral embolus aspiration from both renal arteries].", "content": "[Transfemoral embolus aspiration from both renal arteries]. In a 50-year-old female patient who had suffered from coronary heart disease for about 3 years, a cerebral embolus resulted in left-sided hemiparesis. Four days later she became anuric. Acute thromboembolis occlusion of the renal arteries was assumed and renal angiography was performed. The angiography showed complete obstruction of the left renal artery and partial obstruction of the right renal artery. Due to the poor general condition of the patient it was not possible to carry out renovascular surgery or streptokinasetherapy. An attempt was therefore made to remove the emboli from the renal arteries by a new technique (transfemoral embolus aspiration). The subsequent angiography showed normal circulation in the right kidney and improved circulation in the left kidney. Ten days of dialysis treatment were required until urine production started again. Death then occurred from other causes. The autopsy confirmed free permeable renal vessels and absence of permanent sequelae in the parenchyma."}
{"id": "361277", "title": "Asymptomatic coronary artery disease: angiographic assessment of diabetics evaluated for renal transplantation.", "content": "Asymptomatic coronary artery disease: angiographic assessment of diabetics evaluated for renal transplantation. Twenty-one insulin-dependent diabetics with azotemic nephropathy were evaluated for renal transplantation by selective coronary angiography and cine left ventriculography. All had hypertension, retinopathy, neuropathy, and required salt restriction plus diuretics for volume overload. There was no clinical or electrocardiographic evidence of ischemic coronary artery disease in twenty. Ten patients (five males, five females, mean age 29.3 years; mean duration of diabetes 21.9 years; mean serum cholesterol 239 mg%) had significant coronary artery disease, seven demonstrating focal abnormalities in left ventricular wall motion. Two patients (one male, one female; mean age 36.5 years; mean duration of diabetes 28.5 years; mean serum cholesterol 250 mg%) had no significant coronary artery disease, but demonstrated diffusely abnormal left ventricular wall motion with diminished ejection fraction. Thirty-eight percent had significant coronary artery disease unpredictable by electrocardiographic or clinical data. The finding of no significant coronary artery disease in 52% of a group with severe renal-hypertensive complications of diabetes is surprising. Two patients may have a demonstrated cardiomyopathy."}
{"id": "360837", "title": "Natural history of asymptomatic coronary arteriographic lesions in diabetic patients with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Natural history of asymptomatic coronary arteriographic lesions in diabetic patients with end-stage renal disease. Arteriosclerotic heart disease is a major cause of death in insulin-requiring juvenile diabetic patients treated for end-stage renal disease. Eleven consecutive diabetic patients without clinical evidence of coronary artery disease underwent complete cardiac evaluations, including coronary arteriography, as part of transplant recipient work-ups. Seven were women and four were men; their mean age was 32 (21 to 50 years). Angiographically, every patient had multifocal atherosclerotic coronary disease. Four of seven patients tested had positive-stress electrocardiograms. In this group of patients followed for a mean of 19.8 months, eight died. Of these deaths, six were due to coronary heart disease and another due to a stroke. In two patients who became clinically symptomatic, serial angiograms revealed progressive disease of the coronary circulation; in one case, despite normal renal allograft function and serum lipid levels. The mode of end-stage renal disease treatment, serum lipids or blood pressure control could not be linked to mortality. It is concluded that arteriosclerotic heart disease is common in diabetic patients with end-stage renal disease even when angina is absent. The natural history in this high risk population is an important consideration in the selection of patients for end-stage renal disease treatment."}
{"id": "343680", "title": "Asymptomatic coronary artery disease: angiography in diabetic patients before renal transplantation. Relation of findings to postoperative survival.", "content": "Asymptomatic coronary artery disease: angiography in diabetic patients before renal transplantation. Relation of findings to postoperative survival. Twenty-one juvenile-onset diabetic patients with azotemic nephropathy underwent coronary angiography and left ventriculography before renal transplantation or chronic hemodialysis. Two-year survival of 12 patients with no coronary artery disease (group A) was 88% compared to 22% for nine patients with coronary artery disease (group B) (P less than 0.025). Each group A patient underwent renal transplantation (nine live-related, three cadaveric). Four group B patients received cadaveric allografts. Among group A patients two cadaveric allografts functioned while in group B patients no allografts were successful. In the absence of coronary artery disease, results were similar to those reported for nondiabetic persons. In the presence of coronary artery disease, 62% of the deaths were due to myocardial infarction or sudden death. These results indicate that atherosclerotic coronary artery disease is a major determinant of survival in diabetic patients undergoing chronic hemodialysis or renal transplantation."}
{"id": "329434", "title": "[Experience with a new angiographic installation].", "content": "[Experience with a new angiographic installation]."}
{"id": "300984", "title": "Clinical pathologic conference. Purulent pericarditis with asymmetric cardiac tamponade: a cause of death months after coronary artery bypass surgery.", "content": "Clinical pathologic conference. Purulent pericarditis with asymmetric cardiac tamponade: a cause of death months after coronary artery bypass surgery. This relatively young man with a host of medical problems including polycystic kidneys. chronic renal failure, long-standing hypertension, and premature atherosclerosis, died of cardiovascular disease; not, as might be expected, from his severe coronary artery disease but rather from purulent pericarditis. The latter was an unusual and unexpected consequence of the entire complex of his illnesses and because of its confinement to the posterior pericardium by postoperative adhesions produced an asymmetric cardiac tamponade."}
{"id": "143402", "title": "Prognostic value of angiography in management of severe acute renal transplant rejection.", "content": "Prognostic value of angiography in management of severe acute renal transplant rejection. Angiograms of 34 kidney transplant patients with progressive decrease in renal function after multiple doses of intravenous methylprednisolone (MP) were evaluated retrospectively in regard to the prognostic value of angiography. The following parameters were included in evaluation: prolonged arterial washout time, large vessel vasculitis, presence of arteriovenous shunting, poor cortical perfusion as evidenced by non-filling of cortical vessels, poor definition of cortico-medullary junction, and a poor nephrogram. When 1 to 3 of these abnormalities existed in angiogram, 67% of living related donor transplants (LRD) recovered under continued MP-therapy. With 4-6 angiographic abnormalities the recovery rate was reduced to 30%. The overall recovery rate for LRD transplants was 44%. Cadaveric transplants (CAD) had a statistically significant poorer prognosis as evidenced by only 8% recovery rate under continued MP-therapy."}
{"id": "1260553", "title": "Intra-aortic balloon pump assist: adjunct to surgery for left ventricular dysfunction.", "content": "Intra-aortic balloon pump assist: adjunct to surgery for left ventricular dysfunction. Intra-aortic balloon pump assist (IABPA) was used intraoperatively and postoperatively in 34 patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction: the mean ejection fraction was 0.29 and all patients had angiographic grade IV left ventricular contractility. There were three groups of patients: 11 patients with acute coronary artery insufficiency--10 of whom survived vein bypass surgery (group 1); 16 patients with crescendo-type unstable angina--of whom 15 survived surgery (group 2); 7 patients with single (6) or multivalvular (1) replacement (combined with vein bypass in 3)--of whom 5 survived (group 3). Overall survival was 88%. The mean duration of 1:1 IABPA was 40 hours. Inotropic support was not required, hemolysis was insignificant and hemostasis remained secure. Two patients required tracheostomy and one required dialysis. One patient had a peripheral embolus in the leg used for IABPA. IABPA improves subendocardial perfusion during induction of anesthesia, during cardiopulmonary bypass and into the postoperative period; left ventricular work is decreased with a concomitant increase in coronary artery and vein graft blood flow. Use of IABPA may also improve survival and lessen morbidity in patients with left ventricular dysfunction due to the beneficial effects on myocardial performance and is thus a valuable adjunct to cardiac surgery in high-risk patients."}
{"id": "775643", "title": "Radionuclide angiography.", "content": "Radionuclide angiography. Radionuclide angiography is an established, widely used diagnostic tool. It is safe, easy to perform, and the low patient radiation dose makes frequent follow-up studies feasible. High-quality scintiscans have contributed to the widespread clinical acceptance of the procedure. The areas of application include virtually every organ of the body. In the brain, abnormalities in cerebral perfusion may be detected with this technique. Hepatic and renal tumors can be differentiated from cysts with radionuclide angiography. Its application to cardiology is achieving rapid growth and acceptance in both congenital and acquired heart disease."}
{"id": "1227189", "title": "[Stress electrocardiographic findings in patients under regular hemodialysis].", "content": "[Stress electrocardiographic findings in patients under regular hemodialysis]."}
{"id": "1146731", "title": "Coronary heart disease: the zinc/copper hypothesis.", "content": "Coronary heart disease: the zinc/copper hypothesis. Epidemiologic and metabolic data are consanant with the hypothesis thata metabolic imbalance in regard to zinc and copper ia a major factor in the etiology of coronary heart disease. This metabolic imbalance is either a relative or an absoulte deficincey of copper characterized by a high ratio of zinc to copper. The imbalance results in hypercholesterolemia and increased mortaility die to coronary heart disease. The imbalance can occur due to the amounts of zince and copper in human food, to lack of protective substances in food or drinking water and to alterations in physiological status that produce adverse changes in the distribution of zinc and copper in certain important organs. Because no other agent, with the possible exception of cholesterol, has been related so closely to tisk, the ratio of zinc to copper may be the preponderant factor in the etiology of coronary heart disease."}
